INSIDE ADVANTAGE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 WELCOME IN ALLISON DAVIS Office Concierge 2 CBRE creates SHARED ADVANTAGE through an integrated program of environmental and social actions that generate sustained growth and continuous opportunity for both the company and the communities it serves. VIDEO ( 90 sec.) 3 Thank you in advance for considering the environment by printing only specific pages, if desired. INSIDE THE REPORT HOME 3 STAKEHOLDER LETTER 5 THE INSIDE STORY 7 INSIDE CBRE 11 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 19 PEOPLE & CULTURE 43 HEALTH & SAFETY 61 COMMUNITIES & GIVING 69 PROCUREMENT 81 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE 89 GOVERNANCE 99 GRI INDEX / 109 UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES 4 OUR RISE VALUES ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO THE SHARED ADVANTAGE WE BRING AS AN INDUSTRY LEADER. – BOB SULENTIC, CEO 5 Our advantage is SHARED. AT CBRE, we recognize that our world is changing. Urban populations continue to grow, necessitating the need to develop more infrastructure and creating higher demand for energy and other natural resources. As the world’s largest provider of commercial real estate services, CBRE plays an important leadership role. We assist our clients with a variety of sustainability strategies, helping them to manage their environmental impact and operate more efficiently. Our flexible workplace strategies enable clients to optimize the value of their occupied space, creating opportunities for them to attract and retain the very best talent. Our more than 70,000 employees function as an integrated team, connected globally by our collaborative culture and commitment to delivering exceptional outcomes for CBRE clients. We see this in action each day – in our adherence to our RISE values (Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence), continued expansion of diversity and inclusion programs, and award-wining health and safety initiatives. In addition, we influence tens of thousands of suppliers, who are expected to conduct their operations in socially responsible ways. At the foundation of our industry leadership is our commitment to responsible business practices, represented by CBRE’s support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We invite you to review this report, where we’ll introduce you to several CBRE colleagues who will help you learn about some of our accomplishments in 2015. They provide an inside view of CBRE, and our strong commitment to creating greater advantages for all of our stakeholders. ROBERT E. SULENTIC President & Chief Executive Officer [G4-1] 6 THE INSIDE STORY SOME FIRMS understand that their inﬂuence In 2015, we actively began the process of consolidating extends beyond the boundaries of their own work. and coordinating our previously distributed They recognize that the impact of small, positive acts activities into a purposeful, more comprehensive multiplied across a broad global enterprise can approach. We look forward to reporting on the improve the communities they serve, while at the progress made in 2016 and beyond, as we integrate same time grow their bottom line. When those positive Shared Advantage across the full breadth of CBRE’s acts ﬂow naturally from the business process, the commercial real estate services. organization evolves beyond its public persona to CLICK HERE for an inside view of how our ﬁrm’s deliver a mutual beneﬁt to all of its stakeholders. commitment to corporate responsibility embodies all We call this Shared Advantage. our global business activities. In just 90 seconds you’ll gain insight into the value of Shared Advantage, At CBRE, we understand the signiﬁcant impact the and of CBRE’s passion for creating a mutual beneﬁt built environment has on the global environment. for all of our valued constituents. Commercial real estate is at the nexus of many of today’s most important issues, including resource depletion, land use, transportation, workplace health and climate change. Through the development and routine application of innovative practices and DAVID L. POGUE services across each of our business lines, CBRE has Global Director a unique opportunity to make a positive diﬀerence in Corporate Responsibility the communities we serve while at the same time building a competitive advantage. 7 8 11 I N S I D E C B R E CBRE Group, Inc. is a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, and the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm. [G4-3, G4-5] AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015, excluding development services subsidiary, Trammell Crow independent affiliates, we operated in more than 400 Company, had $6.7 billion of development property in offices worldwide, with more than 70,000 employees process. CBRE revenue in 2015 totaled $10.9 billion. providing commercial real estate services. [G4-4, G4-9] Our business is focused on several competencies, CBRE’s position as the world’s largest commercial real including commercial property and corporate facilities; estate services and investment firm has occurred project and transaction management; tenant/occupier through organic growth and a series of strategic and property/agency leasing; capital markets acquisitions. We acquired the Global Workplace solutions (property sales, commercial mortgage Solutions (GWS) business from Johnson Controls, Inc. origination, sales and servicing, and structured in September 2015. finance); real estate investment management; valuation; development services; and proprietary research. GWS is a market-leading provider of enterprise Except where indicated, all financial figures are in U.S. currency. CBRE Group, Inc. is incorporated in facilities management solutions for global Delaware in the United States. Our Class A common corporations and other large occupiers of stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol CBG. commercial real estate. [G4-7] [G4-13] In 2015, CBRE advised clients on 87,150 property As a services company, CBRE’s supply chain is sales and lease transactions valued at more than primarily comprised of resources to support our $310 billion. As of December 31, 2015, we managed employees. These include information technology 5.2 billion square feet of commercial properties and products and services (e.g., hardware, software, corporate facilities around the world (including property telecom, printers, outsourced services), marketing managed by our affiliate offices). Commercial materials (artwork, signage, direct mail) and facilities mortgage loan originations, including loan sale (leasing, furniture, maintenance). We purchase a advisory, totaled $40.8 billion; and loan servicing number of services to support our business, including totaled $135.7 billion. We completed 147,375 consulting, legal, human resources, marketing and appraisal and valuation assignments in 2015, and our training. We also purchase products and services to project management contract value was $42.4 billion. support the work we do for our clients, including office Our global investment management subsidiary, CBRE furnishings, janitorial products and services, and Global Investors, had $89.0 billion of assets under facility maintenance products and services. management as of December 31, 2015, and our [G4-12] 12 OPERATIONS CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries and affiliated offices in 68 countries. We report our operations through five business segments. AMERICAS EMEA ASIA PACIFIC The Americas is our largest segment Our Europe, Middle East and Our Asia Pacific segment of operations and provides a Africa (EMEA) segment operates in operates in 15 countries, comprehensive range of services 43 countries, including affiliates, including affiliates. Our primary throughout the U.S. and Canada as with our largest operations located operations in Asia are located in well as key markets in Latin America. in France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, greater China, India, Japan, Services are provided through the Netherlands, Spain, Singapore, South Korea and mostly wholly owned operations but Switzerland and the United Thailand. The Pacific region also independent affiliated offices. Kingdom. As of December 31, includes Australia and New As of December 31, 2015, our 2015, within EMEA we had more Zealand. As of December 31, Americas segment had more than than 20,200 employees. Our 2015, Asia Pacific had more than 33,500 employees and accounted EMEA segment accounted for 17,200 employees and accounted for 57.0% of our 2015 revenue. 27.7% of 2015 revenue. for 10.5% of our 2015 revenue. CBRE GLOBAL INVESTORS Operations in our Global Investment Management segment are conducted through our indirect wholly owned subsidiary CBRE Global Investors, LLC and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Global Investors. As of December 31, 2015, Global Investment Management had approximately 800 employees and accounted for 4.2% of our 2015 revenue. TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY Our indirect wholly owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide development services, primarily in the United States, to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. As of December 31, 2015, Trammell Crow Company had more than 200 employees and accounted for 0.6% of our 2015 revenue. [G4-6, G4-8, G4-10] THIS REPORT provides an overview of the social, There have been no changes from previous reporting economic and environmental impacts of CBRE globally in periods in the scope of this report. [G4-22, G4-23] 2015. This is our ninth annual Corporate Responsibility This report covers CBRE’s global operations, including our report, with the most recent report (our 2014 Corporate wholly owned, independently operated subsidiaries CBRE Responsibility Report) published in September 2015. Global Investors and Trammell Crow Company, unless [G4-29, G4-30] After publishing our previous report, we otherwise noted. This report excludes joint venture and have not received any information – internally or externally affiliate office information, unless otherwise noted, and – that requires us to restate information provided. supplier information. 13 INSIDE CBRE MATERIAL governments and nongovernmental associations (NGOs), as well as industry associations, universities ASPECTS and research entities. The survey results were then plotted on the matrix shown on the following page and vetted with key stakeholders. This report focuses on the issues that were determined to be the most material to In early 2015, CBRE conducted a CBRE and our stakeholders. Going forward, we will assess these issues on a regular basis to ensure our materiality assessment to actions and our reporting continues to reflect our determine the economic, business and stakeholder priorities. We plan to conduct our next materiality assessment in late 2016. environmental and social issues [G4-18, G4-19] that are most important to our Most of these items are material within the boundaries business and our stakeholders. of our operational control. Exceptions include items labeled with the notation (clients), which are material in the properties we manage for our clients globally. Our corporate responsibility team reviewed [G4-20, G4-21] frameworks, such as GRI and a number of ratings and rankings assessments, to develop a list of 55 items that could be considered material to a business such as ours. These items were put into an online survey QUICK ACCESS tool and respondents were asked to rank each item This report and future updates can be on a five-point scale. Internal stakeholders ranked accessed online through the CR link below. each item on the degree to which they felt the issue is For more information on CBRE, our significant to CBRE, and external stakeholders ranked operational structure and detailed financial each item based on the degree to which the issue data, please refer to the CBRE Group, Inc. affects their assessments and decisions about CBRE. 2015 Annual Report (IR). The survey was sent to all members of CBRE’s Global CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee and INVESTOR RELATIONS other internal stakeholders who work directly on the CBRE.COM issues covered in this report. The survey was also sent to more than 20 external stakeholders, including QUESTIONS? representatives of key clients, suppliers, federal Except where noted, the information covered in this report The GRI Content Index can be found on page 110 ( ). highlights our corporate responsibility initiatives in fiscal This report has not been externally assured. [G4-32, year 2015 (January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2015). G4-33] When available and significant, updates through early 2016 are included. [G4-28] This report has been prepared Since we are a United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 participant, we have also communicated our progress Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Construction and toward the 10 UNGC Principles. [G4-15] Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS) at the Core level. 14 CBRE MATERIALITY MATRIX Environmental Sustainability Communities & Giving Ethics & Compliance Governance ALTHOUGH we do not have operational control in all properties, we have the opportunity to influence client decisions regarding People & Culture Procurement energy, emissions, water and waste. Health & Safety ENERGY (CBRE) ENERGY (CLIENTS) HIGH WATER (CLIENTS) IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS EMISSIONS (CBRE) LABELING/CERTIFICATION EQUAL REMUNERATION FORCED & COMPULSORY LABOR FOR MANAGED PROPERTIES EMISSIONS (CLIENTS) EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT VOLUNTEERING & CHARITABLE GIVING TRAINING & ANTI-CORRUPTION EDUCATION OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY WATER (CBRE) DIVERSITY & EQUAL SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OPPORTUNITY NON-DISCRIMINATION CHILD LABOR CUSTOMER HEALTH & SAFETY SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT LABELING/CERTIFICATION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF LABOR PRACTICES FOR PROPERTIES WE OCCUPY OF SERVICES SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT PROFESSIONAL INTEGRITY FOR SOCIETY IMPACTS BUILDING MATERIALS PUBLIC POLICY WASTE (CBRE) ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR EMPLOYEE TURNOVER WASTE (CLIENTS) LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS COMPLIANCE LOW COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT TAX RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER PRIVACY/DATA SECURITY ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We define our stakeholders to be individuals and organizations who can impact or be impacted by our operations. governmental organizations and regulating bodies, NGOs and competitors. We interact with stakeholders throughout the year in a number of ways, including CBRE’s stakeholders include shareholders, clients, quarterly earnings calls, regular customer satisfaction employees, communities, CBRE affiliates and joint surveys and industry events. As noted earlier, we also ventures, suppliers and vendors, commercial real engaged directly with a number of stakeholders through estate services and investment industry organizations, the development of our materiality assessment, the regulating bodies, advocacy and activist groups, results of which helped define content for this report. 15 INSIDE CBRE MECHANISMS FOR ENGAGEMENT CLIENTS EMPLOYEES NGOs & ACADEMIC • Customer satisfaction surveys • Global employee intranet INSTITUTIONS • Localized research resources and insights • Email communications • Partnership in research studies • Client care program • Annual performance reviews • Attendance at conferences and events INVESTORS & ANALYSTS COMMUNITIES • Surveys and requests for information • Quarterly earnings calls • Employee volunteering INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS • Regular investor presentations, events and • Donations to charitable organizations • Attendance at conferences and events one-on-one meetings MEDIA • Participation on boards and assorted • Surveys and requests for information • Interviews with CBRE leadership/SMEs business committees • Annual Investor Day • Multiple social media channels [G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27] AWARDS & MEMBERSHIP HONORS ROSTER Ranked 15th on Forbes America’s Best Employers List Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) in 2016 Building Owners and Managers Institute (BOMI) Included in Fortune’s Most Admired Companies for International Business Roundtable Four Consecutive Years Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship Named to Dow Jones Sustainability Index North (BCCCC) America in 2014 and 2015 Business in the Community (BITC) Listed on FTSE4Good in 2014 and 2015 CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Named to CDP S&P 500 2015 Climate Disclosure Center for Climate and Energy Solutions’ Business Leadership Index for Three Consecutive Years Environmental Leadership Council (C2ES BELC) Included in Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 2016 The Climate Group 100 Best Corporate Citizens List Delos Named a 2016 World’s Most Ethical Company by Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) Ethisphere Institute for Three Straight Years Global Reporting Initiative Received 2016 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year – Green Rating Alliance Sustained Excellence Award for Nine Consecutive Years International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) Achieved a perfect score on the Human Rights NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Campaign’s 2015 and 2016 Corporate Equality Index Association Named to Military Times’ Best for Vets: Employers in Real Estate Roundtable 2015 and 2016 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Named To the 2016 Companies That Care Honor U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) Roll for 9 Consecutive Years [G4-16] THIS REPORT has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. Locations of GRI disclosures are included throughout the report using the notation [G4-X]. 16 INSIDE OUR ENVIRONMENT SEVERAL YEARS AGO our Global Real CBRE was listed as #15 on its list of the Best Estate and Facilities team came to the realization Companies to Work For. Our post-occupancy surveys that over the next few years nearly 40% of all CBRE demonstrate how fully our employees have embraced corporate oﬃce leases were set to expire. If there was the initiative, with 93% indicating they are highly ever an opportunity to think diﬀerently about the satisﬁed with the new environment – and 90% space that we occupied, now was the time. stating they would not return to a traditional oﬃce. What emerged were three primary goals. Importantly, we’ve achieved these organizational First, we wanted to create a healthy workplace that gains while minimizing employee space requirements, would enable our people to work smarter and more optimizing our resources and reducing our impact eﬃciently, in a more personally customizable space. on the environment. Most pleasing to me is how our Second, we wanted to optimize the operational value people recognize the investment that leadership is of the space that we occupied. And third, we wanted making, reinforcing CBRE’s commitment to their to lead the industry into the future by encouraging long-term success as well as that of our clients. our people to communicate and collaborate better For CBRE, Workplace360 has been transformative. across business and service lines. In a “work anywhere, anytime” world, it has By going “all in,” we believe that CBRE has shaped a demonstrated that there remains a vital role for new approach to designing and servicing work place – one that supports professional mobility while environments that inspires our people and our clients enabling ideas to grow, and communities to form, and has transformed the industry’s traditional view in the spontaneity of a collaborative space. of space utilization. To me, this is the story we are now able to tell: In the last three years, we’ve opened more than 30 that oﬃce space is meant to inspire people through Workplace360 oﬃces around the world. More than meaningful connections. And thanks to these 7,000 of our employees, including nearly 40% of our connections,, we now have a whole new lease on top producers, call a Workplace360 oﬃce home. the way we do business. Our people have become a driving force in changing our culture as well, with Workplace360 oﬃces that enable greater collaboration, build a stronger sense of community and create a deeper connection G GEORGIA EORGIA C COLLINS OLLINS Senior Managing Director between employees and the organization. It was this Global l b l Research h and d Consulting l connection that Forbes cited as one of the key reasons Workplace Strategies 19 “OFFICE SPACE is meant to INSPIRE.” 20 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY As the world’s largest real estate services firm, we take seriously our role in understanding, addressing and communicating the benefits of resource efficiency in the built environment and the value of innovative design on employee health and productivity. OPERATIONS WORKPL ACE360 MODELED AFTER our Amsterdam office, CBRE launched Workplace360, our global workplace strategy initiative, in the U.S. in September 2013 with the opening of our global corporate headquarters office in Los Angeles. Currently, more than 7,000 employees are based in more than 30 Workplace360 offices worldwide. Each Workplace360 office is a “free address” and paperless environment, supported by leading-edge technology tools and platforms. By eliminating assigned offices and workstations – instead, offering up to 15 different types of workspaces based on carefully calculating employee usage patterns – our EVERY new spaces save an average of 150 square feet per person while offering greater functionality and flexibility. WORKPLACE360 This lower per-employee footprint means lower energy use and carbon emissions. SHARES An added environmental outcome of Workplace360 A HEART. is a significant reduction in the amount of paper used in our business operation. Driven by the desire to be totally “free address,” we needed to embrace Additionally, we have introduced a comprehensive the concept of paperless processes. Each office “follow me printing” policy that consolidates all undergoing conversion first drastically reduces its printing to central locations. As a result, the requirement paper files through purging, and then digitizes the for onand off-site file storage is greatly reduced, and remainder to personalized cloud storage libraries. paper usage in Workplace360 offices has dropped On average, offices are purging 71% of paper files. 60 to 80%. 21 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY OCCU PA N C Y RESOURCE In our 2012 Environmental Policy, we stated a goal M ANAGEMENT to locate 70% of offices over 20,000 square feet in certified spaces by 2017. Since acquiring our first In our 2012 Environmental Policy, we stated a goal Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design to measure utility usage in our 50 largest locations by (LEED®) certified space in Washington, D.C., in 2008, 2017. The vast majority of our corporate occupancy we have purposefully sought and occupied certified occurs as a tenant in multi-tenant office buildings. space whenever possible. We currently have more We do not own any properties where our offices are than 74% of our 50 largest spaces in environmentally located. This occupancy strategy allows maximum labeled locations, including 33 LEED or LEED CI, flexibility in our space decisions; however, it 2 ISO 14001, 1 NABERS, 1 BCA Green Mark and complicates our efforts to measure, manage and 1 Gold Star. All occupied offices in the U.K. are ISO mitigate our resource consumption, as most of the 14001 certified. As a result, we exceeded our 2017 leased locations feature full building utility meters. goal in 2014. To measure our own use requires the installation of [CRE8] separate utility meters. As we reported in our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report, we have installed 134 submeters in 30 U.S. offices to date, totaling 892,092 INTERNAL square feet. This equates to approximately 20% of our CE RTIFIC ATION global footage and 40% of our 2017 goal. None of our 50 largest space leases expired during Since 2008, we have performed an annual audit 2015; thus, we did not install any new submeters of our U.S. offices and have rated them on the during the year. A significant number are expiring implementation of our Sustainable Office Operations during 2016 and we expect to make more progress Standards. These Standards are based on a series on this goal at that time. of responsible resource reduction practices and other sustainability and environmental initiatives in alignment with the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) LEED 2015 REGIONAL HIGHLIGHTS and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ENERGY STAR® programs. 95% OF OFFICES are purchasing office supplies Certifications are awarded through our Toward a with post-consumer recycled content. Greener Tomorrow (TaGT) program based on the results of these audits. In 2012, we made a 72% OF OFFICES participated in Green Week annual activities – an increase of 18%. commitment in our Environmental Policy to expand TaGT certification to all of our global offices over 86% OF OFFICES are taking steps to encourage 5,000 square feet by the end of 2014. The TaGT employees to be more physically active. program currently covers all larger English-speaking offices in the regions of Canada, Latin America, Asia, 90% OF U.S. OFFICES with vending machines Pacific and EMEA. include healthy and low-sugar food options. In 2015, two offices achieved the highest ranking of 25% OF EMEA OFFICES are using catering Platinum level, 18 offices scored at the Gold level, services that source local produce. 53 offices scored at the Silver level and 56 offices scored at the Bronze level. Highlights from our U.S. and EMEA regions in 2015 are described to the right. 22 COMPLIANCE & REPORTING It is our policy to implement environmentally sustainable best practices and to meet both the letter and the spirit of all environmental laws and regulations where we do business. In 2015, we were not issued any fines in violation of environmental regulations or laws, nor have we been responsible for or party to any significant environmental pollution incidents. In addition to this report, CBRE reports on corporate responsibility matters through various third-party organizations, including CDP. Some external organizations that evaluate and assess our corporate responsibility performance include criteria that may not directly apply to our company. By way of organizational transparency, we offer the following insights. INSIGHTS As a service provider, the environmental impact of our operations is relatively low by comparison to similarly sized firms in other industries. We have calculated our operational carbon footprint since 2008; the graph below details our Scopes 1 and 2 emissions since 2011. Details of our Scope 3 emissions can be found in our annual CDP Climate Change response, which is available on the CDP website. We have also calculated our 2015 fuel consumption to be 167,111 MWh and our electricity consumption to be 65,759 MWh. Our annual energy consumption can also be found in our CDP Climate Change response. [G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17] Our natural resource use and waste stream are not related to manufacturing, research and development, logistics and other resource-intensive activities. Since we do not produce, package or transport goods, we do not source sustainably or reclaim any products or packaging, nor do we transport hazardous waste or water. The majority of our operations occur in office settings, and in most cases, we lease rather than own the space we occupy – and our leases often comprise only a small portion of the buildings in which they are located. In addition, in multiple tenancy buildings, we do not always have access to energy submeters. As a result, we do not have the capability to track materials source or use of recycling efforts, water consumption or significant air emissions beyond those indicated elsewhere in this report. Our operations are largely based in urban and suburban areas, minimizing our exposure to protected natural areas and potential impacts on biodiversity and endangered species. To the best of our knowledge, we do not own or occupy facilities or land on or adjacent to protected habitats or areas, nor have we participated directly in habitat restoration. [CRE8] CARBON FOOTPRINT OF CBRE Scope 1 OPERATIONS Scope 2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 23 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT GREEN WEEK Green Week provides an important opportunity for CBRE employees to focus on environmental behaviors, resource efficiencies and community involvement – supporting the company’s commitment to sustainability and reinforcing our role as the industry leader in green. During CBRE’s third annual Green Week (October 12-16, 2015), local offices around the world engaged in challenging conservation activities, participated in educational events and shared their success stories on sustainable workplace practices. For the first time, offices from every region participated in the annual campaign. Besides building a “deeper green” into the organizational culture, Green Week demonstrates a model of improved business efficiency that supports the sustainable behaviors and practices we offer to our clients. 2015 HIGHLIGHTS 14,000+ CBRE Employees 105 Global Offices Participating 300+ Green Week Initiatives Globally 3.5 MILLION Twitter Impressions CBRE Vietnam, Japan and Hong Kong GLOBAL CR STEERING COMMITTEE Our Global Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee includes a broad mix of geographic and business line leaders as well as individual CR Pillar leaders. This committee is an expansion and extension of the Environmental Steering Committee that was established in 2012 as part of our Environmental Policy. The committee engages our business line, geographic and shared services leadership in all aspects of our CR program and collaboratively integrates all elements of corporate responsibility throughout the organization. Each committee member provides advice, counsel and advocacy for CR in their respective business line and geographical location. The committee holds quarterly calls, with more frequent individual communication as needed. A list of the Global CR Steering Committee members can be found on our website. 24 “MARKET FORCES at work.” A HIGH PERCENTAGE of our clients not only expect sustainable space, they demand it. Especially when it comes to validating a property’s status as “green,” they continue to view LEED® certification as the industry standard. A lack of certification can actually become a disadvantage in the commercial real estate market. And that’s where our competitive advantage comes in. CBRE is by far the global leader in LEED, having approached a milestone in 2015 of helping clients to certify nearly 500 office projects. The active involvement of our sustainability practice leaders with our property management teams demonstrates CBRE’s deep commitment to delivering great outcomes for clients. We’re also the first company in the world to achieve WELL Certification for a commercial office space, which complements our Workplace360 initiative. So we understand the value that sustainability brings, both from an asset holder’s perspective and occupier experience. But what distinguishes CBRE most as a trusted advisor on issues of sustainable space is the understanding that “green” is simply a term, and that health, wellness, carbon reduction, operational efficiency – it all contributes to the idea that, by working together, we can create better communities. And that’s when the business of green can become a truly positive force. BRIAN JENNINGS Managing Director U.S. Asset Services 25 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 26 ENERGY & SUSTAINABILITY SERVICES WE BELIEVE that our position as manager of more than 5 billion square feet of commercial real estate gives us a unique opportunity to develop and offer a range of energy and sustainability services aimed at reducing our clients’ resource usage while aiding their efforts in purchasing, owning and occupying more sustainable space. Our 220-person Global Energy and Sustainability (GES) team provides complete life-cycle solutions for energy management and sustainability services to CBRE clients around the world. Our mission is to deliver utility cost savings, energy efficiency and sustainable solutions by leveraging CBRE’s global scale and expertise. A MERICAS Energy and sustainability projects and programs are executed routinely on behalf of our U.S. Asset Services USGBC LEED® EB clients and Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) clients. In 2015, we registered and benchmarked 1,619 2015 148 buildings totaling more than 262 million square feet to PROJECTS 23 million square feet EPA ENERGY STAR. CBRE’s 346 ENERGY STAR labeled buildings under management represent nearly SINCE 485 4% of the total U.S. office buildings labeled in ENERGY 2009 PROJECTS 132 million square feet STAR. We have another 289 properties that are either currently in the application process or eligible to apply. Since 2007, CBRE has improved our average EPA ENERGY STAR® ENERGY STAR score, achieving a cumulative increase of 10% and an average score of 79.5 for 2015, a 2015 9% 9% increase over the previous year. Additionally, we INCREASE 79.5% average score experienced a 2.5% reduction in average normalized SINCE 10% site energy intensity during 2015, including a savings 2007 CUMULATIVE INCREASE of 15,980 metric tons of CO2 – the equivalent of reducing 38 million passenger vehicle miles driven in an entire year or providing 2,198 homes with one LEED certification is the most recognized rating system year of electricity. [G4-EN7, G4-EN27] of sustainable construction and management practices worldwide, and CBRE continues to assist our clients in In April 2016, the U.S. EPA recognized CBRE with their efforts to gain these certifications. Our LEED its 2016 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Existing Buildings (EB) consulting team completed Sustained Excellence Award for continued leadership 148 certifications totaling more than 23 million in protecting the environment through superior square feet in 2015. Since the team was formed in energy efficiency achievements. This marks the ninth 2009, it has certified 485 buildings totaling more consecutive year that CBRE has been recognized than 132 million square feet – more than any other for ENERGY STAR performance. LEED EB consultant in the world. We also continue to We continued our eight-year program of presenting assist our clients in achieving LEED Commercial co-branded BOMA (Building Owners and Managers Interiors (CI) and New Construction (NC) certifications. Association) Energy Efficiency Program (BEEP) training In 2015, we completed 18 new CI/NC certifications to our building managers and engineers on a weekly totaling nearly 1 million square feet. schedule, with a total attendance to date of more [CRE8] than 18,500 attendees in the four courses. 27 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CBRE TEAM MAKES A BIG SPLASH IN NICARAGUA IN OCTOBER 2015, two GES colleagues The trip was the culmination of a broader water spent a week in Nicaragua as part of a volunteer conservation initiative featuring GES subject matter project to bring clean drinking water to a rural experts, irrigation technology partner Weathermatic village, which had been without clean water for six and clients from a major U.S. financial firm. A months. Elodie Michaels, Vice President, Americas portion of the revenues generated from irrigation Energy & Sustainability, and Kyle Hopkins, Energy conservation projects at the client's sites were used Manager, were part of an 11-member team that to fund the construction of two drinking water wells traveled to Nicaragua for a life-changing experience at a local Nicaraguan school. Retrofit projects have constructing wells. With support from Living Waters reduced the client's water consumption by 30% and International and local villagers, the team of resulted in more than 142.7 million gallons of water volunteers built two wells in just five days. saved annually. In April 2015, CBRE completed the acquisition of Environmental Systems, Inc., a professional services firm focused on building efficiency and performance optimization. As part of CBRE’s Global Energy & Sustainability platform, CBRE|ESI provides technology agnostic expertise and advanced data analytics that ensure building performance meets our clients’ needs throughout the building’s life cycle. In December 2015, we announced that a recent pilot program has saved our GWS clients more than one billion gallons of water over the prior 18 months. Our team worked with a targeted group of eight clients across 381 sites to achieve cost savings through resource conservation. Under this pilot program, we achieved an average of 38% savings on annual water costs, resulting in more than $5 million in total savings for our clients. We plan to expand this program to more clients and sites to help reduce our clients’ spending on water and enhance sustainable practices. 28 A PAC WE HAVE SEEN continued interest in environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues by building owners in Asia Pacific, particularly in open-ended funds, leading to more opportunities for our regional sustainability and green building experts to advise clients. New projects won and completed in 2015 include Responsible Property Investment pre-acquisition due diligence on assets in Korea for a listed fund and stakeholder engagement, peer benchmarking, a portfolio sustainability review and a sustainability strategy report for a Singapore REIT. Our team in Asia offered new services to CBRE clients industry-leading NABERS expertise and experienced in 2015, including sustainable landscaping and site engineering expertise with an established track record management consulting. We also expanded our team in the Hong Kong market. to include experienced green building consulting, energy auditing and commissioning authority expertise based in Singapore, enabling us to better support LINK REIT marks the first our colleagues across South East Asia. Our LEED project in North East Asia to be consulting work in Asia continued to expand, including rated using NABERS, representing LEED EB v2009 certifications of several prominent office buildings in China completed in 2015 and an exciting development of the another in Seoul, South Korea, in early 2016. tool and moving the industry one Our work on sustainability in Asia has not been step closer to the growing confined to building owners. In 2015, our head of internationalization of energy sustainability in Asia was actively involved in supporting our GWS business to develop a strategy benchmarking. for the global green lease program of a prominent Emma McMahon bank, integrating existing clauses into the real estate Director of Sustainability process and creating training for transaction Pacific managers. This resulted in a significant increase in In a first for North East Asia, the CBRE team helped the uptake of green lease clauses introduced on adapt the implementation of the tool, which has been behalf of the bank to landlords in Asia and beyond. designed for the Australian climate and real estate In the Pacific region, we continue to build our energy context, providing valuable feedback for the NABERS and sustainability business in Australia and New team that will help guide the future internationalization Zealand. CBRE’s sustainability team was the number of this system. It is also significant in demonstrating one provider of National Australian Built Environment the future potential for collaboration between CBRE’s Rating System (NABERS) ratings in Australia in 2015, energy and sustainability professionals across regions. having rated approximately 16 million square feet of In addition, CBRE’s Pacific team has been providing commercial office space under the NABERS system. wellness consulting services to a number of premium This track record was instrumental in helping to secure landlords and occupiers in the Australian market who a landmark collaborative project between the Asia see the value of investing in health and well-being and Pacific sustainability teams, who were appointed initiatives to attract and, more importantly, retain top by Hong Kong’s Link REIT on a pilot project of 1.5 talent and premium occupiers in the industry. To date, million square feet of assets to help understand how this has included WELL Building Standard gap NABERS might be used as both a benchmarking and analyses and health and well-being strategy advice. energy management tool for their retail portfolio. The project involved team members from Australia and Asia, enabling CBRE to provide Link REIT with 29 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY THE FIRST SUPERTALL BUILDING IN THE WORLD to achieve LEED v4 TAIPEI 101 Work continued in 2015 on the LEED EB:OM recertification for TAIPEI 101. In September 2014, TAIPEI 101 appointed a CBRE sustainability team, led by colleagues in Asia in conjunction with colleagues in the U.S., to act as a LEED consultant to guide them through the process of recertifying the existing LEED v2009 Platinum certification. The property sought recertification to the new LEED O+M v4 standard at the Platinum level. This recertification was completed in mid 2016, becoming the highest scoring LEED v4 project in the world to date and the first to reach the 90-point threshold. TAIPEI 101 – with more than 2 million square feet gross floor area, 101 floors and 126 different tenants – was the first supertall building in the world to attempt and achieve this standard. With LEED v2009 being retired in October 2016, the experience gained from this project positions CBRE to further cement its position as world leader in LEED for Existing Buildings certification. IFC BEIJING SHENZHEN KERRY TIMES 8 LEED EB V2009 PLAZA TOWERS 1, 2, 3 (CHENGDU) PLATINUM LEED EB V2009 LEED EB V2009 PLATINUM GOLD [CRE8] 30 EMEA OUR EMEA sustainability team offers a wide range of services across the region, including audits, project management, environmental impact assessments, sustainability master plans for new developments and more. Our regional team of more than 100 specialists also features market-specific skills such as ISO 14001 and 50001 certification, Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) reporting assistance, and leads our global sustainability due diligence and repositioning strategies for Managed by CBRE, THE EDGE in Amsterdam acquisitions. The CBRE EMEA sustainability team is Europe’s most sustainable building. manages our blog, The Green Perspective, which features articles on climate change, sustainable Legislation is emerging rapidly across Europe, and workplaces, policy changes and more. CBRE teams are helping clients understand and react to changing requirements. We have developed a risk We are working with our clients management approach that identifies regulatory risk and pathways to mitigation, with follow-on to embed ESG-focused principles in assessments and improvement projects to address their business strategies, as we see a specific requirements such as the EU Energy Efficiency Directive and minimum energy-efficiency standards. significant opportunity to actively deliver solutions through a range In France, we continue to provide briefings on the adoption of green building certification in major of our services. markets. CBRE Greenview reports provide the Rebecca Pearce property industry with maps and analysis showing Executive Director locations and ratings of buildings, informing our Head of Sustainability – EMEA clients’ investment decisions and sustainability actions. Alongside our EMEA Asset Services business, the Our team in France developed a paper entitled CBRE EMEA sustainability team developed a Corporate Responsibility in Real Estate to stimulate Sustainability Toolkit to help property, building and dialogue across the French property industry. Launched facilities managers build sustainability into their at SIMI, France’s premier real estate event, the paper everyday property management activities. The toolkit engaged investors, developers, occupiers and industry includes 11 focus areas, each with three levels of bodies around socially responsible investment. operational standards in response to different levels of client ambition. In Germany, we worked with a global chemical company to develop an innovative new service that CBRE and the British Council of Shopping Centres combines an assessment of sustainability attributes (BCSC) released Sustainable Shopping Centres: with advice on building condition and future repair Energy, Performance and Value, demonstrating costs for laboratory, logistics, production and office long-term value benefits for shopping center owners buildings. In 2015, the EMEA team evaluated more that invest in energy efficiency. The report reveals that than 300 buildings across Europe with a total floor investing in sustainable features increases the market area of over 4.5 million square feet (430,000 square value of shopping centers by up to 5%. It also meters). This project is ongoing and allows demonstrates that maintenance and operating costs benchmarking to determine investment priorities and can be reduced through equipment upgrades and has introduced mobile solutions to provide digital preventative maintenance actions. data records for the client. 31 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AC A D E M I C CO L L A B O R AT I O N RECOGNIZING that we had a unique opportunity to encourage and support academic research teams seeking answers to some fundamental questions around sustainability activities in the built environment, CBRE launched the Real Green Research Challenge in 2012. This $1 million grant program was designed to provide funding and unprecedented access to actionable, real-time data and industry professionals in an effort to collaboratively explore areas of interest unavailable to researchers before. A global competition resulted in the selection of five projects that are currently underway. These projects including the following: GREEN BUILDING ADOPTION INDEX Maastricht University The second annual Green Building Adoption Index, published in June 2015, was a comprehensive review of the growth of green building certifications in the 30 largest U.S. office markets. Tracking the growth of both ENERGY STAR and LEED certifications, this study was the first ever to accurately measure the rise of these important environmental recognitions in the commercial real estate market. The analysis developed both national and individual statistics with supporting narrative examinations of each market, allowing comparisons between marketplaces. GREEN ALPHA INDEX EURO Institute of Real Estate Management The Green Alpha Index is a comprehensive economic analysis of the value implications of green building practices. This project has developed a management tool that measures the impact of various ESG elements on rental achievement. The tool can be used to identify areas of improvement and as a predictive model for new investment opportunities. The Green Alpha Index was presented at an academic conference in early 2016 and is expected to be published in an academic journal in the coming months. ENERGY MANAGEMENT PRACTICES Stanford University Energy Management Practices and the Implications for Commercial Real Estate includes a comprehensive evaluation of energy management practices at four large corporate campuses and compares these practices against ENERGY STAR-published recommended actions. Additionally, researchers are collaborating with ENERGY STAR on the possible modification of published standards in light of the study findings. A white paper highlighting these findings will be published in 2016. WHAT DO TENANTS REALLY WANT? Cleveland State/Central Michigan University Which Sustainability Features Do Tenants Really Want, and Which Would They Pay For? asked occupants which sustainability features actually matter to them, which they seek and which they would pay for. Additionally, the study aimed to develop a new sustainability scoring system to give all commercial properties a way to demonstrate sustainability characteristics. Results from this study have been accepted for publication in 2016. 32 ENGAGEMENT STRATEGIES New York University Studies have indicated that buildings with separately metered tenant spaces are more energy efficient. Engagement Strategies for Improving Tenant Energy Management Performance aimed to confirm that finding, as well as sought ways to engage occupants to increasingly improve energy efficiency in these spaces. An unexpected result was the discovery of the nature and likelihood of energy-efficiency actions undertaken by various real estate ownership structures. These results will be published in 2016. A second component of this project coordinates with the new EPA Tenant Star program, designed to provide individual tenant spaces with comparative energy usage scores. This work will continue into 2017. PUBLIC POLICY CBRE plays an active role in a number of non-governmental organizations and issues around the world, providing industry leadership on several influential committees. CITY ENERGY PROJECT DELOS In 2015, we continued our alliance with the Institute WELL Building Standard™ for Market Transformation (IMT) and the Natural In early 2016, CBRE and Delos, a wellness real estate Resources Defense Council (NRDC) in supporting and and technology firm, announced a strategic alliance promoting the City Energy Project. This national that will advance Delos’ mission to transform indoor initiative is working to create healthier and more environments into spaces that help nurture, sustain prosperous U.S. cities by improving the energy efficiency and promote human health and well-being. of buildings. Working in partnership, the Project and the 10 cities participating will support innovative and Pioneered by Delos, the WELL Building Standard is the practical solutions that reduce pollution, boost local first building standard to focus on enhancing people’s economies and create healthier environments. health and well-being through the built environment. CBRE will pursue WELL Certification for at least 100 A key aspect of this project is the active endorsement buildings, sites or offices managed by or associated of local market adoption of energy data disclosure with CBRE worldwide. CBRE plans to accredit 50 legislation. Currently more than a dozen U.S. cities CBRE employees through the WELL Accredited have adopted some form of legislation with several Professional (WELL AP) program. Additionally, CBRE will more under consideration. In 2015, Kansas City and become a founding member of the Well Living Lab™, Atlanta passed mandatory energy data disclosure the world’s first human-centered research lab designed laws. Los Angeles is drafting legislation and expects to study the interaction between human health and an ordinance to be passed in 2016. Both Orlando well-being and the indoor environment. CBRE’s Global and Houston held multiple stakeholder engagement Director of Corporate Responsibility Dave Pogue meetings during the year in an effort to move toward serves as a member of the Delos Advisory Board. development of disclosure requirements. 33 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GLOBAL REAL ESTATE SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING BENCHMARK (GRESB) STANDARDS BOARD GRESB is an industry association developed to assess The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) the sustainability performance of real estate portfolios. is an independent nonprofit whose mission is to CBRE continued its regional participation on both develop sustainability accounting standards that help the U.S. and Asia Pacific benchmark committees, public corporations disclose material, decision-useful represented by Dave Pogue; Emma McMahon, information to investors. CBRE participated in the Real Director of Sustainability, Pacific; and Tim Shen, Estate Services Industry Working Group and provided Director of Sustainability, Asia. Additionally, we feedback during the SASB standards development continued to host the annual GRESB Asia Pacific process. CBRE Board Director Laura Tyson serves on results launch event in Singapore. the SASB Board of Directors. CENTER FOR CLIMATE & GREEN RATING ENERGY SOLUTIONS ALLIANCE CBRE is an active supporter and participant in the The Green Rating Alliance is a nonprofit association of Center for Climate and Energy Solutions’ Business European-based investors and related organizations Environmental Leadership Council (C2ES BELC). created to assess and improve sustainability BELC is the largest U.S.-based group of corporations performance of real estate across national boundaries. focused on the challenges of climate change and Paul Lensing, a business and ESG manager for CBRE supporting mandatory climate policy. Global Investors, is the organization’s CEO. THE CLIMATE GROUP CORENET GLOBAL Dave Pogue serves on the board of directors of CoreNet Global is a nonprofit association that works The Climate Group, an international nonprofit to advance the practice of corporate real estate. working to drive a low-carbon future. Tim Shen continued to serve as the Asia representative on the CoreNet Global Sustainability Knowledge WORLD GREEN Advisory Board. BUILDING COUNCIL BUSINESS (WGBC) ROUNDTABLE CBRE is a member of several Green Building Councils across the globe and actively supports local and In 2015, we continued our longstanding membership WGBC initiatives. In 2015, EMEA Head of in the Business Roundtable, including participation Sustainability Rebecca Pearce led one of the technical in Create, Grow, Sustain: Leading by Example – working groups of the WGBC study on Health, which featured CEO narratives on how their Well-Being and Productivity for Offices, which resulted companies have contributed to sustainable economic in a report that outlines issues and metrics for this growth and a cleaner environment. increasingly important subject. [G4-16] 34 CBRE GLOBAL INVESTORS “At CBRE Global Investors, we believe that taking environmental, social and governance considerations into account during any investment decision can enhance returns and preserve value for our investors. Importantly, we understand how these considerations help create the best places for people to conduct their lives. Our approach is one of balance, in which we aggressively seek and develop the type of environments that deliver long-term financial value while producing direct and meaningful benefits for users of that space. With nearly $90 billion in assets under management, we understand that CBRE Global Investors has a responsibility, and a continuing obligation, to demonstrate that investing in more environmentally sustainable space has the ability to create substantially better returns.” VANCE G. MADDOCKS Chief Investment Officer Americas 35 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 36 INVESTING IN OUR FUTURE CBRE GLOBAL INVESTORS, a wholly owned subsidiary of CBRE, is one of the world’s largest real estate investment management firms with $89.0 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2015. The firm seeks to be the global leader in the real estate investment management industry by offering a broad and deep investment platform that consistently delivers world-class investment results and exceptional client service. Our focus on real estate and real assets, comprehensive capabilities and a fiduciary commitment to our clients provides a distinct competitive advantage that enables us to offer clients valued solutions. At CBRE Global Investors, a specific emphasis is placed some developed internally and some with key partners, on environmental sustainability and improving the advisors and service providers – for each part of the environmental footprint of each asset under investment cycle. management. We recognize that we can make a Over the past few years we have advanced our green tangible impact on improving energy efficiency, reducing initiative through increased participation in the annual greenhouse gas emissions and slowing climate change. GRESB Survey. In 2015, CBRE Global Investors As such, we require investment teams to evaluate significantly outperformed its 2014 GRESB results. opportunities for green improvements for each asset The 23 funds and separate accounts that were prior to acquisition and to track efficiency during the analyzed in the survey improved their scores by an hold period with clear guidelines that we implement average of 15%. They also achieved a 7% reduction across our global investment programs at all stages – in energy consumption and a 3% decrease in starting with the acquisition due diligence process and greenhouse gas emissions. continuing throughout our asset management activities. We routinely engage third-party consultants to evaluate the physical and environmental REACHING Twelve investment programs characteristics of potential investments to identify FOR THE STARS worldwide were awarded opportunities for improvements that would reduce a GRESB GREEN STARS, up property’s environmental impact. from seven in 2014. These 12 funds and separate accounts Each team considers these findings when defining excel at having sustainable the investment strategy and capital expenditure 7 policies in place and are also program for a property, including location; energy active in the implementation savings; building environmental characteristics of sustainability and effecting (orientation, facades, landscape, etc.); presence of 2014 2015 change in their portfolios. harmful materials or contamination; access to public transportation and environmental characteristics impacting tenants (luminosity, olfactory comfort, etc.); The CBRE Dutch Office Fund was ranked first in the as well as other relevant sustainability factors. sectors of “Europe/All Sectors,” “Netherlands/Office Sector” and “Europe/Non-listed Participants,” as CBRE Global Investors’ eco-responsible philosophy well as placing number two out of 688 submissions promotes transparency and disclosure on environmental in the Global Scoring ranks. Most of our high issues while recognizing that business requirements achievements came from the Pan European sectors, vary across regions and investment programs. We with the European Industrial Fund increasing its score customize the sustainable acquisition and operations by 26% and the European Shopping Centre Fund approach to a given investment strategy, the specific (ESCF) improving its 2014 score by 48%. ESCF was building and tenants’ needs. The process results in a also ranked among the most sustainable retail funds comprehensive mindset of efficient green solutions – within the CBRE Global Investors submission. 37 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY The U.K. Property Fund improved by 31% on its results from the previous year, which contributed to an overall 19% hike in performance seen across the EMEA portfolio. We distribute our Global Sustainability Policy to vendors and include provisions in third-party contracts for the implementation and reporting of sustainability factors. Property management agreements now include sustainability clauses, and property managers are being compared on various green key performance indicators to reward the most sustainable property managers. Investment teams are expected to monitor and measure green performance and provide incentives for outstanding improvements. CBRE Global Investors has commitments to the following organizations to help promote acceptance and implementation of sustainable practices: • United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment • Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change • Sustainable Building Alliance • Green Rating Alliance • International Sustainability Alliance • Urban Land Institute CBRE CLARION SECURITIES • Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark CBRE Clarion Securities, the listed equity management • Sustainable Investment in Real Estate arm of CBRE Global Investors, is an industry-leading • Building Owners and Managers’ Association global investment management firm specializing in the • U.S. Green Building Council management of real assets, including real estate, master limited partnerships (MLPs) and infrastructure • Dutch Green Building Council (including the securities. The firm managed approximately $21 billion BREEAM-in-Use Advisory Council) as of December 31, 2015. • Association of Dutch Investors in Real Estate Sustainability Taskforce In 2015, CBRE Clarion targeted the 20 largest • ICSC European Sustainability Taskforce companies (by market capitalization) in both the MSCI US REIT Index and FTSE/EPRA NAREIT Developed GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS Index that did not participate in the 2014 GRESB survey. Since the two indices overlap, this yielded a 116 total certifications list of 30 companies prioritized. Contacts were made with all 30 of these companies. Once the 2015 survey 75 assets with one or more was complete, we were able to observe that three of these companies participated that had not previously – 28.3 million square feet two with completed surveys and scores and one under 48 ENERGY STAR a grace period in 2015. As of the end of 2015, there were 151 listed property companies participating in 42 LEED the GRESB survey, comprising approximately 45% of the market capitalization of CBRE Clarion’s 26 BREEAM [CRE8] investment index. 38 TR A M M E LL C ROW C OM PA N Y “AT TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY, we believe in developing the best buildings on the best sites in the best markets. Our clients have come to fully embrace the value of sustainability, not only as the responsible thing to do but as a market diﬀerentiator – which gives them that “best in” ownership edge. They depend on us from the start to provide the thought leadership that can deliver what the market demands: healthy, productive and more eﬃcient occupant space. As our founder, Trammell Crow, was known to say: ‘There's as much risk in doing nothing as in doing something.’ At Trammell Crow Company, we choose to do the right thing by leading the industry forward, providing our clients with investment opportunities that build on the best of environmental sustainability.” MICHAEL S. DUFFY Chief Operating Officer Trammell Crow Company FOUNDED IN 1948, Trammell Crow practices. TCC employees share the same passion: Company (TCC), a wholly owned subsidiary of CBRE, to insure an improved quality of life in our communities is one of the leading developers and investors in for generations to come. commercial real estate. The company has developed or acquired more than 2,600 buildings valued at over TCC incorporates sustainability guidelines and best $60 billion, comprising more than 565 million square practices into its projects across all product types and feet (MSF). TCC is dedicated to building value for its has formally established a sustainability initiative, making clients with teams of professionals located in 16 major environmental stewardship integral to our brand. cities throughout the United States. Notable 2015 achievements include: 33 LEED Accredited Professionals (APs) earned Our goal is to build value with comprehensive, 13 LEED certified/sustainable projects integrated building solutions that are 5.8 MSF of certified space across a broad spectrum attentive to the environment, the health of the of products and geographies occupants and the needs of our investors. As of December 31, 2015, TCC was working on: 20 additional projects totaling 8.4 MSF that are TCC’s knowledge leadership in new development pursuing LEED certification. directly complements CBRE’s initiatives to advance [CRE8] the performance of new and existing buildings in the built environment. As a commercial developer on the CASE STUDY cutting edge of new technologies, TCC brings direct NOBLE ENERGY CENTER TWO insight into how the design and use of commercial buildings can dramatically reduce impacts on the NOBLE ENERGY CENTER TWO is environment in comparison to past designs and designed to minimize environmental development practices. impacts and ensure staff can perform to their fullest potential. The 495,080 As an industry leader, it is our responsibility to inform square foot building was developed to maximize clients of our best practices gleaned from experience, energy efficiency, reduce water usage and employ the options available to them and the benefits gained responsible use of materials. Click to look inside this through intelligent and sustainable building design LEED BD+C Gold-certified project. 39 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 40 “We EMPOWER people to GROW.” 43 INSIDE PEOPLE & CULTURE AT CBRE, we’ve been developing a truly global learning and development platform – a direct reﬂection of the company’s culture of inclusion and the role CBRE plays as a leader in the business community. In 2015, we launched a global project that incorporated the input of experienced learning professionals in each of our regions, as well as feedback from employees and key business leaders. The goal: establish an integrated learning platform for training founded on a standardized set of governance processes, while retaining the ﬂexibility to adapt to the unique needs of a speciﬁc region, business line or market. Because the system is designed for local regions, by local employees, my role as LMS (Learning Management System) Lead is to act as a global curator of content, adopting an aerial view through our virtual technology to ensure the needs of our business lines are identiﬁed and the appropriate training delivered. I’m pleased to report that by the end of 2015 more than 90% of our employees gained access to the platform, where new learning content is added daily – demonstrating CBRE’s commitment to education and inspiring people to take control of their own professional growth. What makes me most proud is the company’s ongoing progress toward becoming a genuine culture of learning, and not simply an environment where world-class training exists. Our goal is to get to a place where learning is completely natural and collaborative – something that occurs every day and is an inherent part of our commercial real estate operations. The key is to continually develop, and reinforce, the foundation on which the platform has developed in 2015, while at the same time delivering inclusive learning opportunities in every corner of the world, and in all corners of our occupied space. The result will be a culture of learning that beneﬁts both employees and CBRE clients, and whose diversity of individual ﬁbers serves to strengthen the organization itself. GAIL GA AIL D.D AUSTIN AUS STIN Global LMS Lead Talent, Learning & Diversity 44 PEOPLE & CULTURE Guided by our RISE values, CBRE is focused on talent attraction, professional development, diversity and inclusion practices – and a healthy culture where all employees feel engaged and excited to come to work for us every day. 67.8% 67.5% In 2015, our global workforce grew 32.2% 32.5% to more than 70,000 employees across more than 60 countries as AMERICAS APAC a result of organic growth and strategic acquisitions. 64.0% 66.6% The following provides a demographic profile of 36.0% 33.4% CBRE’s global workforce, excluding affiliate offices. By progressively developing a more inclusive workplace, we strengthen the connections between EMEA GLOBAL our employees, clients and suppliers, and the markets we serve. [G4-10, G4-LA12] Male Female G E N D E R & R E G I O N 65.4% | 30.7% 64.0% | 31.4% FULL TIME REGULAR 96.1% 95.4% 1.2% | 2.7% 2.6% | 2.0% PART TIME TEMPORARY 3.9% 4.6% EMP L O Y MENT T Y PE & G E N DE R CON TRA CT TYPE & GE ND E R 45 PEOPLE & CULTURE POLICIES F L E X I B L E W O R K P L A C E CBRE’S FLEXIBLE work arrangements and of culture. As a professional services and investment telecommuting policies continue to be viewed as firm, our most important asset is our people, so favorable options for accommodating employee providing a workplace environment that improves the work-life balance and overall wellness. These policies way we work today, while enhancing our overall make it easier for employees to find a work situation health and well-being, is a top priority. that best suits their working style – and to facilitate conversations between our employees and managers, Our CBRE Workplace360 initiative, detailed in the enabling agreement on work schedules. Environmental Sustainability section of this report, features a balance of private and collaborative Our flexible work arrangements allow employees a workspaces designed to support the way employees number of options to better manage their weekly work through enhanced flexibility, mobility, technology schedule. Arrangements vary by region, and are and productivity. By incorporating these features into designed to increase productivity and improve quality our workplace, we are able to give people a choice in of life, including the flexibility for employees to work work space; the freedom to collaborate, team, part-time hours, leverage job sharing arrangements socialize, focus and meet; and a healthy, safe, energetic or work directly from home. In addition, we believe and dynamic workplace in which to do all of it. that the physical environment is an important enabler 46 TOTAL REWARDS COMPENSATION & BENEFITS We recognize and appreciate that employee total rewards is an important part of the employment relationship. CBRE provides competitive total rewards in all the markets in which we compete for talent, including fixed and variable pay, and comprehensive benefits that complement country-specific, legislatively prescribed programs. Typical programs include but are not limited to: • Base pay • Income continuity benefits such as life insurance, • Annual bonus/commission plans shortand long-term disability insurance • Health & welfare benefits such as medical, • Paid and unpaid time-off programs, including dental and vision parental leave • Retirement programs • Employee assistance ANNUALLY we review market competitiveness of relevant labor and employment laws and collective of all our total rewards programs and adjust our bargaining agreements, as applicable. In instances programs accordingly. Additionally, we actively where we could not provide advanced notice, balance the cost of these programs through manager employees received pay in lieu of notice, consistent and employee education, promotion of wellness with our severance plan. activities and a “pay for performance” culture, as well as through continuous process improvement. CBRE provides outplacement assistance as part of the company’s transition assistance package to employees CBRE focuses on providing equitable opportunities to who are affected by a reduction in force, including all our employees. Differentiation in compensation is separation pay, a health care stipend and access to driven relative to individual performance. However, our outplacement services. Our severance plan offers benefit programs are, where possible, consistently benefits to qualified fulland part-time employees. offered within locations to ensure that employees have the same access to programs as other employees CBRE is vigilant in complying with all national within their location/position. regulations in the countries where we operate. For individuals not subject to external pay reviews and/or benefit requirements, such as union contracts, We have established policies and practices that CBRE undertakes an annual “pay for performance” support the company’s position on prohibiting review. Employees are assessed based on their discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, performance against established goals and color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, rewarded accordingly. gender identity, pregnancy, childbirth (or related medical condition), age, citizenship, marital status, CBRE remains committed to providing eligible disability, veteran or military status, political belief or employees with meaningful, compliant and affordable any other basis protected by applicable law. benefits. We aim to support physical health, financial wealth and emotional resiliency with a variety of At December 31, 2015, approximately 1,900 of our programs for employees at any stage in their career. employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom are on-site employees Treating our people with dignity and respect is a in our asset services business in California, Illinois, priority. When practical, we provide impacted New Jersey and New York. employees advanced notice of staff reductions and significant operational changes in excess of regulatory [G4-11] requirements. We complied with the notice requirements 47 PEOPLE & CULTURE LEARNING & DE VELOPMENT EVERY DAY YOU ARE EMPOWERED AND EXPECTED TO BE BETTER. CBRE’s learning and development programs are closely aligned to our EMPLOYEE ADVANTAGE, which CBRE created and began rolling out in 2015. The campaign demonstrates how employees are empowered to become continually better and have the freedom to climb as high as they can. Driven by the goal of building a world-class talent organization, our Global Talent, Learning & Diversity team ensures that... CBRE has the strategy, process, programs and tools to make that happen. 48 EMPLOYEE ADVANTAGE LAUNCHED IN 2015, our Employee Advantage represents the mindset of our organization and the goals we strive toward every day. Emily Mather, Regional Director in Asia Pacific, hosts a brief introduction below, while Carlos Garcia provides just one of many testimonials to the advantage gained by working at CBRE. EMILY MATHER, Marketing, Sydney CARLOS GARCIA, Capital Markets, Madrid DEVELOPMENT learning programs and ensure that our employees with regulatory-required training have completed courses in At the core of our learning strategy is the view that talent a timely manner. Additionally, clients often have development happens through three key activities: specific training requirements of our employees who work on their sites, and myLearning allows us to 70% ON-THE-JOB work/doing the job at hand manage their entire learning profile and meet our clients’ needs. In 2016, CBRE is focusing on continuing 20% FORMAL TRAINING to improve a skill or to source and develop relevant e-learning tools at the increase expertise global level to further optimize the myLearning platform. 10% COACHING through direct feedback from As mentioned in About CBRE, in September 2015, a boss, peer or mentor CBRE acquired the Global Workplace Solutions This 70-20-10 blended approach includes webinars, (GWS) business of Johnson Controls, Inc. We classroom training, self-paced e-learning, coaching, dedicated more than 140 resources across the globe mentoring and on-the-job projects. to focus on welcoming and onboarding our newest team members to the company. In 2016, the company OUR SYSTEMS will continue to focus on the cultural integration of the two organizations through strategic communication All of our training and learning materials are available and education efforts. in our global Learning Management System (LMS) – myLearning – a world-class, cloud-based learning In December 2015, our Americas talent team solution that CBRE implemented to 66,000 employees implemented the myRecruit system, a cloud-based worldwide in 2015. myLearning is where employees platform, to enhance our recruiting and onboarding can seek and find training materials to enhance and processes and increase our ability to attract and develop their skills, connecting them to assigned and retain top talent. This best-in-class platform improves self-selected training content, allowing interaction with the experience for applicants, new hires and other learners across the company and providing managers. It is more intuitive and functional, making better management tracking of employee learning. it easier for applicants to apply and access important information. There are mobility features, including myLearning technology enables us to serve employees integration with social media, allowing applicants to in more than 60 countries in nearly 30 languages. apply at any time. Overall, the system’s integration The tool also allows managers to assign specific ensures a more seamless onboarding experience. 49 PEOPLE & CULTURE LEARNING PROGRAMS An additional area of focus in 2015 was the expansion of our Finishing First training curriculum. Initially available in our EMEA region, then deployed in APAC and the Americas, Finishing First teaches our sales professionals a winning process to move from vendor to strategic partner. The tools and resources that are part of the program are standard worldwide and embody the philosophy of how to pursue and win business by aligning to each client’s uniqueness. This program ensures our salespeople share a best practice winning process to drive exceptional client outcomes. CBRE’s 2015 EMPOWER mentoring and professional development program focused on elevating the core leadership abilities of 50 high-performing, high-potential mentees. The program paired mentees with senior-level mentors and executive advisors who offer guidance through a two-day, in-person kickoff conference, monthly meetings, regularly scheduled coaching sessions and ongoing professional support. CBRE continues to invest in learning and expanding its distance learning initiatives, allowing our geographically diverse workforce to access a vast majority of our training programs. In 2015, CBRE employees had access to courses in formats that included virtual asynchronous and synchronous e-learning, in-person classroom based courses and conference format sessions. These courses covered a wide range of developmental and business disciplines including leadership/management development, employee professional development, sales management, property management, and real estate finance and economics. In 2015, our Americas Corporate Learning & Development team delivered 83 classes to 3,300 attendees from seven countries. 45% of the class attendees were diverse. Our Americas CBRE University continued to advance the skills and capabilities of high-potential, market-facing professionals through customized training programs delivered by our leaders and subject matter experts that target brokerage, management/leadership and shared services employees. Additionally, our learning and development professionals traveled to deliver programs in our major markets in the Americas. These classes focused on improving communication skills, sales and presentation skills, coaching for peak performance, and time management. CBRE’s EMEA Academy programs are designed to advance the careers of our professionals from entry level through director level. Each new graduate is paired with a mentor who provides the feedback and guidance required to successfully navigate both the technical and business skills development needed to advance in the organization. Following a review process at the end of 2014, the EMEA team designed and developed new regional programs. In 2015, 26 EMEA Academy programs trained more than 200 attendees via two-day classroom sessions in six EMEA locations as well as webinars. The EMEA Swap and Share program is now in its third year, with more than 400 swaps due to be completed by January 2017. The program focuses on strengthening strategic relationships within and across service lines and geographies, learning about best practices from other countries and improving cultural awareness. Each swap is typically one week in length with follow-up interactions scheduled for the months following the swap. Our EMEA team also designed and conducted two residential executive education programs at leading business schools. Sponsored by our EMEA CEO, these four-day programs trained 19 senior leaders and direct reports of four EMEA Board members. 50 LEARNING PROGRAMS (CONT.) In APAC, we have adopted a regional focus with our The Pacific Leadership Forum, sponsored by programs to drive stronger management skills and the APAC CEO, provides senior-level leaders support the capabilities and competencies of representing all business lines with a deeper middle-level managers. Our aim is to help these understanding of CBRE corporate strategy and key managers perform more efficiently and effectively clients. Attendees experience an intense three-day within their current roles and prepare them for more agenda focused on advancing leadership capabilities senior management roles. We have designed a using practical tactics. Participants gain insight into number of programs, including Foundations of how successful senior executives operate by hearing Management, Middle Manager Program and from Pacific business leaders who share their own Manager Essentials, that are customized with strategies and best practices. Over 300 attendees country-specific nuances. These programs train have participated in the Forum during the past managers on how to be collaborative, inclusive 15 years, with over 70% of these leaders remaining and effective leaders. with the business. DIVERSIT Y & INCLUSION The mission of our Diversity & Inclusion initiative is to provide a work environment that attracts, develops and celebrates the professional success of every individual. CBRE strives for a work environment that reflects the clients we serve, provides everyone with the opportunity to succeed, values the differences of each individual and recognizes their contributions to our firm’s success. We have great examples of gender, ethnic and other categories of diversity in our leadership and employee groups. We also recognize that our industry is lagging behind world-class role models in key areas of diversity, and this is an opportunity for continued improvement. Our executives are actively engaged in the discussions and, more importantly, the actions that are resulting in key wins for CBRE’s diversity journey. As part of our commitment to diversity and inclusion at CBRE in the United Kingdom, we have invested in the National Equality Standard, and are the first real estate company to make the commitment. The National Equality Standard (NES), launched in 2013, is sponsored by Ernst & Young (EY) in partnership with 18 other U.K. and global companies. It is supported by the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) and Confederation of British Industry (CBI). A robust organizational assessment devised by the NES and EY Board will begin in 2016 to carefully review our diversity and inclusion policies and practices. Next, a comprehensive review period will begin to identify areas for improvement and implementation recommendations. Trained NES Assessors will review documentation, ensure legal compliance, conduct comprehensive interviews and sample staff through in-depth surveys. We will use the outputs of this assessment to develop a meaningful action plan to create an even more diverse and inclusive culture. 51 PEOPLE & CULTURE D&I TEAM The Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) team, a group within Human Resources, is dedicated to bringing a lasting impact to our organization through global, corporate diversity and inclusion practices. The growing team, which added AN AREA OF three new roles in 2015, demonstrates the importance placed on both internal FOCUS and external diversity and our inclusion initiatives at CBRE. In addition, U.S. CONTINUES TO BE Recruiting created a new role dedicated solely to diverse recruiting. Primary responsibilities of the Diversity Recruiter are to create internal awareness around THE ADVANCEMENT the importance of diversity among recruiters and hiring managers, partner with OF WOMEN TO external diverse organizations to build CBRE’s diversity presence, discover LEADERSHIP POSITIONS. diverse junior talent through internships, and create a targeted sourcing effort for client-facing and sales support positions. An area of focus for the organization continues to be the advancement of women to leadership positions. In 2016, the D&I team will work closely with senior executives, members of the Women’s Network Americas division and other CBRE colleagues in small focus groups to identify the challenges and barriers facing women as they try to advance. This same model, working in small focus groups to identify barriers and challenges, will also be used in a partnership with the African-American Network Group leadership team to understand how we can recruit and advance more ethnic minorities. MANAGER AWARENESS DIVERSIT Y BUILDING & TRAINING PARTNERSHIPS Senior leaders are kept abreast of emerging diversity CBRE continued its 22-year relationship with the and inclusion opportunities through the Diversity Commercial Real Estate Women’s (CREW) Network as Executive Briefing, a message circulated by the Global a corporate sponsor. CBRE sponsors CREW interns for Director of Talent, Strategy & Diversity to executives 10-week internships to gain exposure to our business across the globe. The bi-monthly communication is and the industry as a whole. distributed to inform and influence leadership across the entire organization to think and act differently in CBRE continued its collaboration with order to achieve world-class diversity outcomes. diversity organizations in 2015 to promote In addition, in 2015 CBRE initiated Inclusive Leadership diversity and vital access to the industry. training for managers in the Americas. Plans are underway for all CBRE managers across the globe to complete the training in 2016. In 2015, CBRE continued its relationship with the Posse Foundation, an organization that helps prepare highpotential, multicultural high school students for college. IMPACT! PROGRAM Three Posse Scholars interned with CBRE during the summer to gain exposure to our business and begin to To advance our commitment to improving gender put their skills to use in a professional setting. balance at more senior levels, CBRE launched an executive development program for 16 highDuring 2015, CBRE supported the Real Estate Associate performing women in senior and executive leadership Program (REAP) in several markets throughout the U.S. positions at CBRE worldwide. During the first year This 10-week immersion program exposes talented of the two-year program, achievements included professionals of different ethnic backgrounds to the promotions, external awards and recognition commercial real estate industry and gives them access for some of the leaders. to network with and learn from industry leaders. 52 “Talent is EVERYWHERE.” IT’S A MATTER of tapping into that talent – enabling people to explore opportunity in our industry without the historical forms of bias that have inhibited individuals, and even organizations, from achieving their full potential. I’m excited about what we accomplished in 2015, when real strides were made to embed concepts of diversity in CBRE’s daily practices through inclusion programming and a broader sense of awareness. For one, the continuing growth of our network groups is giving our diverse and talented employee base an even greater voice. To me, that’s what is most exciting. I’ve been in this business for years, and what we’re observing now is a fundamental change driven by Millennials, who are helping to evolve our business culture – young people who are saying, not only here in the U.S. but in EMEA, in Asia, in Australia: “Let’s forget about these walls and start working together!” We’ve planted a lot of seeds, and we’ve seen some growth related to those seeds; but now we have to really untangle decades and decades worth of institutional practices. That’s the difficult work. But it’s a job worth doing. And the rewards for people, and the companies for whom they work, are significant. 53 PEOPLE & CULTURE BARBARA DALY Diversity & Inclusion Manager Talent, Strategy & Diversity (Retired July 2016) 54 EMPLOYEE NETWORK GROUPS IN 2015, the D&I team and the employee network group leaders in the Americas teamed up to launch the first-ever joint membership drive. The month-long internal campaign educated employees on the benefits of joining one of the seven employee networks. The result was an increased membership rate of 9%, for a total of 4,675 members. Of the 9% membership increase, 75% were new members of an employee network group while 25% joined one or more new groups along with their current membership. AFRICAN-AMERICAN NETWORK GROUP The vision of the African-American Network Group (AANG) is to advance diversity and inclusion as a core value benefiting CBRE, our clients and our communities, with a particular focus on recruiting, retaining and developing our black professionals. In 2015, AANG established the AANG Leaders Forum, making it possible to progress in their strategic goals and recruitment strategy. Their three-year strategic plan focuses on building awareness and a new governance structure. The AANG Broker Recruitment & Retention Initiative was established to recruit and develop promising sales professionals, partnering them with senior brokerage professionals. Four new sales professionals joined CBRE through this initiative. A new internship program with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF) was also supported in 2015. Through the pilot program, a diverse professional joined the company within the GWS line of business as a full-time hire. AANG also strengthened member engagement through the addition of more local market chapters, active committee participation and an overall increase in member enrollment. ASIA-PACIFIC AMERICAN FORUM CBRE’s first-ever Asian-American network group, Asia Pacific American Forum (APAF), was established in 2015 and focuses on attracting, developing and retaining Asian Pacific American talent. APAF develops training programs as well as mentoring opportunities focused on building skill sets, including preparing members for production roles and leadership opportunities. The group also helps our communities through volunteerism and charitable NEW! contributions and works to build external connections to Asian professional in 2015 organizations. A regional leadership team is focused on growing the membership base by establishing regional hubs across the nation. In 2016, APAF will launch the first annual kick-off for regional leads and members to meet and facilitate growth of APAF in its grassroots efforts. Remarked John Ferguson, CBRE President of the Southeast Division and executive sponsor of the newly formed APAF: “I look forward to joining the whole Asia Pacific American Forum team. Together we will serve our Asian community and guide CBRE’s continued efforts toward inclusion for all employees.” 55 PEOPLE & CULTURE CBRE MILITARY Thousands of our employees have prior military service, which provides them with specialized skills and experiences much different from those of civilian workers. CBRE Military works to set these employees up for success in our corporate environment while speaking to their military background. In 2015, CBRE Military connected with more than 300 transitioning military service members in their career search, communicating the benefits of joining CBRE and becoming involved in the employee network. The team also initiated roadshows among CBRE offices to drive awareness and membership in local markets. External partnerships expanded to the Military Spouse Employment Program (MSEP), and members attended the induction ceremony in Washington, D.C., in November to celebrate the inaugural year of partnership. Additionally, CBRE Military had member representation at the Automation Alley Military Hiring Seminar in Detroit in August, partnering with local brokerage leadership to support the program. The leadership team was also integral in CBRE’s internal campaign to honor employees with former military experience on Veterans Day. In 2016, CBRE Military will build local market chapter networks to align with the initially established service lines (Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines). HISPANIC NETWORK GROUP The Hispanic Network Group (HNG) supports Hispanic and Latino professionals across the Americas by promoting diversity and inclusion while providing opportunities for these professionals to develop their business and their career. The team hosted the first-ever HNG conference in Dallas, in May 2015. The network also concluded its first community involvement program with the Trinity River Mission book drive, which promotes literacy and academic skills among children and families to help open doors for satisfying jobs and productive futures. LGBT & ALLIES The lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) network group, LGBT & Allies, provides an open-minded support system for conducting business while addressing the personal requirements of our LGBT community. The group acts as an advocate for shaping CBRE practices and programs to ensure a business community where merit supersedes sexual orientation and gender. For the third consecutive year, the LGBT & Allies network group achieved a perfect score from the Human Rights Campaign Workplace Equality Survey Corporate Equality Index. CBRE was the first commercial real estate company to achieve such a ranking. In 2015, the employee network sponsored the Out & Equal conference in Dallas, the Reaching Out MBD (ROMBA) in Chicago and the National HRC Dinner & Dallas Black Tie event. The year also saw the establishment of LGBT and Allies in Australia as part of an effort to to expand its global presence alongside an anticpated increase in U.S. regional chapters. 56 RISING PROFESSIONALS ORGANIZATION Rising Professionals Organization (RPO) is dedicated to helping young professionals form business relationships, build leadership skills and participate in community and philanthropic events, all while helping develop an understanding of CBRE’s platform, resources and training opportunities. In 2015, RPO extended globally to partners in Australia and Brazil while growing in the United States to include 20 different markets. In addition, RPO members across the U.S. helped approximately 15 non-profit organizations as a collective network. WOMEN’S NETWORK The Women’s Network (WN), established in 2000, brings together a cross section of individuals throughout the company who are not only united in a common set of ideas – mentoring, professional development, personal enrichment and networking – but also in making CBRE the best place to work, not just for women but for everyone. In 2015, the WN earned a Top Ten ranking in the inaugural Global Diversity List, supported by The Economist. The list recognizes large companies that put diversity at the center of their business strategy, recognizing the Women’s Network for its efforts to improve gender diversity within CBRE through mentoring, networking and personal and professional development. The United Kingdom division of the WN celebrated its 10th anniversary, launching a new magazine, ELEVATE, which contains articles from clients and CBRE WN members who are leaders in the real estate industry in the U.K. It focuses on the challenges that women working in real estate face and highlights the supportive environment and family-friendly policies that CBRE provides. The U.K. leadership team also helped found Real Estate Balance, a new initiative specifically aimed at getting more women into senior leadership positions across the real estate industry. Additionally, the network continues to run a program that coaches mothers during preand post-maternity leave while providing coaching for the individual’s line manager. At the 2015 Women’s Networking Forum, the Americas division of the WN launched Dine for Advantage, a networking event consisting of small-group dinners where members could forge valuable new connections. Nearly 50% of the members who attended the conference participated in the new activity. The Asia Pacific division of the WN supported the Women in Property sponsorship program, providing young graduates with accelerated support to start their careers in the property industry. They also sponsored their first regional women's leadership program and have active participation in the Male Champions of Change initiative, which is committed to helping diversify the real estate industry. The APAC division also continued its popular clientfocused events in 2015, which are networking events for clients and employees to bring meaningful action around advancing and retaining women in the industry. 57 PEOPLE & CULTURE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT & RECOGNITION Performance Management is viewed as a continuous activity at CBRE. We offer a number of career development and performance management training sessions, allowing employees to learn more about their role in the process and how it benefits them in their career growth. Leveraging our 70-20-10 Development Model described earlier, employees are taught the greatest value of performance feedback comes during the on-the-job activities that cover 70% of professional development. Our annual performance review process includes training for managers and employees. We have achieved an 82% annual review completion rate for our U.S.based, non-commissioned, full-time employees. Outside the U.S., the desire to have culture-of-feedback is strong, and our progress toward conducting annual reviews and capturing this data systematically and electronically is dependent upon local requirements, customs and the building of our global HR information system. We plan to have performance review data available for more locations in 2016. [G4-LA11] CBRE has a strong tradition of recognizing and rewarding top performance. The firm has formal and informal recognition programs to meet the unique needs of our complex business makeup and global footprint, including nearly 250 individual or group awards for leadership, commitment, ethics, service excellence, financial performance, community involvement, philanthropy and more. 58 INSIDE HEALTH & SAFETY DESPITE a more than 20% increase in company online education and training, has driven consistency revenue, CBRE continued to improve its safety record across the globe, with key courses identiﬁed for in 2015, including a top-tier 0.72 total recordable translation into diﬀerent regional languages. injury rate for the year. This success points to our Importantly, in 2015 a dedicated HSE steering ability to attract and retain more than 240 of the committee was established, comprised of 14 of the highest quality Health, Safety & Environment company’s senior leaders, including an executive (HSE) professionals. sponsor. This increased level of engagement has One of the key factors for this success is a word I like already produced signiﬁcant safety awareness to use, and that’s “purposeful.” Our approach is to dividends, with leadership in diﬀerent business lines empower our people to make intelligent programming and geographical regions making a coordinated choices based on the client’s needs, while at the same commitment to building greater advantage for clients time adhering to a set of consistent, globally through CBRE’s health and safety practices. integrated practices and procedures that reinforce With growing knowledge comes the need to further CBRE’s absolute standards of health and safety. develop communications that provide a common If it’s a best business practice, CBRE will bring it platform for adopting best practices to speciﬁc to you – and in a purposeful fashion that is easily regions and industry types. The birth of our HSE consumed and economically appropriate for the Connect newsletter has provided an essential means regional market. for communicating this information to a wider, rapidly evolving global workforce. Moreover, our professionals know we are making the best possible resources available to them, and that Even though we have made signiﬁcant strides in builds trust in the company’s policies. In 2015, we 2015, our goal is to continue driving toward an made a signiﬁcant investment in a leading online aspirational goal of zero injuries − and to building management system that will make reporting, as the trust that builds greater advantage for employees, well as documentation, resources and sharing, contractors, clients and the public. immediately available to our professionals in real time, anywhere in the world. We also continued to invest aggressively in health, JAMES C. LIME safety and environment training. Our progressive Vice President ® adoption of RedVector, the leading provider of Health, Safety & Environment 61 ”THE PURPOSE of safety is PEOPLE.” 62 H E A LT H & S A F E T Y There is nothing more important than the health and safety of our employees, contractors and those with whom we work. OUR POLICY As the leader in commercial real estate services, our goal is to ensure a culture of the highest standards of performance with a dedicated commitment to the health, safety and environment of our employees, contractors, clients and the public. CBRE reviews its policies and procedures annually to ensure they remain up-to-date and reflect the latest thinking on our journey to being a world-class HSE organization. We refreshed our HSE Policy Statement in 2015, as indicated below. Provide a safe and healthy workplace for our Safe and Healthy Workplace employees and others who are aﬀected by our activities. Ensure adequate specialist resources are available Specialist Resources to enable HSE to be eﬀectively managed throughout the organization. Meet or exceed all applicable regulations, legal Applicable Regulations requirements and Company standards, including voluntary requirements we engage in. Measure and communicate our HSE performance, Measurements & Communications sharing with our employees, investors, clients and other interested stakeholders. Implement and maintain policies, procedures and Continuous Improvement systems dedicated to continuous improvement in everything we do. 63 HEALTH & SAFETY M A N A G E M E N T We believe that safety is the entry point to building trust with our employees, clients, visitors and other stakeholders, and we work diligently to maintain a strong culture of safety to ensure a safe work environment. Our clients are increasingly demanding worldon topical issues relevant to the global workplace and class safety performance as a pre-condition to supporting employees in performing their jobs to the compete for and retain their business. highest industry standard. As a part of our client commitment, CBRE formed the We continue to increase the percentage HSE Steering Committee in 2015. Chaired by our VP of HSE, the committee is comprised of senior leaders of the organization that operates in across business lines and geographies. The committee verified compliance with an provides executive sponsorship, oversight and support internationally recognized health for the CBRE HSE function, including but not limited to strategy, policy, systems, monitoring and corporate and safety management systems. governance for HSE responsibilities. The committee is helping to shape the safety culture throughout the Our Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) business in company and establish a world-class HSE culture. our EMEA region is certified to a number of standards, including the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety THERE’S NO HIGHER Management System and PAS 99 Integrated PURPOSE in corporate Management System. Our Infrastructure Ontario account in Canada is also covered by an ISO responsibility than to ensure 14001 certification. a safe work environment for our employees, contractors, RAISING THE STANDARD tenants and visitors. 100% Approximately 33% of our TOTAL workforce is covered by ISO and OHSAS 18001 We have approximately 245 HSE professionals across WORKFORCE certifications, and approx. CBRE. They comply with the many requirements 21% has been externally required by our clients as a part of the Statement of 33% ISO + OHSAS 18001 verified to be in compliance Work contained in our contracts as well as our own 21% OHSAS 18001 with OHSAS 18001. rigorous standards. To ensure these professionals have the information they As a result, approximately 33% of our workforce is need to do their job well, a monthly HSE Network call covered by ISO and OHSAS 18001 certifications, delivers timely and educational information that and approximately 21% has been externally verified to includes procedure updates, changes in HSE policy, be in compliance with OHSAS 18001 certification. performance measurement results, HSE-related news Additionally, we work with a number of clients who and alerts, and lessons learned. The group also operate their own internationally recognized HSE produces a monthly newsletter called HSE Connect, management systems with which they require us to which documents and distributes timely information fully integrate. 64 In order to facilitate a consistent global approach to incident management, including root cause analysis and corrective actions, we are in the process of implementing an enterprise HSE software solution. We plan to implement a full suite of modules to improve our HSE management system. The software will include audits management and will house any findings uncovered during our internal audit process. We expect the software solution to be fully operational by the end of 2016. The acquisition of Johnson Control’s Global Workplace Solutions (GWS) business detailed further in the Inside CBRE section of this report has led to a positive impact on the CBRE safety culture. Our goal CBRE launched its global HSE solution in 2015. in the integration was to emerge as a stronger and better organization than we were prior to the acquisiPerhaps the most important thing we received as a tion. The legacy GWS organization brought with it a part of the acquisition is outstanding colleagues and number of good practices that have now been experienced leadership that help to drive continuous incorporated across CBRE. improvement across our company. PE R FOR M A NC E CBRE received 40 RoSAP AWARDS for performance, including the coveted President’s Despite a more than 20% increase Award, 4 Gold medals, 15 Gold awards, in company revenue, in 2015 18 Silver awards and 2 Bronze awards. CBRE continued to improve its safety record. In the U.S. alone, we saw an increase of 8.25 million (RoSPA). CBRE achieved Gold Medal Award status work hours – a 17% increase in exposure as compared for a 10th consecutive year, which is known as the to the prior year – due to a significant increase in the RoSPA President’s Award. We received a total of number of employees we acquired through new 40 RoSPA Health & Safety Awards in 2015, including account transitions and the GWS acquisition. That the President’s Award, 4 Gold medals, 15 Gold said, we compared very favorably with 2014 awards, 18 Silver awards and 2 Bronze awards. OSHA-published Total Recordable Injury Rates (TRIR) In 2015, we implemented a more thorough and for applicable NAICS (North American Industry accurate injury measurement process globally. We Classification System) codes. The Real Estate and expect to be able to report global Lost Time Injury Commercial Property Management industries had Rate (LTIR) data for 2016. published TRIR figures of 0.90 and 2.90, respectively. CBRE finished 2015 with a 0.72 TRIR, significantly Even though we have made significant strides in 2015, below the industry codes in which we participate. we know that we can do even better. We are actively [G4-LA6] working to reduce our injury rates through a number of targeted initiatives. We have set a year-over-year goal In the United Kingdom, CBRE was again recognized to reduce our TRIR by 10%, and we are committed to by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents working toward our aspirational goal of zero injuries. 65 HEALTH & SAFETY 66 69 CBRE EMPLOYEES make repairs to the home of Pompano Beach, Florida, resident Daisy Lee Taylor. INSIDE OUR COMMUNITIES WHETHER WE’RE helping our communities The CBRE Shelter Program has built and renovated where we live and work or people in need around the homes and community centers across the U.S.A. for world, CBRE employees are passionate about giving. the past six years. In addition, local CBRE Cares In 2015, CBRE, our foundations and our employees committees lead fundraising and volunteer eﬀorts gave a record $13 million to hundreds of charitable for dozens of causes that our employees care deeply organizations serving our communities. Our ﬂagship about, and we continue to work to understand the initiatives engage employees in each region. CBRE’s impact of our community involvement. In 2016, signature partnership with global children’s charity we plan to roll out a new software solution for data Plan International in the EMEA region provides collection and reporting. education for girls in Sierra Leone while also funding At CBRE, we’re proud to be a valued community relief eﬀorts during the Ebola outbreak in that region. partner, and honored to contribute our talents and Walk for a Wish, our largest philanthropic event in resources toward making a meaningful diﬀerence the APAC region, unites colleagues across cultures in lives around the world. to raise funds for worthy causes. 70 COMMUNITIES & GIVING CBRE is deeply committed to fulfilling our role as a responsible corporate citizen by supporting and adding value to the communities where our employees live and work, as well as in communities where the need is greatest. We approach our commitment A WORLD OF GOOD to community investment and partnerships with the same level of creativity and enthusiasm that we approach our business. 2015 Each of our three regions – Americas; Europe, Middle Charitable Giving East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC) – operates independent charitable initiatives, leading $9,659,405 Corporate Donations their own regional programs. One element remains $2,470,772 Employee Donations the same around the world: our employees’ charitable $780,433 CBRE Foundation spirit and enthusiasm. We pride ourselves on having $126,124 CBRE Disaster Relief feet on the ground in all of our major markets around Foundation the globe, and our efforts focus on measures that embrace that quality and allow our employees to show $13,036,734 – and build on – their compassion for others. EMEA OUR EMEA CHARITY program involves each country in the region, committing a contribution 50% goes toward local charity causes decided by country teams. of at least 0.5% of each country’s annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and adjustments (EBITDA) to charitable causes. The commitment 40% partnership goes toward an EMEA-wide charity agreed to by the EMEA Board. to donating 0.5% of annual EBITDA represents a minimum donation, and country leaders can choose to donate more if they wish. 10% istomajor added to our EMEA Disaster Relief funds ensure we are able to respond quickly to humanitarian or environmental crises Our charity EBITDA contribution is divided into the in EMEA, as and when they occur. following three components: 71 COMMUNITIES & GIVING PLAN INTERNATIONAL + CBRE CBRE’s EMEA business joined forces with global children’s charity Plan International in 2014, becoming the lead corporate partner in a €7.4 million ($8.9 million) international community investment program to provide an education to more than 135,000 children, primarily girls, in Sierra Leone. CBRE has pledged to raise €850,000 ($1.0 million) for Plan International to provide subsidies, create better schools, offer vocational training for female teachers and Building a better future assistants, provide support for children with disabilities, and improve the quality of education across 780 DISCOVER our shared community. schools in five of the poorest districts in Sierra Leone. The partnership involves CBRE colleagues in more than 100 offices and 30 countries throughout the region participating in fundraising and other activities. CBRE is providing pro-bono support across Plan International’s global real estate portfolio, adding further tangible value to the NGO’s work on behalf of some of the world’s poorest children. In 2015, the second year of this three-year campaign, CBRE employees in EMEA raised a record €173,033 ($190,890) toward our pledged goal, in addition to the designated corporate donation. When Ebola virus broke out in West Africa, it presented a number of challenges to CBRE’s program to improve girls’ education in Sierra Leone. Throughout 2015, CBRE supported Plan International to adapt the partnership activities to continue the focus on education, while helping the targeted beneficiaries in Sierra Leone to survive the Ebola outbreak. Specifically, CBRE’s funds assisted Plan International to deliver the following: SHARED STORIES SHARED BENEFITS 302,435 PEOPLE reached through CBRE-supported campaign to prevent spread of Ebola 30,000+ PEOPLE given access to water, sanitation and hygiene across 900 villages 20,673 SOLAR RADIOS supplied so children can tune into educational programming during outbreak 3,750 CHILDREN orphaned by Ebola given personal support, counselling and care PLUS: 5 CARE UNITS / 2 TREATMENT CENTERS opened for Ebola-effected communities supported by CBRE funds SHARED ADVANTAGE Now that Sierra Leone is Ebola-free, the original project objectives and activities focused on providing education to girls will resume. CBRE staff will have the opportunity in LOOK INSIDE 2016 to visit the project and see firsthand the increased advantage our efforts have brought to the region. 72 THE POWER of taking personal leadership “Everyone at CBRE can take real pride in the diﬀerence our partnerships are making.” Kristian Sundborn, CBRE Associate Director in Industrial and Logistics in Sweden, raised €10,000 ($13,166) for girls education in Sierra Leone in just 72 hours, demonstrating the commitment our people make to creating opportunity for others. 73 COMMUNITIES & GIVING UNITED KINGDOM In February 2015, national housing and homelessness charity Shelter was selected as CBRE’s first national U.K. charity partner, through a pitching process followed by a staff vote that registered a participation rate of over 75%. This partnership aims to help 2,600 families struggling with housing and homelessness. After only seven months, the annual target of £250,000 ($368,550) had already been met. At the conclusion of 2015, £295,238 ($412,654) had been donated to Building a better future Shelter via a combination of corporate donations and employee fundraising. The additional funds have CIARAN BIRD, U.K. Managing Director enabled Shelter to fund two workers on their helpline. Complementary to the fundraising initiatives, more In 2015 a new volunteering policy was introduced in than 550 hours of volunteering and 140 hours of the U.K., which supports employees to undertake two pro-bono support was provided to Shelter in 2015. days of paid volunteering leave each year. The policy Significantly, more than 50% of CBRE’s U.K. workforce was introduced in acknowledgment of the potential has been directly involved in supporting Shelter. that our people have to make a significant contribution to the communities in which CBRE operates. The An independent charity, CBRE U.K. Charitable Trust policy demonstrates CBRE U.K.’s commitment to supplements charitable activity and staff donations. employee volunteering in response to an increasing In 2015, the Trust donated almost £40,000 ($58,968) desire among our people to contribute and become to more than 250 employees, helping raise funds for more involved in giving back to the community. 76 charities. Shelter + CBRE is built on a foundation of partnership. In 2015: £295,238 ($435,240) RAISED 770 HOURS VOLUNTEERED 60 ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED 1,400 FAMILIES ASSISTED 1000s EMPLOYEES ENGAGED CBRE exceeded its Shelter goal in less than a year. 74 AMERICAS U N I T E D S TAT E S CBRE continued to make a significant impact across the United States through the efforts of our individual offices supporting meaningful causes in their local communities as well as four principal U.S.-based initiatives – Matching Funds Program, National Shoe Collection Drive, Birthday Cakes & More for Homeless Children and Shelter Program. CBRE also continued to offer U.S. employees two days paid time off during the year for their participation in certain volunteer opportunities. THE CBRE FOUNDATION provided more MORE THAN 2,200 individual birthday cakes than $540,000 to the Matching Funds program in were delivered in 2015 through our cherished Birthday 2015. This program increases our employees’ Cakes & More for Homeless Children program – giving and that of our local offices by matching their more than double the number of cakes delivered donations at a rate of 50%, up to our annual budget in 2014. Through this grassroots initiative, employees amount, and donating the money to the specific hand-deliver personalized cakes to homeless children nonprofits they want to support. While these donations to help them celebrate their birthdays. were distributed to hundreds of organizations across the country, the majority of funds went to causes Birthday Cakes & More added 10 new shelters related to human services, health and education. to the program in 2015, bringing to 64 the Not included among the 2015 financial donations are total number of shelters supported. significant in-kind donations, such as 12,910 pairs of shoes donated to the international charity Soles4Souls The program also offers supplemental support via our annual National Shoe Collection Drive. Shoes through school-supply donations, holiday parties, were collected at 85 CBRE locations across the clothing drives and more. country. Throughout the past five years, CBRE has provided around 100,000 pairs of shoes to people Here’s how two of CBRE’s successful donation in need around the world. programs stacked up in 2015: BIRTHDAY CAKES & MORE NATIONAL SHOE COLLECTION 2,200 12,910 CAKES DELIVERED PAIRS COLLECTED 100,000 PAIRS OF SHOES ALL TIME 1,000 CAKES DELIVERED (2014) 75 COMMUNITIES & GIVING CBRE SHELTER Established in 2010 in partnership with national During the past six years, more than 6,200 CBRE housing nonprofits Rebuilding Together, HomeAid employees have donated over 45,000 volunteer and Habitat for Humanity, the CBRE Shelter hours in completing 152 CBRE Shelter Program Program continued as the flagship program for projects across the U.S. and in other parts of the CBRE Cares in the U.S. The program is designed world. In 2015, 710 U.S. employees traded their to improve housing options for individuals in desk jobs for a day, becoming painters, plumbers, need, and allows our professionals to use their carpenters and all-around handymen and leadership skills to deliver measurable results women to rebuild 24 facilities, including private in their communities. residences and community centers. CBRE ATLANTA employees craft a home with Habitat for Humanity during the local office’s annual Day of Service. 76 C A N A DA L ATIN A MERICA Our charitable strategy across Canada involves In 2015, CBRE’s philanthropy efforts throughout supporting the causes and initiatives most important Latin America supported several local charitable to – and spearheaded by – employees and our clients. organizations dedicated to serving youth. For the third CBRE Canada employees continued their annual year in a row, CBRE Mexico supported the John participation in the Juvenile Diabetes Research Langdon Down Foundation’s Mexican School of Foundation Ride, a stationary bike competition that Down Art through the purchase of artwork made by pits commercial real estate companies against each students. Additionally, CBRE Mexico provided an other. Additionally, charitable donations were made annual scholarship for a girl attending the Meyalli to dozens of organizations supporting a variety of School, which offers comprehensive education for health-related causes and basic human needs. disadvantaged girls. A PAC AS THE LARGEST philanthropic event in APAC, Walk for a Wish supports CBRE’s commitment to social responsibility by bringing teams together from each business line to support worthy causes in each participating country. In 2015, the 10-kilometer Walk for a Wish was held in 15 locations across Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, New Zealand and Singapore. Initiated in 2010 by CBRE’s Asset Services team in Australia, the event has raised more than $1.4 million over six years, including more than $300,000 raised by 1,714 participants in 2015. This year’s event supported a variety of organizations, including Operation Blessing in China; Canossaville Children’s Home in Singapore; Changing Young Lives CBRE MOONTREKKERS get ready to launch. Foundation in Hong Kong; Make a Wish Japan; The Beautiful Store in Korea; Ronald McDonald House offices refurbished the grounds of Serenity Lodge, a Charities New Zealand; and three organizations in drug and alcohol rehabilitation center in Rockingham. Australia (Beyond Blue, UNICEF and Starlight In association with Standard Chartered Bank, CBRE Children’s Foundation Australia). Korea took part in CRES Volunteer Day, engaging in sustainable practices and environmental activities. Additionally, CBRE and our employees donated Colleagues in Japan participated in numerous charity time and money to a broad range of social and runs, and CBRE Vietnam staff participated in the environmental charitable organizations throughout the BBGV Fun Run in Hanoi. Employees in India donated year. For the ninth year, CBRE China has sponsored to Habitat for Humanity’s Rebuild Nepal program in the Save a Child’s Life program, providing financial response to two devastating earthquakes. support for surgeries and medical treatment to children who suffer from congenital heart disease. CBRE Hong Finally, team members across the Pacific region Kong team members raised funds for The Nature partnered with several organizations to work with Conservancy through participation in the disadvantaged children, cared for homeless animals, Barclays MoonTrekker. Staff from the CBRE Perth and provided meals for homeless individuals. 77 COMMUNITIES & GIVING MAKING STRIDES CBRE Asia-Pacific leveraged the power of numbers to support charitable organizations through Walk for a Wish. T O K Y O BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE H O N G K O N G D I S A S T E R R E LI E F Disaster relief is a long-held tenet of CBRE’s charitable Donations made to Plan agenda. To further our support of victims of natural International, Room to Read disasters worldwide, CBRE formed the CBRE Disaster and its earthquake relief Relief Foundation in 2012. Acting in coordination with initiative (right) and the CBRE, the CBRE Foundation and regional and local American Himalayan disaster relief committees, the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation provided food, Foundation enhances employee contributions and water, shelter and basic distributes funds through a network of pre-approved household support directly ROOM TO READ partner organizations that focus on disaster relief and to those in need. In addition to immediate relief supplies, rebuilding communities in need. The CBRE Disaster temporary learning centers provided children with Relief Foundation also enables employees around the educational materials, as well as counseling for children world to aid fellow colleagues who have suffered a who needed extra support. catastrophic loss as a result of a natural disaster by providing financial assistance via a grant process. The second global fundraising campaign was launched in September 2015 to provide humanitarian support In 2015, the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation and through CBRE’s Syrian Refugee Fund. Donations CBRE employees donated more than $220,000, were directed to Doctors Without Borders and Plan propelled by two global fundraising campaigns. Our International. Funds supported these organizations’ Nepal Earthquake Relief campaign provided efforts to provide Syrian refugees with access to emergency earthquake assistance for children and their education, medical and well-being services, as well families in Nepal following the devastating earthquakes as to support basic needs like food, shelter, clothing that struck the area in April and May. and blankets. 78 INSIDE PROCUREMENT OUR RISE VALUES of Respect, Integrity, Service and Excellence form the bedrock of CBRE’s identity as an organization, and those values are reﬂected each day in the interactions we have with suppliers. As a services company, CBRE’s supply chain for corporate expenditures is relatively small; yet, our outsourcing services touch more than 85,000 suppliers worldwide. It’s crucial that these interactions shape positive outcomes for our clients and our ﬁrm, and for the larger global community. Our procurement eﬀorts in 2015 focused on three critical pursuits: 1) expansion of our supplier screening program, 2) development of our supplier quality development platform, and 3) enhancement of our commodity management teams. The product of these eﬀorts has been the continued development of quantiﬁable platforms that engage the supplier community and beneﬁt all CBRE stakeholders. The inclusion of our sourcing and procurement eﬀorts as a pillar of CBRE’s corporate responsibility platform actualizes our corporate beliefs. The introduction of our Supplier Code of Conduct deﬁnes responsible supplier standards and represents a ﬁrst and critical step in communicating expectations to our employees and the broader marketplace. The addition of memberships in supplier development groups, including the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce and National Veteran Business Development Council, reﬂect who we are and the values we hold as an organization. And our development programs in procurement, supplier qualiﬁcations and a sustainable supply chain serve to inform our people, allowing them to integrate responsible purchasing into all aspects of CBRE’s business. Together, these initiatives create a shared advantage for our clients, CBRE and our global network of partners. By measuring our progress, and adhering to the ideal of transparency in all decisions we make, our sourcing and procurement eﬀorts help CBRE to inﬂuence the market in a positive way, and to continue leading the industry forward. JEREMY JERE EMY D. D BENKIN Director, Procurement Asset Services 81 “Our values determine our CHOICES.” 82 PROCUREMENT With an annual global spend of more than $50 billion representing what we contract for ourselves and our clients, CBRE recognizes the opportunity to influence suppliers on a large scale while also mitigating supply chain risks. POLICIES suppliers’ adherence and take appropriate measures regarding supplier non-compliance. As requirements continue to grow for transparency in More than 450 CBRE sourcing and the supply chain, the need to perform close working procurement professionals manage relationships with suppliers and to also be familiar with practices of their supply chain partners is increasingly over 85,000 indirect and direct important. We are assessing various solutions that will suppliers throughout the world. allow us to improve supplier management and reduce supply chain risk around a variety of categories, We expect our suppliers to conduct their operations in including environmental impact, diversity, health and an environmentally sustainable and socially responsible safety practices and compliance with human rights. manner. At the same time, we have the opportunity to This aggregation of supplier information will help us use our global supply chain to promote sustainable improve performance and value, and will integrate with business practices and support local businesses other technology and processes for operational around the world. The magnitude of the impact of our efficiency and knowledge management. We anticipate supply chain far exceeds our own sustainability impact the implementation of this platform in 2016. as a firm. For these reasons, we have developed a global Supplier Code of Conduct (released in 2016). OUR HUMAN RIGHTS policy recognizes that we have a responsibility to respect human rights in OUR SUPPLIER CODE is the result of a our operations, to promote an appropriate example collaborative effort between a cross-functional and and to make a positive global impact. The policy was geographically dispersed team that included members updated in 2015 to incorporate provisions of the U.K. of the Sourcing, Legal, Compliance and Corporate Modern Slavery Act. It outlines our commitment to Responsibility teams. The Code sets forth fundamental combating the exploitation of children and therefore ethical and business conduct requirements for our prohibiting any use of child labor with any vendor, suppliers and includes guidance on anti-bribery/ suppliers or other third-party arrangements. anti-corruption, unfair business practices, data privacy and information security, conflicts of interest, labor It also states that we will not do business with, tolerate standards, health and safety, supplier-provided gifts or associate with organizations or entities that condone and environmental sustainability. The Code will be or are engaged in the practice of coercing or imposing referenced in all supplier contracts and purchase work with little or no freedom of choice. Additional orders, and all CBRE businesses and departments have information on our Human Rights Policy can be found been asked to reasonably monitor their respective in the Ethics & Compliance section of this report. 83 PROCUREMENT S U P P LI E R SC R E E N I N G In 2015, we expanded the use of a supplier screening program to validate supplier compliance with core and optional screening criteria. The program allows CBRE to mitigate supplier risk by employing a robust prequalification, supplier selection and ongoing monitoring process to provide more transparency and improve early detection of performance and/or reputational risks. The program segments suppliers by risk profile and supplier classification to allow for some flexibility in the extent of the screening. The full screening covers security, financial, insurance, environmental, health and safety, diversity and other checks to limit, if not eliminate, residual risk we or our clients may face due to non-compliant suppliers and subcontractors. To date, CBRE has screened more than 11,000 North American and European suppliers, and aims to screen 20,000 suppliers by the end of 2016 and 40,000 by the end of 2017 with a focus on our preferred or strategic suppliers. In 2016, we also plan to expand our use of web-based supplier screening to other regions including Latin America, EMEA and APAC. DIVERSITY We are continuing to take a number of steps to better understand our supply chain and engage with organizations that can help us improve our supplier We continued developing our supplier diversity diversity. We are a corporate member of the National strategies and practices in 2015 to enhance the value Minority Supplier Diversity Council (NMDSC), the of the goods and services we provide for our clients Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and our company. We expanded our definition of (WBENC), the National Veterans Business Development diverse suppliers to now include certified suppliers Council (NVBDC) and the National Gay and Lesbian that are owned by veterans or members of the Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). In addition, we lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) are analyzing our corporate procurement in order to community. In 2015, CBRE awarded more than develop a supplier diversity baseline and determine $184 million to certified diverse suppliers for either new supplier diversity opportunities. client or CBRE needs. 84 IMPACTS MORE THAN 480 contracts were executed As we transition our corporate offices to a paperless by CBRE Corporate Sourcing and Procurement in environment, certain legal files and documents are 2015. The services and goods contracted spanned required to be maintained in offsite storage with our accounting services to benefits, legal, construction, vendor partner, Iron Mountain. During 2015, we facility maintenance, information technology and worked with Iron Mountain to securely shred and communications, consulting, travel, fleet vehicles, recycle 478,301 pounds of paper in the U.S. This had security, safety and real estate services. Many of the equivalent of conserving 1,195 cubic yards of these contracts were global, multinational or landfill space and preserving 4,013 trees. cross-business in scope and leveraged CBRE’s scale Through the use of 30-100% of post-consumer paper for competitive advantage. waste to produce our business cards and presentation The CBRE Corporate Sourcing and Procurement team materials, our U.S. operations saved 34,798 pounds continued to work with Global Shared Services and of wood and 50,813 gallons of water. lines of business on many regionally relevant solutions In adherence with strict IT policies, CBRE contracts to enhance our corporate citizenship contributions, with a global supplier for the responsible removal including Workplace360, responsible recycling and and recycling of all employee computer hardware disposal of IT equipment, digital marketing, managed equipment. During 2015, a total of 13,019 units were print, environmentally sustainable office products and recycled and 9,344 units reused. This kept 170,568 furniture, energy-efficient IT equipment, cloud data pounds of electronic waste out of landfills. storage, audio conferencing and airline travel. 2015 U.S. RESOURCE CONSERVATION PAPER PRODUCTS IT EQUIPMENT 478,301 LB. RECYCLED 13,019 COMPUTER UNITS RECYCLED 1,185 CU. YD. OF LANDFILL CONSERVED 9,344 COMPUTER UNITS REUSED 4,013 TREES PRESERVED 170,568 LB. OF E-WASTE AVOIDED 34,798 LB. OF WOOD SAVED 50,813 GAL. OF WATER SAVED 85 PROCUREMENT 86 INSIDE ETHICS & COMPLIANCE EVERYTHING WE DO as an industry The process has been rigorous but productive, creating leader depends on trust. a speciﬁc set of established global standards to which Not only does trust build conﬁdence and facilitate a regional policies are inherently linked. transparent and reliable means of communicating Key concepts underpinning our focus on trust are among our employees, it’s shown that companies who access and transparency. Any employee who identiﬁes adhere to the highest set of corporate values consista concern related to our standards of conduct can ently outperform those who do not. So while CBRE raise it through an anonymous third-party online professionals are highly motivated to do the right portal, by using our international helpline or by thing as codiﬁed in our RISE values and Standards of contacting senior leadership, Human Resources, Business Conduct, world-class organizations gain a Legal and Ethics & Compliance directly. We seek and distinct competitive edge when their employees deliver actively encourage employees to raise concerns, as it professional services that are based on honesty, helps to anticipate and promptly address problems integrity and the highest standard of ethics. in ways that support our people and improve the At CBRE, we conduct an annual ethics and compliance company’s overall business performance. review process in every country where we operate. I truly believe our eﬀorts and activities within Ethics & By performing a risk assessment, we‘re able to Compliance not only help CBRE to be more successful evaluate the likelihood of concerns or violations but ultimately make the world a better place. Our taking place, as well as the potential impact. This services touch every single industry; by adhering to the allows CBRE to get ahead of any possible issues, highest professional standards, we positively inﬂuence especially with regular ethics training required for the conduct of our clients and suppliers, which beneﬁts all our employees. Combined with consistent and people and communities around the world. engaging communications, adherence to CBRE To me, this type of trust is transformative, and it standards is framed as core to our culture and highlights the importance of our eﬀorts in doing the essential to our employees’ success. right thing always. To better align policies and practices worldwide, CBRE recently launched a three-year plan to organize and reﬁne our nearly 250 global and U.S. policies. In 2015 we completed the second phase of that plan, TYSON M M. AVERY AVE ERY reviewing and updating all but 71 of these policies Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (conclusion of the project is expected in 2016). 89 “GREAT companies build TRUST.” 90 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Our Ethics & Compliance program maintains and supports a consistent culture of values that acts as the cornerstone of our global business philosophy and ensures that our success is achieved in the right way. P O L I C I E S CORPORATE VALUES AND STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT We take great pride in our RESPECT. We act with consideration for others’ ideas and share information openly to inspire trust reputation for upholding the and encourage collaboration. highest standards in the way we INTEGRITY. No one individual, no one deal and do business. Our commitment to no one client is bigger than our commitment to our company and what we stand for. our business standards is a major SERVICE. We approach our clients’ challenges with reason why CBRE is the largest enthusiasm and diligence, building long-term relationships by connecting the right people, capital commercial real estate company and opportunities. in the world. Our employees EXCELLENCE. We focus relentlessly on creating don’t just work and live by these winning outcomes for our clients, employees and shareholders. standards; they are the cornerstone of our RISE corporate values. excellence in the global real estate industry. The SOBC outlines expectations of employee conduct CBRE is firmly committed to conducting business with relating to each other; our business partners, clients the highest integrity and in compliance with the letter and competitors; our corporate resources; and our and spirit of the law. We are operating in a world communities. Available in 27 languages and where the rules that govern business conduct are approved by our Board of Directors, all employees more complex and demanding than ever. The are required to read, understand, certify and adhere Standards of Business Conduct (SOBC) that guide our to our SOBC. It is the focal point of our culture of everyday operations and bring our RISE values to life ethics and compliance and is essential to preserving are a roadmap for our continued commitment to the valuable trust placed upon us by our clients. 91 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE For the sixth year in a row, more than 95% of our employee population completed the In 2015, CBRE was not subjected to significant fines or Standards of Business Conduct certification sanctions for non-compliance with the law or regulations within a 45-day period. Through this process, in any country. No legal actions for anti-competitive or each employee reaffirms his or her commitment to the RISE values and SOBC, and adherence to several anti-trust behavior were filed against the company in specific policies (e.g., harassment prevention, anti2015. Additionally, CBRE received no fines, penalties or bribery, anti-corruption, confidentiality, data privacy). settlements in relation to corruption in 2015. Employees are also required to report any suspected material wrongdoing of which they might be aware. [G4-SO7, G4-SO8] Learn more about our SOBC at sobc.cbre.com. [G4-56] WHISTLEBLOWER of process and outcomes in an investigation is achieved by requiring our investigators to attend HOTLINE AND NONannual training and regular case peer review meetings. The ratio of reports of misconduct in relation to the RETALIATION POLICY employee population has remained steady and consistent with reporting benchmarks each year. CBRE continues to focus significant In 2015, CBRE globally received about 600 reports through our multiple reporting systems. The types energy and resources on sustaining of inquiries and allegations span from simple our internal avenues for inquiries, questions about policies to serious concerns including misconduct, discrimination and conflicts of interest. bringing forth concerns and invesComing forward in this manner means that our tigating suspected unethical or employees are comfortable bringing issues to the illegal activities. forefront and trust our strong anti-retaliation policy. This is a sign that our program is working. Led by the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, this We believe that our success in this program is thanks infrastructure includes a worldwide anonymous to our zero-tolerance policy on retaliation and to the reporting (as permitted by local laws) and inquiry numerous communications and training programs that system that is available 24 hours a day and accessible highlight this channel for reporting misconduct. The in all languages used by CBRE employees. These percentage of people self-identifying when reporting third-party independent systems are promoted through concerns, as opposed to remaining anonymous, has our corporate communications, office posters and remained steady and at or above industry norms. internal training, and are easily accessible through the Internet and country-specific toll-free phone numbers. To us: The Ethics and Compliance department is independent This signals that our program continues from business operations, so questions can be posed to be robust and our employees feel safe and advice given in a non-attributable, confidential and comfortable manner. Additionally, if an allegation and empowered to ask questions and of serious misconduct is logged into the system by an report misconduct. employee or third party, internal investigators are required to conduct a prompt, thorough and unbiased [G4-58, G4-HR3] investigation consistent with internal policies. Uniformity 92 ANTI-CORRUPTION CBRE is committed to building aggressive policies, controls, audit systems and training programs to prevent anti-corruption violations, and we are improving our monitoring processes to better identify and review potentially questionable transactions. We have increased the scope of our use of data analytics in the countries of highest risk and are WHAT’S MORE increasing transaction reviews, and in 2016 we plan to expand our anti-corruption monitoring ADDITIONAL COMPONENTS INCLUDE: and usage of data analytics.  A global, annual compliance risk assessment, conducted at the country level and Our Anti-Corruption Policy is translated into at least applicable to each business in the company, 30 languages and is applicable to all CBRE employees which includes anti-corruption as a primary globally. This policy addresses all forms of inappropriate issue. The risk assessment determines the payments to government officials and other entities, relative risk of a violation to the mitigation of including charitable donations and sponsorships the anti-corruption program and what could intended to disguise bribery. We require mandatory be done to further improve its effectiveness. anti-corruption training programs for employees in  A strong position that assists managing several targeted countries of operation, including new conflicts of interests with employees when employees within the first 60 days of employment. they arise. Additionally, all new employees must provide a written   Continuous compliance communications that include bribery awareness and examples sign-off to comply with the company’s ethics and of incidents of highest risk. anti-corruption policies. Finally, all employees are required to annually reaffirm their personal  Quarterly review and sign-off on anticorruption financial controls. commitment to adhering to our Anti-Corruption Policy  Periodic audits of the country-level antiin their daily activities. corruption controls and activities. [G4-SO4] PUBLIC POLICY & POLITICAL PARTICIPATION It has long been our practice that the company generally does not lobby (or fund lobbying of) government officials. While CBRE does not frequently take positions on public policy, in 2015 we continued involvement in two notable areas. First, we monitored and participated in the policy debate regarding effective solutions to climate change – particularly those that will facilitate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from buildings. Second, CBRE continued to provide thought leadership in support of federal and state government agencies in the U.S. with direct applicability to the business practices of the commercial real estate industry. In keeping with our commitment to transparency, all incidences of our participation were publicly disclosed and submitted. We anticipate our interest in participating in similar proceedings will continue in 2016, and we will maintain our commitment to participate in policy debate in a transparent, informed, respectful and responsible manner. 93 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMUNICATIONS & TRAINING CBRE continues to emphasize the critical nature of ethics & compliance through training and media that are both engaging and educational. Our General Counsel writes “Compliance Corner,” a monthly email that covers topics such as our Standards of Business Conduct, integrity, conflicts of interest and a variety of our corporate policies. “Compliance Corner” is unique in its approach, however, as it uses a wide variety of pop culture references and engaging storytelling to drive home that month’s message. As a result, it has become the most widely read internal communication at CBRE. Similarly, “Ethics Examiner,” written by our Chief Ethics employees. We facilitated training on a wide range of & Compliance Officer, presents real dilemmas faced topics, including anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, by our employees and inspires thoughtful dialogue on harassment, data privacy, business gifts and gratuities how to handle ethical challenges. A September 2015 and preventing money laundering. Several areas of “Ethics Examiner” encouraged employees to share ethics and compliance training are also provided to how they would handle a given situation; more than all new employees and must be completed within 400 employees commented on the story on our 60 days of hire. These include SOBC, harassment corporate intranet. prevention, the employee handbook and RISE values and, in targeted countries, anti-corruption training. Each edition of “Compliance Corner” and “Ethics Examiner” references the Ethics HelpLine phone We also introduced into our Legal training the concept number and website and encourages employees to of “Insight into....” By creating an internal training report any concerns, violations of policies or the law identity that focused on information and insight into a and unethical conduct. specific need or Legal business activity, we were able to create a platform on which specific educational In 2015, CBRE continued to roll out training on core topics, from conflicts of interest to vendor contracting, elements of our ethics and compliance program to all could be directly addressed and more broadly shared. HUMAN RIGHTS Consistent with our values and global nature, CBRE is dedicated to complying with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and has developed and implemented a global Human Rights Compliance Program. 94 CBRE HAS DEVELOPED and implemented a dedicated global Human Rights Compliance Program. The cornerstone of the program is our Human Rights Policy, in which we recognize that we have a responsibility to always respect human rights in our operations, to promote an appropriate example and to make a positive global impact. Our policy was updated in 2015 to incorporate provisions of the U.K. Modern Slavery Act and covers topics such as child labor; human trafficking, slavery and the right to voluntary labor; freedom against prejudice and discrimination; safe and secure workplace; work hours and wages; and freedom of association. We further commit to maintain a safe, secure and inclusive workplace, free from prejudice and discrimination, provide fair work hours and wages, and respect the rights of employees to associate freely. We commit to periodically identifying where our company activities could impact human rights, addressing those concerns, and embedding human rights practices into our global culture as an ongoing commitment to our RISE values and to being a responsible business. DATA PRIVACY CBRE is committed to ensuring that all personal or sensitive data within our possession or control, whether that of our employees or clients, is handled correctly throughout its entire lifecycle. We are committed to respecting and protecting the privacy of individuals and keeping personal information secure by complying with applicable data protection, privacy and information security laws and regulations. Standard Contractual Clauses were issued by the European Commission in 2015 for establishing safeguards to allow for the transfer of personal data from the EU to We’ve also improved our data privacy position countries that are not otherwise deemed to significantly by developing and implementing a new provide “adequate” protection for the data. data privacy policy in 2015. The policy describes CBRE’s methods regarding the necessary collection, use, disclosure and safeguarding of personal With the invalidation of the Safe Harbor Certification information for business-related purposes. Our by the Court of Justice of the European Union in Global Privacy Officer is responsible for the oversight October 2015, we are transitioning to an alternative of this policy and the CBRE Global Privacy Program. data transference method known as Standard Contractual Clauses. These clauses establish In 2016, we will continue to build our program by safeguards to allow personal data to be transferred monitoring and reacting responsibly to both internally and externally. next-generation data privacy laws. 95 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE 96 INSIDE GOVERNANCE TO BECOME WORLD CLASS requires “World class” also means providing employees with a a company to focus on more than simply maximizing great place to work. If you look at the Workplace360 its proﬁts. It also needs to take a global leadership role model, there are now more than 30 places around the as a responsible corporate citizen. world where CBRE has established creative, healthy work environments that inspire greater productivity, People have ﬁgured out that companies striving to do which in turn enables CBRE to deliver better results the right thing for the broader community are, in fact, for its clients. the best companies. Their intent is one of shared responsibility – not only for the environment but for And while there’s always a natural distinction the communities they serve. It only makes sense. between a CBRE workplace and the client location, Doing good by the community supports the business that physical barrier dissolves when client results itself, creating a feedback loop that beneﬁts everyone become the primary focus – and the concept of who touches the organization. building a shared community is at work, both inside and outside the oﬃce. If you think about the full spectrum of corporate real estate that CBRE serves, you realize that the company For these reasons and more, the Board of Directors is is actually in the business of building and managing actively engaged in CBRE’s corporate responsibility communities. A common bond is established in which eﬀorts, and is proud of the ﬁrm’s rating as one of foundations are built, people employed and services Fortune’s “World’s Most Admired Companies.” provided – with the beneﬁts of that relationship accruing to the neighborhoods and communities in which CBRE has developed a presence. The company, then, becomes more accurately deﬁned as an organiCURTIS F. FEENY zation invested in people and the client’s success as CBRE Board Member Managing Director, Voyager Capital a community partner. 99 “CBRE builds and manages communities.” 100 GOVERNANCE Our corporate governance practices are designed to serve the long-term interests of our stockholders, employees and other stakeholders. BOARD OF DIRECTORS CBRE has a 10-member Board of Directors, nine of whom our Board deems independent; and the tenth who is our President and CEO, Robert E. Sulentic. This level of independence exceeds the majority minimum stock ownership requirements designed to standard established by our Corporate Governance align the interests of our Board members with the Guidelines and the listing standards of the New York interests of our stockholders. Stock Exchange (NYSE). Our Board is assisted by its committees: the Audit We have separated the roles of CEO and Board and Finance (Audit), Compensation, Corporate Chair since 2001 in recognition of the differences Governance and Nominating (Governance) and between the two roles. Our CEO is responsible for Executive Committees. The Audit, Compensation and setting the strategic direction and overseeing the Governance Committees are considered key day-to-day leadership and performance of the governance committees, and each member is company while our Board Chair provides leadership independent under CBRE standards and guidelines, to our Board and oversight and guidance to our CEO. as well as in the case of our Audit Committee, under relevant rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange In 2015, our Board formally amended our by-laws to Commission (SEC). At least one member of our Board require that the Board Chair be an independent serving on the Audit Committee is required to have director. We have also implemented a “majority vote” the qualifications and skills necessary to be considered requirement. Under this requirement, in order for a an “Audit Committee Financial Expert” under Board nominee to be elected in an uncontested relevant SEC rules, and it has been determined that election, the nominee must receive the affirmative vote all of our current Audit Committee members qualify of a majority of the votes cast on his or her election. as “Audit Committee Financial Experts.” All of our Board members must also comply with 101 GOVERNANCE Each year, our Board and its committees conduct director for re-election to the Board if that director has annual performance self-assessments with the purpose completed 12 years of service as an independent of increasing the effectiveness of the Board and its member of the Board. This marked the first time that committees. More information on the roles of our our Board adopted term limits for its members and Board and Board committees can be found in the our Board believes that these amendments will Investor Relations section of our website and in our contribute to Board stability, vitality and diversity and annual proxy statements filed with the SEC. help ensure that our Board continuously benefits from a balanced mix of perspectives and experiences. Our Governance Committee regularly reviews the composition of our Board and whether the addition Of the 10 members currently serving on our Board, of directors with particular experience, skills or one director, Gerardo Lopez, joined our Board in characteristics would make our Board more effective. 2015 and two directors, Christopher Jenny and Paula When a need arises to fill a vacancy, or it is determined Reynolds, joined our Board in early 2016. Three that a director possessing particular experiences, skills directors who served throughout 2015 – Richard Blum, or characteristics would make our Board more effective, Michael Kantor and Gary Wilson – did not stand for our Governance Committee conducts targeted efforts re-election and retired from our Board at the expiration to identify and recruit individuals who have the of their terms at our Annual Meeting in May 2016. identified qualifications. These gentlemen had a combined 42 years of director service to us, and we are grateful for their many years Board candidates are selected on the basis of of service to CBRE. outstanding achievement in their professional careers, experience, personal and professional integrity, ability DEMOGRAPHICS to make independent and analytical inquiries, financial literacy, mature judgment, high performance standards, familiarity with our business and industry, and ability GENDER to work collegially. In addition, our Board is interested MEN 8 in adding candidates who are acting operating WOMEN 2 executives (particularly chief executives of large public companies), or who have a strong technology AGE GROUP More information on the roles of our Board background, and in all cases, a passion for building 0 1 9 can be found in the a transformative business on a global basis. Investor Relations section of our website Other factors include having members with and in our annual UNDER 30 30 50 OVER 50 proxy statements filed international experience, including knowledge of years old years old years old with the SEC. emerging markets and/or management of business operations and resources that are dispersed across a global platform, as well as various and relevant Our Board retains responsibility for the corporate career experience and technical skills; and having a responsibility initiatives outlined in this report. One of Board that is, as a whole, diverse, including in respect our Board directors serves as a Board liaison to to gender and ethnic diversity. During late 2015 management for corporate responsibility matters, and early 2016, in anticipation of the impending providing visibility to our Board in respect to our retirement of three of its longest-serving members, activities in this area, and we believe that this reflects the Board added three new members that enhanced the value that we and our Board places on corporate the skillset and diversity of the Board. responsibility. That Board director sits on our Global Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee, a In 2015, our Board amended our by-laws to provide management-level task force that has been established that the Board may not nominate (i) more than one to advance our corporate responsibility goals, and member of our current management to serve on the periodically updates our Board on the progress being Board at any one time or (ii) any non-management made. [G4-34] 102 R I S K M A N A G E M E N T Our Board plays an active role, as a whole and also at the committee level, in overseeing our risk management. Our Board engages with management to ensure that the Board understands the material risks associated with our strategy and operations, including business segment, reputational, credit, liquidity and compensation issues. Our Board also looks to its key governance committees to identify, report on and manage and oversee risks relevant to their areas of competency. Our Compensation Committee is responsible for overseeing the ongoing management of risks relating to our compensation plans and arrangements. Our Audit Committee oversees management of risks related to our financial reports and record-keeping and potential conflicts of interest, as well as risks associated with our strategy and operations generally. Our Governance Committee manages risks associated with the independence and corporate governance practices of our Board and the composition of our Board and its committees. Our Board also receives regular reports from our internal Executive Risk Committee (ERC) (further discussed below) as to key risks for CBRE, as well as reports from our General Counsel regarding litigation, corporate governance and compliance matters. Through Board committee and management reports, our Board determines whether management is adequately focused on identifying and managing risks, and assesses the Board’s own oversight of risks associated with its governance and delegation decisions. 103 GOVERNANCE We have adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process to identify, assess, respond to and monitor significant strategic, operational, financial and legal and compliance risks to our organization. Annually, senior leaders across the organization are interviewed by our Chief Risk Officer and/or head of our Internal Audit department regarding these risks based on a standard Business Risk Inventory developed and maintained by our Global Risk Management group. These items, which are developed in consultation with both internal and external resources, are then “risk mapped,” and our ERC assesses them against commonly accepted prioritization criteria (magnitude of impact, likelihood of occurrence, etc.). The ERC reports to our Chief Executive Officer and consists of our: Deputy Chief Financial Officer We believe that this process is a best practice and Chief Information Officer enhances our ability to identify and manage risk for Chief Operating Officer our company. As part of the ERM process, we have a Chief Administrative Officer policy to address when and how our formal risk management process and ERC should be triggered General Counsel for new, expanded or challenged business opportunities Chief Risk Officer or significant transactions. Under the policy, certain Senior Vice President – Global Strategy events and business activities trigger the escalation In addition, our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer of risk information to the ERC so that it may take and Head of Internal Audit attend ERC meetings. appropriate action (e.g., risk mitigation, further For the most significant risks, “risk owners” are diligence and enhanced management approvals). assigned and are responsible for implementing For example, this policy would be triggered if CBRE CBRE’s risk analysis, response and reporting tools. were exploring a new line of business or operations Quarterly updates for each of these significant risks in new and higher risk geographies. are provided to the ERC. [G4-14] C O N F LI C T S O F Through our policies, employee education and oversight efforts, we proactively manage such conflicts INTEREST in full accordance with the law, our Standards of Business Conduct and our RISE values. We have implemented a comprehensive global conflicts of Given the breadth of our business interest framework that guides our employees through conflict issues that may come up in their business and diversity of clients, there may activities. This framework signals our commitment to be times when potential conflicts put our clients first by conducting our business with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with all of of interest arise. our legal and regulatory obligations. 104 Our directors and executives must report to us any potential material conflicts of interest or corporate opportunities that they wish to undertake, prior to QUICK ACCESS undertaking the transaction. When such a potential POLICY REGARDING RELATED conflict of interest or corporate opportunity situation PARTY TRANSACTIONS arises, it is reviewed and then approved or rejected by our Audit Committee. Our Policy Regarding Related MANAGING CONFLICTS OF Party Transactions and Corporate Opportunities INTEREST can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. Our Managing Conflicts of Interest INVESTOR RELATIONS document is also available on our website. METRICS CBRE seeks a high level of transparency in its public disclosures and strives to demonstrate a strong standard of governance relative to our industry. As a major institutional proxy advisor, Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) rates public companies on their corporate governance practices. The ISS ranking format (called ISS Quickscore 2.0) uses an overall scale of 1 to 10 (with higher risk associated with higher numbers), based on sub-component scores in the categories of Board Structure, Audit, Compensation and Shareholder Rights. We earned an overall score of 2 as of August 2016, which is above average relative to our ISS-designated peers. We believe that this ranking reflects our continued emphasis on strong governance practices. When formulating governance policies, our Board monitors the analysis of ISS, given its role as a prominent governance-activist advisor to numerous institutional shareholder interests, as well as other shareholder advisory firms and our significant shareholders. We believe that our stockholders are very satisfied with the performance of our Board in governing our company. All standing directors have been re-elected each year since 2007 by at least 93.0% of votes cast from stockholders present and entitled to vote at our annual stockholders meetings. In addition, our stockholders are given an advisory opportunity each year to indicate their approval or disapproval of our named executive officer compensation. At our annual stockholders meeting in May 2016, 97.2% of stockholder votes cast were in favor of that compensation. Finally, in 2015 our Board amended our by-laws to provide enhanced stockholders rights to call a special meeting. 105 GOVERNANCE 106 GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES LOCATION STRATEGY & ANALYSIS G4-1 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO STAKEHOLDER LETTER ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 NAME OF THE ORGANIZATION ABOUT CBRE G4-4 PRIMARY BRANDS, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES ABOUT CBRE G4-5 LOCATION OF HEADQUARTERS ABOUT CBRE G4-6 COUNTRIES OF OPERATION ABOUT CBRE G4-7 NATURE OF OWNERSHIP AND LEGAL FORM ABOUT CBRE G4-8 MARKETS SERVED ABOUT CBRE G4-9 SCALE OF THE ORGANIZATION ABOUT CBRE G4-10 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, EMPLOYMENT TYPE, AND GENDER PEOPLE & CULTURE G4-11 PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS PEOPLE & CULTURE G4-12 ORGANIZATION’S SUPPLY CHAIN ABOUT CBRE G4-13 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD ABOUT CBRE WHETHER AND HOW THE PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH OR PRINCIPLE IS ADDRESSED G4-14 GOVERNANCE BY THE ORGANIZATION EXTERNALLY DEVELOPED ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CHARTERS AND PRINCIPLES TO G4-15 ABOUT CBRE WHICH THE ORGANIZATION SUBSCRIBES OR ENDORSES G4-16 MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 ENTITIES IN THE ORGANIZATIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ABOUT CBRE G4-18 PROCESS FOR DEFINING REPORT CONTENT ABOUT CBRE G4-19 MATERIAL ASPECTS ABOUT CBRE G4-20 ASPECT BOUNDARY WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION FOR EACH MATERIAL ASPECT ABOUT CBRE G4-21 ASPECT BOUNDARY OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION FOR EACH MATERIAL ASPECT ABOUT CBRE G4-22 EFFECT OF ANY RESTATEMENTS OF INFORMATION PROVIDED IN PREVIOUS REPORTS ABOUT CBRE G4-23 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES FROM PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIODS IN THE SCOPE AND ASPECT BOUNDARIES ABOUT CBRE 109 INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES LOCATION STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 LIST OF STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED BY THE ORGANIZATION ABOUT CBRE G4-25 BASIS FOR IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION OF STAKEHOLDERS WITH WHOM TO ENGAGE ABOUT CBRE G4-26 ORGANIZATION’S APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ABOUT CBRE G4-27 TOPICS AND CONCERNS RAISED THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ABOUT CBRE REPORT PROFILE G4-28 REPORTING PERIOD ABOUT CBRE G4-29 DATE OF MOST RECENT PREVIOUS REPORT ABOUT CBRE G4-30 REPORTING CYCLE ABOUT CBRE G4-31 CONTACT POINT FOR QUESTIONS ABOUT CBRE G4-32 ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ OPTION, GRI CONTENT INDEX, REFERENCE TO EXTERNAL ASSURANCE REPORT ABOUT CBRE POLICY AND CURRENT PRACTICE WITH REGARD TO SEEKING EXTERNAL ASSURANCE FOR G4-33 ABOUT CBRE THE REPORT GOVERNANCE G4-34 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF THE ORGANIZATION GOVERNANCE ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 ORGANIZATION’S VALUES, PRINCIPLES, STANDARDS AND NORMS OF BEHAVIOR ETHICS & COMPLIANCE G4-57 MECHANISMS FOR SEEKING ADVICE ON ETHICAL AND LAWFUL BEHAVIOR ETHICS & COMPLIANCE G4-58 MECHANISMS FOR REPORTING CONCERNS ABOUT UNETHICAL OR UNLAWFUL BEHAVIOR ETHICS & COMPLIANCE MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS LOCATION OMISSIONS ECONOMIC / ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ABOUT CBRE G4-EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ABOUT CBRE ENVIRONMENTAL / ENERGY G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – ENERGY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY G4-EN7 REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 110 MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS LOCATION OMISSIONS ENVIRONMENTAL / EMISSIONS G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – EMISSIONS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY G4-EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY G4-EN16 ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY G4-EN17 OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL / PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY G4-EN27 EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF SERVICES ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK / OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY HEALTH & SAFETY TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, G4-LA6 HEALTH & SAFETY AND ABSENTEEISM SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK / TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – TRAINING AND EDUCATION PEOPLE & CULTURE PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER G4-LA11 PEOPLE & CULTURE DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK / DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PEOPLE & CULTURE; GOVERNANCE G4-LA12 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PEOPLE & CULTURE; GOVERNANCE SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK / EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – EQUAL REMUNERATION G4-DMA PEOPLE & CULTURE FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-LA13 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN CBRE considers this data to be confidential. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS / NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – NON-DISCRIMINATION ETHICS & COMPLIANCE G4-HR3 INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND ACTIONS TAKEN CBRE considers this data to be confidential. SOCIAL: SOCIETY / ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS & COMPLIANCE G4-SO4 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ETHICS & COMPLIANCE 111 INDEX MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS LOCATION OMISSIONS SOCIAL: SOCIETY / ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR ETHICS & COMPLIANCE LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTI-TRUST, G4-SO7 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES SOCIAL: SOCIETY / COMPLIANCE G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH – COMPLIANCE ETHICS & COMPLIANCE SIGNIFICANT FINES AND NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS G4-SO8 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE AND REGULATIONS SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY / PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY TYPE AND NUMBER OF SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION, RATING AND LABELING SCHEMES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CRE8 NEW CONSTRUCTION, MANAGEMENT, OCCUPATION AND REDEVELOPMENT MATERIAL ISSUES THAT DO NOT MAP TO A GRI G4 ASPECT LOCATION PROFESSIONAL INTEGRITY ETHICS & COMPLIANCE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT PEOPLE & CULTURE CLIENT ENERGY CONSUMPTION ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CLIENT WATER CONSUMPTION ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 112 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE LOCATION HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS; AND ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PRINCIPLE 2 MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES ETHICS & COMPLIANCE LABOUR BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO ETHICS & COMPLIANCE; PRINCIPLE 3 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PEOPLE & CULTURE PRINCIPLE 4 THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR; ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PRINCIPLE 5 THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR; AND ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PRINCIPLE 6 THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES; ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLE 8 UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLE 9 ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY ETHICS & COMPLIANCE 113 INDEX 114 cbre.com/responsibililty
