Communication on Progress 2015 Maldive Gas is striving to integrate the ten principles in their strategies and operations. This Communication on Progress (COP) is intended as a mechanism to inform company stakeholders on the progress made in implementing the ten principles thus far. #02-21 S.T.O Trade Centre Orchid Magu Male’, Republic of Maldives Tel: (960) 333 5614 Fax: (960) 333 5615 Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From: February 2014 to: March 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 11th March 2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Maldive Gas Private Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact with Respect to Human Rights, Labor Standards, protection of the Environment and Anti-Corruption and takes concrete actions to ensure these apply to all entities of the Maldive Gas Team. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Abdulla Maumoon Managing Director 2|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited Human Rights Principles Our Commitment Maldive Gas has aimed to maintain an inclusive workplace where Principle 1 the human rights principles of fairness, respect, equality, Dignity and autonomy are promoted and are part of the company’s Businesses should everyday goals and we are guided by our shared values of integrity, support and respect the collaboration and accountability. protection of internationally We are committed to earning the trust of our stakeholders by proclaimed human rights continuously improving our services and displaying the highest and; integrity in all our dealings. We believe that although governments have the primary duty to Principle 2 protect and ensure fulfillment of human rights, we have a responsibility to respect human rights and can play a positive role in Make sure that they are the communities where we operate. And we are committed to not complicit in human ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as rights abuses individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. Implementation Principle 3 ♦ The Code of Conduct is being implemented to Businesses should uphold promote ethics, honesty and professionalism within the company the freedom of and among the employees, and to provide and maintain a working association and the environment that is productive, positive, enjoyable and free from effective recognition of harassment and discrimination. the right to collective ♦ Retirement policy is implemented to provide a bargaining; statement of the company’s approach to employee retirement. We believes that a clear policy will assist employees in planning for their retirement, or for an extension of their working lives, and will allow for effective succession and activity planning within the company. 3|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited ♦ Maldives gas is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all employees and visitors by following environment safety, and health rules and practices and by reporting accidents, injuries and unsafe equipment, practices or conditions. Violence and threatening behavior is not permitted. And zero-tolerance approach towards harassment in the company. ♦ To ensure the safety of our employees, Maldive Gas carried out a safety equipment inspection and fire drill in association with Anti-Fire Maldives. All staff of Production and Engineering division joined in the fire drill which provided key skills and knowledge of how to use firefighting equipment’s efficiently according to industry best practices and how to act in a worst case scenario. ♦ We have Equality and human rights training for all staff involved in recruitment and a fair and transparent selection process. ♦ Our Employees are encouraged to bring any complaints or issues they have regarding unfair treatment directly to the top management, who review the concerns promptly. ♦ We comply to and act in accordance with the Maldives Employment Act. Goals Under the Code of Conduct, employee induction programs and regular orientation sessions are held for staff, to inculcate and accentuate the desired behavior and professionalism in staffs. Periodic reviews will be conducted by the Human Resource Department and Internal Audit Department to monitor compliance and identify areas of improvement. A safety and quality control personnel will be hired to ensure compliance with necessary quality and safety standards; and regular and mandatory reviews will be conducted. 4|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited To deal with potential situations of high pressure, annual stress management seminars will be offered. Labor Principles Our Commitment Principle 4 The elimination of all We believe that our employees are the key to our success. Our forms of forced and commitment to a fair, open and respectful workplace is enforced compulsory labor; through Labor and Human Rights Policy and that is fully in accordance with the Maldives Employment Act and the Global Compact. Principle 5 At the heart of our business are the skills, abilities and knowledge The effective abolition of of our people—our human capital. Our aim to create a fair child labor; and environment where people at all levels can continuously develop their skills and accelerate their career Programs with opportunities to enhance their professional development. Principle 6 Implementation The elimination of discrimination in respect ♦ We have reached our goal in increasing the number of female representation in our workforce at all functional levels. of employment and occupation. ♦ We pay employees a competitive remuneration, as benchmarked with other leading companies and in accordance with the Maldives Employment Act. Consistent with our principle of valuing personal mastery, we reward employees for improving their skills and capabilities. At a minimum, we comply with all applicable wage and hour laws, rules and regulations, including minimum wage, overtime and maximum hours. ♦ We expects each employee to support the Company’s commitment and continuing efforts toward equal employment opportunity for all. Maldive Gas is committed to compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to equal employment opportunity, non-discrimination and similar employee-related matters. 5|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited ♦ We ensure that all our employees have opportunities to voice their opinions and concerns by providing mechanisms for ongoing communication between employees and the Management. ♦ We at Maldive Gas recognize the power that comes from people of diverse backgrounds and experiences coming together around a common goal. Our policy forbids any discrimination, harassment or intimidation because of race, color, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, disability or other non-jobrelated personal characteristic. Employees are encouraged to bring questions or concerns in this area to their management. And strict disciplinary action for violations of this policy will be taken, including dismissal of employment. ♦ We highly requires that individuals are to be considered for employment opportunities on the basis of merit, as measured against objective job requirements. ♦ Our promotion system is based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. ♦ Child labor is prohibited and we heed the minimum age requirements for employment in accordance with the Employment Act. Goals Whistleblowing procedure is in place to implement to ensure any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are systematically made aware of the Code and the related Standards of Business Conduct. Bi-annual employee attitude survey to find out what our employees think about the company and to identify areas for improvement. Compile an employee handbook covering all policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. 6|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited Continuously provide up-to-date and relevant training programs to our employees. Draft and implement a comprehensive Health and Safety policy to provide a safe working environment for all employees, customers, visitors and anyone else who may be affected by our business operations. Environment Principles Our Commitment Principle 7 We believe it is our duty and responsibility to protect the environment we live in, we understand that environmental excellence is necessary to be a leader in our industry and to Businesses should the success of our business. A healthy environment is also support a precautionary necessary for the well-being and vitality of our customers, approach to employees, and the communities we serve as well as society at large. environmental challenges; Implementation We strive to minimize our impact on the environment by: Principle 8 ♦ Developing environmental management plans with Undertake initiatives to objectives and targets to minimize adverse environmental promote greater impacts and measure our progress toward the goals. environmental ♦ Launching a cost-saving and waste reduction initiative responsibility; and across the Company to cultivate and instill a culture of prudence and increase awareness among the employees on environmental protection. Principle 9 ♦ Using energy-efficient appliances and equipment’s as Encourage the much as possible in all our work sites to conserve energy. development and diffusion of ♦ Ensuring that energy and water are used responsibly environmentally friendly and conserved through innovative practices and procedures. technologies 7|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited ♦ We ensure that we have the knowledge, skills, and equipment to conduct our work in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. ♦ We are aware of and use care to minimize the negative environmental consequences of our activities. Goals Ensure every employee understands and is responsible and accountable for incorporating environmental quality considerations in daily business activities. We will work and communicate with customers, governments, local communities, unions, employees, and suppliers to identify and resolve environmental issues. We will endeavor to minimize our environment footprint by using Auto gas in all our vehicles and making it available for the community. To prevent pollution at the source by reducing waste, recycling or disposing of items, and purchasing products that are reusable or that contain recycled materials. Develop and expand the cost-saving and waste reduction initiative. Continually evaluate our environmental knowledge and programs and monitor progress toward environmental goals. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10 Our Commitment Businesses should work against corruption in all Anti-corruption is not only a legal obligation and an ethical its forms, including standpoint. Corruption is a threat to business and society in all extortion and bribery. countries. It undermines legitimate business activities and 8|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited distorts competition. It ruins reputation and exposes individuals to risks. Therefore, Maldive Gas is committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards in our work environment and in all our business transactions and to comply with the anti-corruption act of the Maldives. Implementation ♦ Anti-corruption Program is rooted in our Code of Conduct. ♦ We have zero tolerance for bribery or any other activity that violates the anti-corruption act of the Maldives and ethical standards are set out in our Code of Conduct. ♦ To prevent any abuse, all payments to Consultants are made via bank transfer. ♦ Regular internal and external audits are conducted during which all such payments are subjected to strict scrutiny. ♦ An important aspect of accountability and transparency is a mechanism to enable all individuals to voice concerns internally in a responsible and effective manner when they discover information which they believe shows serious malpractice. In this regard, a whistle blowing policy is being drafted to reinforce the value the company places on staff to be honest and respected members of their individual professions. It provides a method of properly addressing bona fide concerns that employees might have, while also offering whistleblowers protection from victimization, harassment or disciplinary proceedings. Goals Maintaining, honest and fair dealings with all elements of the community (employees, suppliers & customers), we will continue to closely monitor all our business transactions and dealings. We will expand and professionalize our whistle-blowing system. 9|Page Communication on Progress I February 2014– March 2015 Maldive Gas Private Limited 10 | P a g e
