Issue 2016 2015 Balance Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group Cover story Changing working environment Contents 1 About this report 2 At a glance 4 The Lufthansa Group / 6 Cover story: Changing working environment 1/ 16 Sustainable Business Practices 18 Strategy and management 21 Stakeholder dialogue 25 Corporate governance and compliance 29 Fleet development 2/ 34 Climate and Environmental Responsibility 36 Strategy and management 41 Fuel consumption and emissions 52 Energy and resource management 58 Active noise protection 61 Commitment to climate research 3/ 62 Product Responsibility 64 Product responsibility at the Lufthansa Group 65 Customer centricity and quality focus 67 CO2 compensation 70 Flight safety and health protection 72 Data protection and data security 74 Germanwings flight 4U9525 4/ 76 Social Responsibility 78 Strategy and management 82 Diversity and equal opportunity 88 Employment policy based on partnership 91 Talent management 92 Health management and occupational safety 5/ 94 Corporate Citizenship 96 Lufthansa Group Social Care 97 Humanitarian emergency aid 100 Social commitment 104 Additional commitment 6/ 106 Service and Information 108 Glossary 114 Editorial information / Contact partner 116 Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions 117 Verification statement Scope 13 118 Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet 119 The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group 121 Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices About this report // 1 Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, informs stakeholders and the interested public about the Group’s goals, activities and advances in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, product and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report complements and expands the information contained in the Annual Report 2015. Across the Lufthansa Group, Corporate ted for previous years. There are also cerforward-looking statements are based on Responsibility is understood to comprise the tain differences in approach compared to all the discernible information, facts and following dimensions: the Annual Report when calculating pasexpectations available at the time. It is senger numbers and their derivative perforpossible that the Group’s actual results and Economic sustainability mance indicators (see explanations relating development may differ materially from the Corporate governance and compliance to the overview on page 2, At a glance). forward-looking statements implied by the Climate and environmental responsibility forecasts. The Lufthansa Group assumes Social responsibility Publication dates of this report no obligation for and does not intend to Product responsibility Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainadapt forward-looking statements to Corporate citizenship ability Report, is published once a year in accommodate events or developments that German and in English. The preceding may occur at some later date. Accordingly, Reporting follows and is oriented by the edition was published on July 20, 2015. it neither expressly nor conclusively internationally accepted G4 Sustainability The Group has regularly reported about its accepts liability, nor does it give any guaReporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting environmental performance since 1994 rantee for the actuality, accuracy and comInitiative. This publication also serves as a and has continuously expanded its reporting pleteness of this data and information. progress report concerning the implemento the other dimensions of entrepreneurial tation of the ten principles set out in the responsibility. UN Global Compact, which the Lufthansa Group joined in 2002. The Group deterAdditional information on the Internet mined the significant sustainability issues In addition to this report, the Lufthansa in the framework of a materiality analysis, Group informs readers via the Internet which are based on the results of a stakeabout its activities in the area of sustainholder survey. ability: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Scope of consolidation and comparability Disclaimer in respect of forward1 Taken from the Annual Report 2015 of the Lufthansa Unless noted otherwise, the data in this looking statements Group. 2 For the reporting year 2015, the following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa report refers to the financial year 2015. You The data included in this report has been (including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings), will find explanations concerning the scope collected and processed with the utmost Germanwings, Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss (including Edelweiss of consolidation and calculation methods care. Nevertheless, errors in transmission Air) and Austrian Airlines. Excluding the services of third parties as Lufthansa can influence neither performance used to determine the absolute and specicannot be ruled out entirely. Information nor the equipment operated (see also table “Share of third fic resource consumption at the Lufthansa published in this report with regard to the parties” on page 43). 3 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and charter flights. 4 See also table “Fuel Group on page 116. This report covers the future development of the Lufthansa Group consumption” on page 43. 5 Balance: segments (operational activities of the Lufthansa Group. Reporting and its subsidiaries consists purely of foreperspective); Annual Report: distance (customer perspective). restricted to individual Group companies is casts and assessments and not of definitive One distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. 6 Balance: on the basis of all passengers indicated in the copy. Due to changes in historical facts. Its purpose is exclusively aboard; Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. the portfolio over recent years, the figures informational, identified by the use of such 7 Companies referred to as in 2, but including the services of third parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. for personnel and environmental perforcautionary terms as believe, expect, foreTypes of flights as in 3, but including ferry flights, as these mance cited in this report are only to a cast, intend, project, plan, estimate, count represent costs. limited extent comparable with those reporon, can, could, should or endeavor. These At a glance // 2 Business performance data 1 2015 2014 Change Revenue million € 32,056 30,011 + 6.8 % of which traffic revenue million € 25,322 24,388 + 3.8 % EBIT million € 1,676 1,000 + 67.6 % Adjusted EBIT million € 1,817 1,171 + 55.2 % EBITDA million € 3,395 2,530 + 34.2 % Net profit/loss for the period million € 1,698 55 + 2,987.3 % Total assets million € 32,462 30,474 + 6.5 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 3,393 1,977 + 71.6 % Capital expenditure (gross) million € 2,569 2,777 – 7.5 % Equity ratio percent 18.0 13.2 + 4.8 PP Personnel data 2015 2014 Change Number of employees (on December 31, respectively) 120,652 118,781 + 1.6 % of these, in Germany 66,920 67,155 – 0.3 % of these, outside Germany 53,732 51,626 + 4.1 % Staff costs million € 8,075 7,335 + 10.1 % Revenue/employee thousand € 268 252 + 6.3 % Staff costs/revenue percent 25.2 24.4 + 0.8 PP Average age years 42.3 42.3 ± 0.0 years Part-time ratio, absolute percent 28.8 28.0 + 0.8 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 14.9 14.3 + 0.6 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 45.7 45.0 + 0.7 PP Share of women in management (Germany) percent 16.2 16.0 + 0.2 PP Share of women in management (worldwide) percent 14.9 14.2 + 0.7 PP Environmental data 2, 3 2015 2014 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption 4 tonnes 8,947,766 8,825,744 + 1.4 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l /100 pkm 3.84 3.84 ± 0.0 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g / tkm 225 221 + 1.9 % Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 28,185,463 27,801,092 + 1.4 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg /100 pkm 9.69 9.69 ± 0.0 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 135,447 132,257 + 2.4 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 46.3 45.8 + 1.1 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 19,137 19,251 – 0.6 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 7.1 7.3 – 2.6 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 1,858.8 1,952.5 – 4.8 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 0.7 0.7 – 5.7 % Transport performance data Balance 2, 3 ± 2014 Annual Report 7 ± 2014 Flights 5 931,188 – 2.4 % 1,003,660 + 0.2 % Passengers carried 6 104,558,264 + 0.5 % 107,679,000 + 1.6 % Freight and mail carried tonnes 1,861,205 – 3.1 % 1,864,078 – 3.1% Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 270,803 + 1.7 % 273,975 + 2.2 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,619 + 2.2 % 14,971 + 2.1 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 41,702 + 1.9 % 42,424 + 2.1 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 6 million pkm 223,761 + 2.0 % 220,400 + 2.7 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,173 – 2.5 % 9,930 – 3.1% Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 31,623 + 0.7 % 31,518 + 0.7 % Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 3 Dear Readers, This latest issue of Balance marks our 22nd year of reporting on the wide range of activities and initiatives that we undertake and implement every day to ensure the sustainability of our entrepreneurial actions. More than two decades ago, we were still among the pioneers with this kind of reporting. In the future, the disclosure of information about non-financial measures and ratios will be legally binding in the European Union for listed companies as well as others. The fact that Lufthansa has published this report since 1994 demonstrates that we are innovative trailblazers in this area as well. We maintain a particular focus on the future viability of our Company. In the strategic program “7to1 – Our Way Forward”, launched two years ago, we designated seven fields of action and thus laid the foundations for improved results over the long-term and the suc“In this issue of Balance, the cessful future development of the Lufthansa Group as a whole. The issue of safety has title is dedicated neither to and will always have the top priority in all that we do. Yet our next most important corporate goal is future viability. Last year, we made a great deal of progress in this area. our aircraft nor to our technical innovations, but to the Another key point on our agenda is our responsibility to protect climate and the environpeople who move our Comment. This is reflected in the diverse programs that follow the established four-pillar strategy, which comprises technological, operative, infrastructural and economic measures. pany forward each day and The specific consumption of our airlines in 2015 remained stable at the previous year’s who make mobility possible record value of 3.84 liters of kerosene per passenger and 100 kilometers. This year we are in the first place by fulfilling phasing 52 new and particularly fuel-efficient aircraft into service – arithmetically, we take delivery of one new aircraft per week. Thus we continue to pursue our long-term fleet their tasks in the air and on modernization – the largest in our Company’s history. In early 2016 we became the first the ground: our 120,000 commercial airline to operate the Airbus A320neo – a particularly quiet and fuel-efficient employees worldwide.” aircraft. With the new Bombardier CSeries at Swiss, another exceptionally fuel-efficient aircraft will join our fleet this summer. And the third new type of aircraft, the Airbus A350, is set to follow this coming winter in Munich. Carsten Spohr In this issue of Balance, the title is dedicated neither to our aircraft nor to our technical innovations, but to the people who move our Company forward each day and who make mobility possible in the first place by fulfilling their tasks in the air and on the ground: our 120,000 employees worldwide. We provide you insights into the fascinating worlds of all our Group’s business areas. We address the issue of change in the working world and its related challenges, including for our human resources management. And we report with no small satisfaction that last year as well 130,000 young people applied to become part of our team. By joining the UN Global Compact in 2002, we reinforced our voluntary commitment to assume our responsibility in the environmental and social areas alongside that for economical aspects. This also embraces our unwavering commitment to social issues in general. Discover in this issue of Balance more about how we meet our social responsibility as the world’s leading aviation group. I thank you for your interest in our work and wish you a sustainably captivating read. Carsten Spohr Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO Deutsche Lufthansa AG www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility the Lufthansa Group The Lufthansa Group is the world’s leading aviation group. Its portfolio of companies consists of premium network airlines; the Eurowings Group, which offers point-to-point connections as the Lufthansa Group’s complementary brand; and the aviation service companies. Deutsche Lufthansa AG comprises about 540 subsidiaries and affiliated companies. In 2015, the Lufthansa Group’s airlines carried 107.7 million passengers and thus established a new passenger record. The Group’s organization was realigned with effect from January 1, 2016. This new orientation is accompanied by tighter interlocking between business segments and stronger functional steering for the entire organization. www.lufthansagroup.com the positioning of the Lufthansa Group Lufthansa Group First choice for customers, employees, shareholders and partners Hub airlines Aviation services The Group’s premium airlines – Lufthansa, Swiss and As leaders in the world market, the service companies Austrian Airlines – offer their customers an integrated travel strengthen the Lufthansa Group’s portfolio. experience via their hubs along with the highest levels of service and comfort. As members in the Star Alliance, the world’s largest aviation alliance, they guarantee their pasLufthansa Cargo AG, with headquarters in frankfurt, is sengers numerous advantages. the Lufthansa Group’s specialist for logistics and europe’s www.Lh.com leading cargo airline. www.swiss.com www.lufthansa-cargo.com www.austrian.com Eurowings Group Lufthansa Technik AG, with headquarters in hamburg, is the worldwide leader in the areas of maintenance, repair With the new Eurowings the Lufthansa Group has offered and overhaul of commercial aircraft. an innovative and competitive product for price-sensitive www.lufthansa-technik.com customers since 2015. The goal is to position eurowings as the market leading point-to-point airline in the Lufthansa Group’s home markets. www.eurowings.com The LSG Group is the world’s largest provider of services in airline catering and in-flight management. The group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service holding AG, is headquartered in Neu-Isenburg. www.lsgskychefs.com At a glance Corporate headquarters Hubs Cologne frankfurt, Munich, zurich, Vienna, Brussels Legal form stock corporation number of aircraft in the Group’s fleet number of employees 600 on 31.12.2015 120,652 Freight/mail carried in 2015 number of nationalities > 1.86 million tonnes 146 number of destinations number of passengers (summer timetable 2016) in 2015 316 cities in 101 countries 107,679,000 A day at the Lufthansa Group 295,011 1.6 million passengers we carry. meals we provide. 5,107 tonnes of freight we transport. 1,700 2,750 aircraft we support. times we take off and land. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group 6 // Cover story: Changing working environment CHAnGinG woRKinG EnviRonMEnt The world is turning faster and faster: Social megatrends such as technological progress and the advancing digitalization of numerous processes have a great influence on today’s working environment. Furthermore, the upcoming generation of job-seekers demand from their employers more leeway and greater flexibility in shaping their everyday working situation. The Lufthansa Group is adapting to these changes in a consistent manner. It is providing modern, virtual and flexible work structures while relying more on a self-motivated and trust-based work culture. Even against the background of such demographic change, the Lufthansa Group will in this way succeed to attract the right talent and thus to secure its future viability and competitiveness. One constant in all this change? Working at the Lufthansa Group is and will remain fascinating and multi-facetted. Every day, 120,000 employees from about 150 nations ensure the Company’s success with great passion. The goal: To be first choice in aviation. Welcome to the world of the Lufthansa Group! #lHgroUp #eMployees #aViation #spirit 2016 4,000new hires for the Lufthansa Group’s future viability and competitiveness 2015 120,000 employees 8 // Cover story: Changing working environment Fascination Lufthansa Group Around 130,000 applications a year – the fascination for the Lufthansa Group is as unabated as that for aviation. That the aviation group has been one of Germany’s most attractive employers for many years is confirmed not only by the numerous job applications but also by a broad range of awards and top slots in renowned employer rankings. For example, according to the Graduate Barometer of market research institute Trendence, the Lufthansa Group again counted among the six most popular employers for German economics graduates in 2015. For future engineers, Lufthansa Technik ranked number eight. In addition, the Lufthansa Group received the first prize in the category “Best career website” in Trendence’s employer Branding Award. every More than 4,000 new employees year, about 1.5 million interested parties and job applicants visit www.Be-Lufthansa.com. During the reporting year, Swiss in 2016 received the quality seal “Friendly Work Space”, a recognition Be it as chefs at LSG Sky Chefs, engine mechanics at Lufthansa for companies that have integrated corporate healthcare Technik, software developers at Lufthansa Systems, flight attenmanagement (CHM) into their strategy (see cover, Corporate dants at Swiss or pilots at Austrian Airlines: The Lufthansa Group Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices). offers a broad scope of employment opportunities on the ground and in the air. In 2016 alone, the Group will hire more than 4,000 #LHGROUP #EMPLOYERRANKING new employees, including 2,800 flight attendants at various locations and about 240 pilots. While employees and managers benefit from comprehensive continued education offers, new young employees can choose from a large number of training-based professions. The spectrum ranges from specialists for system gastronomy and tool mechanics to specialists for warehouse logistics, whereby technical professions such as aircraft part mechanics or electronics technicians for technical aviation systems traditionally draw the largest share. Such has been the case for 60 years: On April 3, 1956, Lufthansa Technik began training technical apprentices in Hamburg – and since then has smoothed the path into professional life for about 9,000 young people. #CAREER #BELUFTHANSA Eminent visitor: Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel in conversation with apprentices at the Lufthansa Group. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group Job rotation: On the occasion of “60 Years of Training”, Lufthansa Technik chief human resources officer Antonio Schulthess changes a tire with professional guidance from an apprentice. Yearly Diverse development opportunities Working at the Lufthansa Group has many facets. But people 130,000 applications are always at the center of the Company’s corporate culture. The via Be-Lufthansa.com Lufthansa Group’s employees are characterized by their high level of professional qualifications as well as by motivation, ability to perform and flexibility. They think in innovative dimensions, make decisions quickly and implement their tasks in consistent ways. The Lufthansa Group places its trust in a corporate culture that Working at the aligns the work environment more and more with the employees’ Lufthansa Group requirements. The Group gives its employees more latitude to Be-Lufthansa.com is the gateway to structure their working environment as fits them best. Work-life the Lufthansa Group. In place since integration, home office, new workspace, flexible work-time models 2002, this award-winning career portal and job sharing are but a few examples of this approach. Equally offers visitors the best possible service important is the talent management philosophy the Lufthansa in searching for “their” job. Potential applicants ﬁnd information on job Group developed in 2014 under the maxim “Every employee vacancies and training openings as well has talent!” (see page 83, Balance 2015). It also contributes to a as details on the Group companies and working environment that helps employees shape their own the application process. At the same development more and more independently. time, this Internet page gives visitors a feel for what it means to be part of the Lufthansa Group. Alongside this career #CORPORATECULTURE portal, the Group’s HR experts are present at numerous information events and recruiting fairs to give prospective applicants an understanding of the Lufthansa Group’s attractiveness. The Company’s own information days and its cooperations with universities complement the Group’s personnel marketing activities. Via Be-Lufthansa.com, which continuously integrates modern communications channels and thus personalizes communications, the Lufthansa Group has increasingly aligned in recent years its recruiting strategy with the needs of young people in order to address the “digital natives” of generations Y and Z via their preferred Visible esteem: communications channels. This includes Under the motto “Faces of Swiss”, the live chats, e-books, career blogs, social first Boeing 777-300er operated by Swiss media channels and job-speciﬁc videos. has been dedicated to its employees. www.Be-Lufthansa.com wE inQUiRED Employees from different companies across the Lufthansa Group provide insights into their professional worlds and explain what is especially important to them, what fascinates them and which are their employer’s best points. BArBArA hOTz hOLGEr frÖhLICh Manager Environmental Affairs Team leader at Lufthansa Technik in frankfurt at Austrian Airlines in Vienna “At Lufthansa Technik, safety and professionalism “The fascinating part of my work is to find ecologiare always given the top rank, but social commitcally sensible and credible solutions for the aviation ment is quite important as well. As a team leader industry within an economic framework. As a in aircraft maintenance, I also place great value on mother of two small children I also place great team spirit, professional competency and the wilemphasis on the compatibility of job and family – lingness to assume responsibility. This is an aspithis is possible for me by working part-time and ration I share with my colleagues. The complex being able to choose flexible work times. Also technology of system components is a new chalimportant for me are an independent work style lenge every day – in my job regular continuing and good cooperation – both within the team and education is therefore indispensable and the Group-wide. Daily work with my colleagues is name of the game. Despite more than 40 years in characterized by commitment, professionality and the airline business, it never fails to fascinate me loyalty, and above all by endurance, humor and that aircraft weighing many tonnes take off and friendliness as well.” land again safely. It’s great that I’ve been able to make a contribution to this for many years!” Lisa Antonopoulos Shanel Talarico General Manager at LSG Sky Chefs Flight attendant at Eurowings Europe in Johannesburg “‘Inspired’ is the word that best describes how I feel “My time at Eurowings Europe began in November at LSG Sky Chefs. Our industry is challenging and 2015, about two months after I moved from Italy, the international environment within our organization my home country, to Vienna. Dynamism, moveis fascinating. This keeps me mentally stimulated ment, contact with people, new challenges: These every day. I want to achieve something and the LSG are the reasons why I am so enthusiastic about Group supports me in this. I am very passionate my work every day. What makes a difference at about continuous improvement closely linked with Eurowings Europe is what every single employee skill development and training.” thinks. This creates the strong unity that makes it possible to build a great European airline.” Yifeng Wang Jennifer Knecht Sales Executive at Lufthansa Cargo First Officer Airbus A330/340 at Swiss in Shanghai “In my daily work it’s important for me to listen “The most important consideration for me is good attentively and comprehend the customer’s needs, cooperation and communication within the crew. and provide the effective airfreight solution based I believe this is a characteristic of Swiss – where on Lufthansa Cargo’s fruitful products and professafety of course always has top priority. For me sional handling procedure. Lufthansa Cargo is an this also implies actively taking responsibility. And open and international company, in which the varithen there is flying itself: It is an unbelievable sensaous training and team spirit is in favor of personal tion to pilot a plane. The technical complexity, the career development.” operational challenges and the breathtaking views fascinate me every time anew. I am also really enthusiastic about travelling to different countries. Again and again I discover new destinations, cultures and people.” 12 // Cover story: Changing working environment Think the future, meet new challenges, live out responsibility. Digitalization and demographic change lead to an evolution in the working environment from the ground up. On the other hand, the next generation of employees has its own expectations concerning the working environment (see interview on this double page). Added value for employees and Company alike Under the motto “Think the future, meet new challenges, live out responsibility” the Lufthansa Group faces these defining social Diversity and equal opportunities are among the central principles of developments with measures such as concepts for open workthe aviation group. The employees’ diverse talents, experiences and space models and diverse offers concerning digitalization. The competencies make an important contribution to expanding the Group relies on an independent and trust-based work culture in Lufthansa Group’s competitive position. connection with modern information technology to create an attractive and need-oriented working environment. This concept For this reason, HR management is always working on further helps to secure the Lufthansa Group’s future viability and its ability improvements in the compatibility of family and work. These to create added value. For the Company’s employees are a signifimeasures range from expanding child-care offers to supporting cant factor for its success. employees who must combine professional demands with caring for family members (see page 86, Work and family in harmony). #LHGROUP #CHANGE A balance between work and private life is also served by the numerous flexible working hours, part-time and sabbatical models for employees and managers. The Lufthansa Group places great emphasis on offering their employees sustainable remuneration and pension schemes (see page 88, Employment policy based on partnership). #DIVERSITY #EQUALOPPORTUNITY Fully in line with digitalization: an employee tests “smart glasses” with integrated displays. EXPERT INTERVIEW Three questions for Professor Christian Scholz on the subject of change in the work environment and its effects on employer attractiveness What criteria are of particular importance for today’s job seekers when selecting an employer? For younger Generation Z applicants in particular, the focus is on a sense of well-being, security and structure. Naturally money, employer image and career perspectives count as well; however, compared with the slightly older Generation Y, these factors tend to take more of a back seat. Generation Z Investments in the work place seeks reliability and wants a clear picture of what the tasks and the work place are like. of the future How must companies react to these changed expecta“new Workspace” is the name for the new Lufthansa office world. tions so as to be able to attract the right talent? After successful completion of the pilot phase, the Group introduced ... and to keep them. It is somewhat paradoxical: Younger its new workspace model, which features basic components such applicants no longer commit themselves either long-term or as mobile office and home office options, in its administrative areas. emotionally to an employer. If something bothers them, The Lufthansa Group not only responds to the trend towards they’re gone. Yet they still seek an employer who promises modern, virtual and adaptable working structures. It also adapts them continuity for the next 30 years. Underlying this paradox its working conditions to its employees’ increased mobility, their in the case of Generation Z is a “Pippi Longstocking” romantipronounced digital and social connectedness and their individual cism. But there is also a clear turning away from the – by now diversification. now teams, project groups and departments inexaggerated – trend toward flexibility, agility and virtuality creasingly work in virtual communities across the borders of along with a turning toward a stabile, productive and more departments and business segments. human form of sustainability. For companies, all this may be somewhat uncomfortable and seemingly not in keeping with Insight into tomorrow’s working world was also provided by the hr the times, yet even so it is both right and important. Action Days at the Frankfurt location; in 2015 the focus was entirely on digitalization. In this context, employees were able to test innoWhat sort of influence does the digitalization of many work vations including a 3-D printer and “smart glasses” with integrated processes have on today’s and tomorrow’s working worlds? displays as well as a desk with integrated touch screen and other Of course, digitalization implies an expansion of networking digital features. and automation. However, progressive digitalization can produce a multitude of different working environments. In #DIGITALIZATION #NEWWORKSPACE this case, one should not let oneself be too easily convinced by the hype surrounding digitalization technology but rely rather more on the competitive advantage generated by the meaningful combination of digitalization and employee orientation. This is exactly what Generation Z will insist on gently but firmly, and that is a good thing: for economic success, ecology and people. Personnel strategy sets tomorrow’s course today Demographic change implies that staff in Europe will get increasingly older and that there will be a scarcity of younger qualified employees. By applying strategic personnel planning, possible discrepancies between future staff levels and actual personnel needs can be determined and analyzed at an early stage – and thus the course for the future can be set early on. For this purpose, the aviation group combines qualitative and quantitative analyses in a dynamic model with a planning framework spanning up to 15 years. The Lufthansa Group’s personnel strategy focuses on the overriding action areas of the program “7to1 – Our Way Forward” so that the HR function consistently supports the strategic alignment of the entire Group. CHRISTIAN SCHOLZ has been professor of Business Administration and Economic Science at Saarland University since 1986. his controversial publi#STRATEGY #7TO1 cations (such as his latest book “Generation Z”) are dedicated to current trends in the world of work. VIEWPOINTS The Lufthansa Group reacts with a broad How would you describe the Lufthansa Group’s work environment in three adjectives? range of ideas, programs and offers to changes in the work environment. How is  Highly professional, quality-conscious, diverse. this commitment received and where is a  Diverse, hierarchical, quality-conscious. need for optimizations?  Professional, complex, increasingly dynamic. Here are three personal views on these issues by: Dr. Bettina Volkens, member of What makes an employer attractive for you? Is the the Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board Lufthansa Group well placed in this respect? and in charge of Corporate Human  For me, the primary consideration is sufficient opportuniResources and Legal Affairs since July ties for development. In my opinion, the so-called “profession2013, Petra Hollmeyer, Manager Project al career” ought to be developed more consciously because Management Leadership VIP & Special not everybody can and wants to be a manager. In this area I see even more potential for the Lufthansa Group. As the life Mission Aircraft Services and with Lufthansa working time is getting longer, the compatibility of work and Technik since May 2001 and Dino private life has great importance. The options offered, such Bonvecchi, ProTeam trainee at the Lufthansa as part-time work and special leave, are good ones. Group since 2015. When it comes to women in management positions – especially in technical areas – even though there are positive developments, we could do even better with more female managers, in my opinion. Against the background of the current pension debate I appreciate the favorable employee benefits the Company offers. Especially the Company pension is a very important building block for me. Therefore, I hope that it will be preserved over the long-term.  Very much so! We are a modern and responsible employer with unbelievably diverse employment and development options. People make a conscious decision in favor of the Lufthansa Group and work with commitment and enthusiasm for the common goal. To keep it this way, we analyze our internal and external environment regularly with an eye on relevant influences and trends and adapt our personnel concepts accordingly if needed. One very important aspect is to always listen to the employees’ concerns. We make sure we do so by cultivating our trust-based and feedback-oriented corporate culture. Numerous dialogue and participation formats and our Group-wide employee survey support us in this task. Every employee receives the same appreciation from us. Whether a company is an attractive employer depends on many factors – not just the working environment, career opportunities, employee benefits and possibilities to achieve balance between pro­ fessional and private lives. We know that the world around us is not at a standstill and that is why we work increasingly on topics such as digitalization, diversity and internationality so as to offer an interesting job portfolio and an attractive working environment in the future as well.  Dr. BeTTInA VOLKenS Chief Officer Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs  DINO BONVECCHI Deutsche Lufthansa AG ProTeam Trainee Deutsche Lufthansa AG  PETRA HOLLMEYER Manager Project Management Leadership VIP & Special Mission Aircraft Services Lufthansa Technik AG  For me it is important to be seen as a human being home offices, I’d like to see Lufthansa Technik supporting this and not as a resource, and to have the opportunity to get option even more strongly – while taking into account operainvolved. This includes being able to identify with my tional requirements, of course. employer and that I can discern an overriding shared goal. To be successful in the future, we need even greater diversity What characterizes the Lufthansa Group’s offers conand a better understanding of working together in interdiscerning personal and professional development? ciplinary teams, especially under the aspect of the Lufthansa Group’s current realignment.  There are diverse offers that are strongly oriented by current employee needs as well as the Company’s challenges. The Lufthansa Group’s entry programs in particular What does the Lufthansa Group offer to keep professional offer a high level of professional and personal potential for and private lives in balance? What’s really good and development – and they show that both depend on one’s where do we need to catch up? own initiative.  We support our employees with tailor-made offers, which  In 2007 I had the opportunity to participate in the make it possible to create harmony between work and private “Explorers” program. I experienced this international course life. This includes flexible work-time models, home office for junior managers as being of very high quality. It was very and job-sharing options just as much as the expansion of interesting and a great deal of fun to meet colleagues from childcare offers, for example. We have accomplished a lot many Group areas and to work together on different projects. already. employees and the Company benefit from it in equal measure. In this area as well, it is important to ask for  The Lufthansa Group’s success substantially depends on regular feedback from employees in order to further optimize our highly committed and qualified employees. As a global existing offers or to expand them. aviation group with different business segments, the requirements for training and continuing education are high and  At Lufthansa and in the central functions we are set up diverse. Also in this area we are making continuous investwell due to a number of collective agreements, part-time ments. To find one’s way in the future in a digitalized working offers, job sharing and the new workspace initiative, or we environment with ever-faster changes, there needs to be a are on a positive path. But that’s not the case for all subculture of “wanting to learn” as well as concrete new innovasidiaries and here harmonization would be good – also to tion and change competencies – we are working on that in a make job changes within the Lufthansa Group easier. consistent manner as well. The Lufthansa School of Business is our internal competency center in this context and ensures  Currently, I’m using a part-time option for the first time. the high quality of our continuing education programs by The related process is clearly structured and can be used providing tailor-made offers and formats. flexibly. For me, one of the options this has created is the ability to pursue my activities as a volunteer. In addition, I’ve been able to accumulate time credits for a three-month sabbatical; a wonderful chance to realize personal dreams and to generate fresh energy. When it comes to the topic of 1 Sustainable Business Practices Sustainable business practices are firmly anchored in our Company strategy. We actively seek an open dialogue with our stakeholder groups to jointly shape the future. 18 // Sustainable Business Practices Strategy and management Entrepreneurial responsibility is a core concern for the Lufthansa Group. The Company’s goal is to act sustainably and responsibly in all areas and to be the first choice for customers, employees, shareholders and partners. Over the long term, this secures the aviation group’s success and its ability to create added value. The Lufthansa Group has adopted a comAt the beginning of 2016, the Group again social responsibility the Lufthansa Group prehensive sustainability agenda, which surveyed its stakeholders concerning key has used the Company-wide employee ensures responsible management in all aspects of these subject areas and joined survey “involve me!” since 2015 as a business segments and comprises the these responses together with its own central dialogue and feedback instrument following dimensions: assessments in a materiality matrix. On (see page 88, Employment policy based the basis of this materiality analysis, the on partnership). Economic sustainability Lufthansa Group will further develop its Corporate governance and compliance sustainability strategy and management The Group focuses at all times on minimiz(see page 25) over the years ahead (see page 21, Stakeing the environmentally relevant effects of Climate and environmental responsibility holder dialogue). Similarly, Group compaits business activities. The aim is to make (see page 34) nies such as Lufthansa Technik or LSG flying as sustainable and environmentally Social responsibility (see page 76) Sky Chefs rely on specific stakeholder compatible as possible by means of techProduct responsibility (see page 62) surveys and analyses to formulate recomnological innovations as well as new prodCorporate citizenship (see page 94). mended measures especially adapted to ucts and services, while making the most their needs and to optimize their own of every opportunity that presents itself to sustainability programs. In the area of advance the Company’s commercial activities. Balance, which has been published for the last 22 years, informs readers about key areas and advances in Corporate Responsibility; this report is also the Corporate Economic basis for the stakeholder dialogue. citizenship sustainability Organization Corporate The responsibility for the coordination and Product Corporate governance further development of all activities and responsibility Responsibility and compliance initiatives related to sustainability within the Lufthansa Group is in the hands of the Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC). This interdisciplinary and interdepartmenSocial Climate and environresponsibility mental responsibility Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 19 “Consistently safeguarding the future” is the title of the Lufthansa Group’s Annual Report 2015, available at www.lufthansagroup.com/investorrelations. Sustainability and responsible tal committee is placed at the upper management play important roles in this context. management level and has the task of steering all topics and processes related to sustainability within the Group in an effective manner. The CRC comprises the heads of the Group departments Strategy, Political Affairs, Group Environmental Issues, Human Resources, Legal Affairs, Communications, Investor Relations, Controlling and Corporate Sourcing. It Strategic program innovations by 2020 to make the product reports directly to the Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board. In addition, a working “7to1 – Our Way “flying” more efficient, more environmentally compatible and more attractive. group whose members come from difForward” Simultaneously, the Group is currently ferent Group departments covers current implementing the largest fleet moderniaspects and concerns related to topics of The strategic program “7to1 – Our Way zation program in its history (see page 29, entrepreneurial responsibility. Forward”, which was launched in July Fleet development). 2014, reorients the Lufthansa Group for the future. Aimed at increasing efficiency, Furthermore, the focus on “Culture and its measures are the basis for developing leadership” will help to ensure that talentCommitment to corpothe aviation group successfully and sused job seekers see the aviation group as rate responsibility is tainably. The strategic program’s goal is to increase the Group’s ability to create an attractive employer in the future as well. Inasmuch as a modern, feedback-oriented acknowledged added value – and to secure the leadership culture forms the basis for Company’s competitiveness and future motivated and autonomous employees. Sustainability analysts and rating agencies viability. “7to1 – Our Way Forward” comin 2015 again assessed the activities of the prises seven key areas of action that refer In addition, the Lufthansa Group realigned Lufthansa Group with regard to responto market conditions as well as to internal itself organizationally with effect from Janusible corporate governance. For example, structures and processes (see page 15, ary 1, 2016 as part of the measures taken the US trade publication Air Transport Annual Report 2015): in the action area “Effective and lean orgaWorld honored the Group’s pioneering nization”. As a result, more functional criterole in the area of climate and environCustomer centricity and quality focus ria are applied in steering the entire organimental responsibility for the second time new concepts for growth zation. The restructuring allows the Group in three years with the award “Eco-Airline Innovation and digitalization to interlink commercial, operative and of the Year”. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Culture and leadership administrative functions more closely Group is listed in such sustainability indices Value-based steering across all business segments. All efforts in as FTSE4Good, Ethibel Sustainability Constantly improving efficiency the framework of “7to1 – Our Way Forward” Index (ESI) Excellence Europe, ECPI and Effective and lean organization serve the purpose of creating added value MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series for customers, employees, shareholders (see cover, Corporate Responsibility: The topic of sustainability is present in all and partners. Prizes, awards and indices). seven action areas. The Lufthansa Group will invest a total of 500 million euros in 20 // Sustainable Business Practices Beyond this, the principles of sustainable business practices are an important element in steering the Company. The Lufthansa Group follows a value-based management system, which is part of all processes concerning planning, steering and control. This approach aims at creating sustainable value across industry cycles. Three questions to AnDREAS HAGEnBRInG Head of Investor Relations Deutsche Lufthansa AG The Lufthansa share has been listed funds based on these criteria. Other Taking advantage on the stock exchange for 50 years investors consult data from external of opportunities, and been included in the DAX 30, the index of the most important German rating agencies such as the CDP and take these into account during the limiting risks listed companies, since its inception investment decision-making process. in 1988 without interruption. Is this a Investors in the Lufthansa Group are not The Lufthansa Group identifies significant success story? an exception in this respect. For invesopportunities and risks at an early stage Very clearly, yes. Since 1966, Lufthansa tors, it is above all economic sustainand at regular intervals, and takes them has evolved to become one of the bestability and high standards in corporate into account in steering the Company. For known and most popular German brands. management that are as important as this reason, the management of opportuniA company with 17,000 employees, ecological sustainability. ties and risks is integrated into all business revenue of 1 billion DM and a profit of processes. In particular, the aviation group 50 million DM has grown into an interHow do investors and rating agencies systematically takes advantage of its national Group with 120,000 employassess the sustainability performance opportunities to increase efficiency, proees, revenue of 32 billion euros and a of the Lufthansa Group and how do you ductivity and competitiveness (see page profit of 1.8 billion euros. Since 1969, inform the capital market on topics of 69, Annual Report 2015). we have paid dividends to our shareentrepreneurial responsibility? holders totaling more than 4.5 billion Investors and rating agencies evaluate a The opportunities and risks affecting the euros. Despite all challenges – and number of criteria and give each one a Lufthansa Group are primarily shaped by there are numerous ones in our industry – different weighting. A standardized macro-economic factors and the resulting we have stayed in the DAX to this day. approach is still lacking in this area. For influences on the aviation market and 2016 we are planning our first participacompetition. In this context, the Group The so-called ESG criteria – which tion in an ESG-focused investor conferrelies on its ability to adapt capacities and refers to environment, social and ence. The Lufthansa Group’s sustainresources flexibly to changing market governance – continue to gain signifiability performance is seen positively conditions. In addition to economic and cance in deciding in favor or against by the capital market. Information about regulatory developments, the activities of an investment. Does this also apply to economic sustainability and good coraviation companies are also highly exthe investors in the Lufthansa Group? porate governance have long been core posed to political crises, weather events Investments focused on sustainability elements of annual and quarterly reports. and other natural phenomena. are continuously gaining in importance. Incidentally, in 2015 our Group was again Today they have a place in the portfolios confirmed with top scores in different of any renowned asset management indices, such as FTSE4Good and the company. More and more institutional MSCI sustainability indices, which take investors have separate departments into account economic as well as ecoconcerned with ESG, who influence the logical and social criteria. weighting of individual values within the Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 21 Stakeholder dialogue The Lufthansa Group has a variety of stakeholders with widely varying expectations and interests. The scope ranges from customers, employees, investors and suppliers to legislators, municipalities, neighbors, nGOs and scientific researchers. The Group places great value on a continuous and trusting dialogue with its internal and external stakeholder groups, and actively seeks exchange with them via various formats. This dialogue allows the Lufthansa Group to understand better its stakeholders’ needs and wishes and to integrate these Capital market Customers into its business practices. The varying Suppliers Consumers Investors demands of different interest groups are likewise important for the further developContractual LOHAS (Lifestyle Shareholders ment of the Group’s sustainability agenda partners of Health and Analysts and its annual reporting on important Sustainability) Rating agencies topics in the area of entrepreneurial responsibility. In the reporting year, the spectrum of stakeholder dialogue activities ranged from the restructuring of internal employee communication to road shows, investor conferences and dialogue events Governments with representatives from politics, science Employees Employee Lufthansa Legislators and research (see page 24, The most important stakeholder activities 2015/16 at representatives Group Politicians Authorities a glance). NongovernmenNeighbors Science tal organizations Local communities Research (NGOs) Society Education Organizations Publicity Consortia Social networks The diverse stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group The materiality matrix 2016 of the Lufthansa Group Climate protection Very important for stakeholders Energy and resource management Service and customer orientation Sustainable innovation, research & development Sustainability in the supply chain Employer attractiveness Important for stakeholders Employee awareness about sustainability Active noise protection Local value creation Job safety and health protection Corporate citizenship Transparent political commitment internal effect external internal effect external Important for the Lufthansa Group Very important for the Lufthansa Group The materiality matrix 2016 will serve the Lufthansa Group in the years ahead and adherence to legal requirements were not included in the stakeholder as a basis for the further strategic development of Corporate Responsibility assessment, as the Lufthansa Group considers these to be basic prerequiManagement and to ensure a lawful form of reporting. The topics of safety sites for its business activities. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 23 Presentation and discussion of the stakeholder survey results within the Lufthansa Group’s Corporate Responsibility Council. Materiality analysis In 2016, the Group again conducted a stakeholder survey which built upon previous editions. For this purpose, experts at the Lufthansa Group identified 12 relevant topics in a first step while focussing on those fields of action: upon which the Lufthansa Group’s business activities have a significant social impact which influence stakeholders substantially in their evaluation of the Company which are demanded by sustainability Materiality matrix the Lufthansa Group will assess the stratestandards and regulations gic environmental program it initiated in which have significant influence on the Following the survey, the Lufthansa Group’s 2008 by the end of 2016 and adjust it as Lufthansa Group’s ability to generate Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC) needed. This applies in particular to the two financial or non-financial value over the analyzed the results and then used this fields of action “Climate protection” and medium or long term. analysis to prioritize central fields of action “Energy and resource management”, confrom the Group’s perspective. The assesssidered as highly relevant by both stakeSafety and adherence to legal requirements ments by the stakeholders and the CRC of holders and the Company, as well as the were not included as topics in the survey, 12 central fields of action were summarized topic of “Active noise protection”, to which as the Lufthansa Group considers these to in a materiality matrix. It visualizes the the Group also gives highest priority. be basic prerequisites for its business prioritization of these action fields from both activities. stakeholder and Company perspectives Furthermore, based on the results of this and shows whether these fields have an materiality analysis, the Lufthansa Group Among the groups surveyed were passeneffect inside or outside the Lufthansa Group has expanded its reporting on the likewise gers, business customers, partners, finan(see page 22). very important action fields “Attractive cial analysts, investors, nGOs, representaemployer” and “Service and customer tives from politics and regulatory bodies, In the years ahead, the matrix will serve the orientation”, which have been consistently media representatives, sustainability experts, Lufthansa Group as a basis for the further covered thus far through the strategic and employees. More than 1,000 questionstrategic development of its Corporate program “7to1 – Our Way Forward” (see naires were fully completed in an online Responsibility Management and for ensurpage 19). The cover topic preceding this survey. Internal and external stakeholders ing a lawful form of reporting, which will be Sustainability Report addresses the changwere more or less equally represented with mandatory for larger companies within the ing world of work and the resulting challenrespective shares of 48 and 52 percent. European Union from 2017. Another part of ges for HR management (see page 6). In The Lufthansa Group donated 1 euro for the materiality analysis was the determinathe chapter “Product Responsibility” the each questionnaire fully completed by an tion or adaptation of contents for the coverage of the topics “customer centriexternal stakeholder. These participants Group’s sustainability reporting. city” and “quality focus” has been expandcould determine themselves whether ed. It also includes a particularly clear “their” donation was to go to the charitable The Lufthansa Group plans to further inteoverview of the diverse activities and meaSwiss foundation myclimate (see page 67, grate those fields of action that have been sures of the Lufthansa Group, all of which CO2 compensation) or to the Lufthansa defined as very important along with the share a single goal: To make the travel Group’s aid organization Help Alliance (see related central aspects into its business experience as sustainable and comfortpage 100). processes and to further develop the releable as possible for our passengers (see vant management approaches. In this way, page 68). The most important stakeholder activities 2015/16 at a glance Customers Lawmakers and public administrations Customer surveys worldwide Continuous and intensive exchanges with representatives from politics Regular ascertainment of Net Promoter Score (NPS®, see page 65) and administrations as well as participation in numerous events and panel Monthly customer in-flight magazines and regular newsletters discussions InTouch Service Center at seven locations on four continents ensure “Policy Brief” and “Aeropolitics” are published by the Lufthansa Group 24-hour reachability concerning all questions on flight reservations and Swiss respectively to inform decision-makers in politics, media and Visitor service “Discover Lufthansa” assumes important function of business about developments in the aviation industry and topics related to customer care at largest location, Frankfurt. Made-to-measure programs aviation policy for German and international top customers as well as airport neighbors, associations, research institutions and partner universities of the Lufthansa Group Visitor services also at Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss and Austrian Airlines Science and research Communications in the social media channels further expanded Numerous cooperations with scientific research institutions Expanded support for climate research in the IAGOS project Participation of Lufthansa Cargo in “Green Logistics” research project from Employees 2010 to 2015 to assess ecological effects of logistical systems (final report has been published) First Group-wide employee survey “involve me!” (see page 90) Measuring flights in Cochstedt in cooperation with German Aerospace 2nd HR Action Days (see page 15) Center (DLR) (active noise protection) Realignment of internal Group media: With the product group “One” Participation of Swiss in the two-year study conducted by ETH Zürich and a new media architecture was developed for the Lufthansa Group and St. Gallen University (HSG) on the development of air, ground and land implemented at the beginning of 2016. This includes the monthly magatransport up to 2050 zine “One”, the news app “One”, “eBase One” (news portal on the intranet) Participation in the broadly-designed study on noise effects, NORAH, and “Connection One” (community on social intranet) whose final report was published in 2015 Access to internal communications media for flying personnel was further 4th Cargo Climate Care Conference in Frankfurt (dialogue event with about optimized 150 representatives from the logistics industry, science and politics), Continuation of the dialogue series “Speaking openly ...” with the Lufthansa during which customers and employees were honored with the Cargo Group’s CEO at varying Company locations and live transmission on the ­Climate Care Awards intranet Participation in aviation cluster “Hamburg Aviation” to promote business Continuation of the event series “Airline Dialogue” location and interlinked research as well as development of high-quality Continuation of the dialogue series “Breakfast with the Executive Board” in products and services different business segments Center for Applied Aviation Research was opened in March 2016 with Live chats and dialogue events for different employee groups and ­participation of Lufthansa Technik managers Participation in discussion forums on the topic of alternative fuels New event format “Market conferences” established; three dialogue events with managers and the Lufthansa Group’s CEO in the Asia/Pacific, Middle East and North/South America regions NGOs Active dialogue Shareholders, investors and analysts Support for different aid projects Participation in the dialogue forum #CSRhumanitär Continuous and intensive shareholder dialogue Four quarterly conferences and 30 road shows Participation in 18 conferences for institutional investors and in three forums particularly aimed at private investors Neighbors and local communities Two issues of “Aktionärsinfo” (“Shareholder Info”) again published for private investors Regular discussions with representatives of state governments, mayors and neighboring municipalities at the Lufthansa Group’s hubs In addition to annual and interim reports, the capital markets are informed monthly about the latest traffic developments at the flying companies Participation in the forum “Airport and Region” in Frankfurt and in “Dialogforum Wien” in Vienna All publications, financial reports, presentations, background information and speeches as well as current news and relevant dates can be consulted Since May 2015 LSG Sky Chefs has been a member of “LEEN 100” at www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations (Learning Energy Efficiency Network) initiated by the city of Frankfurt for improved CO2 values in the Rhein-Main area Since September 2015 Lufthansa CityLine has been a member of the fifth “Environmental Pact Bavaria”. Its goal is to give incentives to sustainable development and continuous improvement of corporate environmental protection in Bavaria Participation of Lufthansa Technik and LZ-Catering in “Environmental Partnership Hamburg” and of Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt in “Environmental Alliance Hesse” Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 25 Corporate governance and compliance Corporate Governance at the Lufthansa Group is expressed as responsible corporate management and control which targets sustainable value creation. It is in accordance with the highest international standards and of central importance – for the Company’s transparency vis-à-vis its shareholders and for continuously increasing trust in its management. The German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) Lufthansa Group Group Compliance Office and the German Corporate Governance Code are key elements in this context. The Compliance Program The Group Compliance Office, which was set up on October 1, 2007 within the cenCompany’s declaration of compliance with tral legal department, is responsible for the the German Corporate Governance Code Compliance describes all measures that implementation, development and commuwas updated in December 2015 and is ensure the lawful conduct of companies, nication of the Lufthansa Compliance Propublished on the Internet at: their executive bodies and employees with gram. It is supported in this task by a netwww.lufthansagroup.com/investorregard to adhering to legislation. The work of Compliance Managers at the relations Lufthansa Group Compliance Program, various Group companies. established in 2004, aims at helping its employees adhere to current legal norms Furthermore, the Group Compliance Office and keeping them from breaking the law. advises Lufthansa Group employees worldAs an aviation company with global activiwide on how to handle issues related to ties, the Lufthansa Group advocates fair integrity, competition, embargo and capital competition, integrity and responsible market compliance. The basis for such action. The Lufthansa Group compliance consultations are the Company’s internal program currently comprises the modules Compliance Guidelines. These regulations Competition, Integrity, Capital Market and give employees a binding framework for Embargo Compliance. action to ensure standardized and lawCompetition Integrity Capital Market Embargo Program consisting of four modules The Group Compliance Office is responsible for implementation, development and communication. The Lufthansa Group Compliance Program 26 // Sustainable Business Practices abiding conduct across the Group. The Capital Market Compliance Monitoring and reporting Lufthansa Group is not willing to tolerate The module Capital Market Compliance In keeping with current requirements in the violations of law on the part of its employgives employees an overview of current framework of the German Accounting Law ees. The Group Compliance Office coordicapital market law, such as regulations Modernization Act, self-audits and external nates the investigation of circumstances relating to insider trading or ad hoc publiaudits take place to evaluate the effective relevant to compliance and in this context city. Accompanied by specialized training, implementation of the Compliance Program. serves as a contact point for cartel and this module ensures that all employees and Furthermore, the Supervisory Board’s Audit investigative authorities, with whom the Company bodies concerned receive inCommittee is informed twice a year about Lufthansa Group cooperates without reserdepth insight into the regulations of the current developments relevant to comvation. Culpable breaches of law lead to German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). pliance issues and the current state of the consequences under labor law and may program’s implementation within the also entail personal liability. Embargo Compliance Group. The module Embargo Compliance serves Competition Compliance to ensure that the Lufthansa Group, as a Ombudsman system The module Competition Compliance globally active corporation, adheres to A further basic component of the Lufthansa introduces employees to the relevant regucountryand person-specific sanctions and Compliance Program is the globally implelations of competition and cartel legislation, regulations in the area of foreign trade. The mented and proven ombudsman system, so as to minimize or exclude risks for the Embargo Compliance Guidelines provide which also allows anonymous information Lufthansa Group. All employees handling the employees concerned with a binding concerning possible breaches of compliissues relevant to competition or cartels are framework of conduct. ance. Introduced on December 1, 2007, it trained in the fundamental regulations of serves as an additional preventive measure German and European antitrust legislation. Compliance training against economic crimes. Relevant inforAutomated IT processes ensure that all mation can be given by employees or by Integrity Compliance employees participate regularly in those third parties to an ombudsman outside the With the module Integrity Compliance, the Web-based Compliance trainings that are Company, by telephone, in writing or in Lufthansa Group documents its fundamenrelevant for them. The employees of the person. The ombudsman function is fultal approach of law-abiding conduct in subsidiary companies also have access to filled by Frankfurt-based lawyer Dr. Rainer business relationships. The obligation to these e-Learning courses and are either Buchert, who is fully bound by the profesadhere to non-corrupt and ethically correct included in automatic mailings of materials sional obligation of secrecy and also has conduct flow naturally from current law, the or have their own company-specific prothe legal right to refuse to give evidence to internal Compliance Guidelines and the cesses. In addition, the Group Compliance public investigative authorities. The ombudsGroup’s memberships in relevant national Office conducts trainings with personal man communicates any information he and international organizations. Examples participation worldwide and offers workreceives to Lufthansa while respecting of the latter include the Lufthansa Group’s shops. absolute confidentiality concerning the commitment to the principles of the Un name and identity of the informant. In this Global Compact (see page 27) and its Third-party due diligence processes way, the disclosure of an informant’s idenmembership in Transparency International. The Lufthansa Group expects compliance tity to Lufthansa or to third parties without The Integrity Compliance Guidelines profrom its business partners as well. Based his or her consent is ruled out. vide support in handling invitations, gifts on risk, business partners are therefore and other attentions. screened by means of third-party due Furthermore, Lufthansa is listed in the joint diligence processes before the beginning transparency register of the European of a business relationship. Commission and the European Parliament. The goal of this public register is to increase the transparency of decision-making processes within the EU on a voluntary basis and to ensure that the interactions between EU institutions and organizations, associations or companies are in conformity with current law and are carried out on the basis of ethical principles. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 27 UN Global Compact The Lufthansa Group is committed to the principles of the Un Global Compact, the largest initiative worldwide for responsible and sustainable corporate management. In 2002 Lufthansa was the first aviation group to become a member of the initiative, that had been set up two years earlier by the then Un Secretary General Kofi Annan. The 10 principles of the By joining, the participating companies commit themselves to aligning their busiUN Global Compact ness activities and strategies to the ten universally accepted principles of the Un Human rights Global Compact in the areas of human Businesses should support and respect the protection of internarights, labor standards, environmental tional human rights within their sphere of influence and make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human protection and prevention of corruption rights abuses. (see overview on this page). The shared goal is to make globalization socially and Labor environmentally compatible and thus to Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the make a contribution to sustainable ecoeffective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; nomic practices for the benefit of all eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; people and markets. effectively abolish child labor; and eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group has launched numerous programs in this Environment area. Examples include the step-by-step Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environexpansion of the Group-wide compliance mental challenges; program, the continuous implementation of undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and sustainable processes along the output encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally chain, and the numerous measures in flight friendly technologies. operations in favor of environmentally compatible mobility. The focus on humanitarian Anti-corruption and social projects in the area of corporate Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including citizenship is an important concern for the extortion and bribery. Lufthansa Group in its role as a globally www.unglobalcompact.org active company. For this reason, there is a best-practice example on this topic in the anniversary edition of the German Un Global Compact yearbook, which was published at the beginning of 2016. Citing the Group-wide employee initiative Help Alliance, it shows how the Company’s social commitment is filled with life and illustrates how the principles of the Global Compact are applied in practice. 28 // Sustainable Business Practices Sustainable purchasing Group Purchasing Guideline They must consent to announced and processes The Group Purchasing Guideline, which has been in effect since May 2013, obliges unannounced audits by companies of the Lufthansa Group. suppliers to commit themselves to social As a globally operating aviation company, and ecological responsibility. It is to be They must recognize the Lufthansa the Lufthansa Group supports fair compeunderstood as an overriding specification Group’s right to terminate the contractual tition, integrity and responsible business for all procurement guidelines at the Group relationship in the event of a breach of practices. The Group is committed to companies. In addition, it serves as a handthe aforementioned agreements. Suprespecting current laws, guidelines and book for buyers and all employees with pliers must also observe the Lufthansa regulations unrestrictedly. The Lufthansa contacts to the procurement markets. The Group’s Environmental Protection Group expects irreproachable conduct regulations are updated and adapted conGuidelines. not only from its employees, but also from tinuously. Among other considerations, it its suppliers and competitors. requires that these obligations be included By including these commitments in conin contracts with suppliers: tracts, the Lufthansa Group ensures that By integrating sustainability into the prosustainability is taken seriously as an issue curement process, the aviation group Suppliers must comply with the ten prinand that it becomes a way of life all across assumes corporate responsibility. At the ciples of the Un Global Compact just the supply chain. To familiarize its purchassame time, it minimizes risks and thus as much as the Lufthansa Group. The ers with the Group Purchasing Guidelines, protects the Company from potential principles range from respect for human the aviation group trains them at the Prodamage. In the context of expanding its rights through commitments to labor curement Academy, which provides consupplier management, the Lufthansa Group standards and environmental protection tinuing education opportunities for employwill in the future give even greater weight to to working against corruption (see overees from throughout the Group. the evaluation criterion “corporate responview, page 27). Deutsche Lufthansa AG sibility” and is thus planning to address this was the first aviation group worldwide New platform for tenders: buy:source topic with greater emphasis in the regular when it joined this strategic United The Lufthansa Group continuously develsupplier discussions. nations initiative in 2002. ops its tools covering the entire supplier management with the goal of optimizing They must comply with the four core the IT-based purchasing processes in an work standards of the International Labor ongoing manner. Against this background, Organization (ILO). These concern freethe previous purchasing platform FairPartdom of association, the right to collective ners was replaced in 2015 by the Groupbargaining, the elimination of forced wide bidding platform buy:source. This labor and child labor, and prohibition of move has created a user-friendly and open discrimination in respect of employment marketplace for posting and obtaining offers. and occupation. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 29 Fleet development The Lufthansa Group maintains its course in the largest fleet modernization and renewal program in Company history. An up-to-date and well structured fleet is not only the foundation for economic success in an environment with intense competition. Modern aircraft also increase comfort levels for passengers and contribute to limiting the environmental effects of flying. In 2015, the Lufthansa Group consistently The decisions taken concerning fleet develprimarily in new aircraft. The Lufthansa pursued the optimization of its fleet and put opment over the past years mean that the Group’s current order list comprises a total 17 aircraft into service, among them nine Group continuously invests in new technolof 251 latest-generation aircraft valued at long-haul aircraft. Thus the Group fleet ogies, efficiency and customer comfort. The about 40 billion euros at list prices (as per consisted of 600 aircraft on December 31, fundamental renewal of the fleet ensures January 2016). The 69 long-haul and 182 2015, with an average age of 11.8 years that the Lufthansa Group will continue to short-haul aircraft are to be delivered by (see table, page 33). The fleet is the largoffer leading product quality with ongoing 2025 and will primarily replace older est asset in the Company’s balance sheet. service improvements – and fly ever more models. The majority of aircraft are financially efficiently and quietly as well. In 2016 and unencumbered and in the Lufthansa in subsequent years the Company will Group’s full possession. invest 2.5 billion euros annually to this end, The Lufthansa Group continuously invests in modern and particularly fuel-efficient aircraft. 30 // Sustainable Business Practices World premiere: At the beginning of 2016 Lufthansa received the first Airbus A320neo, marking a new era of eco-efficient flying. 52 new aircraft in 2016 Lufthansa and the CSeries to Swiss are A300. Since then the Lufthansa Group’s and two world premieres world premieres for these types of aircraft, which both set new standards for fuel airlines have placed orders for 582 aircraft with Airbus – which makes it the European consumption and noise emissions. aircraft manufacturer’s largest customer. In 2016 alone the Lufthansa Group will take delivery of 52 new aircraft, of which At the same time, the delivery of the first The flying companies’ fleet development at the 34 airplanes from the A320 family A320neo to Lufthansa is further proof of a glance: account for the largest share. In addition, the special nature of the partnership bethere are two Airbus A350s, one A330, six tween Airbus and the aviation group, which Boeing 777-300ERs and nine Bombardier has been unfolding for 40 years. In 1976 CS100s. The deliveries of the A320neo to Lufthansa took delivery of the first Airbus Lufthansa In January 2016, Lufthansa was the first customer worldwide to receive the Airbus A320neo (see illustration), which marks the start of a new era of eco-efficient flying. Thanks to quieter engines, this model’s noise footprint during takeoff is reduced “Thanks to new engine technology and aerodyby half, compared with similar previous namic optimizations, the A320neo is more than models. In addition, all new A320neo and A321neo aircraft are equipped with vortex 15 percent more fuel-efficient than the preceding generators as standard, which further model. The aircraft flies excepreduce noise emissions. The A320neo is tionally well and quiet – a milealso more than 15 percent more fuel-efficient than preceding models, which transstone in active noise protection!” lates into about 5,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions avoided per aircraft per year. This is the equivalent of 485 flights between Berlin Captain Sascha Unterbarnscheidt and Paris. According to current plans, A320 Fleet Chief Airbus will deliver five A320neos to Lufthansa Deutsche Lufthansa AG by the end of 2016, which will be stationed in Frankfurt. The Lufthansa Group has 116 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 31 aircraft of the A320neo family on order, 45 lower noise emissions. The A350-900 is the than that of comparable types of aircraft. of which are for the larger A321neo. The most modern and environmental friendly The share of the most advanced materials new aircraft are earmarked for Lufthansa aircraft worldwide – and the first step into in the A350-900’s structure reaches more and Swiss. the “2-liter class”: It flies more fuel-efficiently than 70 percent. than any other type of aircraft. On average, Furthermore, Lufthansa plans further perthe A350-900 will consume a mere 2.9 liters The A350-900 will accommodate 293 ceptible increases in efficiency on longof kerosene per passenger carried over a passengers: 48 in Business Class, 21 in haul routes: In winter 2016 the airline will distance of 100 kilometers. This is about Premium Economy and 224 in Economy receive its first Airbus A350-900 and thus 25 percent less than the consumption of Class. add a highly efficient aircraft to its fleet from aircraft currently operated. Similarly, its 2017. It is also characterized by significantly noise footprint is up to 50 percent smaller The Airbus A320neo Less noise. Less fuel. More comfort. 116 aircraft Aerodynamic advantages The Lufthansa Group has a total of 116 Wing tip extensions that are 2.4 meters tall aircraft of the A320neo family on order: produce enhanced aerodynamic performance. “neo” stands for “new engine option”. More efficient utilization of space Quieter Reduction of A new, more space-efficient engines 15% fuel noise levels cabin configuration offers 50% less reduction All new A320neo and an increased seat pitch Geared turbofan technology ensures that the noise The A320neo is over A321neo planes are fitted in Business Class and engines are significantly At takeoff, the noise footwith noise-reducing vortex more seating capacity in 15% more fuel efficient quieter and use less fuel. print is only about half as generators as standard Economy Class. than current comparable large as that of comparaequipment. models. ble preceding models. 32 // Sustainable Business Practices The first ten A350s of 25 on order will be Furthermore, at the beginning of 2016 Eurowings stationed in Munich from January 2017 and Swiss received the first two of nine Boeing will likely serve Delhi and Boston as their 777-300ERs it has on order, which will be The new Eurowings successfully took off at first destinations. At the same time, Lufthansa delivered by 2018. This long-haul aircraft is the end of 2015, concentrating primarily on Technik is preparing its technical services the airline’s new flagship and will replace point-to-point business with a focus on for the Airbus A350. The expansion of a older Airbus A340-300s. The latest addition leisure travel. By April 2017, the Lufthansa state-of-the-art warehouse for supplying to the fleet distinguishes itself above all with Group’s innovative quality low-cost airline spare parts at the Munich base began in tried-and-tested technology, the highest will replace its entire fleet, which initially December 2015. levels of reliability and its efficiency. Thanks consisted of 23 smaller Bombardier to its advanced GE90-115BL engines, the CRJ900s, with Airbus A320 aircraft. In 2016 The fleet modernization also means the largest operated on civil aircraft, the B777alone, 19 new A320s are to reinforce the end of an era because Lufthansa says 300ER consumes about 20 percent less existing Eurowings fleet. The airline operates “Bye, bye Bobby” as it has been decomkerosene than the A340-300 and also its intercontinental services with Airbus missioning its remaining Boeing 737s since emits correspondingly less CO2. At the A330-200 long-haul aircraft, of which it the end of 2015. The last Boeing 737s will same time, passenger comfort is signifialready has two in its fleet. Eurowings plans leave the Lufthansa fleet by the end of 2016 cantly enhanced by a completely revised to expand its long-haul fleet step-by-step to to make room for more efficient types of cabin interior in all three travel classes. a total of seven Airbus A330s. aircraft. Most of the Boeing 737s will be During a one-year trial period, passengers recycled in the United States (see page 56, can also take advantage of wireless Internet Recycling of aircraft components). on board and use roaming telephony, including texting and data functions. Lufthansa Cargo In February 2015, Lufthansa Cargo reSwiss ceived its fifth Boeing 777F and successAustrian Airlines fully integrated the five freighters of this Swiss is set to take delivery of nine CS100s type it had on order into flight operations. from Bombardier in 2016. It will be the first Austrian Airlines is currently in the process The Boeing 777F is considered the quietest airline worldwide to start revenue service of replacing its Fokker fleet with modern and most fuel-efficient freight aircraft in its with the CSeries, which is specifically gearEmbraer E 195 medium-haul aircraft, which class. Additionally, it offers a long range ed at smaller markets. The aircraft will have been operated by Lufthansa CityLine. and high levels of reliability. In August 2015, serve European routes and replace the This twin-engined aircraft is substantially Lufthansa Flight Training (LFT) inaugurated currently operated Avro RJ100 regional more efficient than the Fokker 70s and a new flight simulator in Frankfurt to be able aircraft step by step. The CSeries’ most 100s currently operated by Austrian Airlines. to train the increased numbers of Boeing significant environmental statistics are just In november 2015, Austrian Airlines received 777 pilots directly on site in the future. as positive as those of the A320neo. Perthe first of 17 Embraer E 195s; their integraceptible noise is reduced significantly, tion into the fleet is to be completed by the Taking into account the continuing difficulcompared with the preceding aircraft genend of 2017. ties of the economic environment, Lufthansa eration, and CO2 emissions are 20 percent Cargo plans to reduce its fleet and retire lower. Swiss has a total of 30 CSeries airtwo MD-11Fs in 2016. Thus only 12 freightcraft on order, including ten CS100s and ers of this type will operate on the logistic ten larger CS300s. The airline will decide specialist’s route network. later which type will be delivered for the remaining ten orders. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 33 The Boeing 777F operated by Lufthansa Cargo fulfills the most In winter 2016, Lufthansa is to receive the Airbus A350-900, stringent noise standards and thus has maximum access to airports the most modern long-haul aircraft worldwide. with high noise protection values. As the first airline worldwide, Swiss is to put the CSeries A Eurowings Airbus A330-200 into revenue service in 2016. The Lufthansa Group fleet As of December 31, 2015 (changes compared to 2014) In possession 1 Age 1 In operation 2 Age 2 Lufthansa 364 (+ 2) 10.6 (+ 0.1) 259 (– 13) 10.9 (– 0.2) Lufthansa CityLine 12 (– 11) 9.3 (– 0.7) 54 (+ 5) 6.9 (+ 1.1) Air Dolomiti 0 (± 0) 10 (± 0) 4.9 (+ 1.0) Eurowings 0 (± 0) 25 (+ 2) 4.9 (+ 0.2) Germanwings 38 (± 0) 8.8 (+ 1.0) 62 (+ 2) 13.4 (+ 0.5) Swiss (including Edelweiss Air) 88 (– 4) 14.0 (+ 0.7) 88 (– 4) 14.0 (+ 0.7) Austrian Airlines 79 (– 1) 16.2 (+ 0.7) 78 (– 2) 16.3 (+ 0.9) Passenger Airline Group business segment 581 (– 14) 576 (– 10) Lufthansa Cargo 19 (– 1) 12.5 (– 0.5) 19 (± 0) 12.5 (± 0.0) Logistics business segment 19 19 Lufthansa Group 600 (– 15) 11.8 (+ 0.3) 595 (– 10) 11.7 (+ 0.2) 1 Aircraft in the Group‘s possession 2 Aircraft operated by the Group 2 Climate and Environmental Responsibility Climate and environmental responsibility is a guiding principle of our value-oriented corporate management. Fuel efficiency in flight operations is of major importance for our success according to economic and ecological benchmarks. 36 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Strategy and management The Lufthansa Group is continuously focused on limiting further the ecological effects of its business activities and using required resources even more efficiently. The Group has set itself the goal of making mobility as environmentally compatible as possible for its customers. The strategic program “7to1 – Our Way Forward” also makes a contribution in this area, as it has set the switches for even more environmentally friendly air transport. In 1996 the aviation group adopted EnviThe Lufthansa Group’s Active noise protection ronmental Guidelines to firmly anchor its principles concerning environmental care. goals and strategy For many years, the Lufthansa Group has been committed to reducing the noise In 2008 the Executive Board approved the emissions unavoidably associated with air Lufthansa Group’s strategic environmental With regard to climate and environmental transport. There is a particular need to program, which remains valid until 2020. responsibility, the Lufthansa Group’s key lessen the burden on people living around It defines key action areas with regard to action areas are climate protection (espeimportant hubs further by applying active fuel efficiency, climate protection, active cially through fuel efficiency), active noise noise protection measures. Their scope noise protection, and energy and resource protection, energy and resource manageincludes investments in the latest technolmanagement (see page 36, Balance 2015), ment, sustainable innovation, and research ogies, quieter flying procedures and in which the Lufthansa Group wants to and development. These topics were also advanced noise research. Moreover, the achieve further progress. included in the latest version of the materialaviation group regularly analyzes all reity analysis related to the Group’s sustaincorded noise emissions data in order to Simultaneously, the Company supports the ability commitment. Both stakeholders and develop concrete measures for further international aviation industry’s ambitious the Company confirmed these topics as improvements (see page 58). climate protection goals. This includes having very high importance for responsible improving fuel efficiency by an average of mobility (see page 21, Stakeholder dialogue). Energy and resource management 1.5 percent per year up to 2020. Thereafter, The Lufthansa Group also works to optiCO2 emissions are to be stabilized at the Fuel efficiency mize continuously its energy and resource level achieved and any additional transport For the Lufthansa Group, fuel efficiency in management, thereby ensuring that regrowth is to be CO2-neutral. Furthermore, flight operations is a fundamental factor for quired resources – such as water – are the industry aims to reduce its net CO2 emissuccess, not only economically but also always used responsibly on board and sions by 50 percent (on the basis of 2005) by ecologically. Therefore, the aviation group on the ground (see page 52). 2050. To meet these goals, in 2005 the continuously invests in new aircraft and aviation industry adopted its four-pillar stratengine technologies and pursues its interResearch and development egy, which combines different environmennal fuel-efficiency campaign. In addition, The Lufthansa Group cooperates with tally-relevant paths and measures (see the research and use of alternative fuels partners from the areas of science and page 41, Fuel consumption and emisplay an important role. At the same time, research to advance industry innovations sions). the Lufthansa Group is firmly committed to on the basis of sound data and to improve advancing the implementation of the stanits own environmental management further. dardized European air space (see page 41). Simultaneously, the Group supports climate research projects to observe the Earth’s atmosphere (see page 61). Beyond that, Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 37 Lufthansa Technik increasingly relies on research partnerships to develop product innovations such as the low-drag “sharkskin” structure for aircraft surfaces (see page 10, Balance 2015). Evaluation of the environmental program In 2016, the Lufthansa Group plans to evaluate its strategic environmental program Three questions for Dr. KArLhEINz hAAG in a comprehensive manner. This reassessVice President Group Environmental Issues ment will take into account not only changes Deutsche Lufthansa AG in the external framework of conditions but also internal impulses from the agenda The aviation industry has set itself ambitious climate pro“7to1 – Our Way Forward” and the results tection goals. What is the current status? of the stakeholder survey, including the The UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) is materiality analysis. working intensively on developing a concept for a global market-based system in air transport. Its task is to contribute To further develop the environmental stratto securing the goal of CO2-neutral growth in international air egy, a working group that includes the transport from 2020. Concrete measures are to be decided environmental experts of the Lufthansa at the ICAO plenary session in October 2016. An important Group, the airlines and the service compabarometer for the general mood on this path was the climate nies, as well as representatives from Group summit in Paris with its trendsetting decisions. Therefore, the Strategy and Group Communications was Lufthansa Group hopes that the ICAO will be able to pass set up. In early 2016, the group identified clear resolutions concerning a global climate protection fundamental internal and external ecologiagreement for international air transport. cal conditions and challenges that need to be taken in consideration in developing a Has the ICAO made progress in other areas with regard new environmental strategy. As a next to climate protection? step, they defined and prioritized the various In addition to adapting the maximum values for noise and environmentally relevant aspects and topics nitrogen oxides, the ICAO’s environmental protection comto determine appropriate areas of emphamittee agreed after six years of intensive negotiations, on sis for later on. In doing so, they distinFebruary 8, 2016, to introduce a CO2 emissions standard for guished the three dimensions Lufthansa aircraft. These limits will come into effect in 2020 and form Group, airlines and service companies. an international standardized benchmark for the certification of new commercial aircraft. With the CO2 standard an imporOrganization of climate and tant instrument for evaluating technology-based measures environmental management has been created. The department Group Environmental Issues is responsible for the Lufthansa And what is the Lufthansa Group’s contribution? Group’s definition, coordination and impleAs long ago as 2008 we initiated a strategic environmental mentation of Company-wide environmenprogram and have since then made significant progress in tally relevant strategies and measures. In all areas. Specific fuel consumption, which has fallen since addition, all larger subsidiaries have their by 11.5 percent, is only one example. We are working on own environmental departments or a coorfurther improving our environmental balance sheet by dinator. These experts meet twice a year adding new aircraft to the fleet – in 2016 alone the Lufthansa at the Group-wide Environmental Forum Group will phase 52 highly efficient aircraft into operation – to discuss current topics, exchange experiand by implementing comprehensive fuel-efficiency proences and develop new ideas. grams. At the moment we are reassessing our environmental strategy, which is valid until 2020, in the light of current requirements. These reflections also take the results of our most recent stakeholder survey into consideration. Limiting environmental effects The Lufthansa Group strives to limit the environmental effects of its business activities to an ­unavoidable minimum – in the air and on the ground. Our guidelines are the Group’s strategic environmental program and the industry-wide four pillar strategy for climate protection. Fleet modernization Continuous investments in fuel-efficient and low-noise aircraft and engine technologies are the most efficient lever at the Lufthansa Group’s disposal to make flying as environmentally compatible as possible. In addition, the Company is actively committed to research projects concerning improvements in aerodynamics. Electromobility At its Frankfurt hub, the Lufthansa Group is part of the E-PORT AN initiative. The focus is on operating increasing numbers of electrically powered vehicles for aircraft handling and for taxiing and towing, thus making the processes on the apron more sustainable. Ground Energy and resource management The Lufthansa Group relies on the efficient use of water and electricity and on consistent waste management. In addiSustainable construction and tion, the Group companies work step by Recycling of aircraft components modernizations step to establish or expand their environmental management systems. In the framework of its project “2nd Life” When planning, renovating and conLufthansa Technic Component Services structing buildings, the Group places disassembles the Group’s decommisgreat value on the sparing use of natural sioned aircraft at a site in the USA. In this resources. These measures range from way, many tonnes of high-quality matetaking into account the latest standards rials can be reconditioned and reused for new constructions to implementing following recertification. energy-related optimizations for existing buildings. Alternative fuels The Lufthansa Group researches and uses alternative fuels in scheduled flight operations. Furthermore, it drives the development of environmentally friendly Climate research fuels through its participation in various initiatives. For more than 20 years, the Lufthansa Group has been a partner in climate research. Selected aircraft serve in the process as “flying” measuring laboratories. By this means, the Group supports the establishment of a worldwide meaWeight reduction suring infrastructure for the observation of the Earth’s atmosphere by means of Be it more lightweight seats, containers, civil aviation. pallets or trolleys: The Lufthansa Group seizes every opportunity to reduce weight and thus conserve kerosene. Another building block is the e-Enabling program, which prepares the way toward the fully paperless cockpit. Air Air space management For many years, the Lufthansa Group has supported the largest climate protection project in European aviation – the implementation of the standardized European air space (Single European Sky, SES). For this purpose, Lufthansa Active noise protection Group experts actively participate in related research projects. The Lufthansa Group achieves “audible” reductions of the burden on people living close to airports by the operation of quieter aircraft, noise-reducing modifications and improved procedures for approaches and departures. Another fixed component of this commitment is the participation in noise research projects. Further activities Efficient engine washes (Cyclean®) and dry washing methods for aircraft fuselages (see page 51) Programs for voluntary CO2 compensation (see page 67) Continuous implementation of digital processes (see page 57) Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group 40 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Currently, Lufthansa CityLine and Lufthansa are about to take a further step in the direction of a sustainable future: In the months ahead they will be implementing an environmental management system at Covers of the environmental reports and declarations published by Lufthansa CityLine, the LSG Group Lufthansa’s Munich hub as well – with the and Austrian Airlines. These publications are available on the respective Web sites of those companies. future goal of rolling this new system out Lufthansa-wide. Both airlines benefit from this bundling of environmental organization. Raising employee awareness been validated accordingly at all its German Austrian Airlines is in the process of estabIn its internal communications, the Lufthansa locations since 2010. In addition to the lishing an environmental and energy Group places great emphasis on making annual internal and external audits, Lufthansa management system to be certified in its employees increasingly more aware of Cargo has its entire system of corporate accordance with ISO 14001 or EMAS. The the need for sustainable behavior. The Group environmental care checked every three implementation is expected to be completalso offers training, workshops, Web-based years by external auditors for the purpose ed by 2018. The airline provides informatrainings and continuing education options. of recertification. tion about its activities in the area of climate and environmental responsibility in its Lufthansa CityLine has been validated environmental report, most recently pubsince 1999 according to the European lished in 2015, and on its home page. Environmental environmental regulations EMAS and ISO management systems 14001, and in 2015 it received the respective recertifications for the sixth time in a The LSG Group operates an in-house environmental management system that row. The airline is thus a worldwide trailcomprises the core elements of ISO 14001. The Group companies continuously expand blazer in the area of sustainability and All locations worldwide that are fully-owned their environmental management systems. demonstrates impressively that economiby the LSG Group participate in this system. here is an overview of the current situation: cally profitable business operations and The locations in rome, Lisbon and helsinki environmentally conscious principles are are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. In Germany, Lufthansa Technik has been not contradictory. This is due to the fact that Beyond its interactive environmental report certified since 1999 in accordance with the the consistent pursuit of goals such as “Thinking Green” the company communiinternational environmental standard ISO lowering resource consumption often leads cates actively via its dedicated environmen14001. Beyond this, all worldwide locations to direct cost savings. Another important tal blog. Five environmental audits with of this provider of technical aviation services pillar is the exchange of ideas with other external auditors are planned for 2016. will receive corresponding certificates by companies. Therefore, Lufthansa CityLine the end of 2017. The company is an “Enviis a member in the “Environmental Pact LZ-Catering is preparing the introduction ronmental Partner” of the City of hamburg Bavaria”, an initiative of the Bavarian state of an environmental management system. and furthermore set itself the goal to reduce government to promote environmental The company is an “Environmental Partner” its CO2 emissions by 30 percent between awareness in business. This context also of the City of hamburg and has offered at 2012 and 2018. Today, with the measures provided the contact with the Association of least one daily CO2-friendly main course in it has planned for 2016 included, more European Sustainability and Eco-Managea large number of its company restaurants than 50 percent of this target have already ment (VNU), which provides an exclusive since July 2014. In a step to reduce waste been reached. network through EMAS Clubs Europe as quantities, Lz-Catering is planning well as effective discussion and communia test run from mid-2016 with multiple-use In 2015, Lufthansa Cargo was certified cations options for EMAS-certified organicoffee mugs, which are set to replace the worldwide for the first time according to the zations. This approach illustrates that the cardboard cups with a plastic lid it curenvironmental standard ISO 14001. The company’s ecological commitment has rently uses. Lufthansa Group’s freight specialist has been anchored in its corporate philosophy for a long time. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 41 Fuel consumption and emissions The Lufthansa Group again flew exceedingly fuel-efficiently: In 2015, the aircraft of the passenger fleets consumed 3.84 liters of kerosene on average to carry one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers. Thus, the Group confirmed the efficiency record it had set the year before. The evolution of the specific consumption The Lufthansa Group’s absolute fuel conCO2 emissions according to depends on many variables, including the sumption in 2015 increased by 1.4 percent the GHG Protocol payload factor. The latter was 1.1 percentto about 9 million tonnes of kerosene. With The Lufthansa Group determines its CO2 age points lower in 2015 than in the preceda current share of more than 17 percent emissions on the basis of the Greenhouse ing year. The continuing fleet moderniof operating expenses, fuel is a substantial Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which dization (see page 29, Fleet development), cost item for the Group. Therefore, provides emissions in three main categories the numerous fuel-efficiency programs nounced changes in fuel prices can have or scopes (see pie chart). and the related efficiency increases helped a significant influence on the operating to sta-bilize the specific consumption of result. This illustrates once again the degree All direct emissions from flight operations, the reporting year at the previous year’s to which economical and ecological factors shown in the pie chart “Direct and indirect record level. The Lufthansa Group conare interlinked in the area of fuel efficiency. CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group”, sistently strives to attain the industry goal for The less kerosene the aviation group conwere recorded and verified on behalf of the annual efficiency increases of 1.5 percent. sumes, the greater the positive effects are Lufthansa Group in accordance with the Since 2008, the Group has achieved an on both costs and climate. This is due to the requirements of the European Emissions 11.5 percent-improvement in fuel efficiency. fact that each tonne of kerosene conserved Trading System. Additionally, the Lufthansa in flight operations means 3.15 tonnes less Group has recorded the indirect emissions of CO2 is emitted into the atmosphere. caused by its business activities for a number of years. For the reporting year 2015, all recorded and calculated direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group were verified externally for the first time (see page 117, Verification statement). Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group The CO2 footprint helps the Group to iden2015, in tonnes tify its significant environmental effects more exactly and to develop subsequently Scope 1 Scope 1: Direct CO2 emissions from the Lufthansa more focused options for their reduction. (77.4 %) Group’s flight operations and ground traffic of Evaluating the CO2 footprint shows that 28,601,347 own vehicles as well as own energy-generating facilities. more than three-quarters of it result from direct Scope 1 CO2 emissions (recorded Scope 2 1 Scope 2: Indirect CO2 emissions of electricity and (0.9 %) energy purchases for ground operations, including are all emissions from the Lufthansa 343,438 catering and maintenance. Group’s flight operations and ground traffic of own vehicles) while about one-quarter Scope 3: Further indirect CO2 emissions along the Scope 3 supply chain and from purchased services, here results from indirect Scope 3 emissions. (21.7 %) essentially the emissions from the kerosene supply The latter include essentially the emissions 8,005,651 chain and those related to the manufacturing of aircraft and engines. of the kerosene supply chain and those related to the manufacturing processes of 1 The values for Scope 2 emissions are based on energy consumption values in 2014. Specific fuel consumption Passenger transportation Active fleet in 2015, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) Definitions of traffic areas Long-haul more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km Short-haul under 800 km Group fleet Lufthansa Germanwings Long-haul Average specific fuel Long-haul (60 %) consumption in l /100 pkm (67 %) 3.48 l /100 pkm (center of the circle) and 3.61 l /100 pkm proportion of the entire passenger fuel consumption of Medium-haul Medium-haul Medium-haul 3.84 the active fleet contributed by each traffic area (seg(19 %) 3.85 l /100 pkm 3.88 l /100 pkm (100 %) 4.25 l /100 pkm 4.25 l /100 pkm (27 %) l /100 pkm ments of circle) in 2015 4.01 l /100 pkm Short-haul (14 %) 6.14 l /100 pkm Short-haul (13 %) 6.36 l /100 pkm Swiss Austrian Airlines Long-haul Long-haul Specific fuel consumption (63 %) (38 %) of passenger transportation compared 3.13 l /100 pkm 2.98 l /100 pkm in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) Medium-haul Medium-haul (30 %) 3.53 (37 %) 3.92 4.06 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 4.17 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 2015 2014 Changes in % Short-haul Short-haul Group fleet 3.84 3.84 ± 0.0 (7 %) (25 %) Lufthansa 3.88 3.91 – 0.7 8.57 l /100 pkm 6.59 l /100 pkm Swiss 3.53 3.48 + 1.2 Austrian Airlines 3.92 3.87 + 1.3 Germanwings 4.25 4.18 + 1.5 Specific CO2 emissions of passenger transportation Fuel Dumps Active fleet in 2015, Active fleet in 2015 in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm) Overall Changes compared Long-haul Medium-haul Short-haul average 2015 to 2014 Group fleet 8.77 10.11 16.03 9.69 Events, total 20 +4 Lufthansa 9.10 9.71 15.46 9.78 thereof medical reasons 11 +4 Swiss 7.88 10.23 21.59 8.88 technical reasons 9 +1 Austrian Airlines 7.51 10.50 16.61 9.88 other reasons 0 –1 Germanwings 10.70 10.70 Quantity, total 1 564 t + 9.9 % Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption Changes compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 360 + 350 % 340 320 300 280 260 Efficiency gain 240 Transport performance 220 200 180 160 + 186 % 140 120 100 80 60 40 Fuel consumption 20 0 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fuel consumption 2 Passenger transportation 2015, in tonnes CO2 emissions NOX emissions in kilograms /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers Passengers Freight Total Share 2015 9.69 2015 46.3 Scheduled flights 3, 4 2014 9.69 2014 45.8 Lufthansa 4,768,746 1,585,102 6,353,847 70.1% 2013 9.84 2013 46.7 Swiss 1,101,795 393,362 1,495,156 16.5 % Austrian Airlines 579,837 87,802 667,638 7.4 % 2012 10.24 2012 48.4 Germanwings 430,592 532 431,124 4.8 % 2011 10.53 2011 49.4 8,947,766 98.8 % 2010 10.58 2010 48.8 Third parties 5 82,980 1,418 84,398 0.9 % 2009 10.84 2009 50.0 Other flights 6 25,619 0.3 % 2008 10.93 2008 50.6 All flights 9,057,783 100.0 % 2007 10.88 2007 49.8 2006 11.05 2006 50.5 Emissions 4, 7 CO emissions UHC emissions in grams /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers 2015, in tonnes 2015 7.1 2015 0.67 Passengers ± 2014 Freight ± 2014 Total ± 2014 2014 7.3 2014 0.72 CO2 21,675,053 + 2.0 % 6,510,409 – 0.6 % 28,185,463 + 1.4 % 2013 7.4 2013 0.74 NOX 103,570 + 3.1 % 31,877 + 0.3 % 135,447 + 2.4 % 2012 7.8 2012 0.80 CO 15,808 – 0.7 % 3,329 – 0.1 % 19,137 – 0.6 % 2011 8.2 2011 0.87 UHC 1,509 – 3.8 % 350 – 8.8 % 1,859 – 4.8 % 2010 8.4 2010 0.87 2009 8.5 2009 0.91 2008 8.5 2008 0.96 Share of third parties 5, 8 2007 8.6 2007 0.99 2015 2006 8.4 2006 0.96 Flights 2.4 % Passengers 1.8 % Freight transportation 9 Tonne kilometers transported, TKT (tkm) 0.6 % Fuel consumption (tonnes) 0.9 % CO2 emissions NOX emissions CO2 emissions (tonnes) 0.9 % in kilograms /tonne kilometers in grams /tonne kilometers 2015 0.71 2015 3.5 2014 0.70 2014 3.4 Specific fuel consumption 2013 0.70 2013 3.3 Passenger transportation 2012 0.72 2012 3.5 2011 0.73 2011 3.5 in liters/100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) 2010 0.73 2010 3.5 4.38 4.32 4.34 4.30 4.20 4.18 4.06 3.91 3.84 3.84 2009 0.77 2009 3.7 2008 0.74 2008 3.6 2007 0.72 2007 3.4 2006 0.58 2006 2.6 CO emissions UHC emissions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 in grams /tonne kilometers in grams /tonne kilometers 2015 0.4 2015 0.04 2014 0.4 2014 0.04 Specific fuel consumption 2013 0.3 2013 0.04 Freight transportation 9 2012 0.4 2012 0.05 in liters /tonne kilometers 2011 0.4 2011 0.05 2010 0.4 2010 0.05 0.228 0.285 0.295 0.304 0.289 0.289 0.287 0.278 0.276 0.282 2009 0.4 2009 0.06 2008 0.4 2008 0.06 2007 0.4 2007 0.06 2006 0.3 2006 0.05 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Projections 5 Includes flights operated by companies that are not part of the Group, which assume ser2 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events under the vices at short notice on Lufthansa’s behalf, as in the case of capacity bottlenecks. respective operative flight number. recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. 6 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights. including taxiing on the ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air. 7 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter 3 Scheduled flights, charter flights. flights). recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the 4 For the reporting year 2015, the following companies have been included in Balance: ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air (see notes on page 116). Lufthansa (incl. Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings), Germanwings, Swiss (incl. 8 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the services of third parties consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. as the Company can influence neither their performance nor the equipment operated (see 9 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger table Share of third parties). aircraft. 44 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility aircraft and engines. The emissions related to electricity and energy purchases for ground operations, including catering and maintenance (Scope 2), do not even amount to 1 percent of the total footprint. 523 internal fuel-efficiency projects All projects in the subject area “fuel efficiency” are managed by the department Flight Operations Standards and Projects Group Airlines. Under this organizational umbrella, the Lufthansa Group pursues the many fuel efficiency programs it has set in motion over the past years. Since 2013, the aviation group has launched or implemented a total of 523 internal projects. For Especially impressive at a height of 2.4 meters, the wing-tip extensions or example, this includes 168 measures con“sharklets” of the A320neo yield aerodynamic improvements and thus increase fuel efficiency. cerning weight reductions – such as the lightweight on-board trolleys – and 231 operative measures – such as the optimized vertical approach profile at Munich Airport (see page 46, Balance 2015). Two of the Lufthansa Group’s fuel-efficiency projects were selected during the reporting year by the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) for its publication “Aviation Climate Solutions”. The latter presents 100 outstanding programs and initiatives in the aviation industry and thus illustrates the entire scope of projects of the aviation industry’s established four-pillar strategy for climate protection. The first case study “The Aircraft Diet” casts a light on the Group airlines’ numerous activities concerning the long-term reduction of aircraft weight. The second selected project focuses on the topic of “electric ground movement” and presents the initiative E-POrT AN at Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group has integrated about 30,000 lightweight trolleys into Frankfurt Airport (see page 52, Energy and flight operations, replacing the existing service trolleys aboard its long-haul aircraft. resource management). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 45 Four pillars for climate protection 1 2 3 4 Technological Improved Operational Economic progress infrastructure measures measures N 3 33 6 30 E W 12 24 15 21 S Innovation in aircraft and Improved use of airspace More efficient aircraft sizes A global, sensibly designed, engine technologies Airport infrastructures Optimal flight routes market-based system for adapted to needs and speeds reducing emissions to comAlternative fuels plement the other three pillars Optimized processes on the ground Four pillars for climate Pillar 1: Technological Fleet development). Among these will figure protection progress 116 aircraft of the Airbus A320neo family, which will be up to more than 15 percent more fuel-efficient than comparable predeWhile air transport contributes a mere Efficient aircraft and engine technologies cessor models thanks to geared-turbofan 2.4 percent of CO2 emissions caused by The most effective way to increase fuel technology. The new CSeries aircraft human activity worldwide, this value is efficiency is to invest in the most modern manufactured by Bombardier, of which expected to increase as demand for moand especially environmentally friendly Swiss is set to receive the first exemplars bility continues to grow strongly. To limit aircraft. For this reason, the Lufthansa from summer 2016, will fly with similar the ecological effects of flying, the aviation Group is currently implementing the largfuel-efficiency. Thus, the Lufthansa Group industry has developed the four-pillar stratest fleet modernization program in its foresees further improvements in its enegy for climate protection, which bundles history: By 2025, it will take delivery of vironmental balance sheet. different environmentally relevant measures 251 latest-generation aircraft, which will (see illustration above). These range from mostly replace older models (see page 29, technological progress and improved infrastructure to operational measures and economic instruments. The four-pillar strategy is also the basis for the Lufthansa Group’s fuel-efficiency activities. 46 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Research and use of alternative fuels “We are very pleased that we and our partners The use of alternative fuels represents have been able to set an important milestone another step towards the air transport of the future. As biokerosene has a signififor climate-friendly air transport by means of biocantly lower net CO2 balance sheet value, kerosene fueling in Oslo. The Lufthansa Group it allows a sustainable reduction of emisis the first airline group worldsions from flight operations. Following this approach, the conflict of objectives that wide to have signed a regular arises from growing demand for mobility procurement contract of this worldwide and finite resources of fossil kind with a supplier.” fuels can be resolved. The Lufthansa Group undertook some pioneer work to this end in 2011, when it tested the use of biofuel in Thorsten Luft regular flight operations for about six Vice President Corporate Fuel Management months as a trial run in the context of the Lufthansa Group Alternative fuels Lufthansa successfully completes the first-ever transatlantic flight from Frankfurt to Washington, D.C. with a Boeing 747-400 fueled with a blend containing a biokerosene share of about 22 tonnes. January 2012 July 2011 Fall 2013 Long-term trial: In the context of the An engine run on a test bed at Lufthansa “BurnFAIr” project, Lufthansa becomes Technik in hamburg shows that adding the first airline worldwide to operate biokerosene to jet fuel leads to an imscheduled flights with an Airbus A321 provement of emissions characteristics. and a biokerosene admixture of 50 percent on one engine, between Hamburg and Frankfurt. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 47 project “BurnFAIr – Potentials of alternative research Institute for Materials, Fuels and the Norwegian airport operator Avinor and fuels in operational conditions” (see timeLubricants (see page 55, Balance 2014). the biofuel specialist SkyNrG have joined line). In addition to its own research work, The two partners have gained important forces to offer jet biofuel to the airlines at the aviation group has been actively cominsights into the blending characteristics Gardermoen Airport. For the duration of mitted for many years to a number of of conventional fossil kerosene types and one year, Air BP Aviation will feed 1.25 initiatives such as aireg (Aviation Initiative various new biokerosenes in the context million liters of sustainably produced and for renewable Energy in Germany) and of this project. The final report is expected appropriately certified biofuel into the tanks SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users in 2016. Moreover, the final report of the at Oslo Airport. During this time, about Group). Lufthansa-coordinated research project 5,000 flights operated by the airlines of the “BurnFAIr” was published in June 2014. Lufthansa Group will fly on a mix of biokeroIn February 2015, an interim report was pubsene and conventional jet fuel. This applies lished for the EU research project “BlendSince January 22, 2016, the Lufthansa to Lufthansa, Swiss, Austrian Airlines, ing study”, an initiative jointly launched in Group has been refueling its aircraft at Germanwings and Brussels Airlines. 2013 and since carried out by the Lufthansa Oslo Airport with a fuel mix that contains Group and the German Armed Forces’ 5 percent of biokerosene. Air BP Aviation, The final report for the research project An interim report is published for the “BurnFAIr”, which was coordinated by EU research project “Blending Study”, the Lufthansa Group, is published. launched in 2013. June 2014 February 2015 September 2014 January 2016 Lufthansa‘s first European scheduled All Lufthansa Group aircraft taking off in flight is operated using a 10-percent Oslo throughout the year are to fly with a blend of the sugar-based biofuel biofuel blend of 5 percent. component Farnesan. 48 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility The implementation of the Single European Sky is the largest climate protection project of European aviation. More direct routings without unnecessary detours would reduce the CO2 emissions of European airlines by 10 percent a year. Pillar 2: Improved The goal of SES is to remove this kind of The Lufthansa Group’s airlines and Lufthansa infrastructure patchwork and to steer air traffic flows substantially more efficiently than is curSystems are actively involved with their respective expertise in a number of SESAr rently the case. An important milestone on research and demonstration projects as Single European Sky the path toward the Single European Sky is well as standardization initiatives. The The largest climate protection project in the standardization and modernization of synchronization of SESAr with its American European aviation is to establish a stanthe European aviation infrastructure. For counterpart “NextGen” as the basis for dardized airspace above Europe. This this purpose, the European Commission global interoperability of air traffic control Single European Sky (SES) would help set up the SESAr (Single European Sky systems has a high priority in this context. airlines to emit 10 percent less CO2 and ATM research) program. The goal of this The first modernization package was intesave about 5 billion euros in fuel costs project is to develop, test and implement grated by the European Commission in every year. Today, however, about 60 air Europe-wide new technologies, procedures the Pilot Common Project (PCP). The traffic control centers are responsible for and standards that contribute to harmoimplementation of these technologies in air safety in 27 different national systems nizing and optimizing the European air daily operations is jointly coordinated by with more than 650 sectors, a system that traffic management. the members of the industry consortium does not always allow aircraft to follow an “SESAr Deployment Manager”. Since the optimum route to their destinations. start of the introduction phase in 2014, the Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 49 first positive effects from optimized routings In the project Augmented Approaches to and flying times have been observed in the Land (AAL), approaches are currently flown daily operations of airports, air traffic conin Frankfurt and Bremen with the three Intermodal transport concepts trol organizations and airlines. Airbus A319s specifically retrofitted for this Furthermore, the intelligent interlinking of purpose as well as the Airbus A380 and different modes of transport can make a Currently, the experts of the Lufthansa the Boeing 747 fleets. Fraport, DFS and contribution to reducing traffic volumes and Group are participating in numerous Lufthansa jointly analyze the data from thus also to lightening environmental burdemonstration projects. In the framework these test flights to see if the distribution of dens. For many years, the Lufthansa Group of the project Free Solutions, whose goal is noise emissions might be better controlled has realized intermodal transport concepts the introduction of more direct flight routings when aircraft adhere with greater precision together with partner companies, which under scheduled flight conditions, 68 flights to the flight path by means of new flight interconnect air, rail and road traffic syswere able to travel on such routings in procedures. tematically. In October 2015, the Company Europe. About 5 tonnes of fuel and 126 bundled its comprehensive services for minutes of flying time were saved on these Adequate airport infrastructures intermodal travel under the unified brand flights. The routes from Frankfurt to Nice, Nevertheless, the conditions for efficient name Lufthansa Express. The spectrum of Málaga, Algiers, Barcelona and Valencia air traffic management must be provided travel options before and after a flight ranges as well as the route from Munich to Paris not only in the air but also on the ground. from ICE high-speed trains to modern longcould thus be shortened permanently. The Above all, the adaptation of total airport distance busses and car-sharing. quantity of kerosene saved in this way each infrastructures to actual demand plays a year corresponds to the fuel burn of about leading role in this context. 200 flights between Frankfurt and zurich. With the inauguration of the new satellite terminal at Munich Airport, the capacity of Terminal 2, used by Lufthansa and the other Star Alliance airlines, increased by another 11 million to a total of 36 million passengers per year. 50 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility N 3 33 6 30 E W 12 24 15 21 S Pillar 3: Operational composites (metal-matrix composites), OMEGA – The post-flight analysis measures the new trolleys are about 35 percent more lightweight than their predecessors. In September 2015, the Lufthansa Group’s efficiency project OMEGA (Ops Monitor and Efficiency Gap Analyzer) was successOperational measures include the deployLufthansa Cargo is planning to replace all fully concluded after a project phase of ment of efficiently-sized aircraft; the imstandard stowage materials with more about three years. The new fuel-efficiency proved utilization, testing and introduction lightweight alternatives by 2020. By the software, developed jointly with IT specialof new flight procedures; as well as the beginning of 2016, the air freight specialist ists Aviaso, was successfully transferred determination of optimum flight routes and had already replaced more than 60 percent into scheduled operations. flight speeds. These are complemented by of its containers, including all AKE-type programs for long-term weight reductions, containers. Likewise, the replacement of Honored with the Innovation Award of the development of intelligent software AKH/DQF-type air freight containers by German Aviation in 2016, OMEGA comtools and the introduction of increasingly lightweight models is currently advancing. bines both planning data and actual performore efficient processes on the ground. Together with its subsidiary Jettainer, mance data from the Flight Data Recorder Lufthansa Cargo is also working on a (FDR) to analyze them in tandem. Thus far, Weight reduction solution for more lightweight pallets. only planning data had been used in the Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group analysis of fuel consumption, which left has integrated into its flight operations At Lufthansa and Lufthansa CityLine the new conservation potentials unidentified about 30,000 lightweight trolleys, which “electronic Flight Folder” (eFF) ushered in a and made the assessment of savings sigreplace the previous model of service carts new era in flight preparations. In the future, nificantly more difficult. The new software aboard long-haul aircraft. By the end of pilots will use a new briefing application on allows the aviation group to analyze actual 2016, all trolleys will have been replaced their Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) to check fuel consumption, loading configurations, by the “Quantum Light Weight Trolley”, on conditions along a flight routing and to flight routings and many other factors with co-developed by LSG Sky Chefs. Manufaccalculate the quantity of kerosene to be regard to their efficiency. tured from high-grade sandwich material refueled – another step towards the paperless cockpit. The module “Tracks” of the electronic navigation maps Lido/eRouteManual shows pilots not only the routing currently planned but also the routings actually flown in the past. In this way, they receive information on possible more direct routes before the beginning of a flight and can request these from air traffic control if appropriate. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 51 Optimization of flight routings included in flight route planning later on, Pillar 4: Economic Currently about 120 airlines worldwide, including most airlines within the Lufthansa in coordination with the relevant control centers. Furthermore, Lufthansa Cargo measures Group, rely on Lido/Flight by Lufthansa set up an additional waypoint for the alterSystems. On the basis of total flight-relevant native airport Frankfurt hahn in coordinaEconomic incentive systems are to be data, weather conditions and current airtion with Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS). understood as a complement to the prespace conditions, including all restrictions, For approaches to Frankfurt, this measure ceding pillars. For the Lufthansa Group, the this tool automatically or interactively calcushortens the distance to be planned to most effective instrument in this area is a lates the best suitable routing for a flight. hahn and thus less kerosene has to be worldwide-valid, market-based and comComparison calculations on the basis of carried during each approach to Frankfurt, petition-neutral system for CO2 compensamore than 4,000 flight plans revealed: even should the alternative airport not be tion (also called carbon offsetting). The Depending on the particular optimization needed. In this way, the airline conserves United Nations’ International Civil Aviation goal, Lido/Flight allows the reduction of about 950 tonnes of kerosene per year. Organization (ICAO) decided in October fuel consumption, flight time or flight costs Lufthansa Cargo optimized the routes to 2013 to develop a system for climate inclusive of air traffic control fees by up to the alternative airports associated with charges with worldwide validity, whose 2 percent, in contrast with other applicaother destinations in the same way, conintroduction is to be approved in October tions. The next-generation product Lido/ serving another 280 tonnes of fuel per year. 2016 (see interview on page 37). Flight 4D will be introduced step by step from 2016. It offers even greater integraMore efficiency thanks to Cyclean® By contrast, the European Union currently tion, modern graphic displays, 4D optimiThe innovative Cyclean® Engine Wash, still applies an emissions trading system zation and comprehensive automatization developed by Lufthansa Technik, helps concerning all intra-European flights. In the of flight routing and flight routing manageairlines worldwide to reduce the kerosene opinion of the Lufthansa Group, insular ment processes. consumption of their aircraft by up to 1 solutions of this kind are the wrong percent. Airlines have applied the waterapproach, as they unilaterally burden EuroMeanwhile, the module “Tracks” of the based engine wash system more than pean airlines in contrast to airlines outside electronic navigation solution Lido/eroute40,000 times to date – in part because it is of Europe (see page 59, Balance 2014). Manual shows pilots not only the routing the only established procedure of this kind Should the ICAO plenary session in Octocurrently planned but also the routings that can be applied right at the gate. Anber 2016 not approve a global solution, the actually flown in the past. In this way, they other advantage is that engines can now EU has announced its intention to expand receive information on possible more be cleaned at external temperatures down its emissions trading system to all internadirect routes before the beginning of a to minus 10 degrees Celsius. Lufthansa tional flights to and from EU airports. flight and can request these from air traffic Technik offers Cyclean® for all current control if appropriate. Currently in trial engine types produced by the large manuAnother option for limiting the effects of operation at Lufthansa, “Tracks” is expected factures such as General Electric, Pratt & CO2 emissions from air transport are volunto be introduced in July 2016. In fall 2015, Whitney, rolls-royce, CFMI and IAE. In tary CO2 compensation schemes. The Group Lufthansa Systems presented a new Mobile addition, the company also offers a dry airlines Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Updater, which pilots can use to update washing method for aircraft fuselages, Airlines as well as the Lufthansa subsidiary their Lido/erouteManual at any time and using a cleaning paste; this alternative AirPlus have offered their customers such at any location. takes more effort than wet washes but programs for many years (see page 67, consumes significantly fewer resources. CO2 compensation). Lufthansa Cargo focuses as well on the Meanwhile, Lufthansa Technik is working systematic search for route shortcuts, to develop further innovations. Among so-called “directs”. In this context, the air these efforts is a research project set to freight specialist also began using the run until 2017 to test small CO2 dry-ice analysis of historical flight routings from pellets and other blasting abrasives for mid-2016. Possible shortcuts are to be cleaning engines. 52 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Energy and resource management Making aircraft more fuel-efficient and quieter is a pivotal, but not the only, adjustment lever for increasing the environmental compatibility of air transport. On the ground, as well, there are a myriad of opportunities to limit emissions of pollutants and noise, as well as to use valuable resources efficiently and responsibly. The Lufthansa Group sees great potential in Fraport AG, the State of hesse and the Electromobility at Frankfurt Airport electromobility, which marks a technological rhine-Main Model Electromobility region. paradigm shift in traffic on the ground. To The goal of the initiative – which was conserve fossil energy and minimize emisElectromobility: honored as a “Lighthouse Electromosions related to aircraft handling, the Group is active in a number of electromobility E-PORT AN initiates bility Project” by Germany’s Federal Government in 2013 and is supported by projects. These are in accordance with the paradigm shift the Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital goals of the world aviation association IATA Infrastructure – is to switch ground traffic and are part of the aviation industry’s fourElectricity instead of gasoline, diesel or related to handling processes on the apron pillar strategy for climate protection (see kerosene: Such is the basic principle of the to electrical power technologies step by page 45). initiative E-POrT AN at the Frankfurt hub, step. The project’s focus is as much on which is supported by the Lufthansa Group, taxiing and towing of aircraft as it is on The eSchlepper diesel-electric hybrid aircraft tug is particularly suited for environmentally friendly maintenance and positioning tows of large passenger aircraft. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 53 vehicles that carry passengers, freight and catering supplies. The Lufthansa Group participates in E-POrT AN with a hybrid tug that can be controlled from the cockpit (TaxiBot), the towbarless “eSchlepper” (eTug) for large passenger aircraft and the catering lift truck “eLift” on the basis of an electrically-powered truck chassis (see page 51, Balance 2015). The initiative is supported scientifically by Technische Universität Darmstadt (TaxiBot, eSchlepper) and Technische Universität Berlin (eLift). In October 2015, the partners of the initiative E-POrT AN First “green gate” worldwide opened the first “Green Gate” at Frankfurt Airport. at Frankfurt Airport In October 2015, the E-POrT AN project partners opened the world’s first “green gate” at Frankfurt Airport. At Lufthansa Energy management ment is also responsible for the Group-wide Gate A15 models, display panels and central energy management, in order to animations now inform passengers about Targets of EU Energy Efficiency increase the links between subsidiaries the numerous electromobility projects at Directive fulfilled and to intensify exchanges on best-practice Germany’s largest civil airport. Preceding According to the EU Energy Efficiency cases. this opening, the initiative partners had Directive (EED) taking effect on December sought exchanges with the public to pres4, 2012, companies in the EU above a LSG Sky Chefs active in ent the projects of E-POrT AN during the certain size were obligated to carry out “LEEN 100” network hamburg Airport Days in August 2015. The energy audits by December 5, 2015, and LSG Sky Chefs has been active in Frankfurt young academics participating in Frankfurt thereafter at least every four years. In in the “LEEN 100” network since 2015; University’s Ph.D. Summer School were Germany and some other EU countries moreover, the company hosted the second also enthusiastic about the innovative ideas this deadline has been extended. Deutsche Energy Efficiency round Table in midto improve working and environmental Lufthansa AG is affected by the EED as well October 2015. The “Learning Energy conditions on the apron. as those EU-headquartered subsidiaries in Efficiency Network” (LEEN) was set up for which the Group holds at least a 25-percent a four-year term by its initiators: the City of “Eco-Company Partnership of the Year” stake. For the Lufthansa Group, this meant Frankfurt and the Society for Job Security, In February 2016, the US trade publication that a total of 120 companies had to be Quality and Environmental Management. Air Transport World bestowed the award audited (see page 52, Balance 2015). Founded in May 2015, the network is work“Eco-Company Partnership of the Year” on ing to improve the CO2 emissions values in the Lufthansa Group and Fraport AG. This The audits were completed on-schedule the rhine-Main region and to increase the renowned publication thus honored not in Germany by the end of April 2016, and share of renewable energies. About 20 only the pioneer role of the E-POrT AN within the EU by the end of May 2016. The participants from eight companies in varisystem partners and their joint commitment Group-wide results – including more than ous industries took advantage of the round for more electromobility on the apron, but 300 suggestions for improving the energy Table to discuss significant measures and also the entire initiative, including the State efficiency of buildings – will serve as a basis advances in reducing their companies’ CO2 of hesse and the rhine-Main Model Elecfor further optimizing the aviation group’s emissions. Furthermore, a guided tour took tromobility Region. energy management. The energy experts place at the airline catering facility, which of the department Group Infrastructure occupies 29,000 square meters at Frankfurt www.e-port-an.de Commercial will consult and steer this Airport and whose equipment includes process, and will act as contact point for 15 energy-and-water-efficient industrial all energy-related questions. This departdishwashing lines and machines. 54 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Pilot trial runs with intelligent eTemp® thermostat In 2014, the LSG Sky Chefs facility in Dallas, USA, ran pilot trials with an innovative type of thermostat. Unlike conventional thermostats, eTemp® switches on cooling units View of the state-of-the-art LSG Sky Chefs operation in Chicago, which only when its sensors register significant was opened at the end of 2015. Constructed in accordance with LEED standards temperature differences, while ignoring (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design), this airline catering building minor differences. The reason? The intelliis the first worldwide to have received the quality seal of the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). gent cooling system takes into account that when workers enter a cold storage unit the temperature of the air rises faster than the temperature of the food stored in it. Meanwhile, the LSG Group has installed eTemp® at all of its North America facilities. “The LSG Group has installed eTemp® at all of its North America facilities, as a result we are The Lufthansa subsidiary regularly provides information about the most important energy able to conserve almost 1,000,000 kWh of elecand water ratios in its Environmental report. tricity and thus avoid 800 tonnes of CO2 emissions during the reporting year. Getting the LCC in better shape Following the Lufthansa Group’s decision This corresponds to planting in April 2015 to delay the construction of over 600,000 square meters of the new Lufthansa Cargo Freight Center pine forest on an annual basis.” “LCCneo” at Frankfurt Airport by at least two years, the logistics provider is concentrating on getting the existing LCC in better shape in 2016. To conserve energy, the Dr. Kenneth F. White installation of a new heating control system Director Environmental Systems LSG Group and the switch to LED lighting in certain areas are planned, among other measures. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 55 Sustainable construction “Green satellite” opened in Munich in July 2015 to switch the lighting systems and modernization On April 26, 2016, Munich Airport and Deutsche Lufthansa AG inaugurated the in all its buildings, and particularly in its aircraft maintenance hangar, to energy “Green Satellite”. The new satellite terminal efficient standards. The goal is use the The Lufthansa Group’s strategic environbuilding sets new standards with regard to latest LED technology to reduce energy mental program gives a high priority to sustainability and energy efficiency. Comconsumption by about 60 to 70 percent. ecological ways of constructing new facilipared with the existing Terminals 1 and 2, ties and modernizing existing ones. In it emits up to 40 percent less CO2. Other LSG Sky Chefs facility receives doing so, the Group always applies the measures favoring lower emissions include LEED quality seal latest standards. An example for this the use of displacement ventilation techLSG Sky Chefs also works on systematiapproach is the Lufthansa Aviation Center nology for climatization as well as LED cally lowering the energy consumption in (LAC) in Frankfurt, which was designed as lighting and the dimming of lighting levels. the context of new constructions and a low-energy building. Given the EU’s modernizations of existing buildings. Its Green Building Award in 2009 for its exem30 percent better than the Energy latest example is a facility inaugurated in plary energy efficiency, the LAC avoids Conservation Regulations (EnEV) December 2015 in Chicago. The airline about 1,200 tonnes of CO2 emissions each Currently under construction, Lufthansa catering building was constructed in year. To mark the LAC’s tenth anniversary Technik’s new wheels and brakes workaccordance with LEED standards (Leaderin 2016, the Lufthansa Group participated shop in Frankfurt is to start operations at ship in Energy and Environmental Design) through the impressive illumination of its the beginning of 2017. By implementing and is the first worldwide to receive the headquarters in the “Luminale” for the first the most modern facilities engineering, the quality seal developed in 2000 by the U.S. time and thus directed the visitors’ attention new 14,500 square meter building will fall Green Building Council (USGBC). LEED to the topic of sustainability. 30 percent below the requirements of the makes it possible to comprehensively evaluEnergy Conservation regulations. Moreate a building over its entire life cycle, inover, Lufthansa Technik launched a project cluding its energy and water consumption. The Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport received the EU’s “Green Building” award in 2009 for its exemplary energy efficiency. 56 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Recycling / In the reporting year alone, the MrO speTurning organic waste into water resource management cialist passed on four phased-out Boeing 747-400s from the Lufthansa Group to its In January 2014 and May 2015, the LSG Sky Chefs facilities in Detroit and Los subsidiary Lufthansa Technik Component Angeles both introduced a procedure that Recycling of aircraft components Services (LTCS) in Tulsa, USA, for recycling. turns organic waste into water. The technoWith the goal of establishing an ecologiSince the start of the project, a total of 37 logical basis is a closed decomposition cally and economically sound recycling Lufthansa Group aircraft have been recysystem developed by EnviroPure that acsequence for decommissioned aircraft, cled via “2nd Life”. Depending on the type celerates the natural decomposition proLufthansa Technik launched the project of aircraft, up to 1,000 components can cess of organic waste. Provided there are “2nd Life” in 2012. The background here is be removed, including parts from landing optimum temperatures and sufficient oxythat repairing aircraft parts and storing gears, engines and auxiliary power units, gen, almost all types of organic waste can replacement components is resourcecabin elements such as monitors and winbe decomposed in this way within 24 to 48 intensive. However, decommissioned airdows as well as instruments and data entry hours. The process works with the addition craft contain a myriad of valuable materials units in the cockpit. Which components are of a specific biologically degradable addiand parts that can be reconditioned and recycled depends on a number of factors, tive that supplies the bacteria naturally reused for maintenance and overhaul such as the consideration of which parts a present in waste materials with complepurposes once they have been recertified. particular aircraft was equipped with and mentary micro nutrients. The result is a This applies, for instance, when compothe number of aircraft maintained by harmless liquid that can be discharged nents in the active fleet fail, their repair Lufthansa Technik that fly with these systhrough the public sewer system. would lead to high costs or they would tems. Another important consideration is have to be sourced externally. which parts are especially valuable, perhaps Project “Zero Waste to Landfill” sucbecause they are no longer in production. cessfully implemented “zero Waste to Landfill” (zLF) is a program that was launched in spring 2013 by LSG Sky Chefs at all 41 US locations to recycle 100 percent of its waste materials. At the end of 2015, the catering specialist achieved its ambitious goal. On December 31, the sum total of recycled waste materials reached 22,444 tonnes; for the program’s “With the project ‘2nd Life’ we have established total duration this figure was 43,316 tonnes. an ecologically and economically sensible recycling circuit for decommissioned aircraft. Since the project’s launch, the Lufthansa Group has already recycled 37 phased-out aircraft in this way.” Hans Bernd Schmidt Initiator of the “2nd Life” program Lufthansa Technik AG Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 57 The implementation of paperless processes moves forward: Lufthansa Technik launched the “paperless maintenance” program in 2014. Fly Greener was launched as a hub-airline Electronic flow of documents: eFreight project in 2016. Other Group companies, Since 2007, Lufthansa Cargo has been such as Lufthansa CityLine and Austrian continuously expanding the paperless Airlines, are already involved. form of air freight transport (eFreight) Initiative “Fly Greener” worldwide. The ultimate goal is to handle Launched in 2014 and guided by environall transport documents fully digitally in mental thinking, the Group initiative “Fly order to exchange information automatiGreener” traces back to the commitment of Digitalization of cally, to simplify processes, to increase Munich-based Cabin Crew Manager rebecca Emmerling. In 2015, a removal processes efficiency and to lighten the burden on the environment (see page 64, Balance 2014). campaign at the Munich hub showed that As the first step, Lufthansa Cargo has above all the disposal of liquids can be Compared with current processes, digital already implemented the infrastructure to substantially improved. The campaign was technologies could lower the global CO2 digitalize the air waybill, the central freight repeated in June 2016 to widen the dataemissions by 20 percent by 2030 – accorddocument. Today, about a third of all base. Another goal was to find out what ing to the latest study carried out by the shipments already fly without a paperhas changed in the composition of waste Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). To based air waybill. materials thanks to the Fly Greener ambasrealize this potential, the Lufthansa Group sadors and their work on board. has advanced the digitalization of its proPaperless aircraft maintenance by 2017 cesses on the ground and in the air for Digital solutions are also implemented by Fly Greener works closely with the environmany years. For example, Electronic Flight Lufthansa Technik. The latest example is mental experts at LSG Sky Chefs to recycle Bags (EFB) have been in use in flight the program “paperless maintenance”, as much of the on-board waste materials operations since 1999; the rollout of EFB which was launched in 2014 and not only as possible and to analyze additional recy2.2, their third generation, was initiated in reduces paper consumption, time, costs cling options on the ground. The basis of October 2014 (see page 12, Balance and environmental resources but also the waste management system at the world’s 2015). Another important role is played by accelerates data capture and increases largest airline caterer is a comprehensive the consistent switch to paperless tickets, data quality. The goal is to carry out all internal system of ratios as well as national boarding passes and baggage receipts as maintenance documentation at the aircraft laws and regulations, which govern the well as the expansion of the digital reading fully electronically by 2017 and to abolish handling of on-board waste materials materials offered aboard Lufthansa aircraft in large part the use of paper. worldwide (see page 53, Balance 2015). in the form of eJournals for mobile devices, which partially replace the print version. 58 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Active noise protection Air transport is unavoidably associated with the generation of noise, particularly in areas surrounding airports. For many years, the Lufthansa Group has worked to reduce these emissions increasingly and has applied numerous measures in the area of active noise protection. To this end, the Group also cooperates with partners in industry, public administrations, universities and research. The Lufthansa Group’s commitment to active Noise contours compared noise protection is based on five central points. These include investing in the most A320neo vs. A320ceo modern aircraft, retrofitting the existing fleet with noise-reducing technologies, conductThe Airbus A320neo (new engine option) has an approximately 50 percent ing noise research, and developing noisereduced noise contour compared with the Airbus A320ceo (current engine reducing procedures for both approach and option). The 85 dB(A) maximum noise level contours are shown for a takeoff departure in cooperation with the system with Lufthansa standard takeoff procedures and maximum takeoff weight partners. Furthermore, the Company places (MTOW). By comparison, a maximum noise level of 85 dB(A) is produced by a great emphasis on the constructive dialogue truck passing at a distance of five meters (16 feet) in city traffic. with neighbors of airports and other interest groups. When implementing specific measures, the Group also takes into consideration the aspect of economic efficiency. 4 km With regard to noise emissions, today 592 3.5 km of 595 aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s ~ – 50 % active fleet already fulfill the currently strictest Chapter-4 standard of the International 3 km Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), which has been in effect since 2006 for new 2.5 km aircraft (see overview page 118). The new Chapter-14 standard will be applied for 2 km newly certified aircraft types from 2017, which will significantly lower the limit value yet again. 1.5 km 1 km 0.5 km 0 km Source: Airbus 0.5 km 0 km 0.5 km 0.5 km 0 km 0.5 km Airbus A320neo Airbus A320ceo MTOW: 73.5 t MTOW: 73.5 t Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 59 Thanks to new engine technology, the 85-decibel noise footprint of an A320neo at takeoff is only half as large as that of a comparable airplane in the current fleet. New aircraft mean audible improvements The greatest progress in reducing aircraft noise can be achieved by the operation of modern aircraft. The Lufthansa Group invests continuously in this area. For example, Lufthansa will decommission all Boeing 737s by the end of 2016 and replace them with A320neo aircraft. Thanks to new engine technologies, the A320neo is by far the most efficient and quietest will be about 50 percent smaller than that Vortex generators for the A320 fleet aircraft on shortand medium-haul routes. of predecessor models. The most advanced To date, the experts at Lufthansa Technik rolls-royce Trent XWB engines and an have equipped all Airbus A319, A320 and The Lufthansa Group has a total of 116 aerodynamically optimized design reduce A321 aircraft at the Frankfurt and Munich A320neo and A321neo aircraft on order, noise emissions to a point far below curhubs with noise-reducing vortex generawhich will be delivered over the years rently applicable limits. tors. In addition, all newly delivered aircraft ahead (see page 29, Fleet development). of this type from Airbus have featured these Of these, 60 aircraft will be equipped with At Swiss, the new CSeries by Bombardier components as standard equipment since the new PW1100G-JM engines manufacwill replace the currently operated Avro 2015. At the beginning of 2014, Lufthansa tured by Pratt & Whitney. The new engines RJ100 regional aircraft, starting in 2016. began operations with the world’s first and improved aerodynamics allow a signifiThis generational change in the skies vortex-generator-equipped A320, thus cant reduction of noise and emissions. means above all a perceptible improveintroducing yet another industry standard. Accordingly, the 85-decibel noise footprint ment in noise burdens for airports neighAs these parts have become part of the at takeoff of an A320neo is only half as bors, as the CSeries also sets new stannoise reduction programs of numerous large as that of a comparable aircraft in the dards in noise emissions. airports, interest in vortex generators is existing fleet (see illustration). growing among other airlines as well. And Lufthansa Cargo received its fifth On long-haul routes, the Airbus A350-900, Boeing 777F freighter aircraft in February As a result of retrofitting and new acquisiwhich will be delivered to Lufthansa from 2015. Compared with other freighters, this tions, more than 200 aircraft in the Lufthansa winter 2016, is set to contribute significantly aircraft is characterized by the smallest Group’s fleet will fly substantially quieter to lessening the burden on people living noise footprint in its class. It also meets the than before in the future. This will affect near large hubs. The A350-900 is the most most stringent noise standards and thus every second landing of a Lufthansa aircraft modern and environmentally-friendly longhas maximum access to airports with high in Frankfurt, as the Airbus A320 fleet has a haul aircraft worldwide; its noise footprint noise protection limits. share of about 50 percent of all flights at this hub. 60 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Frankfurt Airport. The noise break concept means that during west-wind operations – the main operating direction at Frankfurt Airport – some runways are not used between 5 and 6 a.m. and between 10 and 11 p.m. Aircraft movements are bundled In 2015, flyover measurements were conducted at Magdeburg-Cochstedt Airport with on the remaining runways during these Lufthansa Cargo MD-11 freight aircraft to test noise-reducing modifications on engines and landing gear. times. This gives people living nearby and beneath the approach routes of these unused runways an additional hour of quiet. A one-year trial run had shown a substantial reduction of noise burdens during those Noise research: A costly and complex Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group supperipheral hours. challenge ported the noise effect study NOrAh The project MODAL (Models and Data for (Noise-related Annoyance, Cognition and From the end of May to the end of August the Development of Active Noise Protection health), which was concluded in 2015. 2016, Lufthansa, DFS and Fraport are set Measures in Aviation), which was headed Among other results, the survey showed to test new satellite-supported approach by the Lufthansa Group and supported in that the health risks and negative effects procedures at Frankfurt Airport. The goal the context of the aviation research proof aircraft noise are apparently less proof these trials is to prove the advantages gram of Germany’s Federal Ministry for nounced than was previously assumed. of curved approach procedures linked to Economics and Technology, ended in www.norah-studie.de this new technology in areas close to air2015. Together with the German Aerospace ports. The test series also contributes to Center (DLR) as well as several airports The German Aviation Association (BDL) basic research for active noise protection and scientific institutes, the Lufthansa published its first aircraft noise report in and is part of the research project Single experts have created a new database, 2015. According to analyses carried out by European Sky Air Traffic Management which contributes to the development of an Germany’s Environment Agency, 10.2 research (SESAr, see 48). innovative flexible aircraft noise calculation million people in Germany are affected by method according to DIN 45689. At the road noise while 6.2 million people are Further, at hamburg Airport the Lufthansa end of June 2015, the research partners affected by rail noise with an average noise Group is committed to a punctuality offenagain conducted flyover measurements for level of more than 55 dB(A). In contrast, sive to reduce the aircraft noise burden on MODAL with Lufthansa Cargo MD-11 aircraft noise affects only 738,000 people. people living near the airport. Together with freight aircraft at Magdeburg-Cochstedt three other airlines and hamburg Airport, Airport; two aircraft were equipped with Noise reduction at the airports Lufthansa and Eurowings signed a declaramodified acoustic panels. As the data On May 30, 2016, the state of hesse’s tion at the end of April 2016 concerning the analysis did not produce an unequivocal economics minister Tarek Al-Wazir and reduction of delays after 11 p.m. In this result, no recommendations for retrofittings representatives of the aviation industry, punctuality offensive, the partners pledge could be made. This example illustrates Frankfurt Airport and Deutsche Flugsicheto apply the so-called “delay regulation” as well that the Lufthansa Group’s voluntary rung (DFS) signed a voluntary agreement rarely as possible. commitment to research for less noise is concerning the application of “noise quite costly and complex. breaks” as part of regular operations at Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 61 Commitment to climate research For more than 20 years, the Lufthansa Group has been intensively involved in research projects which help to observe the state of the Earth’s atmosphere by establishing a worldwide measurement infrastructure – in order to better understand global climate changes. Five years of IAGOS mentalized commercial aircraft. For In 2015, climate researchers accomplished instance, researchers used the ozone a further discovery in which the LufthansaOn July 7, 2011, Lufthansa became the measurements taken by Lufthansa aircraft supported projects IAGOS and CARIBIC first airline worldwide to join forces with to complete those generated by worldwide played a significant part. By combining research institute Forschungzentrum Jülich satellite and ground measurements for this data from these measurements with those to launch innovative long-term research of important trace gas and to test the global from satellite observations, they were able the atmosphere in the project IAGOS (Inmodels for forecasting air quality. In anto prove that between 2008 and 2011 the service Aircraft for a Global Observing other article, scientists examined how highsolar radiation in the lower layers of the System). By means of measuring instrualtitude thunderstorms affect the generation stratosphere was weakened twice as much ments that are permanently installed and distribution of nitrogen oxides at high as previously assumed in the wake of aboard aircraft, the project analyzes the altitudes. The MOZAIC data stretching over multiple volcanic eruptions. This shows that air’s chemical composition. Through the a number of years clearly prove that nitrothe cooling effect of volcanoes had been successful precursor program MOZAIC, gen oxides are generated in thunderstorms significantly underestimated in previous Lufthansa had already been a central partabove the southeast of the USA and then climate models. ner of research institutes for more than 20 transported across the Atlantic to Europe. years. The last MOZAIC aircraft was withAll articles are freely accessible on www.iagos.org drawn from service in fall 2014. At the www.tellusb.net beginning of 2015, Lufthansa equipped a second aircraft with a measuring probe for the IAGOS project to ensure a seamless transition from MOZAIC to IAGOS. Together with the project CARIBIC, which Lufthansa supports monthly via the Airbus A340-600 “Leverkusen”, three Lufthansa Group air“In 2015, we expanded our involvement in the craft currently fly in the service of climate IAGOS project and equipped a second aircraft research. By recording atmospheric data continuously and globally, IAGOS and with measuring probes. On each flight that these CARIBIC close important gaps in the aircraft make, data of atmospheric trace elements knowledge necessary to better understand are collected routinely and worldclimate and its forecasts. wide, which are highly useful for At the end of 2015, the scientific journal scientific research.” Tellus B published a special issue on the results of the IAGOS and MOZAIC programs. The 16 articles published therein Dr. Gerd Saueressig represent the entire scope of the scientific Manager Group Environmental Issues atmospheric investigations based on the Deutsche Lufthansa AG data recorded with the support of instru3 Product Responsibility Customer centricity and quality focus are strategic cornerstones of the ­Lufthansa Group. We constantly optimize our products along the entire service chain. 64 // Product Responsibility Product responsibility at the Lufthansa Group For the Lufthansa Group, product responsibility means that all business segments and subsidiaries continuously assess and improve their offers along the entire travel chain. This dimension of entrepreneurial responsibility therefore refers to products and services that are particularly important for customers of the Lufthansa Group, as well as for other stakeholders. Customer centricity and quality focus logue and derive product and service ence in the cockpit. Accordingly, during “Customer centricity and quality focus” is optimizations from this process. The further flights there now have to be two authorized one of the strategic cornerstones of the development of feedback management crew members in the cockpit at any time. Lufthansa Group (see page 65). The orienprocesses also contributes to increasing Furthermore, for many years the Lufthansa tation according to customers’ wishes and passenger satisfaction. Group has expanded its health-related offers needs is a very important concern for the for passengers and has always set stanCompany. It also includes designing prodFlight safety and health protection dards in the area of cabin air (see page 71). ucts and services that are free from disFlight safety and health protection always crimination and environmentally compathave the highest priority for the Lufthansa Data protection and data security ible. The Lufthansa Group companies Group. Therefore, the Group airlines The protection of customer data is the regularly conduct customer surveys on a expanded their safety structures immedibasis for a trusting business relationship. global scale in their segments, exchange ately following the crash of Germanwings Every day, the Lufthansa Group companies information with their stakeholders in the flight 4U9525 on March 24, 2015 and also process enormous volumes of data and in context of a continuous stakeholder diaintroduced a new procedure for crew presso doing always handle personal data with the utmost care. In addition, such data are protected and secured in accordance with the most stringent standards and the very latest technical norms (see page 72). Offer of voluntary CO2 compensation The Lufthansa Group’s commitment in the area of voluntary CO2 compensation is firmly anchored in the Group-wide Strategic Environmental Program 2020; moreover, it is an integral part of the aviation industry’s four-pillar strategy for climate protection (see page 67). The hub airlines Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines and the Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus all maintain programs for this purpose. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 65 Customer centricity and quality focus Satisfied customers and perfect service are of the highest importance for the Lufthansa Group. It is under this maxim that the aviation group’s employees work on further optimizing passengers’ travel experiences and customer service every single day. “Customer centricity and quality focus” is Within the field of action “Customer centricTo optimize the quality of product and one of seven fields of action comprised ity and quality focus” the Lufthansa Group service portfolios, the Lufthansa Group will by the Lufthansa Group’s strategic proconcentrates above all on the following invest a total of 500 million euros by 2020. gram “7to1– Our Way Forward” and one aspects: In addition, there are investments to of the central approaches to ensure the further improve customer service. At the company’s long-term success and ability To understand customer needs even betsame time, the company has established to create added value (see page 18, Stratter. In this area, the Group has taken an a Group-wide quality circle. egy and management, Sustainable Busiimportant step forward with the introducness Practices). The goal is to produce top tion of the Net Promoter Score (NPS®)1 performances and thus to achieve quality in 2014. leadership in all markets and business To further sharpen each individual Measuring customer segments. This is best illustrated by Lufthansa’s goal to become the western brand’s focus and concentrate brand promises. satisfaction world’s first five-star airline in Skytrax, the To identify further optimization potentials industry’s leading rating system. and realize them. For the Company’s success it is indispensable to determine how satisfied customers are. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group regularly conducts surveys on a global scale to check how customers “Customer centricity and quality focus are a evaluate the performance they expericentral concern for us. Consistent processes enced. In addition, the Lufthansa Group surveyed its target audiences at the beginand a well-developed service mentality are the ning of 2016 concerning 12 sustainable basis for excellent customer service. Simultafields of action to establish a materiality neously, we develop new and value-added analysis, including the topic of “Service and customer orientation”. The stakeholdhigh-quality services that are oriented by indiers confirmed the high priority this topic vidual customer needs. Our has for them and the Group (see page 21, goal is to offer a first-rate travel Stakeholder dialogue). experience at any time.” Steffen Harbarth Chief Commercial Officer Hub Munich & Head of Marketing LH Group Airlines, responsible for the field of action customer 1 Net Promoter® and NPS® are registered trademarks; Net centricity and quality focus Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are trademarks of Bain & Company, Satmetrix Systems and Fred Reichend. 66 // Product Responsibility The golden “Q” symbolizes the quality offered by travel with the Lufthansa Group. The Net Promoter Score focuses on the travel experience as the central product or service category of the Lufthansa Group. In this context, the Group airlines continuously survey their customers to see if they would recommend the airline to their friends and acquaintances based on their travel experience. The share of enthusiastic passengers is deducted from the share of less satisfied ones. Every month, top management receives a report detailing the development of the NPS at the individImprovements in 2015 In addition, Lufthansa expanded its offers ual airlines and for the Group airlines as and services for families. This includes a whole. Lufthansa Cargo and LSG Sky For the Lufthansa Group, product responsichild-friendly check-in areas in Frankfurt Chefs also conduct surveys to determine bility means above all continuously optiand Munich, amenity kits for children and their NPS values. mizing the different services along the travel the new Family Guide for Frankfurt – a chain and to make flying, including its susbrochure containing useful tips on spending Uninterrupted round-the-clock service tainable facets, come evermore alive (see time at the airport. Numerous digital innoAnother important contribution to the topic page 68, Sustainability in all phases of the vations similarly improve the travel expeof customer satisfaction comes from feedtravel experience). Therefore, the Group rience of passengers in all age groups. back management. The Lufthansa Group introduced additional programs and services Furthermore, there is the internal program places a high priority on being reachable in 2015 that further improve the travel expeSMILE, which helps to react to changing at any time, to respond to all customer rience and thus also customer satisfaction. customer needs by means of personalized reactions worldwide as quickly as possible, products, services and communications to resolve issues in the customer’s interest During the reporting year, Lufthansa sucoptions. and to learn from feedback. The goal is to cessfully implemented nearly all service be “best in class” (see page 63, Balance optimization programs of its five-star airline Service and customer orientation for 2015, and page 73, Balance 2014). At the activities. This included above all the comfreight shippers same time, the Group works continuously pletion of the largest cabin modernization At the beginning of 2015 Lufthansa Cargo on further developing its service portfolio. program in the airline’s history (see page 62, launched the project “Manage Customer Taking its cue from demand, the Lufthansa Balance 2015). There was also improved Service” aimed at further increasing its Group concentrates on services it offers via premium check-in in Frankfurt and Munich, employees’ quality awareness and service social media channels. and a more personalized style of service on orientation. The emphasis is placed on the board from flight attendants, which also after-sales process, that is the activities Lufthansa ensures its uninterrupted roundincludes the Lufthansa Restaurant Service after a reservation has been confirmed. the-clock service on 365 days a year by on long-haul flights in Business Class, In this area, the project team identified 22 means of the “InTouch Service Center” with launched in August 2015. Moreover, LSG improvement measures, some of which its seven locations on four continents. Its Sky Chefs conducted a workshop in 2015 have already been implemented or are in employees handle about 11 million individto develop new and even healthier dishes. the pilot phase. For example, customers in ual transactions per year, 2.6 million of the United States and Canada are now which in Berlin. able to check the customs status of their shipments; a service that was previously not available. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 67 CO2 compensation Passengers of the Lufthansa Group may compensate the CO2 emissions unavoidably associated with their journeys by making a donation and thus a personal contribution to climate protection. Compensations are made through respected agencies that apply the most stringent standards in selecting and implementing the projects they support. Offering voluntary CO2 compensation is an In 2015, Lufthansa Group customers again energy sources are replaced with climateestablished part of the aviation industry’s took advantage of the option to travel in a friendly ones. Over the last four years four-pillar strategy for climate protection (see climate-neutral way: The quantity of CO2 alone, about 1,8 million euros were inpage 45) and the Lufthansa Group’s environemissions that passengers of the hub airvested in such climate protection projects mental strategy 2020. While Lufthansa and lines Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines in this way. In addition to a reduction of Swiss have cooperated since 2007 with the as well as AirPlus customers compensated greenhouse gases, these projects must charitable Switzerland-based foundation during the reporting year added up to demonstrate a positive contribution to myclimate, Austrian Airlines has worked 31,300 tonnes of carbon dioxide. Thus, sustainable development. since 2008 with Climate Austria (see page donations of more than 450,000 euros 69, Balance 2015). Since 2011, existing were received for climate protection projTo make even more customers aware of corporate customers of the Lufthansa subects – an increase of 3.5 percent over the the option of a voluntary CO2 compensasidiary AirPlus have had the opportunity to preceding year. The CO2 compensation tion, the Lufthansa Group is planning to have the CO2 emissions of all their business payments made by customers are chanfurther optimize its related Internet offer. travel calculated and compensated for them neled to certified climate protection projThe Group regularly provides information as an option. ects in whose context climate-damaging on the climate protection offer’s background and mode of operation. In addition, Lufthansa Group experts participate in panel discussions organized in the context of the stakeholder dialogue. For example, in 2015 they participated in a discussion event organized by myclimate on the subject of climate protection and air transport at the international tourism fair ITB. lufthansa.myclimate.org swiss.myclimate.org www.climateaustria.at www.airplus.com On June 4, 2016, Lufthansa participated with two aircraft in the Berlin Air Show (ILA) and provided information about sustainable mobility. The visit of the “Siegerflieger” (Winners’ Plane) and the Airbus A320neo was CO2-neutral: Lufthansa compensated the related CO2 emissions with a donation to the climate protection organization myclimate. Sustainability in all phases of the travel experience Planning Travel medicine and accessibility CO2 To ensure that passengers are able Paperless processes to enjoy their trips without worries, the Voluntary CO2 compensation Lufthansa Group supports them with Thanks to electronic tickets, digital comprehensive information concerning At Lufthansa, Swiss, Austrian Airlines and baggage services and mobile boarding travel medicine. Customers with reduced the Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus, leisure passes, sustainable travel begins for mobility or additional needs for care and business travellers have the option Lufthansa Group customers long before benefit from specific services, which of voluntarily compensating for the CO2 boarding. These offers are being exensure optimum comfort on the ground emissions inevitably associated with panded continuously. and on board. flying. The compensation payments support climate protection projects. Special meals Intermodality Be it for health-related, religious, ethnic or culinary reasons, with the Lufthansa Since 2015 the Lufthansa Group has Group, passengers may select special bundled all road, rail and air feeder meals from up to 18 options, depending services under the Lufthansa Express on the airline, flight duration and booking brand. The options for seamless travel class. include ICE high-speed rail connections, long-distance and postal busses as well as car-sharing. Relaxed travel Ergonomic seats ensure restful travel in all booking classes. Instructions for relaxation exercises on board, the new “flyrobic” video and innovative light concepts to adapt the biorhythm on the A350-900 starting in January 2017 all help passengers to arrive at their destinations in a relaxed frame of mind. In addition, the Lufthansa Group offers a broad medical product portfolio and the “Doctor on board” program. Flying eJournals / recycling Arriving An important building block in the Lufthansa Group’s sustainability concept Donations for a good cause is to expand its offer of digital reading materials. Free eJournals for mobile Customer feedback Not only on board, but also after arrival, devices now replace part of the print Lufthansa Group passengers have an issues. The resulting weight reduction The Lufthansa Group places the highest opportunity to support the on-board implies a cut in fuel consumption and priority on customer orientation and collection program “Small Change – related CO2 emissions. Furthermore, quality. Therefore, the aviation group It’s a Big Help” run by the Help Alliance. flight attendants presort unavoidable actively and continuously surveys its Small sealable envelopes are available waste materials on board and act as customers about their travel experiences on board, while on the ground there are ambassadors of the Group-wide reand develops service optimizations donations columns to accept “leftover” cycling initiative “Fly Greener”. from this input. amounts in any currency. Swiss also collects remaining amounts of foreign exchange aboard its flights to benefit charitable purposes. Regional flight attendants To meet its passengers’ intercultural prefFurther programs erences and needs optimally, Lufthansa has assigned regional flight attendants Fleet development (see page 29) from China, Korea, Japan, India and Study on cabin air quality (see page 71) Thailand to selected routes for the last Support for climate research (see page 61) 25 years. Researching and using alternative fuels (see page 46) Electromobility for taxiing and towing of aircraft (see page 52) Fuel efficiency programs (see page 41) Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group 70 // Product Responsibility Flight safety and health protection For the Lufthansa Group, safety and the health of passengers, crews and employees have top priority. For the purpose of flight safety, all airlines within the Lufthansa Group have Safety Management Systems. Beyond that, the Lufthansa Group continuously expands its health-related offers for passengers and also carries out extensive measurement tests concerning cabin air. Germanwings flight task in parallel with his current role as Lufthansa became the first airline within the 4U9525 Safety Pilot of Deutsche Lufthansa AG; he reports directly to Group CEO Carsten Lufthansa Group to be audited according to the new Enhanced IOSA Standard, Spohr. which has been binding since September With the crash of Germanwings flight 2015. In 2016, the audit was repeated 4U9525 on March 24, 2015, an emergency For the purpose of flight safety, all airlines without objection. occurred for the Company which each within the Lufthansa Group have Safety employee of the Lufthansa Group hoped Management Systems (SMS), which are www.iata.org/iosa would never happen. Germanwings and oriented by the requirements of the InternaLufthansa announced immediately that they tional Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). would do everything in their power to look The goal of these systems is to document after and support the family members and the state of safety in flight operations, to Expansion of the medifriends of the accident’s victims in the best possible way (see page 74). identify hazards at an early stage and assess them, and to lower accident risks by cal product portfolio implementing suitable countermeasures Shortly after the accident, in cooperation (see page 74, Balance 2014). The Lufthansa Group continuously expands with Germany’s Federal Aviation Office its medical product portfolio for passengers. (LBA), the other German airlines and the With the so-called Patient Transport ComAssociation of German Civil Aviation (BDL), partment (PTC), which Lufthansa’s Medical the airlines of the Lufthansa Group introIOSA audit – The most Service developed jointly with Lufthansa duced a new procedure for crew presence in the cockpit. Accordingly, two authorized comprehensive standard Technik (see page 65, Balance 2015), Lufthansa offers a service that is unique persons now have to be in the cockpit at all for safety in air transport worldwide. This “airborne intensive care times during a flight. unit” has been available since June 2015 An independent assessment of the safety on all long-haul flights taking off or landing As a further immediate measure, the standards of the airlines within the Lufthansa in Frankfurt or Munich. An additional way Lufthansa Group expanded its safety strucGroup takes place every two years through for Lufthansa to assume responsibility for tures. As a complement to the safety pilots the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). its passengers is the “Doctor on Board” of the individual airlines, the new function of IOSA is considered the internationally most program (see page 75, Balance 2014). Group Safety Pilot with overall responsibility respected safety standard in air transport. for reviewing and further refining proceAll Lufthansa Group airlines fulfill this IATA dures related to flight safety was created. safety standard in its entirety. Lufthansa Since March 27, 2015, Captain Werner Cargo was the first IOSA-registered freight Maas has been responsible for this new airline worldwide. Furthermore, in 2014 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 71 ua lity ir Q in A Study on cabin air quality: C ab 108 measurement flights since April 2013 The Lufthansa Group has made an active and conscientious commitment to researching the quality of cabin air and investigating so-called smell events. Whether the latter might be associated with health hazards or occupational safety is being analyzed intensively by the company in close cooperation with national and international authorities, associations, research institutes and manufacturers. Between April 2013 and May 2015 Lufthansa conducted a comprehensive study on the quality of cabin air in cooperation with the Institute for OccupaComprehensive study concerning the quality of cabin air: The analyses of about 200 substances tional Medicine at Hanover Medical School were carried out with a specialized measuring kit, developed jointly by Lufthansa Technik and the Hanover Medical School. (MHH). The analyses were performed with a specially designed measuring kit, jointly developed by Lufthansa Technik and MHH. The intermediary analyses of measurement data prove that the cabin air is of high quality, comparable with indoor air on the ground, such as in offices. The researchers found neither indications of increased levels of aldehyde nor of neurotoxic ortho-tricresyl phosphates (o-TCP). more than 150 volatile organic compounds Laboratory Services and This also applied to cases of documented smell events on board and to the analysis (VOCs) as well as numerous types of aldehydes and organophosphates. In addition, fire laboratory of engine oil. Furthermore, the concentraa so-called screening analysis is used to tions measured always remained below identify unknown substances in the cabin air. The Lufthansa Group also maintains the valid German and international maximum highest quality and safety standards convalues applicable to working environments. This scientific study underscores the high cerning all fluids used in the operation priority that the Lufthansa Group gives to of aircraft systems. Guided by Lufthansa 200 substances are tested the health of passengers and crew memTechnik’s Laboratory Services division in The analyses comprised data collected on bers. It is a unique commitment worldwide Frankfurt, fluids are continuously subjected a total of 108 short-haul and long-haul and by far exceeds customary industry to chemical and physical laboratory flights, including 64 measuring flights with standards. analyses. An equally important role is 11 Airbus A380 aircraft and 44 flights with assumed by the five screening laboratories 15 Airbus A321 aircraft. The Lufthansa Group also participates in of Lufthansa Technik’s Central Materials the study “Cabin Air Quality” conducted by Technology in Hamburg, which acts as an The measuring kit allows the collection of EASA, the European Aviation Safety Agency, approved fire protection institution for the air samples. These are analyzed at a laboand carried out further measuring flights in aviation industry (see page 66, Balance ratory and tested for about 200 typical this context in 2016. 2015). indoor and hygiene parameters – including carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone, 72 // Product Responsibility Data protection and data security Careful and secure handling of personal data is the basis for trusting business relationships. Protecting data shields the Lufthansa Group’s customers, employees, shareholders, and suppliers from violation of their privacy rights through improper use of sensitive personal data. The Lufthansa Group protects and secures data according to the highest standards. The Corporate Data Protection department Mandatory guidelines Systematic training ensures that Germany’s Federal Data Protection Act (FDPA) is applied across the ensure data protection Training and informational measures concerning data protection are aimed at familLufthansa Group. It familiarizes employees iarizing employees and managers with the with the relevant legal provisions and conThe framework for secure data handling necessity of data protection, the key terms, ducts regular data protection audits. In within the Lufthansa Group is defined by its the organization of data protection within addition, the Group’s data protection Data Protection Guidelines. Based on laws the Lufthansa Group, and specific issues experts advise the departments when new such as the FDPA and established princiconcerning individual areas. systems are introduced and procedures ples of data protection, they spell out conare designed or modified. This allows for crete obligations regarding compliance The Web-based training course “The funthe coordination of data protection and with data protection laws. These guidelines damentals of data protection” is mandatory business concerns at an early stage. The also define rules to ensure Group-wide for many Lufthansa employees. After signall-important first step is to make employconduct that is compliant with data protecing an agreement to compliance with data ees and managers aware of the risks tion law, make risks related to data protecconfidentiality, new hires and job changers related to data protection, so that they are tion transparent, and safeguard against must complete this training within a short able to detect and avoid them. During the such risks. Furthermore, these rules were time. Since September 2014, the ensuing reporting year, the emphasis of advice was integrated into the Group guidelines for the training certificates are valid for only three on using customer data in ways that conpurposes of data protection in countries years, as opposed to the previous five form to data protection standards. outside the EU and requirements for hanyears. In addition, the Group offers short dling data relating to orders. specialized trainings online for certain Meanwhile, the conflict between German target groups to intensify their knowledge data protection legislation and ever-more Data protection is the responsibility of the concerning sensitive issues and particularifrequent demands for passenger informaExecutive Board and the management of ties in their work areas. tion from foreign authorities remains unrethe respective Group company. They are solved (see page 67, Balance 2015). assisted in the discharge of this responsibilFurthermore, employees can obtain infority by the Corporate Data Protection departmation on this subject at any time on Corment, headed by Dr. Barbara Kirchbergporate Data Protection’s intranet pages. Lennartz. As in 2014, the Lufthansa Group The department also reports on current recorded no significant risks or sanctiondata protection topics via a weekly able violations concerning the protection of internal blog. personal data in 2015. Moreover, data disclosure requests and customer feedbacks were handled in a timely fashion as a rule. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 73 The following legal changes concerning On February 2, 2016, the draft for a new data means increased complexity of reserdata protection and data security occurred agreement “EU-US Privacy Shield” for the vations and check-in processes, and implies in 2015/2016 and affect the Lufthansa data transfer between the EU and the USA additional costs for transmitting passenger Group: was presented. The negotiations concerndata, which the airlines have to pay. ing the further drafting have not yet been Safe Harbor Agreement and EU-US concluded. Agreement concerning the new EU Privacy Shield General Data Protection Regulation In its judgment issued on October 6, 2015, Law concerning the storage of passenAfter negotiations lasting several years, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) deger data the European Parliament adopted the new clared the Safe Harbor Agreement between The introduction of a EU-wide regulation EU General Data Protection Regulation on the EU and the USA to be invalid. The ECJ for the transmission of Passenger Name April 14, 2016. It is to replace the existing held that the agreement, which was conRecord (PNR) data for flights outside the EU Data Protection Directive, which has cluded in 2000 concerning the exchange European Union and optionally for flights been effective since 1995. Following a of personal data, would violate the right to within the EU, to so-called Passenger Infortwo-year transition period, the new regularespect the private sphere and that personmation Units in the 28 member states, was tion will take effect on May 24, 2018. In this al data of EU citizens would not be sufficiaccepted by the European Parliament on way, standardized regulations will be created ently protected from access by US authoriApril 14, 2016. These rules will come into in European data protection. They apply to ties. Until now, data transmissions to the effect in two years at the latest. After pasall companies that offer their output to EU USA were only allowed when the US orgasage at the EU level, the implementation citizens. The implementation of the requirenization held a Safe Harbor Certificate or of the directive in the national law of the ments related to the General Data Protection specific contracts to ensure data protection member states is required. In numerous Regulation means for the Lufthansa Group had been concluded. The verdict also EU countries, including Germany, the Pasthe adaptation of the existing data protection affects the Lufthansa Group: All contracts senger Information Units are currently management system. concerning the storage and processing of being set up. Some EU countries are personal data with US service organizations already in the process of defining their on the basis of the Safe Harbor Agreement requirements vis-à-vis the airlines. For the were renewed. airline industry, the exchange of passenger Careful and secure handling of personal data is the basis for trusting business relationships. Germanwings flight 4U9525: Deepest sympathy and support for the families The year 2015 was marked by the greatest tragedy ever in the long history of the Lufthansa Group: the crash involving Germanwings flight 4U9525 on March 24, 2015. The Lufthansa Group’s employees as well as the members of the Executive and Supervisory Boards all share the deepest sympathy for the families of the passengers and crew members. In dealing with this catastrophe, the Lufthansa Group’s focus has been on those whose lives have been affected. Easing their suffering and ensuring that such an accident never occurs again are of great concern for the aviation group. Long-term support for bereaved families Aid fund set up Immediately following the accident, the Lufthansa Group adoptLufthansa has set up an aid fund endowed with 15 million ed numerous measures to improve flight safety (see page 70) euros to support projects, initiatives and suggestions from relaand to support the official investigations. Likewise, the Group tives and other affected groups in memory of the victims. In this bundled all tasks related to dealing with the outcome of the fund, Germanwings and Lufthansa have combined their voluncrash and to providing comprehensive care for the victims’ tary and long-term commitment in the wake of the accident. family members into a Post Emergency Organization (PEO). For those bereaved families, this has resulted in a long-term offer of A board of trustees decides independently and within the psychological care and psychosocial support. framework of binding criteria on the fair and transparent allocation of funds as well as on the acceptance of aid proposals. In addition, the Executive Board decided to extend the Lufthansa Eligible for aid are measures and initiatives in support of social Group’s commitment to the relatives of the passengers and crew or cultural aims which commemorate at least one accident members as well as to other target groups beyond the measures victim, which show a clear link to the bereaved families, or taken by the PEO and the scope of legal indemnification. which otherwise support people or organizations affected by the accident. Five million euros, or a third of the total amount allocated to the Compensation aid fund, has been designated for the special group of orphans or half-orphans as voluntary support for school education, proIt is of great concern for the Lufthansa Group to ease the fessional training or university studies. These benefits are to be accident’s material effects on the families of the victims. For paid in addition to eventual (maintenance) claims. The board this reason, Germanwings is actively working on a swift and fair of trustees is chaired by Edda Huther, former president of the settlement of all warranted claims for damages. Germanwings Bavarian Constitutional Court and the Higher Regional Court in initially paid out 50,000 euros per passenger to the next of kin Munich. It further comprises three representatives of the famias an advance on indemnification and will meet its responsilies of victims and three representatives of Germanwings and bilities for compensation to their full extent. The families’ Lufthansa. claims depend on varying legal systems according to origin or place of residence of the victims and their relatives. In each individual case, Germanwings will provide appropriate and fair compensation. Memorial sites and events Environmental restoration at the accident site In addition to setting up financial support, the Lufthansa Group Measures for the environmental restoration of the accident has inaugurated memorial sites in various locations – near site began on July 27, 2015 and ended on October 21, 2015 the accident site in Le Vernet, in Barcelona, in Düsseldorf, at with the handing over of the site to the responsible prefecture. Germanwings headquarters in Cologne and in Haltern. On the The goal was to restore the site in the best possible way to occasion of the accident’s first anniversary on March 24, 2016, its original condition. To this end, an external environmental the Lufthansa Group invited families on behalf of Germanwings impact assessment was carried out and soil samples from the to a shared commemoration ceremony in Le Vernet. site were analyzed. Subsequently, a diverse range of measures were taken in close cooperation with the local French environAs a gesture of gratitude, Lufthansa and Germanwings also mental authorities to eliminate damage as well as kerosene invited the more than 1,200 French and German relief forces and oil residues. Environmental analyses will be continued over and voluntary helpers to a friendly match between the French the four years ahead to monitor any eventual changes in condiand German national soccer teams on November 13, 2015 tions at the site. in Paris. At a commemorative event in Barcelona, the support provided by the many Spanish helpers was acknowledged as well. These included employees of Barcelona airport and handling agents as well as representatives of local and national police forces and emergency services. The Lufthansa Group Executive Board and Germanwings management thanked the Group’s employees at an event on September 4, 2015. 4 Social Responsibility Motivated, highly qualified employees are decisive for the Company’s business success. As a socially responsible employer, we support our staff with transparent structures and processes as well as an attractive work environment. 78 // Social Responsibility Strategy and management The Lufthansa Group is currently traversing a period of profound transformation processes, which are based on internal and external factors. As a result, the requirements on personnel management have also increased. To react appropriately to the complex and multilayered framework of conditions and to secure the Company’s competitiveness and attractiveness as an employer, the HR experts of the Lufthansa Group count on suitable, precisely fitting and interlocking HR instruments and measures. To meet its role as an internationally sucqualified and committed employees who ples”, which ensure that managers guide cessful service group in the future as well, capture our customers’ imagination are their employees Group-wide according to the Lufthansa Group restructured its alignindispensable for the long-term business the same principles. To anchor the new ment during the reporting year and started success of the Lufthansa Group. guideline even more profoundly in the the introduction of a matrix organization. organization, the Group has supported its The latter allows the Group to be steered It is not by chance that the Group promotes managers since the beginning of 2014 with with even stronger functional emphasis, a modern feedback-oriented leadership the modern tool “eProfile”. Since the end of and the individual business segments to be culture, which identifies problems openly 2015 it has been used Group-wide in a more closely interlinked. While the aviation and thus prepares the path on which standardized form and is characterized by group’s personnel functions accompany managers and employees can together a high degree of transparency. It serves this process as active sparring partners, develop future-oriented solutions (see page managers as the central platform for quanthey also advance the harmonization of the 72, Balance 2015). The measurable titative and qualitative evaluation of employHR programs that have been implemented expression of this cultural change is the ees’ performance. At the same time, Group-wide. new ratio “Engagement Index”, introduced “eProfile” also promotes the culture of in 2016, which is essential to enable suitdialogue within the Lufthansa Group. able responses to be given to external and internal variables of influence (see page 90, The Lufthansa Group knows the value Culture and Leadership More transparency and dialogue: First of personnel diversity at the management Group-wide standardized employee survey). level. To further strengthen diversity, The field of action “Culture and Leaderwith support from the project Diversity@ ship” of the strategic program “7to1 – Our To accelerate the necessary transformation LHGroup, which was launched during the Way Forward”, which has been an area of process, the Lufthansa Group has comreporting year, there will be significantly emphasis since the program’s implementabined a bundle of effective measures in the more mixed management teams in the tion in July 2014, serves the HR experts of field of action “Culture and Leadership”. future. In addition, the Group is working on the Lufthansa Group as a widely visible way They are making an increasing impact and substantially increasing the attractiveness marker. The focus on “Culture and Leaderwill therefore be continued in a consistent of management positions for women. A ship” acknowledges the fact that in an manner in the years ahead. For example, similar direction of evolution is pursued increasingly volatile environment, highly this includes the five “Leadership Princiwith the new process for posting vacancies, Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 79 A view of the office world at the Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport. filling positions and managing performance, Modernization of the space” at the Frankfurt location favor an which was reorganized Group-wide to become standardized and transparent, working environments autonomous and trust-based work culture. These measures make a significant conand now takes diversity criteria into considtribution to securing the Group’s future eration automatically. Greater diversity in The professional landscape of the future is viability and ability to create value over the supervisory positions is also ensured by the global, digital and networked. The changes long-term – just as an up-to-date healthrotation principle introduced in 2015, which are fundamental and hold both opportunicare management, and a concept for an limits management nominations to five ties and risks. To adapt these conditions equilibrated work-life balance oriented by years (see page 82, Diversity and equal optimally for employees and fit the HR employees’ needs. opportunity). processes optimally to these developments, the Lufthansa Group is now increasThe cover story “Changing working enviAnother important pillar of the Lufthansa ing its focus on the field of action “Modernronment”, which precedes this report, offers Group’s HR strategy is the project “Spirit”. ization of the working environments”. This an overview of changes in the professional Its focus is on tailor-made continuing eduincludes, among other steps, the optimizaworld (see page 6). cation offers at the Lufthansa School of tion of HR management – for example with Business (LHSB), which promote lifelong measures that increase both effectiveness learning and give employees the tools to and efficiency while reducing costs. meet the challenges of the modern working world successfully. Important impulses are The Lufthansa Group opens up further also contributed by the Group talent possibilities by reassessing development management philosophy, which was intropaths and proven programs for promoting duced in 2014 and whose nine core mesjunior employees, adapting and realigning sages follow the guiding principle “Every these if needed. Furthermore, modern work employee has talent!” (see page 91). environment models such as “New WorkWomen in the Lufthansa Group Total workforce Executives 15 % 45 % 85 % 55 % Target: 30% increase in the percentage of women in management positions by 2020 (as compared to 2010). 30 % Supervisory Board Diversity Management German legal quota of 30 % female representation achieved. The Lufthansa sign ed th e Charter in 20 D iv Group er 14 sity – 40 % e to en co uran initiativ Group Executive Board age di ve rs ity in companies. Highest proportion of women in the DAX 30 comparison: women make up 40 % of the Group Executive Board. Pilots 417 More than 500 female pilots flying today 6% First officers for an airline within Lufthansa Group. The number of female captains increased by 83 % between 2005 and 2015. 114 94 % Female captains Cockpit Cabin 21,804 19 % Female flight attendants and pursers / maîtres de cabine 81 % Which Group airline has the highest number of female pilots? 8% 13 % Female captains First officers Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group 82 // Social Responsibility Diversity and equal opportunities Managing diversity means more than cultivating one’s image: Studies prove again and again that a highly diversified personnel is an advantage for companies. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group established systematic diversity management some years ago to make the Group’s business goals as compatible as possible with the interests of its employees and the concerns of society as a whole. With the goal of continuously boosting its “For quite some time, the Lufthansa Group has innovative capacity and competitiveness, worked on concepts that take the diversity within the Lufthansa Group works to increase diversity in its management. The basis for the Company even more into account. This inthis approach is the aviation group’s divercludes the new project Diversity@LHGroup, which sity-oriented personnel policy. The Comincreases the focus on managers. Particular pany trusts in actively integrating the different dimensions of diversity and showing emphasis is being placed on the same appreciation for all its employees increasing the share of women in – independent of gender, nationality, origin, management positions.” religion, world view, disability, age, sexual orientation or identity. Juliane Grauer Likewise, the Lufthansa Group’s philosophy Manager Equal Opportunity of talent management takes into account Deutsche Lufthansa AG both the wish for diversity among its employees and the aspiration to give its employees and managers the means to create a balance between work and private life (see page 83, Balance 2015). To underscore this, the Lufthansa Group signed Germany’s “Diversity Charter”, a countrywide initiative to promote diversity in companies and institutions, in 2014. Diversity in management The Lufthansa Group places great emphasis on integrating a broad range of views and experiences and on taking best advantage of the performance potential represented by its employees and managers. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 83 Welcome diversity! A multitude of perspectives enhances the competitiveness of the business. And sometimes it is not the familiar way that leads to the best results. One important concern is to strengthen In the interest of increased job rotation, the Women in management the Company further by means of mixed management teams and increased staff diGroup limits management positions to five years and permits sabbaticals to better positions versity at the management level, especially accommodate the life situations of modern by making managerial positions more managers. Furthermore, the project DiverThat the Lufthansa Group is on the right path attractive for women. sity@LHGroup reassesses established with its strategy is illustrated by its coming in career models and the working conditions second in the “Women-on-Board Index in management with a view to increasing 100 II” 2015 (WoB), which the nonpartisan the share of women in management initiative Women on Boards publishes on New project positions. The Group has seen noticeable behalf of Germany’s Federal Ministry for Diversity@LHGroup success in this area since it introduced the long-established transparent job posting Family Affairs. The WoB 100 II is calculated by the percentage share of women in superprocess for non-managerial staff for visory board and management board posiFor this purpose the Group launched the management positions as well and began tions in relationship to the total number of strategic project Diversity@LHGroup in applying diversity criteria when filling such members on these two boards. 2015. Against the backdrop of current vacancies. social developments and megatrends, At the Lufthansa Group, two of five memits task is to develop Group-wide solutions The Lufthansa Group supports and accombers of the Executive Board are already in the target areas of gender balance in panies younger female managers in their female, which corresponds to a share management, internationality and age professional advancement with a crossof 40 percent. The Group also met the structures. A broad scope of measures company mentoring program. The internal women’s quota of 30 percent passed by and programs have either been adopted program “Go ahead” also addresses Germany’s parliament in 2015 for supervior already implemented during the women aiming at a management-level sory board positions of companies listed reporting year. position (see page 77, Balance 2015). on the stock exchange and applying codetermination, even before it came Following the principle that managing can into effect on January 1, 2016. be divided, the Lufthansa Group offers programs for managers, such as “ManOn May 1, 2015, the “Gesetz für die gleichaging Part-time” and “Shared Leadership”. berechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst” (“Law Part-time employment Average age Lufthansa Group, in percent Lufthansa Group, in years Female employees Male employees Total Female employees Male employees Total 50 45 40 30 40 20 10 35 42.6 43.8 42.7 42.7 43.9 44.2 45.3 45.6 45.0 45.7 41.3 41.4 41.5 41.5 41.8 41.9 42.4 42.7 43.1 43.3 25.7 26.8 26.5 26.9 26.9 27.1 27.9 28.1 28.0 28.8 40.2 40.3 40.4 40.3 40.7 40.8 41.3 41.9 42.3 42.3 13.7 14.3 14.0 14.0 13.6 13.3 13.7 14.1 14.3 14.9 38.9 39.0 39.1 39.0 39.5 39.6 40.2 40.9 41.3 41.3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Part-time work by Group companies Age structure at the Lufthansa Group 2015, in percent 2015, in percent Passenger Airline Group 47 60 and older 4.0 Logistics 20 55 – 59 8.6 MRO 9 50 – 54 16.2 Catering 14 45 – 49 17.7 Service & Finance 23 40 – 44 13.7 Total 28.8 35 – 39 13.9 30 – 34 11.6 25 – 29 9.2 20 – 24 4.2 18 – 19 0.6 15 – 17 0.1 Share of women in management positions Share of women with staff responsibility Lufthansa Group, in percent Lufthansa Group, in percent 20 50 15 40 10 30 5 20 12.9 15.0 14.6 14.7 13.1 13.6 13.6 14.5 14.2 14.9 34.7 35.8 38.0 41.5 36.8 35.5 34.5 34.1 35.1 33.9 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 85 To persuade more women to choose a career in the cockpit, five highly publicized Lufthansa Group long-haul flights took off for New York with all female crews on March 8, 2016 to mark International Women’s Day. for the equal participation of men and women Same pay for same Women in the cockpit in management positions in the private sector and in government service”) took performance While men continue to form the majority of effect. Against this background, the compilots at the Lufthansa Group, female cappanies of the Lufthansa Group decided to At the Lufthansa Group, equal opportunity tains have long since become a familiar jointly increase the share of women on the also includes remuneration. Collective labor sight. Currently, the Company employs first management level from 9.6 percent agreements in areas with binding collective more than 530 female pilots and has thus (on June 30, 2015) to at least 10.5 percent pay agreements have ensured since the increased its share of women in this area to by December 31, 2016 – while taking into 1970s that men and women receive the around 6 percent. At the regional subsidiaccount the respective frameworks of same salary for the same work. An exception ary Lufthansa CityLine, the share of female conditions. On the second management is the area outside of collective agreements; first officers is even 13 percent. To persuade level the share of women is to rise from here salaries are negotiated individually by more women to choose a career in the 15.9 percent to at least 17.9 percent. In strictly applying the criteria of experience, cockpit, five highly publicized Lufthansa this way, the aviation group is set to reach task relevancy and the measure of responsiGroup long-haul flights took off for New the goals resulting from the DAX30 combility for employees (see page 78, Balance York with all female crews on March 8, panies’ self-imposed commitment ahead 2015). Thanks to a new labor agreement, 2016 to mark International Women’s Day. of schedule. Among other measures, the Lufthansa employees paid outside of collecshare of women in management positions tive agreements have had the option since is to increase by at least 30 percent by 2016 to turn their “performance-oriented 2020 (base year: 2010). variable remuneration” into time off. 86 // Social Responsibility In 2015, the Lufthansa Group expanded the “Luftikusse” program. This full-day internal summer vacation childcare offer for employee children gives varied insights into the Group’s world. Work and family in Office” and “Home Office” solutions (see vacations, the Company extended its estabharmony page 6, Changing working environment). lished internal summer school vacation care program “Luftikusse” to its Munich In addition, employees benefit from location for the first time during the To the extent that society has changed, the “breathing” work time options, which take reporting year. classic concept of family has also lost in into account changing needs in different terms of dominance. The Lufthansa Group phases of life. A better work-life balance is Given current demographic changes, the accommodates this development by also supported by comprehensive offers importance of family care is growing. The means of a family-friendly corporate culfor child care and vacation care, which the Lufthansa Group meets this challenge with ture, which facilitates the compatibility of aviation group offers through pme Familicomprehensive information on the intranet work and private life and thus increases enservice. Furthermore, Lufthansa employfor affected employees, the placement of the Group’s attractiveness in competing ees who need a child-care solution at short nursing staff through pme Familienservice for more than just young professionals. notice or for a short period of time have and access for Lufthansa employees to the had two additional parent-child offices Internet pages of Deutscher Pflegering One adjusting lever is the implementation available in Frankfurt since 2015. (German Care Association). In addition, the of innovative work concepts, such as “New Company signed the “Charter for compatiWorkspace”: The latter offers employees And to ensure that parents do not have to bility between work and care in Hesse” at the Lufthansa Aviation Center (LAC) in be without reliable child care during school during the reporting year. Frankfurt more flexibility and drives “Mobile Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 87 Fathers discuss their role with other fathers To support men in their newly-defined father role, the Lufthansa Group cooperates with Väter gGmbH (“Fathers Inc.”) at its locations in Frankfurt and Hamburg. At the During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group opened two further parent-child initiative of the Group’s Manager for Equal offices at its Frankfurt location, which employees may use when they face childcare bottlenecks. Opportunity, interested fathers met in Frankfurt for the first time on June 15, 2015 to exchange ideas with the focus on parttime work and flexibility in everyday management and working situations. Awaken girls’ passion for technology Dissolving the notion that certain professions are gender-specific: That is the goal of Girls’ Day and Boys’ Day, in which numerous Lufthansa Group companies again participated in 2015. In October 2015, Lufthansa Technik and Lufthansa Technical Training also offered a group of 10th-grade girls at a Hamburg school the opportunity to build their own glider under professional supervision as part of the “mint:pink” project. Lufthansa Technik would like to inspire even more women to choose a technical career. 88 // Social Responsibility Employment policy based on partnership The Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive work environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition always to balance the economic interests of the Company with the expectations and needs of its employees. It is tried-and-tested Company policy to goal is to treat all employee groups within The Company is a party to collective wage settle clashes of interests between Comthe Company fairly and justly – a desidbargaining with employees in about 25 pany management and the bodies repreeratum that the multiplicity of unions within countries. In all countries where Lufthansa senting employees in a transparent manthe Company presents with an array of acts unilaterally, the Company uses benchner. A fair approach to coexistence in all increasingly challenging conditions. marks and macroeconomic data such as areas creates the balance needed to You can find the latest information on the inflation figures to review salaries usually advance the Lufthansa Group’s position in ongoing collective bargaining negotiations once a year on the basis of market and the market. The growing plurality of opinat www.lufthansagroup.com/media competitiveness criteria. In countries with ions and opinion leaderships, much like very high rates of inflation, this assessment developments in society as a whole, is is performed more often, given the circumincreasingly a challenge for all parties stances, and usually leads to pay increases. concerned. The guiding principles for joint Active pay and social In this way the Lufthansa Group offers efforts are flexibility and responsiveness. policy abroad continual review and adjustment of working conditions for its locally employed staff. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Internationalization and globalization offer Lufthansa has documented its support for Partnership in a broad range of opportunities for the freedom of association and the right to collective agreements Group’s business and personnel processes. As a company with international opercollective bargaining for all of its employees worldwide (see page 27). Employees in ations, Lufthansa’s pay and social policies any country where Lufthansa companies The Lufthansa Group employs its staff are guided by conditions in the various are active are free to lawfully organize under conditions that guarantee them countries. The focus is on the long-term themselves and become involved in desocial and material security not only definition of the conditions of employment, fining their working conditions. during but also after their working years. which depend on the needs of the employThese are established on the basis of ees, operational requirements, and the collective agreements that the Company local labor market – with the inclusion of negotiates with its union partners Vereinte compensation rules, working conditions, Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di), Verand pension schemes. Lufthansa defines einigung Cockpit (VC), and Unabhängige these agreements in cooperation with Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V. (UFO). The internal labor committees and employees. Lufthansa Group: Distribution of employees Employees as of December 31, 2015 2015 2014 change Group employees 120,652 118,781 + 1.6 % New approach to Comof which Passenger Airline Group of which Logistics 55,255 4,607 54,960 4,663 + 0.5 % – 1.2 % pany pension scheme of which MRO 20,661 20,079 + 2.9 % of which Catering 34,310 32,843 + 4.5 % There has been an attractive Company of which Others 5,819 6,236 – 6.7 % pension scheme for Lufthansa employees since 1994. The aviation group attaches great importance to rewarding the performance of its employees in this additional way. In order to respond to the developLufthansa Group: Jobs throughout the world ments of the capital markets as well as the consequences of demographic change, Employees as of December 31, 2015 the Company terminated the bargaining agreement with employees regarding the Frankfurt 36,907 Company pension plan in September 2013. Hamburg 9,219 The goal is to agree with the collective Munich 11,015 bargaining partners on modern, marketCologne 2,165 oriented retirement benefits that sustainably Berlin 1,045 secure the Company’s competitiveness. Rest of Germany 6,569 All pension entitlements previously earned Total of Germany 66,920 under the Company pension scheme are Rest of Europe 23,184 secured and remain unchanged in any thereof Vienna 5,305 case. The Company’s management has thereof Zurich 7,900 proposed a new Company pension scheme by which Lufthansa would pay Africa / Middle East 2,121 North / Central amounts into an individual capital account 16,792 America for each employee (defined contribution South America 3,756 system) and invest these funds on the 7,879 Asia / Pacific capital market. Under this new system, the Group total 120,652 amount of the pension payments would be based on actual investment performance rather than on guaranteed pension levels (defined benefit system). In this system, the amount of pension paid out would depend on the return on capital achieved, among Lufthansa Group: other factors. In addition, all employees Number of employees by professional group and gender would have the option of increasing the level of their Company pension by adding Employees as of December 31, 2015, in percent private funds. Female employees Male employees Female Collective pay agreement with ver.di in 45.1 54,408 Germany concluded Male 54.9 At the end of November 2015, the Lufthansa 66,244 Group and Vereinigte DienstleistungsgewerkApprentices 24.9 schaft (ver.di) agreed to an increase of remu1,154 75.1 neration and a fundamentally reformed barGround 1 38.1 83,415 61.9 gaining agreement concerning the Company Flight 2 61.8 retirement scheme in the context of an overall 36,083 38.2 package for the roughly 30,000 ground Cockpit 5.6 employees in Germany at the companies 9,026 94.4 Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo, Lufthansa Cabin 80.6 Technik and LSG Sky Chefs. The bargaining 27,057 19.4 agreement provides for leaving the defined benefit system over the long-term. 1 Without apprentices 2 Consists of cockpit and cabin 90 // Social Responsibility More transparency and New ratio “Engagement Index” Program for professional dialogue: First GroupThe Executive Board took the opportunity of the publication of the survey results to reorientation wide standardized announce the introduction of the new ratio employee survey “Engagement Index” in the course of 2016. It consists of three components and reflects In 2013, the Lufthansa Group set up the For many years, employee surveys have the fact that the success of the Lufthansa COMPASS program. It addresses employbeen an important instrument for the Group with its international activities ees and managers whose jobs are threatLufthansa Group to capture the mood depends to a very significant degree on ened, who seek new professional chalamong employees, identify action areas committed and motivated staff. The “Enlenges within or outside the Group or who and introduce necessary changes early gagement Index” will be calculated reguwould like to become self-employed. on. Under the name “involve me!” the first larly in the future and communicated to top COMPASS thus makes an important conGroup-wide standardized employee survey management. Furthermore, a pilot project tribution to shaping staff adaptation protook place in 2015 (see page 82, Balance is planned in which employees can rate cesses in socially compatible ways. 2015). The new procedure is an important measures that may strengthen the “Enstep on the path towards a transparent, gagement Index”. In this way, management Since the program’s launch, more than Group-wide dialogue and allows a direct has the opportunity to adapt measures 1,500 employees and over 150 managers comparison of results as well as coordinatindependently of an “involve me!” survey. have already used its confidential career ed measures across business segments. counseling services. COMPASS consists From a total of 72,000 employees in 17 With regard to the new “Engagement Index” of various service modules, including comcompanies, 52 percent seized the opportuthe Lufthansa Group achieved an average prehensive counseling concerning profesnity to participate in the survey and comof 2.3, which was marginally worse than sional reorientations, active accompaniment municate their personal impressions anonthe external comparison value of 2.2. The by counselors throughout the application ymously. latter is based on responses to a companyprocess as well as a Company-related job neutral version of the “involve me!” quesexchange. Since the beginning of 2015, At the core of the survey were ten topic areas tionnaire by 4,000 external employees in the job exchange has offered even more reflecting the Group’s strategic agenda “7to1 Germany and abroad. A similar picture was up-to-date job listings from more than 50 – Our Way Forward” – including strategy generated for the topic “connection with partner companies (see page 82, Balance and corporate management, the Comthe company”: Here, the Lufthansa Group 2015). pany as employer, customer orientation, achieved an average of 2.4 (comparison information and communication, working value: 2.2). The most important results of conditions as well as innovation and change. the employee survey have been published One important insight from “involve me!” on the intranet. In the future, “involve me!” was that employees place an emphasis on will take place every two years and will be further developing and improving the error complemented by annual short surveys. and feedback culture. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 91 Talent management Qualified and committed employees are fundamental for the Company’s success and its ability to innovate. Talent management is an important field of action within the Lufthansa Group’s HR function and a substantial part of its value-based entrepreneurial policy. Changes within society and the Company upper management level. Initial successes With the introduction of the performance demand a rethinking and reimagining of have already emerged: successful candimanagement system “Profile”, it became many processes and instruments within the dates are increasingly coming from other possible for the first time to link an HR function. In this context, the topic of Group companies or unrelated job families. employee’s target agreement and talent talent management plays a significant role. Thus, the process of filling vacancies makes assessment in one standardized GroupTo enable the implementation of a comprean important contribution to promoting wide approach. This process is now being hensive talent management approach, the the exchange of employees within the rolled out step by step for all Lufthansa Lufthansa Group developed an inclusive Lufthansa Group. Group employees in administrative functalent management philosophy in 2014 tions. At the same time, the introduction of (see page 83, Balance 2015). It comprises A significant element of HR strategy and a standardized IT system supporting perfornine key messages and creates a uniform thus also of talent management are the mance and talent management offers the understanding of talent management Leadership Principles, which were introopportunity to identify and develop talents across the entire Group under the guiding duced in 2014 (see page 73, Balance across all Lufthansa companies – entirely in principle “Every employee has talent!” In 2015). These five guiding principles anchor the spirit of the talent management philosothis context, it is an important task of talent the understanding of leadership that is phy “share and benefit”. management to accompany and advance applied as a guideline for all employees. these changes by providing new and innoFor example, this leadership guideline is A further area of emphasis in the Lufthansa vative concepts. For example, an important focused through the aspect of “fostering Group’s talent management is the introducfoundation was laid by introducing a transtalent” on the role of managers as first tion of Strategic Personnel Planning (SPP), parent process for filling vacancies at the developers of personnel and talent(s). which was launched in 2014. It already provides important information for securing the mediumand long-term personnel resources needed for implementing the Group’s and business segments’ strategies. SPP’s task is to make the development of existing staff and future staff requirements transparent. Differentiated by job families, risk concerning capacities, age structures and qualifications can be identified and specified early on. This data serves as a basis on which to develop HR and talent management measures that support the strategic steering of personnel resources. In this way, SPP has a central bridge function between corporate and personnel strategy, and provides an imporEvery employee has talent! tant decision-making foundation for deriving All employees are encouraged to enrich their working environment by using their different talents. concrete HR programs and measures. The scope of Talent Management at Lufthansa includes all employees. 92 // Social Responsibility Health management and occupational safety The Lufthansa Group’s comprehensive employee health and safety protection aims at promoting and maintaining its employees’ individual performance and motivation. In 2015, the aviation group’s Medical Service restructured the Group health management and advanced the interlinking between health management and job safety managers. The demands placed on a comprehensive Comprehensive protect the health of its crews during layhealth management system are diverse and vary between subsidiaries of the competency center overs as well as that of its employees. Lufthansa Group. The focus is on tailorDuring the reporting year, the employees of made offers and programs that strengthen Upon the completion of its strategic realignthe Lufthansa Group’s subsidiaries again prevention and maintain the employees’ ment in 2015, the Medical Service has benefited from numerous offers in the long-term health. This applies not only to positioned itself as a comprehensive comcontext of corporate health management. administrative jobs, but also to those in petency center for the Group’s health These were available at different Company production areas and flight operations. management. In this role, it complements locations and addressed topics such as the activities specific to individual business healthy skin, flu protection, wellness and A supervisory position in the Lufthansa segments with initiatives that extend to the relaxation as well as back-saving working Group’s job safety and health protection entire Lufthansa Group. In addition, it protechniques. All initiatives are designed to concept is assumed by the department motes networking and exchanges between strengthen the employees’ own initiative. Group Health Management/Medical health and job safety managers at the Services as an instrument of social care individual Group companies. for employees. Its occupational, aviation and travel physicians are the first point In the reporting year, the Group’s Health Health index of contact for all of the employees’ health Management placed its emphasis on the concerns. This function, whose quality follow-up and psychosocial care for people As a result of the employee survey “involve management was successfully recertified in affected by Germanwings flight 4U9525. me!” (see page 90, More transparency and April 2015 according to DIN EN ISO 9001, These programs will be continued intendialogue: First Group-wide standardized has been headed since September 1, 2014 sively over the years ahead. employee survey) the Lufthansa Group by Dr. Lothar Zell. established a health index for the first time. Furthermore, in 2015 the health manageIt aims at measuring health and comprement experts were concerned with the topic hensive well-being across the Group and of cabin air quality (see page 71, Flight identifying fields of action for optimization safety and health protection) and pollutant measures. The health index is based on levels in the air, among other issues. In questions that are addressed to all employDecember 2015, the highest level of smog ees as well as those that take into considalarm applied in Peking, for instance. The eration the work requirements at individual Lufthansa Group took this as a cue to subsidiaries. implement effective measures to optimally Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 93 Psychosocial counseling In 2015, the Lufthansa Group restructured its social counseling services in Germany as a holistic competence center for psychosocial health under the new umbrella organization of “Psychosocial Counseling”. Available as a voluntary benefit from the aviation group, the experts of Psychosocial Counseling support employees and managers facing problems at the place of work, in crisis and conflict situations as well as in difficult private, financial or family circumstances. This broad scope of services is offered at many locations in Germany. In 2015, the department organized 168 workDr. Lothar Zell, Head of Group Health Management/Medical Services, and Volker Schierle, shops, trainings and information events. In Head of Group Occupational Safety, provided information concerning the protective measures for crews and local employees that the Lufthansa Group implemented in response March 2015, the department received the to the highest level of smog alert in December 2015 in Peking. Soul@Work Award in the category “Corporate groups” for its health-oriented and psychosocial accompaniment of change processes and the burdens they entail. Preventive measures to avoid accidents, Technical facilities and the equipment in In addition, Stiftung Gesundheitsförderung adverse effects on health and occupational buildings and workplaces are kept up-toSchweiz (Foundation for Health Promotion illnesses are consistently implemented date, and job safety experts and occupaSwitzerland) awarded the label Friendly within the Lufthansa Group. As a rule, the tional physicians are consulted in the conWork Space® to the corporate health effects of new or improved products, protext of changes and new work sequences. management of Swiss (see cover page, duction processes or hazardous materials Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards are assessed in advance. This also applies Emergency management plans have been and indices). to new services, planned work sites and drawn up in the companies of the Lufthansa operational equipment. The maxim is to Group and regular exercises help to identify always use new technologies and materials weak areas. Emergency representatives to improve employees’ health and protection. and employees trained in first aid are presOccupational safety ent in all work areas. Risk assessments are regularly carried out Pursuing safe, health-oriented working to check all activities and work situations The employees’ individual responsibility is conditions is firmly anchored in the within the Company. Existing risks are strengthened by recommendations for Group’s guidelines. Successful occupaevaluated and measures to minimize them ergonomically sensible ways of working tional safety in the sense of sustainable, are determined. Regular safety walkabouts and a health-oriented lifestyle. Programs to responsible business practices is underand the exchange of information involving promote health are offered in work environstood by the Lufthansa Group as a continall parties concerned ensure the effectivements that are particularly burdensome. uous process of improvement, aimed at ness of protective measures. promoting health and reducing risks and hazards. To fulfill this philosophy of life within the Company, specific guidelines for job safety have been defined. 5 Corporate Citizenship The Lufthansa Group represents responsible mobility, networking and worldwide connections. The emphasis of our corporate citizenship is on social and humanitarian projects. 96 // Corporate Citizenship Lufthansa Group Social Care As a global player, the Lufthansa Group has been emphatically committed to social concerns for many years. All its corporate citizenship activities aim at giving help to less privileged people and to make a difference in society in a direct way. In 2015, the aviation group further focused its activities and bundled them under the umbrella of “Lufthansa Group Social Care”. Focal point: Social and humanitarian the areas of culture, sports and environnetwork of renowned aid organizations. commitment ment. These are also to generate a benefit This cooperation gives aid organizations The social and humanitarian activities are for social concerns, by means of charitable direct access to Lufthansa Cargo’s logistics the focal point of the Lufthansa Group’s concerts, for example (see page 105). competence for foreign deployments. commitment in the area of corporate citizenship and are to be further expanded in the Beyond that, an established part of the Employee commitment future. This is evidenced by numerous longaviation group’s corporate citizenship conIt is important for the Lufthansa Group to term aid projects and initiatives that are due cept is swift and professional emergency create a framework of conditions that to the personal dedication of employees and aid in the event of humanitarian crises and enables an even more focused promotion enjoy the support of Group management. catastrophes. The graphic illustration “Swift of social commitment on the part of employDuring the reporting year, aid projects giving aid from the air” in this report (see page ees and managers. The systematic expansupport to refugees made up the largest 97) explains clearly the numerous procession of corporate volunteering takes into part of corporate citizenship activities. ses that are set in motion and optimally account that today’s talents seek not just a coordinated to prepare and operate aid job, but rather a professional setting in The Lufthansa Group’s social commitment flights. Since February 2013, Lufthansa which they can combine personal involveis complemented by selected activities in Cargo has been a partner in a professional ment and future-oriented action. The Group supports this approach and has expanded the Group-wide trainee program “ProTeam” with a four-week internship at a social business abroad. The “Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp 2015” also gave Lufthansa Group employees an opportunity during the reporting year to combine entrepreneurial initiatives and social commitment. Established in 2014, it aims at motivating young people to set up their own business and thus refute the commonly held view in Haiti that success is a question of background. The “Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp 2015” gave Lufthansa Group employees an opportunity to combine an entrepreneurial initiative with social commitment. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 97 Humanitarian emergency aid For many years, the Lufthansa Group has placed its logistical resources in the service of emergency humanitarian aid. The goal is to transport relief supplies in an uncomplicated and efficient manner whenever they are needed to provide emergency assistance to people in disaster areas – be it in the wake of earthquakes, flooding, typhoons, droughts or epidemics. Taking its cue from the expanding need, by this emergency alliance with direct of the global dialogue related to the UN’s the Lufthansa Group has continuously access to Lufthansa Cargo’s logistical World Humanitarian Summit. #CSRhumanitär increased its humanitarian commitment infrastructure. is set up as a forum to allow regular, profesover the past years. Since February 2013, sional exchanges between companies and Lufthansa Cargo has strongly assisted the #CSRhumanitär aid organizations. A key focus is on the emergency aid alliance “Aktion DeutschIn the frame of its cooperation with “Aktion questions regarding the potentials and land Hilft” and its strategic partner “World Deutschland Hilft” the Lufthansa Group is boundaries of cooperative partnership. A Vision Deutschland”. The stated goal of this also committed to supporting #CSRhumanifurther concern is to jointly develop innopartnership is to provide the 24 renowned tär. Launched by Germany’s Federal Forvative concepts for need-oriented and German aid organizations joined together eign Office, this initiative sees itself as part principled humanitarian action. Swift aid from the air for refugees: In 2015, the German Red Cross and Lufthansa Cargo flew more than 15,000 camp beds from North America to Germany. Swift aid from the air When people somewhere around the world are plunged into an emergency situation following a natural disaster, immediate aid by means of air freight is called for. This is when the cooperation between Lufthansa Cargo and the emergency aid alliance Aktion Deutschland Hilft (ADH) steps in. The graphic below shows exactly how this works. 1 2 Preplanning Preparation of flight and handling Lufthansa Cargo and ADH evaluate if aid Lufthansa Cargo’s network control in flights are possible. ADH assesses the needs Frankfurt plans the aid flight with regard to for aid materials in the disaster area: defini­ crew availability, crew safety, clarification tion of destination, time, type and quantity of landing and overflight rights, routing, of aid supplies needed, volume, weight. fueling stops, handling. Depending on local Lufthansa Cargo determines if a scheduled conditions, additional technicians and loador a charter flight will be operated. masters are made available (including travel arrangements). ADH carries out detailed coordination of packing lists. 3 “Go!” for all players 4 Lufthansa Cargo has coordinated all agreeFreight delivery and loading ments with delivering and collecting aid organizations and publishes the flight number. ADH ensures delivery of aid supplies to ADH begins the transport of aid supplies. the Lufthansa Cargo Center in Frankfurt, following agreed logistical standards: presorting and checking of packages, security check, loading on pallets in conformity with air cargo requirements. The next step is loading the aircraft. The MD­11F is then ready for takeoff. 5 Flight routing Depending on the distance to the disaster area, this may include a refueling stop and a crew change. 6 Landing in the disaster area ADH takes delivery of the aid supplies and organizes their distribution by land. 7 Resumption of scheduled services The MD­11F’s mission is completed. The aircraft leaves the disaster area and resumes its regular flight operations. At a glance The Lufthansa Group’s MD-11F freight capacities Aid supplies humanitarian emergency aid 90 tonnes of aid supplies max. food parcels Refugee aid (2015) lower deck: freight hold 5: equipment for treating Earthquake, Nepal (2015) 14.4 m3 loose cargo drinking water Ebola crisis, western Africa (2014) rear hold: 4 positions 244 x 318 medicines, medical Typhoon, Philippines (2013) cm max. or 14 LD3 containers equipment Earthquake and tsunami, Japan front hold: 6 positions hygiene articles, clothes (2011) 244 x 318 cm max. tents, sleeping bags Famine, Eastern Africa (2011) main deck: 26 positions tools Earthquake, Haiti (2010) 244 x 318 cm max. mobile kindergartens Earthquake, Pakistan (2005) Tsunami, southeast Asia (2004) Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group 100 // Corporate Citizenship Social Commitment The Lufthansa Group takes advantage of its logistic, financial and organi­ zational means to provide aid where it is needed the most – long-term, sustainably and with hands-on participation from employees. alliance Help Alliance donations of significantly more than 1 milHamburg: Preparatory classes lion euros. Efficient structures and the for young refugees The aviation group bundles its social comassumption of personal responsibility by Starting on October 1, 2015, the Help mitment in the Help Alliance, an aid organiemployees across the Lufthansa Group Alliance joined forces with the Hamburgzation founded by employees in 1999. The ensure that the administrative costs remain based association basis & woge to launch registered charity works above all for poor, at a consistently low level. a long-term learning sponsorship project. ill and socially disadvantaged children and The goal is to give young refugees with an youths in Africa, Asia, Central and South Emphasis in 2015: Refugee aid uncertain residence permit status better America as well as eastern Europe. At the In the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group access to the job market and to promote center of the Help Alliance’s humanitarian and the Help Alliance placed their emphatheir social integration. For this purpose work, which is guided by the worldwide sis on aid to refugees. The aid organization 15 young men and women in their senior standards of the United Nations Convention closely coordinates its activities with the year at the Staatliche Gewerbeschule für on the Rights of the Child, are the issues of companies of the Lufthansa Group and Bautechnik (State Vocational School for education, health care and nutrition. applies a three-level concept. It includes Construction Technology) in Hamburg projects in development aid, concrete currently attend a preparatory class. Each Every year, the Help Alliance looks after emergency relief and long-term integration of these students is paired with a volunteer about 40 projects in the area of developprojects at the Group’s important locations mentor from Lufthansa Technik, who ment cooperation and administers annual in Germany. accompanies his or her mentee intensively every step of the way. The Lufthansa Group assumed the sponsorship for this project in the context of the German industry’s integration initiative “Wir zusammen” (“We together”), founded in February 2016. Düsseldorf: Educational opportunities “For the Help Alliance and the Lufthansa Group, it for students in socially troubled areas is a matter of course to provide initial aid to refugees New to the Help Alliance’s project portfolio since 2015 has been its cooperation with and to open up professional perChancenwerk e. V. in Düsseldorf. This spectives for young migrants by association has developed a unique consupporting long-term measures.” cept for the promotion of education in which three partner schools, all located in the city’s socially troubled areas, particiVivian Spohr pate. At the project’s heart are “learning Patroness cascades”, which means that university Help Alliance e. V. students teach older secondary school students in a subject of their choice. The latter agree, in turn, to support younger schoolmates in a similar fashion. The Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 101 In 2015, the Help Alliance and the association basis & woge in Hamburg jointly launched a learning sponsorship project that helps young migrants gain better access to the job market. target audience of this study coaching to offer their services as volunteer interthe reporting year. For example, Lufthansa project are boys and girls from families preters and translators at various locations Cargo cooperated with the German Red that are educationally disadvantaged or in Germany. Cross in September 2015 to transport have a migration background. 15,000 camp beds from North America to Refugee aid provided by Group companies Frankfurt. Aboard the 13 flights, which the Rhine-Main region: Language support The airlines and service companies of the logistics specialist operated on an at-cost for migrant children Lufthansa Group provided concrete immebasis, was cargo with a total volume of The Help Alliance also provides aid to diate aid to refugees in many ways during nearly 120 tonnes. The camp beds came migrants via the Flörsheim­based association Stern des Südens e. V., with which the employee has cooperated since 2007. Since 2015, Stern des Südens has offered targeted language courses for refugee children based on playful approaches to learning and also offers assistance in the “I’ve always regarded education as a central area of accommodation for refugees. element when it comes to ensuring that people Launched as a pilot project, it has developed into a regular education program. are able to take an active part in society. So I was pleased to respond to the Help Alliance’s call for A donation of 100,000 euros to the study mentors to help young refugees in Hamburg. Social Services Department in Munich To relieve the city of Munich in registering The work I do is very enjoyable and accommodating newly arrived refuand I’ll definitely support my gees, the Help Alliance supported the city’s mentee with advice once he has Social Services Department with a donation of 100,000 euros in November 2015 graduated.” toward urgently needed interpretation services. In this way, the Lufthansa Group assumed half of the costs incurred. Lisa Wiebusch Group Purchasing Manager Lufthansa Technik AG In addition, more than 50 Lufthansa employees answered a call from the Help Alliance 102 // Corporate Citizenship from stock held by the Canadian and U.S. Cooperation with the charitable organizaRed Cross organizations. LSG Sky Chefs tion Homes of Hope in the context of the and its subsidiary Spiriant provided several first Lufthansa flight to Panama City thousand blankets, sleeping masks and Fundraising activities hygiene articles as donations in kind for “Flight Mode App”: refugees in Munich and the Rhine-Main digital time out for a worthy cause region. Austrian Airlines joined the Help www.LH.com/flightmode Alliance in supporting refugee accommoCooperation with the donation platSmall Change – dation at Vienna Airport with sleeping bags forms www.betterplace.org and It’s a Big Help and insulation mats. www.ammado.com Fundraising campaigns on Facebook, Further Help Alliance activities in YouTube, the Help Alliance blog and the With the aim of building bridges into a 2015/16 (selection): on-board collection program better future for people in need, the Help Second Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp in October 2015: part of the proceeds Alliance launched the on-board collection Port-au-Prince with the goal of promoting from Lufthansa’s in­flight shopping are program Small Change – It’s a Big Help in 2001. It offers Lufthansa Group passenentrepreneurial initiatives as a contribudonated to the Help Alliance gers the opportunity to donate coins and tion to sustainable economic and social Campaign “Give a bottle – give hope” bills in any currency they might be carrying development. The project is supported at Munich Airport: Highly visible placeon homeward-bound long-haul flights (see by 14 volunteer managers from across ment of an oversized bottle collection page 97, Balance 2015). the Lufthansa Group machine for beverage bottles and forInauguration of a “drop-in center” for warding of bottle deposits to support homeless children and endangered the construction of a well in Mali On-Board Collection Program youths in Pattaya, Thailand, in cooperaDevelopment of donation volumes in euros tion with long-term Help Alliance partner www.helpalliance.org Human Help Network Foundation Thai2015 362,662 land (HHNFT) 2014 497,823 2013 301,566 2012 318,380 2011 205,362 2010 286,184 2009 224,053 2008 230,433 “When I learned last year about the Help Alliance’s 2007 260,939 commitment to refugees, I signed up immediately 2006 279,575 to work as a volunteer in this area. To this day I 2005 294,870 2004 238,023 enjoy being part of language tutoring in Flörsheim. 2003 216,539 In their warm-hearted manner the 2002 232,692 children give me much in return 2001 207,175 and more than gratefully accept the help they need.” October 2002: start of Condor’s participation September 2011: start of Brussels Airlines’ participation July 2012: start of Austrian Airlines’ Michael Kopf participation Copilot A320 Deutsche Lufthansa AG Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 103 To carry Cargo Human Care’s positive message around the world, the multicolored footprints of children living at Mothers’ Mercy Home have adorned the fuselage of the Lufthansa Cargo MD-11 freighter registered “Charlie Hotel” since November 2015. First destination following the makeover: Nairobi, to mark the occasion of opening the new John Kaheni Residence. Cargo Human Care tion with local clinics, where German physiSocial projects supported cians perform more specialized treatments, and full, partial or educational sponsorships by Group companies Like the Help Alliance, the association Cargo Human Care (CHC) owes its exisround off CHC’s spectrum of sustained tence to the personal involvement of comassistance. From the start, Lufthansa Cargo Lufthansa Cargo: Long-standing coopmitted employees. This humanitarian aid has backed Cargo Human Care with logiseration with the registered association project was founded in 2007 by Lufthansa tical, financial and organizational support. “Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main Cargo staff in cooperation with German e. V.” (Workshops for the Disabled) physicians of various specialties. The regisNew residential educational center LSG Sky Chefs: Varying by region, comtered charity provides access to free mediinaugurated mitment covers educational projects, cal care to sick and suffering people in November 25, 2015 saw the inauguration health promotion, sports events and more Kenya, as well as a home and a future to of the John Kaheni Residence, a new Swiss: Long-standing cooperation with impoverished orphans. residential educational facility for youths in the foundation SOS Children’s Village the Nairobi area. A major project of Cargo and support for the Children’s FoundaTreatments are administered at Cargo Human Care, the center’s educational tion run by Swiss employees Human Care’s medical center in Nairobi. offer will provide up to 100 young people Austrian Airlines: Support for social Its patient roster includes needy people with access to high-quality professional and charitable organizations from the surrounding area and the children training in future. Patron of the John Kaheni Brussels Airlines: Bundling of living at the CHC-supported orphanage Residence is German Federal Foreign social commitment in the initiative Mothers’ Mercy Home. The number of Minister Dr. Frank­Walter Steinmeier. “b.foundation for Africa”, the airline’s medical treatments given by volunteer conduit for supporting numerous longdoctors increased to about 21,500 in 2015, www.cargohumancare.de term aid projects in Africa. Annual benefiting about 6,000 patients. Cooperamountain bike event “Bike for Africa” to support selected humanitarian projects. 104 // Corporate Citizenship Additional commitment Beyond humanitarian emergency aid and the consistent social “help for self-help”, the Lufthansa Group has been committed for decades to the areas of environment, culture and sports. Environmental New observation platform “Cranorama” sponsorship The Crane Information Center, operated by Crane Protection Germany in Groß Mohrdorf, plays an important role. It allows The protection of its heraldic bird, the visitors a nature-friendly way of observing crane, has been a concern close to the the estimated 125,000 cranes that rest heart of the Lufthansa Group for over 30 every year in late summer and early fall in years and is an established part of its the regions around the Darß-Zingst penincorporate citizenship commitment. The sula and near Rügen to prepare for the Facts and figures aviation group was a cofounder of the continuation of their journey south. EmployCrane Protection Germany working group, ees of the Lufthansa Group regularly work Over the past 25 years, about 625,000 which will celebrate its 25th anniversary in at the center as volunteer rangers in the bird watchers have visited the Crane Information Center and the neighboring 2016. Since 1991 it has made significant area of environmental education. Günzer See. contributions to securing the breeding, resting and gathering areas of the “birds On October 15, 2015, the Crane InformaSince 1996, the maximum number of of luck”. tion Center inaugurated the new, barriercranes resting each fall in the DarßZingst and Rügen regions has increased free and weather-protected observation from 35,000 to 73,000. Its foundation goes back to a joint initiative platform “Cranorama” at Günzer See. The involving Lufthansa, Naturschutzbund educational program is part of the comThe number of crane pairs in Germany Deutschland (NABU) and the environmenbined project “Schatz an der Küste” has increased from 1,960 (1993) to 8,500 (2015). tal foundation WWF Deutschland. Through (“Coastal Treasures”) and receives subsiCrane Protection Germany, the Lufthansa dies via Germany’s Federal Agency for Number of cranes ringed in Germany Group supports crane protection projects Nature Conservation from Germany’s and abroad since 1996: 1,500 at home and abroad to prevent the destrucFederal Ministry for the Environment, International cooperations and projects tion of crane habitats. Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear with public administrations and nongovernmental organizations Safety. With its “Cranorama”, the charitable organiIntensive cooperation with numerous zation has offered a new, barrier-free obserwww.kraniche.de crane protection organizations in Europe (European Crane Working vation platform since October 2015. www.facebook.com/kranichschutz Group) and Asia (Eurasian Crane Working Group) Information about species-appropriate animal transports: www.lufthansa-cargo.com as well as Balance 2015, page 101) Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 105 Piano concert at a high level: Every month about Under the well­known “Fanhansa” motto, Lufthansa will again provide 200 employees enjoy virtuoso concerts after work, which an aircraft bearing a specially designed livery during the Company offers for their relaxation. the UEFA European Football Championship 2016 in France. Cultural commitment Charity concert organized by Olympic and paralympic organizations Lufthansa Technik As the official carrier of the German OlymThe emphasis in the area of cultural comIn 2015, Lufthansa Technik again set up pic Sports Confederation and National mitment has been placed on supporting a charity concert in the context of the Paralympic Committee Germany, Lufthansa outstanding musical institutions and Schleswig Holstein Music Festival (SHMF). traditionally flies the German national events, whose cultural resonance makes The venue was once again Hangar 7 at teams to the venues of Olympic and Paraan important social contribution. Lufthansa Technik’s base in Hamburg. lympic Games. For many years, Austrian Donations of 20,000 euros benefited the Airlines has supported the Austrian OlymFirst Global Partner of Gürzenich SHMF’s pedagogical work as well as the pic Committee as a National Partner and Orchestra Stiftung “phönikks”, which supports families the Austrian Paralympic Committee as a In its first long­term commitment to a symof cancer patients with psychotherapeutic Sponsor, as it will in 2016 in Rio de phony orchestra, the Lufthansa Group has counseling offers and group options. Janeiro. Since October 2015, Swiss has supported the Gürzenich Orchestra in been the official airline and partner of the Cologne since 2010 as First Global Partner. Swiss Olympic and Swiss Paralympic This renowned ensemble ranks among teams, and will operate special flights Germany’s leading orchestras and enjoys Sports sponsorship during the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil. an excellent reputation abroad as well. This partnership is set initially to run to the The orchestra and the Lufthansa Group Top performances require successful end of 2016. In addition, Swiss is the joined forces for a charity concert given at synergy among different players – both in official airline of the Swiss Handball AssoCologne’s Philharmonie on October 18, business and in sports. For this reason, ciation and Swiss Ice Hockey. 2015. Donations from this event were the Lufthansa Group has been a reliable equally divided between the Help Alliance partner for sports associations, institutions Football and the association “Wir helfen”. and clubs for many years. As a partner of the German Football Association (DFB), Lufthansa has flown all Support for the Lufthansa Orchestra German Sports Aid Foundation German national soccer teams to their Since its foundation in 2011, the Group has Lufthansa has been a National Sponsor of away games as well as to European and supported the Lufthansa Orchestra, which the German Sports Aid Foundation since world championships since 2005. Lufthansa currently counts more than 65 employees 2007. Through this cooperation the Comalso supports Germany’s women’s football from different Group companies and diverse pany supports more than 3,800 athletes through DFB and the German Sports Aid professional backgrounds who join their with and without disability, from young Foundation. Furthermore, the “Airline of talents as active volunteer musicians. Its talents to top performers. In addition, the Sports” is also an official partner of the concerts are a fixture in the Company’s Lufthansa Group supports the initiatives Eintracht Frankfurt team and Official Carcultural activities and delight Lufthansa “Your name for Germany” and “Springrier of FC Bayern München, with whom it employees and fans of classical music in board Future – Sports and Career” (see cooperated in 2016 to develop a “FlyroGermany and abroad. In 2015, the Lufthansa page 103, Balance 2015). bic” video for its passengers. Orchestra gave a performance to mark the inauguration of Lufthansa Technik’s new www.lufthansagroup.com/sports maintenance hangar in Puerto Rico. 6 Service and Information Glossary Editorial information Contact partner Methodology of calculations Verification statement Scope 13 Overview of noise standards Overview of the Lufthansa Group’s fleet 108 // Service and Information Glossary A level at the poles. The temperature in the climate protection strategies transparent. tropopause, the transition layer between For this purpose, the CDP and its partners troposphere and stratosphere, drops to jointly developed two indices: the Carbon Aerosols about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It rises Disclosure Leadership Index, which includes Aerosols are solid and/or liquid particles again in the stratosphere. companies that make their emissions transthat are suspended in the air. They reach parent to a particular extent, and the Carthe atmosphere by means of natural probon Performance Leadership Index, which cesses (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or human activities (combustion of C takes concrete climate protection achievements into account. biomass and fossil fuels). The most important aerosols are mineral dust, sea salt, Carbon dioxide (CO2) Chapter 4 aircraft cellular (biological) particles, soot, organic Gas resulting in nature from the burning or Aircraft that comply with the strictest noise compounds, and sulfates. From a climatic decomposition of organic substances (e.g. protection standard currently in force – the perspective, aerosols are the opponents of plant material). The greenhouse gas CO2 Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environgreenhouse gases, as they can reflect remains in the atmosphere for about 100 mental Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO incident light and thus have a cooling effect. years. Scientists attribute the increase in agreed on this standard in September atmospheric CO2 over the last 100 years 2001. As a result, all aircraft newly certified aireg e. V. – Aviation Initiative for to the burning of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, since 2006 must remain cumulatively Renewable Energy in Germany natural gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10 aireg is a registered association of leading 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from the combusdecibels or more. The maximum noise German research institutions, Lufthansa tion process. Currently, about 2.42 percent emission values for aircraft were introduced and other companies in the aviation indusof the CO2 emissions due to human activiby the ICAO under Annex 16 to the Contry, and bioenergy producers. The goal of ties are caused by global air traffic. vention on International Civil Aviation. Noise this initiative, which was founded in 2011, (Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) levels depend on the aircraft’s maximum is to advance the development and intro2014, 2012 values) takeoff weight and number of engines. duction of regenerative aviation fuels in Germany and to inform the public at large Carbon monoxide (CO) CO about this topic. Chemical compound consisting of one see “Carbon monoxide” carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in www.aireg.de the incomplete combustion process of CO2 substances containing carbon. For aircraft see “Carbon dioxide” ATM – Air Traffic Management engines, the level of CO emissions Air traffic management ensures both the depends greatly on the thrust level: The Compliance safe and the efficient movement of aircraft emissions per kilogram of fuel burned are Compliance describes in their entirety all in all phases of operations. higher at idle settings, while taxiing, and measures that ensure the lawful conduct of on approach than during the climbing and companies, their management bodies, and Atmosphere cruising phases. their employees with regard to legal direcMass of air surrounding the Earth. It is tives and interdictions. divided into various layers, which are sepaCDP (previously Carbon Disclosure rated from one another by significantly Project) Corporate Responsibility (CR) different vertical temperature distributions. The CDP is an independent, charitable Corporate responsibility expresses the Important for air traffic are the two lower organization with a current membership of degree to which a company assumes layers: the troposphere and, above it, the more than 820 institutional investors worldaccountability for the effects its business stratosphere. The troposphere’s upper wide. The goal of this initiative, which was activities have on employees, customers, boundaries vary depending on season and founded in 2000, is to motivate the world’s society, and the environment. latitude. They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18 largest listed corporations to make data on kilometers above sea level at the equator, their greenhouse gas emissions and their and at eight to 12 kilometers above sea Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 109 D DNWE – Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtnoise quantity occurring over an observed schaftsethik (German Network for time interval. Business Ethics) Decibel DNWE is a nonprofit organization of which Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index Measuring unit for the intensity and presLufthansa has been a member since The independent Belgian agency Ethibel sure of sound. The difference in intensity January 1998. DNWE has more than 600 has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investbetween the softest sound the human ear current members, including many from ment Register and the Ethibel Sustainability can perceive and the pain threshold is German business, politics, religion, and Index (ESI). The ESI offers institutional 1:10 trillion. To depict this enormous range science. At the same time, DNWE is a investors, asset managers, banks, and objectively, acoustics uses the logarithmic national association of the European Busiprivate investors a comprehensive overview decibel scale. On this scale, the value “0” ness Ethics Network (EBEN). of the financial results of companies that is assigned to the perception threshold distinguish themselves by pursuing sustain(for a sound of 1,000 Hz) and the pain www.dnwe.de able business practices. Since the merger threshold at the value “130”. An increase of with Vigeo and Stock at Stake in 2005, this 10 dB corresponds to a tenfold increase in index has been part of Vigeo. However, sound intensity. For the perceived volume, a difference of 10 dB corresponds to half E Forum Ethibel continues to be responsible for the ethical criteria and the composition or double the volume. However, the human of the ESI. Updates of and calculations for ear is not equally sensitive across the entire ECPI the index are performed by the internationrange of frequencies. Low and high sounds The Lufthansa Group’s place in the ECPI® ally renowned index provider Standard & are not perceived as being equally loud Index family was confirmed in 2015. This Poor’s. even at the same intensity. For measureindex comprises the 150 highest-capitalments, this difference is equalized and ized companies within the European ecowww.ethibel.org noted accordingly. The best known such nomic and monetary union, which reprenotation is the A value, marked by the sent suitable and sustainable investments index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel) according to the ECPI’s screening method. The ECPI analyzes data in the environmenF unit is used internationally. tal, social and governance (ESG) areas of companies as well as the development, Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT) Diversity calculation and publication of ECPI indices. Airlines distinguish between freight perforIn a corporate context, diversity refers to all It monitors 4,000 issuers by means of a mance offered (FTKO, freight tonne kilomecharacteristics that distinguish employees disciplined and certified method that covers ters offered) and its sold freight perforfrom one another. Diversity management a range of ESG criteria. mance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers offers approaches for handling human transported). See also “Tonne kilometers”. differences for the benefit of company and EMAS – Environmental Management employees alike. and Audit Scheme FTSE4Good European regulations concerning environThe index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE, DLR – Deutsches Zentrum für Luftmental management and certification; a wholly owned subsidiary of the London und Raumfahrt (German Aerospace colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit Stock Exchange. It lists only those compaCenter) regulations. nies that meet the internationally accepted The DLR serves scientific, economic, and standards for corporate responsibility in the social purposes. It maintains 33 institutes, following dimensions: environmental testing facilities and research centers. Its Equivalent continuous noise level (Leq) management, climate change, human and declared goal is to help – using the means The Leq is a measure for the energetic labor rights along the supply chain, corpoof aviation and space flight – to secure and average of all sound pressure levels over rate governance, and anti-corruption efforts. shape the future. In its work, the DLR also a defined period of time. All sound events Lufthansa has been listed since 2001. seeks cooperation and allocation of that differ in intensity and duration are research tasks among European partners. summarized according to mathematical www.ftse.com rules. The resulting average value is an www.dlr.de accepted and proven measurement of the 110 // Service and Information Fuel Dump Greenhouse gases ICAO – International Civil Aviation Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency Gaseous substances that contribute to the Organization situations to reduce a long-haul aircraft’s greenhouse effect and have both natural A United Nations agency that develops weight to the maximum permissible landing and human (anthropogenic) causes. The internationally binding norms for civil weight before unscheduled landings (e.g. most important natural greenhouse gases aviation. in the event of technical problems or seriare water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide ous passenger illness). Special air space is (CO2), and methane (CH4); the most imporwww.icao.int assigned to the aircraft, if possible above tant anthropogenic greenhouse gases are uninhabited or thinly populated areas. Fuel carbon dioxide from the combustion of ICC – International Chamber of is usually dumped at altitudes of 4 to 8 fossil fuels and methane, primarily from Commerce kilometers. A minimum altitude of 1,500 agriculture and industrial livestock farming. The ICC was founded in 1919 as the World meters and a minimum speed of 500 km/h Other artificial greenhouse gases are niBusiness Organization. More than 1,500 are required. The aircraft may not fly a fully trous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons (FCs and business organizations and over 5,000 closed circle. The dumped kerosene forms HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and chlocorporations are organized in the worlda fine mist in the turbulence behind the rofluorocarbons (CFCs). wide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa has aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive been a member since 1955. methods of analysis, no contamination has www.iccgermany.de been detected so far in plant or soil samples after fuel dumps. H ILO standards Hub Work standards of the International Labor G In air transport, a hub is a central traffic point or an airline’s transfer airport. PassenOrganization, which include, among others, the bans on child labor, forced gers and freight are transported from their labor, and discrimination as well as the Generation Y and Generation Z point of departure to one of the airline’s fundamental right of freedom of associaThe term Generation Y applies to those “home airports” (hub). From there, they are tion for employees. born roughly between 1980 and 1995. It carried to their destination by a second comes from sociology and refers to this flight alongside passengers and freight ISO 14001 – International environgeneration’s characteristic to question from other departure points, but with the mental management system things. “Y” is derived from “why” in this same destination. Companies thereby receive an effective context. Another term to describe this instrument that allows them to take environgeneration is “digital natives”. The term mental aspects into consideration in deciGeneration Z applies to the population group of those born after 1995; they are the I sions relating to corporate policies and to continuously improve the situation of envisecond generation of digital natives. ronmental care in relation to all daily tasks. IATA – International Air Transport Global Compact Association www.iso.org see “UN Global Compact” The umbrella organization of international commercial aviation. Great-circle distance The shortest distance between two points www.iata.org on the Earth’s surface, measured in kilometers (great circle kilometers) or nautical miles. The center of a great circle is the center of the Earth. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 111 K MSCI Global Sustainability Index NOX Series see “Nitrogen oxides” The US index provider MSCI launched a Kerosene series of sustainability indices in September Fuel for jet and propeller engines that is chemically similar to petroleum. Like die2010. The MCSI index family comprises seven environmental, two value-based O sel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is produced and 15 best-of-class indices. These include by distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels, shares of companies with high and oekom kerosene does not contain halogenated medium market capitalization and are The oekom Corporate Rating evaluates additives. based on the MSCI World Index. They the social and environmental compatibility depict companies that are particularly of companies according to a selection of committed to environmental, social and 100 industry-specific indicators on average. L governance (ESG) issues. Lufthansa has been included in this index series since Companies that rank in the top of their respective industries in the context of an June 2015. oekom Corporate Rating and fulfill the LHSB – Lufthansa School of Business industry-specific minimum criteria are The LHSB supports processes of change www.msci.com/esg-indexes awarded the oekom Prime Status by within the Group and promotes a shared oekom research. management culture. It has received multiMTOW ple awards for the worldwide standards it Acronym standing for maximum takeoff www.oekom-research.com establishes for the development and trainweight of an aircraft ing of professionals and managers. OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series Low-cost segment Airlines offering predominantly low fares, N Job safety management system developed by the British Standards Institution in but featuring reduced or separately charged cooperation with international certification services on the ground and in the air. Nitrogen oxides (NOX) organizations. Flights are most often operated to/from Chemical compounds consisting of one airports outside of major population centers. nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX is Ozone defined as the sum of NO and NO2 comMolecule formed in the stratosphere and pounds. Natural sources include lightning consisting of three oxygen atoms. The M and microbes in the soil. Nitrogen oxides are also generated in combustion procesozone layer located in the stratosphere has an important protective function, as it ses under high pressures and temperaabsorbs harmful ultraviolet light. While Mentoring tures. Both of these parameters have been ozone at higher altitudes is broken down Instrument for targeted support of junior increased in modern aircraft engines to massively by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), employees. Focuses on regular personal significantly reduce fuel consumption as it develops close to the ground under the contacts between mentor and mentee. well as emissions of carbon monoxide and influence of sunlight from numerous preunburned hydrocarbons. However, future cursor substances (summer smog) and MRO combustion chambers of an advanced irritates the mucous membranes. At current Acronym standing for maintenance, repair, design could help reduce NOX emissions levels, nitrogen oxide emissions from air and overhaul of aircraft by 85 percent. Air traffic contributes 2 to 3 traffic at cruising altitudes cause an inpercent of man-made NOX emissions. crease in atmospheric ozone, analogous Climate models show that nitrogen oxides to the generation of summer smog, estihave increased the concentration of ozone mated by scientists at 3 to 4 percent on the at cruising altitudes by a few percentage heavily-flown North Atlantic routes. points. 112 // Service and Information P Seat kilometer T Measure for the transport capacity available (SKO, seat kilometers offered). Passenger kilometer (PKO/PKT) Tonne kilometer (TKT / TKO) Measure for transport performance in Seat load factor (SLF) Measure of transport performance (payload passenger carriage (number of passengers Passenger-related measure of aircraft multiplied by distance). A distinction is multiplied by distance flown). A distinction capacity utilization: the ratio of transport made between available transport perforis made between available transport perforperformance (PKT, passenger kilometers mance (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and mance (PKO, passenger kilometers offered, transported) to capacity (PKO, passenger the actual transport performance (TKT, or, synonymously, SKO, seat kilometers kilometers offered). tonne kilometers transported). In calcuoffered) and actual transport performance lating payloads, passengers are taken into (PKT, passenger kilometers transported). SES – Single European Sky account by means of a statistical average Describes the efforts of the European weight. Pro Recycling Paper Initiative Commission since the late 1990s to Founded in 2000, the initiative unites comrestructure European airspace for the Town Meeting panies from various industries and aims at purpose of optimizing traffic flows. Its goal Information event for employees at different improving the acceptance of recycling is to dissolve the airspace’s fragmented locations of a company. paper and promoting its increased use. structure by creating a limited number of Lufthansa is one of the initiative’s founding Functional Airspace Blocks (FABs). Transparency International members. Anti-corruption organization, of which Slot Lufthansa has been a member since 1999. www.papiernetz.de Designated point in time at which an airline may use an airport’s runway for takeoff or www.transparency.de landing. R Stakeholder Groups or individuals who formulate their U RSB – Roundtable on Sustainable demands on a company (e.g. attainment of Biomaterials corporate goals) and pursue these either UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons International initiative to develop a global personally or through representatives. This Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen standardization and certification system for includes shareholders, employees, custhat results from the incomplete combusagrofuels. tomers, suppliers, and others. tion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or from the evaporation of fuel. http://rsb.org Sustainable development According to the guiding principle of susUN Global Compact tainable development formulated in 1987 Global network in whose context the United S by the World Commission for Development and the Environment (Brundtland CommisNations cooperates with private-sector corporations and civil action organizations sion), “sustainable development is […] a to advance human rights, labor standards, SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel form of development that meets the needs environmental protection, and anti-corrupUsers Group of today’s generation without jeopardizing tion measures. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers, the abilities of future generations to satisfy been a member since 2002. and providers of refinery technology whose their own.” For businesses, this means goal is to accelerate the development and acting responsibly not only in economic www.unglobalcompact.org commercialization of sustainable fuels for matters but also in environmental and the air transport industry. social issues. All three aspects – economic, ecological, and social – must be kept in www.safug.org balance. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 113 V VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds Volatile organic substances that are characterized by high steam pressure and thus evaporate easily into the atmosphere at room temperature. VOCs are present in solvents, cleaning agents, fuels, and other substances. In the presence of nitrogen oxides and intense sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of ozone. W Water vapor The most important greenhouse gas, even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water vapor from natural sources, the Earth’s surface would be around 22 degrees Celsius cooler. This makes water vapor responsible for two-thirds of the natural greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius). For each kilogram of kerosene burned, 1.24 kilograms of water vapor are released. Concerns that air traffic might increase the concentration of water vapor in the stratosphere and thus change the climate have been refuted by scientific research. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that even a one hundred-fold increase in the quantity of water vapor emitted by air traffic would not result in a detectable climatic signal. 114 // Service and Information Editorial information Contact partner Published by Photo credits Deutsche Lufthansa AG Deutsche Lufthansa AG Oliver Rösler (title, cover, content Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Group Communications pages 7, 8, 12, 29, 30, 44, 55, 59, 65, 67, Susanne Kotysch Senior Vice President: Andreas Bartels 79, 82, 85, 86, 104, 105, 115) Head of Corporate Responsibility & Gregor Schläger (title, cover, content pages Events Management Concept, text, and editors 7, 8, 16, 23, 34, 37, 52, 53, 93, 115) FRA CI/B Lufthansa Group Communications Patrick Kuschfeld (title, content pages 9, Lufthansa Aviation Center Corporate Responsibility & 10, 15, 60, 61, 76, 87, 102) Airportring Events Management Andreas Pohlmann (page 3) D-60546 Frankfurt/Main Director: Susanne Kotysch Sonja Brüggemann (pages 7, 15, 46, 57, balance@dlh.de 87, 101) Steffen Milchsack Jens Görlich (pages 8, 48, 64, 106) Claudia Walther Jan Brandes (page 9) Please note that www.LH.com is the Fenchel & Janisch Filmproduktion (page 11) central contact point for all inquiries conDesign and production Christian Scholz (page 12) cerning customer service. Under the header organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH, Jürgen Mai (page 15) “Help & Contact” you will find full informaFrankfurt am Main Rolf Bewersdorf (pages 20, 30, 44) tion on how to contact Lufthansa. DennerleinBrands GmbH (pages 31, 58, 71) Copy deadline Airbus (pages 33, 115) You will find further information on susJune 30, 2016 Jörg Ladwig (page 33) tainability within the Lufthansa Group at: production ncag (page 33) www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Paper Munich Airport/Aesthetika (page 49) Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper Dominik Mentzos (pages 62, 73) Order your copy of our Annual Report 2015: made from 100 percent recycled paper. Alex Tino Friedel (page 66) www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations Produced without optical brightening agents Helmut Fricke (pages 94, 103) or chlorine bleach. Certified with The Blue Tilman Becker (page 96) Angel environmental label – RAL-UZ 14. Lufthansa Cargo/Fraport (page 97) Cover: Hello Fat Matt (FSC-certified) Lufthansa Cargo (infographic pages 98/99) Christian Ahrens (cover) carbon neutral www.fotolia.com: senoldo (pages 5, 98) Other: Lufthansa Group photo archive natureOffice.com | DE-197-588722 print production Reprints, including excerpts, only with written permission from the publisher and by citing Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text and images). In this case we ask that you send us a copy or clipping. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany ISSN 1612-0906 116 // Service and Information Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions Scope of consolidation scale weight. Each aircraft/engine combiaccording to the guidelines of the EU emisnation present in the fleet is considered sion allowance trading scheme. The InterReporting on transport performance, keroseparately, and the associated values are national Air Transport Association (IATA) sene consumption, and emissions from calculated with the aid of computer prohas separately developed its own calculaflight operations in 2015 is – unless noted grams provided by the aircraft and engine tion proposals, which deal with the division otherwise – based on the following scope manufacturers. The annual average flight of fuel consumption between freight and of consolidation: profile for each subset of the fleet is then passengers and attribute a larger share of fed into these programs. This allows us to fuel consumption to passengers because Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine, determine emissions in relation to flight of the passenger-specific infrastructure. Air Dolomiti, Eurowings), Germanwings, altitude, distance flown, thrust, and load. Although this method has no effect on the Swiss (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian This approach is necessary for nitrogen overall efficiency of a flight, it changes the Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Not inoxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and apportionment between passengers and cluded are services performed by third unburned hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular. freight. There are still divergences between parties, as their performance and the Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions do not the two methods (including from the method aircraft they use are beyond our control. require special calculation methods, as used up to now by Lufthansa). We would they are generated in a fixed ratio to the welcome a standardized, internationally Types of flight service: all scheduled and quantity of kerosene burned. The combusharmonized and accepted method. charter flights. tion of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Environmental management system The Lufthansa Group collected the environSpecific consumption and mental data used in this report with the aid Methodology of emission values of its environmental management system. calculations Calculating specific consumption and emissions entails expressing absolute This system also defines how data are verified and transmitted to the Group Envivalues in relation to transport performance. ronmental Issues division. The basis for Kerosene in absolute terms For example, the ratio liters per 100 pasdata collection is Lufthansa’s own environKerosene consumption is calculated on the senger kilometers (l/100 pkm) is calculated mental database. basis of actual flight operations (i.e. using on the basis of actual load factors along actual load factors and flight routings) with the quantity of kerosene actually conAccuracy according to the gate-to-gate principle. sumed. The distances used in the calculaFor presentation purposes the figures in the This covers all phases of a flight, from tions are great-circle distances. In combinacharts and tables are rounded. Changes taxiing on the ground to flying detours and tion flights (freight and passenger transport from the previous year’s figures and share holding patterns in the air. in one aircraft), fuel consumption is attripercentages refer in each case to precise buted on the basis of its share of the total figures, however. For this reason it is possiEmissions in absolute terms payload to calculate the passengerand ble that a reported value may remain the The emissions from flight operations are freight-specific figures. same from one year to the next even calculated on the basis of actual transport though a relative change is reported. performance and hence on actual load Since 2013 the DIN EN 16258 standard Because of the rounding of share percentfactors and the actual absolute quantity of has provided a guide for standardized ages, it is also possible that the sum of their kerosene consumed in the reporting year. calculation of greenhouse gas emissions addition may differ from the sum of the Transport performance is measured in for transport processes. This guide uses unrounded percentages. For example, as a tonne kilometers; i.e., payload transported the same estimates for calculating payload result of rounding, share percentages may over a distance. For passengers and their as the Lufthansa Group. When traveled not add up to 100 percent even though it luggage, an average of 100 kilograms is distances are calculated, 95 kilometers would be logical to expect them to. the standard estimate; for freight, it is its must be added to the great-circle distance Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2016 // Lufthansa Group // 117 Verification statement Scope 13 Müller-BBM Cert GmbH, accredited verifier DAkkS D-VS-18709-01-01, accredited and approved for air transportation confirms, that CO2 emissions data in the submitted Climate Change 2016 CDP final report, dated 2016/06/23 and those in figure “Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group” on page 41 of the sustainability report Balance, issue 2016, of Deutschen Lufthansa AG and affiliates* are verified under the verification standards • EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) Directive and EU ETS related national implementation laws • Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) of Airports Council International Europe with following uncertainties: Scope 1 28,601,347 t CO2eq (high assurance) Scope 2 343,438 t CO2eq (limited assurance) Scope 3 8,005,651 t CO2eq (limited assurance) Kerpen, 30 June 2016 Müller-BBM Cert GmbH * Scope of application from organizations at CDP-report 2016: Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Lufthansa Cargo AG, Lufthansa Technik AG, Lufthansa CityLine GmbH, Swiss International Air Lines AG, Edelweiss Air AG, Austrian Airlines AG, Air Dolomiti S.p.A, Germanwings GmbH, Eurowings Aviation GmbH, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, Lufthansa AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH, Lufthansa Global Business Services GmbH, Lufthansa Training and Conference Center GmbH, Seeheim, Miles & More GmbH, Lufthansa Process Management GmbH, Lufthansa Systems GmbH & Co. KG, Lufthansa Industry Solutions GmbH & Co. KG, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH, LZ-Catering GmbH. Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on December 31, 2015 in EPNdB 0 – 10.0 * Of the 595 aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s active fleet, 592 fulfill the strinA330-300 LH – 18.4 gent Chapter 4 noise standard of the A330-300 LX / WK – 18.3 / – 18.4 International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The most important element of A330-200 WK – 14.5 Chapter 4 is the minus 10 EPNdB criteA330-200 EW – 12.8 rion (Effective Perceived Noise dB); see A340-300 LH/CL – 22.6 the vertical broken line in the overview on the left. The limits depend on the A340-300 LX – 22.1 aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and A340-600 LH – 23.0 number of engines. A380-800 LH – 25.8 / – 26.7 The bar chart indicates the sum of the B747-400 LH – 13.1 / – 13.6 differences between the measured value B747-8 LH – 25.6 and the threshold value at the three B767-300ER OS – 16.6 / – 16.8 measuring points by type of aircraft (cumulated margin). Where necessary, B777-200ER OS – 20.9 / – 21.1 the values based on the reduced maxiB777F LH – 17.0 mum takeoff weight prevailing in flight operations are indicated. To allow a MD-11F LH – 13.5 more transparent depiction, an improved A319-100 LH – 15.3 / – 19.3 method of analysis was developed for A319-100 LX – 18.2 the previous issues of Balance, which include the individual noise certificate A319-100 OS – 19.3 data of all Group aircraft. Different verA319-100 4U – 17.4 / – 19.4 sions of an aircraft and its engines by year of construction are thus better A320-200 LH – 13.4 / – 17.2 taken into account. Accordingly, the A320-200 LX – 14.3 / – 15.9 value ranges from the lowest to the A320-200 WK – 14.3 / – 15.0 highest cumulated margin are indicated for many fleets. The analysis also takes A320-200 OS – 15.0 / – 15.9 into account any modifications to aircraft A320-200 4U – 13.4 / – 17.2 or engines that have been made in the meantime, thereby leading to modified A320-200 EW – 17.2 noise data and cumulated margins in A321-100 LH – 15.5 certain cases. In addition, numerous A321-100 LX – 10.0 / – 10.8 additions and withdrawals in individual fleets lead to changes in the value A321-100 OS – 11.5 ranges reported. A321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 15.1 A321-200 LX – 14.4 A321-200 OS – 9.0 B737-300 LH – 13.8 B737-500 LH – 14.3 Avro RJ100 LX – 16.4 Bombardier CRJ900 CL – 16.6 Bombardier CRJ900 EW – 16.6 Grouping of aircraft types according to Bombardier Q400 OS – 23.9 / – 25.9 MTOW (maximum takeoff weight): under 50 t 50 to 150 t Embraer 190 CL – 15.1 more than 150 t Embraer 195 CL – 14.9 This division generally corresponds to a grouping of regional, continental, and interEmbraer 195 EN – 14.9 continental aircraft Fokker 70 OS – 24.3 / – 25.9 Fokker 100 OS – 16.2 4U = Germanwings CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo LX = Swiss * New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006: OS = Austrian Airlines – 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3. WK = Edelweiss Air The operating ﬂeet of the Lufthansa Group (as of December 31, 2015) Lufthansa and regional partners Boeing 737-300 LH: 8 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range Airbus A380-800 LH: 14 aircraft, 509 seats, 12,400 km range Embraer 195 CL: 23 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range EN: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range Boeing 747-8 LH: 19 aircraft, 364 seats, 13,000 km range Embraer 190 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,500 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 13 aircraft, 371 seats, 12,400 km range Bombardier CRJ900 CL: 19 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range Eurowings and Germanwings Airbus A340-600 LH: 24 aircraft, 297 seats, 12,900 km range Airbus A340-300 LH: 15 aircraft, 279 seats, 11,850 km range Airbus A330-200 EW: 2 aircraft, 310 seats, 10,450 km range CL: 3 aircraft, 298 seats, 11,700 km range Airbus A330-203, D-AXGB, detailed version, left side Airbus A330-300 LH: 19 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Airbus A320-200 EW/4U: 26 aircraft, 180 seats, 4,000 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 LH: 64 aircraft, 200 seats, 4,150 km range Airbus A319-100 EW/4U: 43 aircraft, 150 seats, 2,900 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 51 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,200 km range Bombardier CRJ900 EW: 16 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range Lufthansa Cargo Airbus A319-100 LH: 30 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 2 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,900 km range Boeing MD-11F LH: 14 aircraft, 579 m3/ 89.4 t, 6,700 km range Austrian Airlines Boeing 777F LH: 5 aircraft, 657 m3/103 t, 8,900 km range Swiss and Edelweiss Air Boeing 777-200ER OS: 5 aircraft, 308 seats, 12,100 km range Boeing 777-200ER, Austrian Airlines, OE-LPD „Spirit of Austria“, detailed version, left side Airbus A340-300 LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 13,000 km range Boeing 767-300ER OS: 6 aircraft, 214 seats, 10,250 km range Boeing 767-300ER, Austrian Airlines, OE-LAZ „India“, detailed version, left side Airbus A330-300 LX: 14 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 4,150 km range Airbus A321-111, Austrian Airlines, OE-LBB „Pinzgau“, detailed version, left side Airbus A321-100 / 200 LX: 8 aircraft, 219 seats, 2,100 km range Airbus A320-200 OS: 16 aircraft, 168 seats, 4,150 km range Airbus A320-214, Austrian Airlines, OE-LBS „Waldviertel“, detailed version, left side Airbus A320-200 LX: 22 aircraft, 180 seats, 2,700 km range Airbus A319-100 OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Airbus A319-112, Austrian Airlines, OE-LDA „Sofia“, detailed version, left side Airbus A319-100 LX: 5 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Fokker 100 OS: 14 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,100 km range Avro RJ100 LX: 16 aircraft, 97 seats, 2,150 km range Fokker 70 OS: 6 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,250 km range Airbus A330-300 WK: 1 aircraft, 315 seats, 9,000 km range Bombardier Q400 OS: 18 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,350 km range DeHavilland DHC-8-402Q, Austrian Airlines, OE-LGK „Burgenland“, detailed version, left side HB-IQZ Airbus A330-200 WK: 1 aircraft, 275 seats, 10,800 km range Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, respectively. In part, different versions are in operation. Legend HB-IHX 4U = Germanwings EW = Eurowings LX = Swiss CL = Lufthansa CityLine LH = Lufthansa, OS = Austrian Airlines Airbus A320-200 WK: 6 aircraft, 168 seats, 4,150 km range EN = Air Dolomiti Lufthansa Cargo WK = Edelweiss Air Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices Every year, the Lufthansa Group and the Group companies receive numerous prizes and awards. Here is a selection of those related to the topic of Corporate Responsibility: 2015 practice-oriented quality criteria. Friendly 2016 The US trade publication Air Transport Work Space® companies systematically The US trade publication Air Transport World named the Lufthansa Group as support favorable working conditions for World honored the partners of the Eco Airline of the Year 2015 – already their employees. E-PORT AN initiative, which also includes the second time in three years. the Lufthansa Group, as Eco-company Lufthansa Social Counseling has receiPartnership of the year. It thus acknowlAt the travel fair ITB in Berlin the Swiss ved the Soul@Work Award for the edges the initiative’s pioneering role and climate protection organization myhealth-oriented accompaniment of corits commitment for more electromobility climate honored the AirPlus Green Comporate restructuring processes. on the apron. pany Account of Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus with the myclimate Award 2015 Lufthansa Technical Training (LTT) was Lufthansa was honored for being the for being a pioneer for sustainable finanawarded the Partner in Education Quietest Overall Airline by San Francisco cial products in the travel industry. Award by Temasek Polytechnic in SingaAirport with the award that is given in the pore. Temasek Polytechnic is a leading context of the “Fly Quiet Program”. The The project Free Route Airspace Maastteaching institution that trains mechanics airport’s Round Table Initiative praised richt and Karlsruhe (FRAMaK), supported for the aviation industry, among others. above all the airline’s efforts in the by Lufthansa, Deutsche Flugsicherung areas of fleet modernization and noise and Eurocontrol won the IHS Jane’s Austrian Airlines has participated in the reduction. ATC Award 2015 in the category environmental initiative “ÖkoBusiness“Environment”. Plan” of the City of Vienna since 2005. For its analysis software OMEGA, which The city supports companies in impleit jointly developed with IT company AviThe initiative Ludwig Erhard Prize honomenting ecologically and economically aso, Lufthansa received the Innovation red LZ-Catering with the Recognized relevant measures. As in the preceding Award of German Aviation in the catefor Excellence 4 Stars rating. The subyears, the airline received the ÖkoProfit gory emissions reduction. sidiary of the European Foundation for Award for numerous projects in 2015 as Quality Management acknowledged the well. The Lufthansa Group is currently listed in high level of entrepreneurial performance the following sustainability indices and of the Lufthansa Group’s experts for The Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), received the following ratings: company restaurants with the four-star a global association of partners across certificate. the aviation industry, accepted two FTSE4Good outstanding efficiency projects of the Ethibel Excellence Investment Register The Lufthansa career portal Lufthansa Group for publication in ATAG and Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) www.Be-Lufthansa.com was Aviation Climate Solutions. The latter Excellence Europe recognized by the research institute highlights 100 groundbreaking projects ECPI Trendence as best career website in in the aviation industry related to the MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series Germany. The jury praised among other established four-pillar strategy for climate oekom Prime Rating criteria the convincing design with high protection. recognition value, clear presentation of contents, lively animation and clear The Lufthansa Group airlines Lufthansa, navigation. Swiss and Austrian Airlines were awarded a gold rating in the study “With a good The internal healthcare management of conscience” for responsible corporate Swiss was honored with the Friendly management. The business magazine Work Space® Label by Stiftung GesundFocus Money conducted the representaheitsförderung Schweiz (Foundation tive survey together with Deutschland for Health Promotion Switzerland). Test and the analytical company The label is awarded according to ServiceValue. Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: balance@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © July 2016 www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility
