MAIL STILL MATTERS 2015/16 Communication on Progress ABOUT THIS REPORT NAC became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2008. Over the past 8 years, the UNGC Ten Principles have been thoroughly integrated in NAC’s best business practices, company policies, and reporting structure. In addition to the UNGC Ten Principles, NAC TA B L E iii iv About This Report Company Snapshot utilized the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines to assist in assembling and organizing the information in this report. The specific locations of the UNGC Ten Principles and GRI Indicators v Corporate Structure Overview within this report are outlined in indices found on pages 19-20. OF Direct Management Approach vi From the Executives CONTENTS vii Report Breakdown REPORT SCOPE 1 Our Associates Matter The 2015-2016 Communication on Progress (COP) encompasses company performance 2 Health & Safety information, initiatives, and statement for North American Communications (NAC) and its partner 3 Improving Our Work Environment companies, North American Mailing Services (NAMS, NAMSdirect, and NAC Logistics, LLC. 4 Associate Benefits 5 Statistics & Goals This is NAC’s sixth annual COP. Its boundaries are limited to July 2015 to June 2016. 6 Our Customers Matter 7 Highlights Company statistics are calculated per reporting period and represent all U.S. and Mexico locations. 9 Statistics & Goals Statistics referenced in this report represent combined averages of data sets from all NAC facilities for July 2015June 2016, unless otherwise stated. 10 Our Environment Matters 11 Highlights 12 Statistics & Goals REFERENCES 13 Our Community Matters Reference to “NAC” within the scope of this report refers to “NAC and its partner companies, 14 Highlights & Goals NAMS, NAMS Direct, and NAC Logistics, LLC”. References to “NAC facilities, operations, systems, 15 Donations and locations: refers to “NAC, NAMS, NAMSdirect, NAC Logistics, LLC facilities, operations, systems, and locations, unless otherwise stated. Use of the words “we” and “our” within the scope of this report means of, belonging to, or on behalf of “NAC and its partner companies, 16 Awards & Recognition NAMS, NAMS Direct, and NAC Logistics, LLC”. 17 Performance Highlights 19 UNGC Reporting Index 20 GRI Indicators 21 Compliance, Ethics & Anti-Corruption 22 Contact ASSURANCE 23 Dedication NAC is committed to providing accurate information to our stakeholders. At this time NAC has chosen to forego seeking outside assurance for this report. 2015/16 Communication on Progress ii 2015/16 Communication on Progress iii C O R P O R AT E S T R U C T U R E OVERVIEW C O M PA N Y NAC is a privately owned U.S. company operating in North America. The NAC SNAPSHOT Board of Directors is comprised of current owners and senior level executives. The Board of Directors steers the overall vision for NAC and offers guidance to aid in and promote strategic growth. We have learned a lot in our 37 years of growth. We have celebrated success and failure, and learned from both. We have grown from a small business with one envelope converter into one of the largest, bi-national, fully integrated direct mail supplier. We have undergone countless changes to our processes, products D I R E C T M A N AG E M E N T and services offerings, technology, and market A P P R OAC H demands. And even in today’s fast paced world, we can tell you one thing; mail still matters. Mail NAC has compiled this report based exclusively on the areas of interest of our stakeholders. NAC’s board of directors, clients, associates, and local matters to our clients, our employees, and our communities, all play crucial role in defining which of the Global Reporting communities and that is why NAC continues to Initiative (GRI) Aspects are material to our organization. Our stakeholders also strive to improve every aspect of our business. aid in determining which economic, environmental, and human rights goals are We have never underestimated our ability to prioritized for future pursuit. When an Aspect is highlighted by a stakeholder, grow, and we do not underestimate our ability NAC ensures that all necessary steps are taken to incorporate this Aspect to affect positive change in the lives of our into the NAC framework. This includes the creation of new reports, tracking associates, our supply chain, our communities, mechanisms, the development of new policies and procedures, and the training and the environment. of associates and management as needed. 2015/16 Communication on Progress iv 2015/16 Communication on Progress v FROM THE EXECUTIVES To my fellow stakeholders, As a leader in the direct mail industry, we understand that our actions matter. For that reason, NAC is extremely pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. As we culminate our 37th year in business, it is important to celebrate our accomplishments, recognize our shortcomings and set new goals to make our company stronger. Beginning in Harlem, New York with just one envelope converter, our operation has truly come a long way. Now with two locations employing over 1,100 people, NAC has become one of the largest direct mail manufacturers in North America. As we continue to grow, we realize that even in the midst of a digital age, mail still matters. By maintaining a positive workplace for our associates, we generate positive change in our community and environment, ultimately creating an engaging customer experience. By aligning business operations and strategies with the 10 Global Compact principles, we can continue on our journey to make a difference in the REPORT BREAKDOWN communities in which we live and work. Our Associates Matter Sincerely, Our Stakeholders Matter Our Environment Matters Our Communities Matter Rob Herman Nick Robinson President & COO CEO 2015/16 Communication on Progress vi 2015/16 Communication on Progress vii • NAC held a Health Fair in August of 2015. The Health • The Medical Department releases information related HEALTH Fair offered programs that promote the prevention of to Healthy lifestyles and preventative care each disease and encourage healthy lifestyle choices. month. The topics are discussed through the release & SAFETY »»  30% of the female employees completed early of brochures, information sessions and/or workshops, and informational videos. Some of the health topics detection tests for cervical cancer »» 15% of employees completed dental exams covered include early detection of cancer, family »» 17% of employees completed vision exams planning, heart disease, managing diabetes, and flu »»  45% of employees completed an informational vaccinations. session on weight loss •  Implementation of technological advancements »» 68% of employees completed an information session within our surveillance strategies allowed more on Diabetes precise utilization of security resources. From »» 6 8% of employees received a Tetanus Immunization implementing function filters and higher definition »» 92% of employees completed an information session cameras to operational practices for ensuring all OUR on Family Planning areas are provided comprehensive coverage, each improvement was designed to gain efficiency in our • 520 employees received a flu shot vaccine at the NAMS ASSOCIATES facility. security program. • NAC welcomed a Mark Diehl as the new Safety and • Our parking permits were redesigned to be safer for MATTER Security Manager in September of 2015. Mark has over drivers and more easily visible to Security personnel. This redesign also included the implementation of 25 years of experience in Safety and Environmental Programs. best practices that help to eliminate off-premise identification of associate vehicles. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact we • NAC successfully completed an audit by the Secretary of Health and Safety (Secretaria del trabajo y prevision • The NAC Security Team instituted a new schedule for realize that the scope of protecting Human social) in February, 2016. This audit helped to ensure that reviewing off-hours surveillance footage. Rights extends farther than just providing a “ workplace free of discrimination, harassment, NAMS was in compliance with all relevant workplace • 24 associates are members of our Fire Brigade. The health and safety regulations. associates undergo annual training on fire prevention, and unfair labor practices. It also means that We want our associates use of a Fire Extinguisher, and the use of hoses and “ we are committed to providing our associates • Safety Information Stations were installed that include hydrants. with a career that allows them to pursue their own personal goals and that allows to feel safe and secure posters and documentation related to safety hazards. Stations also include First Aid Cabinets, Safety Data •  NAC’s safety program was expanded to include them to achieve a healthy work-life balance. in their workplace and Sheet binders, Chemical Spill Procedures, Hazardous Communication Information, Fire Extinguisher Use, and general management Safety Meetings in addition to the monthly Safety Committee Meetings and the NAC is committed to providing programs and initiatives that help our associates build ultimately encourage Personal Protective Equipment requirements. periodic positing of Safety Reminders to all associates. fulfilling lives and support their families. We them to be productive • The NAC Safety Manual was updated to include or expand upon several topics including Blood borne want our associates to feel safe and secure in their workplace and ultimately encourage them members of our Pathogens, Forklift Safety, GHS based Hazardous to be productive members of our communities. communities. Communication Program. • During this reporting period NAC broke our previous safety record by going more than 116 days without accident or incident. 2015/16 Communication on Progress 1 2015/16 Communication on Progress 2 A S S O C I AT E B E N E F I T S IMPROVING OUR • NAC offers bonuses to hourly associates that achieve Perfect Attendance. • NAC recognizes one associate each month that displays exemplary performance through our Above WORK ENVIRONMENT and Beyond program. The Above and Beyond Associate is nominated by management and selected by a group of senior management members. The Above and Beyond Associate receives a $100 bonus, 1 additional paid vacation day, $50 NAC Bucks to buy NAC embroidered merchandise, a NAC shirt with the Above and Beyond Logo, and a designated parking spot for the month. • NAC revised our recruiting process and training programs to ensure • NAC offers academic scholarships to NAC associates, their children, or grandchildren. Recipients are that we are selecting the best candidates in a competitive job market, awarded a $500 scholarship and a $500 Best Buy gift card. The Mary Irwin Scholarship was awarded to and giving them all necessary tools to succeed. These changes two applicants that demonstrated outstanding academics and a strong commitment to their community. included improvements to the skills tests administered during the recruitment process, revised training timelines, and improved our The Frank Reed Vocational Scholarship was awarded to one applicant that displayed a strong work ethic recertification program for all employee tutors. and passion for their specific vocation. • We set-up a segregated Wi-Fi network especially for associates. This Wi-Fi network allows associates • The first Monday of each month the cafeteria serves a special dish to contact their families, handle personal affairs, access educational materials, and/or access public that differs from the traditional menu. services during their breaks. • We presented loyal senior associates with T-shits, jackets, and • NAC offers all associates a Volunteer Day in which the associate can take a paid off work and volunteer backpacks in December of 2015. These gifts were a thank you for for any charity of their choice. Throughout this reporting period NAC associates have volunteered at their years of dedication to our company. the ARC of Blair County, the United Way of Blair County, and the Laurel Highland Council of the Boy • NAC provided garden plots for associates to grow and harvest their Scouts of America. own fruits and vegetables. • NAC offers employees that are getting married three paid days off to be used on or around the date of • We host several associate lunches, distribute treats, and hold raffles their wedding. Employees with a child that is getting married get 1 additional paid day off in order to throughout the year. We see these events as a way to boost morale attend the wedding or to help with preparations. and foster a sense of community among out associates. Throughout • NAC’s HR department hosts several informational sessions held that local vendors. These vendors this reporting period we have hosted a Mother’s Day Luncheon, “Hot included retailers and financial institutions that offered information sessions and special offers to NAC Dog” Day, Pumpkin Pie Day, Kid’s Day, Dia de Los Muertes Poetry employees. competition, and a Holiday Lunch. • In October of 2015 we conducted a Social Survey. Associates 64 were asked questions related to improving the work environment and benefits programs. To thank associates for their honesty and A S S O C I AT E S W I T H 2 0 + continued hard work we provided ice cream to all associates. Y E A R S E X P E R I E N C E AT O U R A D M I N I S T R AT I V E HEADQUARTERS 2015/16 Communication on Progress 3 2015/16 Communication on Progress 4 36 SAFETY COMMITTE MEMBERS Our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is a score based on the total number of recorded accidents in relation to the hours worked. OUR CUSTOMERS 2015:1.0 AVG. ACROSS ALL FACILITIES MATTER 53% 47% 5% JANUARY JUNE 2016: 0 AVG. ACROSS ALL FACILITIES At NAC, we know the foundation of our success has been our continuous focus on meeting our customer’s needs. While SERVI CES of committee of committee of total workforce customer service and quality products are still the defining CREATIVE SERVICES members are members are represented on the hallmark of the NAC experience, we also have seen an increasing non-management management safety committee DATA PROCESSING customer focus on socially responsible practices across all 5 aspects of their supply chain. Customers want to know that we PRINTING RECORDABLE INCIDENTS THAT are committed to preventing human rights injustices; that we are ENVELOPE CONVERTING REQUIRED TIME OFF WORK aware of new and evolving information security threats, and that GOALS we are trying to minimize our environmental impact in every step of the mailing process. We are not only able create mailings that FOIL EMBOSSING IMAGING/PERSONALIZATION • W ork towards 0 recordable incidents at all facilities and maintain an average TRIR of 0.7 exceed customer expectations in both aesthetics and quality, but DIGITAL PRINTING or below. we also provide our customers with the peace of mind that they are working with a company that truly shares their values. BINDERY • Complete additional associate training and education on Waste Handling procedures throughout the facility • Continue to improve and standardize our global safety metrics and tracking mechanisms. • Release revised Safety ManualThis new safety manual will include new and expanded 0 INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION LETTERSHOP COMMINGLING POSTAL/LOGISTICS sections such as Blood borne Pathogens, Forklift Safety, and a GHS based Hazardous Communication program. • Relabel all chemicals to align with new OSHA regulations 0 • Complete an updated Job Safety Analysis for each positionA Job Safety Analysis includes the evaluation and documentation of all procedures completed in each GRIEVANCES FILED ABOUT position throughout the facility. These analyses will help NAC to integrate and improve HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS health and safety practices based on each role throughout the facility. • Develop and Complete Leadership Training • Research and develop new initiatives that are beneficial to the well being of our 2015/16 Communication on Progress 5 2015/16 Communication on Progress 6 associates and their families. HIGHLIGHTS • In August 2015 NAC completed due diligence reviews across all aspects of the business. These reviews were completed with the help of legal counsel. • NAC has successfully participated in Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) since 2014. These assessments evaluate our business practices related to human rights, labor standards, health and safety, and the general work environment. We have integrated the SMETA best business practices into our policies and procedures, and continue to uphold these practices in our day to day operations. • Errors and quality issues result in increased costs and undesired paper waste. NAC began a paper waste reduction program that tracked paper usage and aimed to decrease the amount of “ paper waste created. This program has helped to reduce the paper waste by 6.6% in the Press area from 20132016. • During this reporting period we saw a 22% increase in the Our secret has always “ number of registered diverse vendors. NAC continued to meet its goal of a diverse spend of at least 8% each quarter. been to listen to • Breakdown of Diverse Spend by Category: our customers. By »» 17% Woman-owned business enterprise understanding their »» 83% Minority-owned business enterprise • Our Information Security team worked with IT to create a new needs and expectations, user message that appears while updating their passwords. This we can adapt our core message reminds associates of the importance of creating a strong password. strategies to ensure a mutual success. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 8 2015/16 Communication on Progress 7 We have seen what happens when environmental issues are OUR not prioritized; companies will often ignore problems until the damage is already done. According to World Economic STATISTICS ENVIRONMENT Forum’s “The Global Risks Report 2016” the “Failure of climate change mitigation and adaptation” is the number M AT T E R S business risk with the largest potential impact³. That is why at NAC our goal is to be proactive in our environmental efforts. We are dedicated to developing and implementing 768,303,554 2 0 environmentally friendly processes, and aim to act as a leader to others in our industry. Mail Units Produced 725,140,315 1 information security f a c i l it ie s breaches identified Mail units produced with no errors 0 15 100% Customer complaints 2 Customer due to loss of data/ Customer complaints Complaints breach of privacy warranting action Rectified FUTURE GOALS • Complete development of an Ethics training that includes topics related to Human Rights, Labor, Environmental Initiatives, Community Outreach, and Anti-Corruption. • Deliver Ethics Training to all associates. 1  he numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is representative of our throughput quality rate. This takes into T consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products released into the mail stream are accurate and meet specifications. 2 Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics of products or services. 2015/16 Communication on Progress 9 ³The Global Risks Report. Rep. no. 11. World Economic Forum, 12 Jan. 16. Web. 10 Oct. 2016. Page 3, Figure 1. 2015/16 Communication on Progress 10 REC YCLING HIGHLIGHTS • In April, 2016 our Safety and Securities Manager completed 11,231,763 Recycling paper does not only save trees. 2,134,177 GALLONS OF OIL 16,849 CUBIC YARDS OF SPACE IN LANDFILLS LBS OF PAPER RECYCLED OR By recycling recertification training in DOT Hazmat General Awareness 22,465,018 KILOWATTS OF ENERGY 95,476 Training and EPA RCRA Hazardous Waste Management. These paper we have also saved: 39,313,782 GALLONS OF WATER trainings help ensure that our Safety and Securities Manager is up to date on all current EPA and DOT regulations related to the storage, handling, and shipping of hazardous waste. • N AC utilizes a third party service called Safety Kleen to responsibly dispose of all hazardous and potentially hazardous waste. 306,764,470 Recycled Cardboard: 1,404,328 pounds • N AC has continued our commitment to responsible paper Recycled Plastic: 3,086 pounds procurement practices and forestry initiatives by maintaining mail pieces produced using FSC® certified materials4 our Chain of Custody (CoC) Certifications through the Forest Recycled Window Film: 1,740 pounds Stewardship Council (FSC®) and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative®). Maintaining CoC certifications allows us to offer customers various paper stock options that are sustainably Recycled Magazines: 8,611 pounds Water recycled: 22,455 gallons 130,885,798 mail pieces produced using SFI® certified materials4 sourced and/or made with recycled materials. CoC certification also offers us the opportunity to educate our associates and customers on these sustainable paper stock options and how they benefit the environment and supply chain. NAC is proud to report that we were issued zero corrective actions and GOALS remediation items during our 2015 Chain of Custody Audit. Continued improvement of tracking mechanisms and reporting between facilities. • T his year NAC has recycled 22,455 gallons of water through our C  reate an Environmental Task Force that brings together associates from different areas throughout the facility. Water Reuse Program. The water collected is used to water the This task force will hold meetings discussing the status of current environmental initiatives and brainstorming new vegetation surrounding our facility. initiatives for future pursuit. 4 These numbers reflect quantities where certified claims were made for products produced in 2015. 2015/16 Communication on Progress 12 2015/16 Communication on Progress 11 These quantities are only reported annually. HIGHLIGHTS 67,145 mail pieces • During the holiday season of 2015, 8 year old Safyre Terry made headlines when after being produced as in-kind badly burned in a house fire; she asked to receive Christmas cards to fill her card holder. The donations for NAC HR department spread the word to all associates and provided Christmas cards to anyone who wanted to help Safyre achieve her goal. 16 • This reporting period our marketing department developed our #mailstillmatters campaign. This campaign started with a collection of photographs of post offices around the country and quickly evolved. They began to interview postal workers and sent out questionnaire postcards asking stakeholders why mail still matters to them. This campaign combined our love for mail with our love of community, making it perfect for NAC. This campaign won the NAC Marketing organizations Department a Silver award in the Professional insurance Marketing Association’s annual Marketing Methods Competition. • Our Recruiting Team noticed one senior associate that displayed a contagious positive attitude and truly loved her work, so she was asked to join the Recruiting Team to give her personal In Kind Donations in the form of business cards, brochures, and mail pieces were given to the testimonial at recruiting events within the community. following organizations: • NAC sponsored a team to compete in the 2016 Wallyball Tournament to benefit the Blair County o Operation Our Town Respiratory Disease Society. This year NAC’s team placed 3rd in the tournament and 2nd in o Central PA Humane Society fundraising by raising $1,202.25. o Hollidaysburg School Foundation o Blair Country Law Enforcement • NAC mentored and completed pro bono printing services for A&H Powder Coating and Zach’s Officer’s Memorial Fund Custom Detailing; two small local businesses. o March of Dimes o Duncansville EMS o BeadforLife G OA L S o Griffith Family Foundation o Bald Eagle F.O.P. Lodge #51 o Duncanville Volunteer Fire Company • Research and develop new ways to involve our employees in our charitable initiatives. o Phoenix Fire Company OUR NAC maintains a longstanding tradition of giving back to our communities. We know that an investment in our communities is more than just a PR boost. Giving to charitable organizations, o Geeseytown Fire Company o Blair County Respiratory Disease Society COMMUNITY promoting community events, and reaching out to our local and global communities never fails to remind us of the world outside of direct mail. It pulls us out of the day to day business o Hollidaysburg Area Public Library o Through, Inc. M AT T E R S meeting and email fog, and reminds us that we can effect global change by doing what we do best; and that why Mail Still Matters to us. o Tampa Museum of Art 2015/16 Communication on Progress 13 2015/16 Communication on Progress 14 MEMBERSHIPS AWA R D S DONATIONS & A S S O C I AT I O N S & RECOGNITIONS 2016 Winner of the Hermes Creative Platinum Award for Toys for Tots Girls Night Out Altoona Inc. our Communication on Progress Report. American Cancer Society Hollidaysburg Area Public Library American Diabetes Associations Hollidaysburg Area Scholastic 2016 Winner of the Hermes Creative Gold Award for DMAW Junior Achievement of Western PA Frankstown Elementary School Lakemont Lion Club Overall Website Excellence Griffith Family Foundation March of Dimes Central PA Humane Society Marketing Edge 2016 Winner of the Hermes Creative Honorable Mention for Through Inc. MS Society Keystone Country Website Copywriting American Legion Post 516 Operation Our Town Big Brothers Big Sisters Skills Foundation 2016 Winner of the Hermes Creative Honorable Mention Bikers Against Child Abuse Southern Allegheny Museum of Art for Tradeshow Execution Blair Country Arts Foundation St. Patrick’s School Blair County Respiratory Disease Society Sunrise Rotary Club of Altoona 2015 Winner of the Hermes Creative Honorable Mention for Dick McEldowney Academic Scholarship Fund Tampa Museum of Art Outdoor Advertising Dreams Go On Toys for Kids Duncansville Volunteer Fire Company UPMC Altoona Foundation 2015 Winner of the Hermes Creative Honorable Mention Fraternal Order of Police for Outdoor Advertising 2015 Winner of the Hermes Gold Award in the Outdoor Advertising Category 2015 Honorable Mention in the Hermes Creative Awards 17% 61% 14% 4% 3% for our 35 year Anniversary Outdoor Advertising Campaign community health & social education culture & arts economic outreach services development 2015/16 Communication on Progress 15 2015/16 Communication on Progress 16 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Total NAC facilities 4 ENVIRONMENTAL Average Total Workforce 1,128 Gallons of water recycled through NAC’s Water Reuse Program: 22,455 Male 58% Pounds of Recycled Paper 11,232,509 Female 42% Number of trees saved due to paper recycling initiatives 95,476 Total number of management positions 57 Gallons of oil saved due to paper recycling initiatives 2,134,177 Reductions in landfill space due to paper recycling initiatives (cubic yards) 16,849 WORKPLACE Reductions in energy consumption due to paper recycling initiatives (kilowatts) 22,465,018 Percentage of management positions occupied by women 29% Gallons of water saved due to paper recycling initiatives 39,313,782 Percentage of senior management positions occupied by women: 33% Percentage of total workforce comprised of women: 42% SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS Percentage of corporate production facilities with FSC® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR): Percentage of corporate production facilities with SFI® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% Average across all facilities 2015 1.0 Number of mail pieces produced using FSC® certified materials⁷ 306,764,470 January June 2016 average across all facilities: 0 Number of mail pieces produced using SFI® certified materials⁷ 130,885,7981 SAFETY COMMITTEE COMPOSITION GLOBAL COMMUNITY STATS Total number of associates on the Safety Committee 36 Number of mail pieces produced as in-kind donations 67,145 % of Safety Committee Members in management positions 47% Number of organizations that received in-kind donations 16 % of Safety Committee Members in non-management positions 53% ANTI-CORRUPTION LABOR MANAGEMENT STATISTICS Number of instances of fines, sanctions, or legal actions taken for non-compliances with 0 Number of Employees under the age of 18 0 environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or Number of Incidents of Discrimination 0 anti-competitive behaviorHUMAN RIGHTS STATISTICS Number of Human Rights grievances filed against NAC 0 MARKETPLACE VALUE Number of Mail Units Produced 768,303,554 Percentage of mail units produced with no errors⁵ 725,140,315 ⁵The numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is representative of our throughput quality rate. This takes into consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products Number of Customer complaints due to loss of data/breach of privacy 0 released into the mail stream are accurate and meet specifications. ⁶Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics Number of Customer complaints that warranted action⁶ 15 of products or services. Percentage of customer complaints rectified 100% ⁷These numbers are for 2015 only as this information is reported on an annual basis. 2015/16 Communication on Progress 17 2015/16 Communication on Progress 18 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T R E P O R T I N G I N D E X GRI REPORTING INDEX As a United Nations Global Compact signatory, NAC has integrated all ten principles into its best business practices. The index below lists all ten principles and their location within this report. SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # PRINCIPLES PAGE STRATEGY & ANALYSIS ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights 1-5 G4-1 vi EN10 12 EN29 12 Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses 21 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 iii LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 7 G4-4 iii, 6 WORK G4-5 22 LA5 5 Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor 7 G4-6 22 G4-7 v HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 5 Child Labor 7 G4-9 9, 17 HR3 5 G4-10 17 HR6 7 Principle 6 Discrimination 5 G4-15 iii, 15 HR9 7 G4-16 16 HR12 5 Principle 7 Precautionary Approach 10 G4-18 v G4-28 iii SOCIAL DISCLOSURE Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility 10 12 G4-30 iii SO7 21 G4-31 22 SO8 21 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies 10-12 G4-33 iii Principle 10 Anti-Corruption 18, 21 PUBLIC RELATIONS ETHICS & INTEGRITY PR8 9 G4-56 21 PR9 9 2015/16 Communication on Progress 19 2015/16 Communication on Progress 20 C O M PA N Y H E A D Q U A R T E R S North American Communications Administrative Headquarters 141 NAC Drive Duncansville, PA 16635 COMPLIANCE, ETHICS & 814-696-3553 A N T I C O R R U P T I O N S TAT E M E N T OTHER CORPORATE LOCATIONS NAC upholds the strongest commitment to meeting all of our legal, regulatory, and contractual North American Mailing Services obligations. Beyond ensuring compliance with all government mandated regulations, NAC Avenida Enrique Pinocelli adheres to many voluntary codes promoting ethical business practices. #9019 int 1y2 Parque Industiral Aerojuarez, In the 2015-2016 reporting period, NAC had zero (0) instances of sanctions, fines, or legal Cd. Juarez, Chih. Mexico 32695 actions for non-compliances with environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or anti-competitive behavior. NAC Logistics, LLC 9640 Joe Rodriguez, Suite 2 Within all NAC operations, our core values promoting honesty, integrity, and transparency El Paso, TX 79227 are actively executed and processes are designed to eliminate the opportunities for corrupt practices. Our Code of Ethics guides all business transactions and stakeholder interactions. Reinforcing our commitment to anti-corruption and ethical practices across our supply chain, C O N TA C T NAC participates in programs designed to promote anti-corruption and transparency through Questions regarding the content of this report may be directed to: marketing@nacmail.com adherence to practices governing security, customs, and fiscal responsibilities, including certification through the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and Esquema de Empresas Certificadas (NEEC) programs. D E D I C AT I O N NAC would like to dedicate this report to two long term associates that passed away DISCLAIMER this year. We thank them for their years of dedicated service. Margaret and Raymundo were valued members of the NAC family and will be sorely missed by us all. The contents of this report are correct to the best of our knowledge, information, and belief. The data contained herein is for informational purposes only. It is not represented to be errorMargaret Watts Raymundo Proa free, and is subject to change. 10 years of service 11.5 years of service 2015/16 Communication on Progress 21 2015/16 Communication on Progress 22 2015/16 Communication on Progress 23 141 NAC Drive Duncansville, PA 16635 www.nacmail.com
