Working for resource efficiency sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC Contents CONTENTS ABOUT OUTOTEC 3. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2 CEO’s message PRACTICES 5 This is Outotec 48 Building on common values 6 Sustainability highlights in 2015 48 Ensuring good governance 8 Our strategy 49 The key role of the Board of Directors 11 Megatrends driving our business 49 Our approach to risk management 14 Our sustainability agenda 50 Managing sustainability 18 Our contribution to the circular economy 51 Compliance helpline for raising concerns 20 Outotec stands for resource efficiency 51 Respecting human rights 22 Active stakeholder dialogue 51 Financial performance deteriorated 28 Topics that matter most 53 Fair and non-discriminatory tax policy 1. SAFETY 31 Working to achieve zero accidents 4. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 32 Safe products for our customers 56 Focusing on supplier selection 32 Safety in field operations 57 43% of spending on local suppliers 32 New lost time incident management system 57 Mitigating risks along the supply chain 33 Awards for our work with customers 57 The carbon footprint of our supply chain 2. SUSTAINABLE OFFERING 5. DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE FOR CUSTOMERS 60 Performance management 34 Primary production of minerals and metals 60 Professional growth 35 Metals from secondary resources 62 Leadership development and talent 35 Water management and effluent treatment management 62 Outotec Experience 36 Renewable and waste-to-energy solutions 62 Fair compensation 36 Improving performance through life-cycle 62 Equal opportunities and diversity services 36 Offering development 36 Cooperating with universities, research GRI AND DATA institutes and authorities 64 About the report 37 Life-cycle assessment of Outotec’s technologies 65 HR data and labor practices 38 CASE: Going for gold sustainably 68 R&D data 41 CASE: Waste-to-energy technologies in demand 69 Health and safety performance 44 CASE: Demonstrating the benefits of Outotec’s 69 Supplier data products by calculating our handprint 70 Environmental performance 73 GRI index and United Nations Global Compact 77 Independent assurance 78 Contact information ABOUT OUTOTEC Contents Working for resource efficiency With a mission of ‘Sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’, Outotec provides resource efficient technologies and life-cycle solutions for customers all over the world, creating a significant positive handprint. We work hard to maximize this transformative potential, and help our customers reduce the ecological footprint of their operations. As leaders in the field, we strive to ensure that sustainability is demonstrated in everything we do. Outotec’s core competences across the minerals and metals processing value chains have been built up over more than 100 years of continuous business operation. We have further expanded our handprint by developing innovative applications for renewable energy, water management and recycling. In this report we showcase some of the ways in which our technology has made a difference for our customers and the communities where they work. ABOUT OUTOTEC CEO’s message Productivity and profitability in the circular economy 4 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC CEO’s message 2015 was a year of both progress and challenges. On the one ue for our owners in 2015. To adapt to the difficult market envihand, a significant milestone in global climate negotiations was ronment, we took several actions to improve profitability. A new reached in Paris. The resulting agreement is expected to reoperating model was introduced, and we were compelled to reshape the playing field for businesses and promote effective duce our workforce. But at the same time we kept on investing emission cuts. The United Nations also built a global consensus in the development of new products, while also securing strong behind the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. competencies and best-in-class process technology know-how. These developments are good news for Outotec. As our exFeedback from our own people indicates that we all see a pertise is in resource-efficient technologies and services that need to be more agile and responsive in serving our customers, enable the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources, these and to work better internally across organizational boundaries initiatives will generate new business opportunities for us. – very important in our truly global business. I have been highly The success or failure of sustainable development, howmotivated by our employees’ comments relating to our mission. ever, continues to depend on the daily performance of people Even in these tough times, people want to make sure we can and organizations. The collapse of a mining tailings dam in Brakeep on working on our mission to promote the sustainable use zil in November resulted in unacceptable fatalities, as well as of the Earth’s natural resources. That is exactly what we are dosevere environmental damage to soil and waters downstream. ing. I want to personally thank every Outotec employee for their This accident illustrates how essential it is to minimize environdevotion and contributions. mental and safety risks. The capacity of our planet limits all human activity. We are Pride in our handprint already excessively exploiting many critical resources, and it is We are committed to the United Nations’ Global Compact prinnecessary to decouple economic growth from harmful environciples on human rights, environment, labor and anti-corruption, mental impacts. To do this we must both minimize the footand enhancing our governance is a continuous task. Although print of primary production of raw materials such as metals, we have most of the required practices in place, maintaining and maximize the recycling of such non-renewable resources. compliance and building further improvements nevertheless reThrough our technologies we at Outotec contribute to the susmain daily tasks for everyone at Outotec. tainable primary production of materials, and support the creWe strive to work constantly in line with our “handprint” apation of a circular economy by providing solutions that reduce proach. We can proudly say that our handprint is larger than water and energy consumption, while also minimizing waste by our footprint – meaning that the positive impacts of our prodmaximizing the recovery, reuse and recycling of metals and ucts and services on the environment are demonstrably greater other materials. than the negative impacts generated by our operations and our supply chain. Resource efficiency increasingly in focus We were selected for the third consecutive year for the Dow 2015 was a mixed and challenging year for us. Prevalent ecoJones Sustainability Europe Index – and early in 2016 Outotec nomic trends had negative impacts in the industry sectors we was again ranked the world’s third most sustainable company serve. Productivity and profitability are the number one priorion the Global 100 Index of Corporate Knights. ties both for our customers and for ourselves. The way forward, I strongly believe in the power of co-creation. Our Sustainand new growth, must be characterized by the more sustainable ability Council, whose members represent our key stakeholdutilization of resources. We aim to help our customers improve er groups, is a vital channel for fruitful dialogue. We particutheir profitability by providing solutions that are environmentally larly asked council members to share their views on three safe and sound, but also economical due to the lower total cost cases examined in this report, and you can read their views in of ownership. Our modern waste-to-energy solutions provide a this report. good example of how technology can take us towards a circuWe are also keen to hear from you. Whenever you meet lar economy by easing two major environmental problems: the anyone from Outotec, we would be pleased to learn about your landfilling of wastes, and the consumption of fossil fuels. We views on crucial issues such as the circular economy and susalso offer solutions for recovering metals from residues, scrap tainable growth. and used products. Our customers are increasingly putting environmental sustainability high on their agenda. A balanced sustainability approach must also benefit sharePertti Korhonen holders. We did not succeed well in generating shareholder valPresident and CEO OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 5 ABOUT OUTOTEC this is outotec 6 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC this is outotec this is Outotec Outotec designs and delivers sustainable technology and serproducts and services to over 80 countries. Our regional organivice solutions for processing minerals and metals, for water zations provide full support for our customers’ businesses – both treatment, and for producing energy from biomass and wastes. in the everyday running of their operations and when they make Outotec’s unique position at the forefront of these industries is new investments. Our two business units – Minerals Processing; founded on a century of scientific knowledge and operational exand Metals, Energy & Water – are dedicated to the creation of perience, which have resulted in a wide range of sustainable technology solutions and life-cycle serapplications, particularly for processing virtualvices for our customers. 90% of our order ly all types of ores and minerals. Outotec has a In 2015 Outotec acquired the aluminum techstrong position along the entire value chain from intake consisted nology and service businesses of Kempe Engineerores to metals. ing, Biomin’s BIOX® bio-oxidation technology, Kovit Outotec’s customers include businesses who of environmental Engineering’s tailings management business, and are investing in new processing plants or modSinter Plant Services in South Africa. Approximategoods and services ernizing their existing plants to increase the ly 54 percent of Outotec’s sales were generated in profitability of their operations, improve their reemerging markets. source efficiency, or reduce their emissions, energy consumption Outotec has been listed on the NASDAQ Helsinki since 2006. or fresh water use. In line with our mission targeting the sustainDue to declined share price and market capitalization, Outotec’s able use of Earth’s natural resources, Outotec works to optimize category was changed from Large Cap to Mid Cap companies in customers’ return on investment with minimal ecological impact. 2015. There was no major change in the ownership of the comInnovative research at our in-house R&D centers and continuous pany in 2015. development work realized together with our customers have made us the leading developer of technology in the mineral proRead about Outotec’s financial performance, legal entities cessing and metallurgical industry. and shareholders in our Financial Statements 2015 at Outotec operates globally, with offices or operative units in www.outotec.com/investors. 32 countries, including our headquarters in Finland. We sell Key figures 2015 2014 2013 Sales, EUR million 1,201.2 1,402.6 1,911.5 Reported operating profit, EUR million -12.3 10.4 141.9 Research and development expenses, EUR million 61.2 56.9*) 48.7 Priority applications 93 62 101 Average number of employees 4,855 4,845 4,927 Employee engagement index 56% 69% Wages and salaries, EUR million 353.4 362.8 385.8 Share of environmental goods and services in order intake 90% 90% 87% Greenhouse gas emissions avoided through the use of 6,600 5,900 5,400 Outotec technologies, thousand tonnes of CO2-e Lost time injury rate (LTIR) per 1 million working hours 2.8 1.5 1.9 Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2 per EUR 1 million sales 28.2 24.8 23.7 Total energy consumption, TJ 164.5 152.9 156.8 *) Restated figure OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 7 ABOUT OUTOTEC Sustainability highlights in 2015 Sustainability highlights in 2015 Q1 Q2 Jan 15 First meeting of Outotec’s new Apr 9 Outotec and the China Nonferrous Metals Sustainability Advisory Council Industry Association co-hosted the Nonferrous Metal Metallurgy Mercury Capture & Gas Cleaning Technology Seminar in Xiamen, China Jan 22 Outotec ranked the world’s 12th most May Milestone of 1 million hours worked sustainable company on the Global with zero lost time reached in the Anglo 100 index of Corporate Knights American Barro Alto shutdown project Feb 25 Safety milestone of 11 million Jun 9 Students from Central South accident-free hours worked reached University in China granted awards by at the Cristal ilmenite smelter site Outotec in a sustainability contest Mar 27 Publication of Maximizing our Jun 18 New Outotec pilot plant enabling handprint Outotec’s sustainability renewable energy generation from report 2014 bio-waste unveiled in Skellefteå, Sweden Jun 26 Students from Finland’s Aalto University presented a review of the future of mining work to Outotec Jun 26 Outotec became a founding member of the Sustainability Board of Aprimin, the association of Chilean mining industry suppliers 8 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 Q4 Q3 Nov 12 Outotec Chile received an annual industrial safety award Nov 20 Seminar on the Green Economy jointly organized by WWF and Outotec in Helsinki, Finland Jul 1 Customer seminar on sustainable Nov 20 EUR 70 million program initiated to mining and metallurgy hosted by adapt Outotec’s cost structure to the Outotec in Mongolia weakened market situation Aug 6 Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Council Nov 25 Outotec’s sustainability report met for the second time chosen as the best in Finland by representatives of the media and NGOs Aug 13 Canadian company Kovit Engineering Nov 25 Ondundu Primary School in acquired to complement Outotec’s Namibia started using a new tailings management solutions dining hall funded by Outotec Sep 2 Bi-annual O’People employee Nov 27 Technology Awards presented engagement survey completed to employees at Outotec Technology Days Sep 8 Outotec’s new Dewatering Technology Dec 9 Outotec’s sulfate removal Center inaugurated in Lappeenranta, process nominated for the Finland GreenTec Awards 2016 Sep 10 Outotec recognized again in the Dec 18 Milestone of two years without Dow Jones Sustainability Index lost time injuries reached at Outotec’s Turku manufacturing facility Sep 17 Supplier Day event hosted by Outotec Dec 21 Alunorte in Brazil awarded in Finland Outotec for safety performance and leadership in environment, health and safety OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 9 ABOUT OUTOTEC OUR STRATEGY OUR STRATEGY Outotec’s mission, ‘sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’, defines the purpose of our company along with our core value – commitment to sustainability. These are the two vital elements that embed sustainability in everything we do, and lay the foundation for our strategy. While optimizing life-cycle performance and return on our customers’ investments, we also aim to create shared value and return for our shareholders. Our long-term target is to grow faster than the market, and to generate a healthy operating profit margin each year. Outotec’s strategy is to provide the best local and global service competences. savings in fixed costs. The strategic prolife-cycle performance for our customIn addition, we continuously improve the grams carried out during the year aimed ers. We do this by helping our customers cost-competitiveness of our products to enhance customer focus in sales, imimprove the productivity of their operaand increase internal efficiency. This prove growth and profitability in the sertions, and by ensuring the best return on strong base makes Outotec well posivice business, boost product competitivetheir equipment and plant investments. tioned to help customers improve their ness, emphasize delivery excellence, and Because of the slowing growth in deproductivity and the life-cycle perforfurther develop our operating model and mand for metals, the resulting overcamance of their assets. common business processes and tools in pacity in many minerals and metals, and We are continuously strengthening line with the ‘One Outotec’ approach. In low metals prices, our customers are our technology and service portfolio for 2016, the strategic programs will be admainly focusing on improving their existthe entire value chain, from ore to metdressing service growth and profitability, ing operations instead of making large als, through in-house research and deproduct cost competitiveness, digitalizagreenfield investments. We offer the best velopment as well as through acquisition and cost structure improvement. life-cycle performance for customers’ tions. In 2015 we launched several new Our mission, this strategy and our production assets, which helps customproducts and acquired four companies materiality analysis all steer our sustainers achieve their targets and cope in the or businesses. ability work. tough market environment. This strategy We also aim to grow our renewable opens growth opportunities for Outotec energy and waste-to-energy businesses Sustainability CRITERIA in service business, which has the poby offering innovative solutions based on considered in mergers and tential to reduce volatility and improve fluidized bed technology, which can reacquisitions Outotec’s profitability. duce waste to landfill while also providAcquisitions support Outotec’s long-term In mineral and metal processing, ing clean energy. In 2015, Outotec sold growth strategy. We take environmenOutotec has long been an industry leadseven waste-to-energy or renewable ental, economic and social aspects into er, developing innovative technologies for ergy plants in the United Kingdom and consideration when assessing potennearly a century, and offering solutions Canada. tial acquisition targets. We also carry out that minimize our customers’ ecologiIn order to adapt to the further weakenvironmental due diligence if there are cal footprint and support their license to ened market situation, Outotec launched environmental considerations relating to operate. Our aim is to also in the future a new 70-million-euro cost structure the acquisition. lead in process technology, complementprogram in November 2015 to streamIn 2015 Outotec made four acquisied by digital solutions, and have strong line our organization and achieve further tions: Kempe Engineering’s aluminum 10 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC OUR STRATEGY technology and service businesses; Biand water-efficient tailings management both companies is nominated for each omin’s BIOX® bio-oxidation technolosolutions to the mining industry. case, and their work is coordinated by gy; Kovit Engineering’s tailings manageBy combining our newly acquired Outotec’s Strategy and M&A function. ment business in Canada; and Sinter BIOX® bio-oxidation expertise with our Acquired businesses are normally intePlant Services, who provide maintenance existing engineering capabilities and grated into Outotec’s operating model services for South African ferrochrome proprietary equipment, such as grinding and brand in line with our ‘One Outotec’ plants. mills, reactors, cooling towers and thickprinciple. The acquisition of Kovit Engineering eners, we can provide gold producers was particularly based on sustainability with complete plant solutions including reasons. The effective and safe disposal life-cycle services. of mining wastes can be technically and The integration of acquired compaenvironmentally challenging, but this acnies is done according to well-defined quisition will further strengthen Outoprocesses, templates and tools. An intec’s position as a provider of sustainable tegration team involving members of OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 11 ABOUT OUTOTEC Megatrends driving our business 12 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC Megatrends driving our business Megatrends driving our business Three billion new middle-class consumers will need vital resources such as metals and water in the coming decades. This makes it essential to optimize resource usage and build a circular economy. Greater production capacity and more resource-efficient technologies will be needed. We must also decouple economic growth from harmful ecological impacts by enhancing processing technologies to reduce pollution, by increasing energy and material efficiency, and by increasingly recycling metals and reprocessing tailings and wastes. Outotec’s management annually evaluates the global megaand minerals, and the excessive resource use that causes some trends that impact Outotec’s business, examining related risks of the world’s most serious problems, such as climate change. and opportunities to create the basis for our strategic planning. Other megatrends identified as impacting Outotec’s business Sustainability-related risks and opportunities are addressed in are: the drive for social sustainability, the digitalization of the Outotec’s routine risk management processes. world, and the more volatile macroeconomy. The six megatrends with the greatest impact on Outotec toOverall, these global megatrends appear to bring Outotec day are the same as those listed in our 2014 evaluation. Three of more opportunities than threats. The six megatrends are dethese megatrends urbanization and the growing middle class, scribed in the following table together with the related opportuthe resource efficiency imperative, and decoupling wealth and nities, risks and mitigation actions. ecological footprint relate to the growing demand for metals OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 13 ABOUT OUTOTEC Megatrends driving our business Opportunities, risks and their mitigation Opportunities for Outotec Risks for Outotec Mitigation Urbanization and the growing middle class Growing demand for minerals and Outotec’s cost structure may be too high for some Outotec’s technologies enable efficient ore metals to satisfy the needs of the new emerging countries. If we fail to keep our portfolio processing and higher yields, thanks to advanced middle class requires greater competitive, we may lose business. process control. We have developed modular processing capacity and more resource-efficient products and we are increasing the use of local methods. suppliers and best-cost-country sourcing to increase our cost-competitiveness. Resource efficiency imperative Valuable metals and minerals must be Ore grades are declining, and ores are becoming Our vast knowledge of mineralogy and process more effectively recovered, and tailings more complex. If we fail to develop new technoltechnologies together with our comprehensive and waste must be better recycled and ogies or keep our portfolio competitive, we could R&D facilities enable Outotec to test various raw processed to promote the efficient use of resourclose business. materials and develop new process solutions es. Our customers will need to replace inefficient Tighter regulation might cause customfor low-grade and complex ores, as well as for processes with new technologies and energyand ers to lose their competitiveness and cease to industrial water and effluent treatment. water-efficient solutions. Outotec can sell more operate. Customers’ operations require sufficient Outotec’s technologies renowned for their solutions for the production of metals from secamounts of water, fossil fuels, power and mineral energy efficiency and low CO2 emissions can ondary materials, such as electronic waste, scrap resources. Unfavorable changes in the availabilcushion customers against carbon taxes and metal, cabling, and battery paste or scrap. ity or prices of these commodities may lead to improve their competitiveness. As the concept of the circular economy gains the closure of some operations, also reducing ground, requirements for the efficient use of Outotec’s business. biomass and waste will increase, providing opportunities for Outotec’s waste-to-energy solutions. Decoupling wealth and ecological footprint Due to stricter regulation and Stricter laws and regulation may make certain Metals and other materials can be produced increased environmental awareness in operations unprofitable or lead to customers sustainably using modern technologies. Outotec local communities, the demand for losing their license to operate if they cannot meet offers sealed processes including gas cleaning, environmentally sound solutions, water treatment the tougher requirements. This would reduce sulfur capture and minimized energy consumpand recycling is growing, creating opportunities Outotec’s opportunities to offer technologies and tion, as well as effluent and water treatment. for Outotec’s clean technologies. services to these operations. If environmental Such solutions enable high yields and recycling regulations tighten to the degree that new mining rates. Outotec’s tailings management solutions projects are not allowed, or become economically help mining companies to solve their environmenunfeasible, Outotec will lose business. tal challenges. Outotec also offers waste-to-energy solutions that significantly reduce landfill while producing clean energy. 14 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC Megatrends driving our business Opportunities for Outotec Risks for Outotec Mitigation Drive for social sustainability To maintain their social license to If customers do not gain social acceptance or duly Outotec has set long-term objectives, and we are operate our customers are paying comply with regulations, they may be forced to continuously enhancing our sustainability permore attention to health, safety and close down their operations, reducing Outotec’s formance, governance and sustainable offering. social responsibility with regard to their employbusiness. Our advanced technologies and services fulfil ees and local communities. Outotec’s strong track The metals industry emits SO2, which has financiers’ criteria, enabling our customers to run record as a responsible partner and a sustainabilsignificant local impacts to the environment. Fine environmentally sound operations and maintain ity leader, and our inclusion in the Dow Jones particulate matter emissions to air and heavy their social license to operate. Outotec has a globSustainability Index and other recognitions, all metals in hazardous dusts and fumes cause ally integrated QEHS management system and an help customers to get financing and social health problems. Eco-toxic substances from excellent track record in safety performance when acceptance for their projects. The World Bank, for metallurgical operations impact air quality, water, providing processes and plants for our customexample, has set sustainability standards for and soils. If not appropriately used or maintained, ers. We also collaborate with our customers and investments in mining operations. Outotec’s own products also have the potential to suppliers in developing countries to contribute to harm employees, our customers’ employees or the well-being of local communities. third parties or the environment. Digitalization of the world If Outotec’s own development of software, remote Digitalization forms part of product development Digitalization, automation and monitoring, diagnostics or automation systems in all of Outotec’s product lines. We are continusystems integration offer new is not fast enough, we could lose business to ously developing our software, remote monitorpossibilities to capture value with competitors. Our business is highly dependent ing and diagnostics, as well as process design Outotec’s unique process technologies. Such on well-functioning ICT infrastructure, so any modeling, simulation and control. Our worldwide developments also enable low-cost, flexible and disruptions may affect our business. network of experts and our advanced master highly responsive interactive partnership models. data management and ICT infrastructure help The full automation of product life-cycles opens us to ensure data quality, consistency across all up new opportunities for developing sustainable business applications, and applicability in global products, systems and services. Advanced ICT operations. systems can bring business benefits including enhanced cost efficiency. More volatile macroeconomy 86% of Outotec’s business comes During downtrends, customers tend to minimize Outotec operates globally and offers solutions for from the cyclical mining and metals their investments in new processing capacivirtually all types of minerals and metals, which industry. Overall investment activity ty. Significant changes in commodity prices, reduces our dependence on any single comrates, global GDP growth, consumption of metals, currency rates or the availability of financing modity or geographical market. We are strongly the balance or imbalance in supply and demand may make customers postpone orders or cancel developing our service business and expanding for metals, capacity utilization rates, and metal projects. The lack of large customer projects can our waste-to-energy and water management prices all greatly influence Outotec’s business. significantly reduce Outotec’s sales and yearly or businesses to balance the cyclicality of the mining Our business opportunities increase substantially quarterly financial results. A volatile macroecoindustry. during economic upswings. Changes in the global nomy also hampers resource planning due to economy may boost Outotec’s businesses in some unpredictability. parts of the world and increase the demand for certain technologies or services including upgrades and modernization. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 15 ABOUT OUTOTEC Our Sustainability Agenda Our Sustainability Agenda We have defined clear and transparent targets for ourselves, and we measure the success of our sustainability work in the long run in five areas that are most relevant to our stakeholders and Outotec’s business: Safety; Sustainable offering for our customers; Responsible business practices; Sustainable supply chain; and Development of our people. Annual targets are based on short-term priorities defined to help us work towards our long-term goals. We reviewed our Sustainability Agenda our employees, customers and supplimanagement has been a prioritized deand long-term goals after a materiality ers work. velopment area for Outotec since 2010. assessment based on the G4 guidelines Our technologies and R&D have a In 2015, we defined a new long-term goal of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) central role in our operations, since for our supply chain. By 2020, all our mawas approved by the Executive Board in they represent the key means of reducjor suppliers should be committed to OuJanuary 2015. The revised Sustainabiling the environmental impacts of our totec’s Supplier Policy. ity Agenda comprises long-term goals customers’ operations. For this reason, Outotec’s business is dependent on for each of the five most material areas: developing sustainable offering for our our people, and especially on the way our safety, our offering, business practices, customers is also at the core of our susexperts think ahead. We want to make supply chain, and our people. We set antainability work. Our second long-term Outotec the most desirable place to work nual targets that are linked to achieving goal relates to providing customers with in our industry, and keep great talent these long-term goals and relate to nine even more sustainable technologies and with us. This means that we need to offer material themes. services by 2020, to help them reduce opportunities for continuous professiontheir ecological footprint through our al growth through job and task rotation. Development work driven by positive contribution. The base line year The key motivation for many experts tolong-term goals for our long-term technology-related day is a sense of fulfillment. As an enaSafety arose as the most material theme targets is 2012. bling and engaging culture is a key difin our recent materiality analysis, partWe expanded our third long-term ferentiating factor for Outotec, we aim ly as a result of deeper stakeholder diagoal, previously related to governance, to to achieve a five percent improvement in logue, and partly because our top mancover responsible business practices. In the employee engagement and perforagement saw a need to improve our this area we aim to develop strong commance enablement indices calculated safety performance and culture. Zero acmon values and a robust Code of Conon the basis of our employee surveys by cidents was set as the ultimate high-levduct as well as a solid governance struc2020, compared with results from 2013. el target for our development work, even ture. A more specific long-term goal and In the base year 2013, our employee enthough this is a very ambitious target related roadmap will be discussed durgagement index was 69 percent, and our and seldom achieved by any company. ing 2016. performance enablement index was 67 Outotec’s management believes that this Because the majority of Outotec’s percent. level of commitment to a safe working manufacturing is outsourced, sustainWe see engagement as a combinaenvironment is a necessity in the chalability along our supply chain is hightion of perceptions that have a positive lenging project circumstances in which ly important to us. Global supply chain impact on behavior, such as satisfac16 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC Our Sustainability Agenda SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA 2020 tion, commitment, pride, loyalty, a strong sense of personal responsibility, and a willingness to be an advocate for the organization. Another key element is performance enablement, which focuses on customer service and quality, involvement, training and teamwork. Performance enablement is a good predictor of customer satisfaction and business performance in the form of sales growth, market share, productivity, and profitability. These parameters are measured at least every second year in our employee surveys. Long-term financial targets In addition to the long-term goals related to our Sustainability Agenda, Outotec aims to achieve continuous profitable growth. Outotec’s Board of Directors set the following long-term financial targets in November 2014: Sales growing faster than the market Annual average service sales growth of 10-20% EBITA margin (excl. one-time costs) of 10% in 3-5 years time Dividends averaging 40% of annual net income Gearing at maximum 50% Measuring our success against annual targets The annual targets set for 2016 are linked to our efforts to work towards our long-term goals for the five areas defined as most material. We have annual targets for eight of the nine identified material themes, and we plan to discuss and define a roadmap and an annual target for equal opportunities and diversity during 2016. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 17 ABOUT OUTOTEC Our Sustainability Agenda annual targets Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved GRI Target for 2015 Performance in 2015 Target for 2016 indicator 1. Safety 4,000 completed EHS e-learning courses 8,245 e-learning courses completed New lost time incident manageG4-LA6 ment system implemented globally in major locations (NEW) Harmonized product compliance manageApprox. 60% coverage in harmonized Harmonized product compliance G4-PR1 ment procedures in use globally product compliance management management procedures in use procedures globally 2. Sustainable offering for customers EGS/order intake 90% EGS/order intake over 90% G4-EN27 (NEW) 30% less CO2 emissions through 20% less CO2 emissions through G4-EN27 the use of Outotec’s metals-related the use of Outotec’s metals-retechnologies lated technologies compared to industry average (NEW) Alternative methods for water Implement the developed water G4-EN27 recycling have been studied recycling concepts and start their commercialization (NEW) 7 additional waste-to-energy plants Reduction in use of fossil fuels G4-EN27 were sold, with a total generation by Outotec waste-to-energy capacity of over 100 MWe plants that equal 60 MWe and steam boilers that equal 60 MWth (NEW) 3. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICes Code of Conduct implementation: 80% of 73% of employees have been trained, Review Outotec’s Code of G4-SO4 personnel trained by the end of 2015 with training continuing as part of Conduct including coverage and normal business practices. human rights perspective (NEW) 4. Sustainable supply chain 95% of major suppliers committed to 92% of major suppliers were commit95% of major suppliers commitG4-EC9 Outotec’s Supplier policy ted to our Supplier policy. ted to Outotec’s Supplier policy G4-HR10 18 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC Our Sustainability Agenda GRI Target for 2015 Performance in 2015 Target for 2016 indicator 5. Development of our people 1% improvement in employee engagement Employee engagement index declined 1% improvement in employee G4-26 and performance enablement indices comby 19% and performance enablement engagement and performance pared with 2013 index declined by 6%. enablement indices compared with 2013 Outotec Experience program delivered in all The program was delivered in 7 out of G4-26 market areas 8 market areas, but then cut short for cost saving reasons. Value-based performance targets set for The concept was developed and 100% of employees conduct G4-LA11 75% of employees. 100% of employees contrainings started, but the implemenPDD duct performance development dialogues tation of value based performance (PDD) targets was postponed. Over 95% of employees conducted PDD. 6. Equal opportunities and diversity 7. Community involvement One new community project G4-SO1 started (NEW) 8. Stakeholder dialogue Customer satisfaction and loyalty Based on customer feedback, G4-PR5 survey conducted. realize corrective actions and communicate those with customers, while also communicating successes through customer cases (NEW) 9. Minimizing our own environmental impact Execution of energy audits at 5 locations Energy audits were executed and New energy-saving concept imG4-EN6 with the highest energy consumption to opportunitites identified. plemented in 5 locations (NEW) identify energy-saving opportunities 5% decrease in tonnes of CO2 emissions Total Scope 3 emissions decreased, A 5% decrease in tonnes of G4-EN19 from flights per EUR 1 million sales, however, the relative emissions CO2 emissions from flights per through increased virtual ways of working increased by 12% as sales declined EUR 1 million sales through inby 14%. creased virtual ways of working OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 19 ABOUT OUTOTEC Our contribution to the circular economy Our contribution to the circular economy RESOURCE EXTRACTION PRIMARY AND SECONDARY PRODUCTION Airborne Airborne RECYCLE emissions emissions Water Effluent management treatment METALS MINING SALTS CHEMICALS CONCENTRATES SLAG MINERAL INDUSTRIAL MINERALS METAL PROCESSING Equipment PROCESSING reuse Energy Backfill recovery PHOSPHORUS SULFURIC ACID Landfill Construction materials CO2 CO2 CO2 POWER PRODUCTION The green flow arrows represent Outotec's contributions to the circular economy. 18 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC Our contribution to the circular economy Outotec’s greatest contribution to the circular economy involves Starting from resource extraction, we use our expertise to providing resource-efficient solutions for the production of minselect the most suitable process for each ore type, aiming to erals, metals and energy. maximize metal yields while minimizing energy and water conResource efficiency is a vital building block of the circular sumption, waste and landfill. In primary metal processing, we economy. It means using the Earth’s limited resources sparfocus on methods enabling high recovery of valuable metals, ingly and sustainably while minimizing environmental impacts. energy recovery, the effective processing of impurities, effluents This requires a deep understanding of technology, thermodyand by-products, and minimized emissions. namics, chemistry, physics, economics, and all the flows of maWe also offer viable solutions for recovering metals from terials that occur from mines to refined metals and complex residues, scrap and used products. products – as well as in subsequent recycling. Our modern waste-to-energy solutions can also take us Resource efficiency essentially means capturing all materitowards a circular economy by easing two major environmenals in economically recoverable recyclates or designer wastes. tal problems: the landfilling of wastes, and the consumption of This is a rather complex task, requiring the kind of expertise fossil fuels. that Outotec excels in. RECYCLING REMANUFACTURE Urban mine MANUFACTURING USERS Reuse FERTILIZER AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION Waste-toenergy PHOSPHORUS CO2 CO2 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 19 ABOUT OUTOTEC OUTOTEC STANDS FOR RESOURCE EFFICIENCY OUTOTEC STANDS FOR RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Precious resources can be expected to become scarce as the global population grows and material living standards rise. Creating a circular economy will reduce our dependence on virgin non-renewable resources such as mined metals. It will also help us to decouple economic growth from resource depletion and environmental degradation. Outotec supports the creation of a circumay lead to depletion of the resource. plified design and modularization gives lar economy by providing resource-effiOur advanced technologies, which involve products a longer life-cycle and higher cient solutions for the producers of indigitalization, automation, closed mateend-of-life value, since modules can be dustrial minerals, concentrates, metals, rial loops, efficient water management easily maintained and replaced, meanchemicals and energy. Outotec cooperand paste backfill solutions, can help our ing there is no need to buy a whole new ated with students from Aalto University customers to maximize metal yields from product. Entire plants can also be easily during 2014 and 2015 to analyze opporthe available resources and use secondtransferred to another location. Outotunities for us to contribute to the growth ary raw materials for metals production. tec introduced the first modular plant for of the circular economy. hydrometallurgical copper extraction in Technology will be a key driver in the Resource efficiency 2013, and for flotation in 2015. transition to a circular economy. Outotec Our technologies ensure the efficient use Digitalization and remote control develops and offers favorable solutions of mineral resources, while minimizing combined with our operational and mainfor resource extraction, primary producthe consumption of water and energy, tenance services significantly improve tion, the processing of secondary raw and the generation of waste. By-products our customers’ asset performance. materials, waste-to-energy schemes, from metallurgical processes, such as and renewable energy production. Our acids, salts, chemicals and slag, are proCities as future mines greatest impact comes from providing cessed to create saleable products that Urban mining involves collecting materesource-efficient solutions for our cuscan be used as raw materials in other rials from urban elements such as used tomers. We believe that the future sucindustries. Heat generated in processes products, buildings and waste. Cities cess of the mining and metals industry is recovered and used in other processand their buildings contain substantial will depend on resource efficiency, and ing phases. Thanks to efficient effluent amounts of metals, and people living in the reuse and processing of secondary treatment technologies, releases of toxic cities use large quantities of resources. raw materials and wastes. materials from processes are carefully Discarded mobile phones and electronicontrolled. cal equipment, used cars, and municipal, Resource scarcity Outotec has developed products, proindustrial and construction waste can Ore grades are becoming more complex cesses and entire plants with modular all be considered as sources of valuable and more difficult to process. Increasing design, which makes them easier to rematerials. When more efficient methods exploitation of a non-renewable resource use, remanufacture and recycle. Simand infrastructure are established for 20 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC OUTOTEC STANDS FOR RESOURCE EFFICIENCY collecting, sorting and processing these phorus recovery can effectively process been paired with GaBi’s leading LCA softmaterials, this will create new business waste materials with high heavy metal ware to forecast environmental impacts. opportunities for Outotec and other accontent. The process closes critical metThis combination enables us to make tors ready to contribute to the circular al and nutrient cycles by turning waste rigorous analyses of the direct and indieconomy. We currently offer technologies ash into a raw material or even a ready rect environmental impacts of Outotec’s that can be used for smelting scrap that product such as phosphate or fertilizer. solutions with regard to our customcontains metals, zinc-bearing residues In cooperation with Stuttgart Univerers’ needs. It also allows us to assess and various other waste materials. In sity and KIC InnoEnergy, we have inventresource efficiency and the flows of raw combination with our integrated process ed an innovative drying-and-gasificamaterials, water, energy and wastes in control and holistic service concepts, tion process that converts waste sludge the context of the circular economy and these technologies will enable the effecand slurry into gas that can be combustrelated targets. tive recycling of metals and improve our ed to produce electricity. The process Outotec is a member of many intercustomers’ environmental performance. has an additional advantage since it also national organizations working to create generates a nutrient-rich residue as a initiatives that can replace ‘end-of-pipe’ Turning farmers into energy by-product, which can be used as fertilizsolutions with more systemic processes producers er. We have built a pilot plant in Sweden promoting clean technologies and proOutotec’s gasification and combustion to demonstrate how biomass can be efgress towards the circular economy. technologies are used in waste-to-enficiently used to generate green energy ergy plants to generate electric energy and facilitate nutrient recovery. Read more about life-cycle or heat from a wide variety of fuels such assessment of Outotec’s as biomass, sludge, agricultural and inAssessing resource efficiency technologies on page 37. dustrial by-products, and sorted municOutotec has introduced a new method ipal waste. In 2015, Outotec sold seven based on life-cycle assessment (LCA) to renewable energy or waste-to-energy quantify the environmental potential of Read about our commitment to plants to customers in the United Kingour solutions in the context of the cirexternal initiatives at dom and Canada. cular economy. Outotec’s HSC thermowww.outotec.com/sustainability Our fluidized bed technology comchemical software, which applies versabined with ash decontamination or phostile flowsheet simulation modules, has OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 21 ABOUT OUTOTEC ACTIVE STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Active stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder dialogue is identified as one Sustainability Advisory Council ronmental impacts of our decisions. The of the material themes in our materialiOur new Sustainability Advisory Council, members of the Council represent many ty analysis. In continuous dialogues with inaugurated on January 15, 2015, aims to of our important stakeholders, though its key stakeholders we particularly aim to fuel more intense stakeholder dialogue. first lineup does not include representenhance transparency. Our key stakeThe Council is not part of Outotec’s foratives of our employees, the authorities, holders include customers, employees, mal governance, or a decision-making the media or the scientific community. investors and financiers, suppliers, the body as such. However, it plays a key role In 2015 the council met face-to-face media, NGOs and local communities. We in defining materiality and consulting twice: in January and in August. In Aualso consider our planet and future genwith regard to our sustainability strategy. gust Katarina Hammar, who oversees reerations as stakeholders when evaluatCouncil members serve two-year terms, sponsible investment and governance at ing whether Outotec’s offering and operand may be reappointed twice. Nordea Bank, replaced Antti Savilaakso, ations are future-proof. The Council provides advice to Outowho resigned from the Council after takWe have set targets related to custec regarding sustainability trends, strating a new position. In September 2015, tomer surveys and local community enegies, products, services and reporting, Adam Roscoe informed us that he will gagement initiatives to measure our sucwhile also communicating stakeholders’ leave his position as Group SVP and Head cess in engaging with stakeholders. views on the economic, social and enviof Sustainability at ABB, and therefore The six Council members represent stakeholder groups with diverse interests and expectations regarding Outotec’s sustainability work. Council members from left to right: Caitlin Glynn-Morris, Corporate Manager, Community Relations and Development, First Quantum Minerals; Katarina Hammar, Responsible Investment & Governance, Nordea Bank; Liisa Rohweder, General Secretary, WWF Finland; John Hasyn, Director, Corporate Social Responsibility, Dundee Precious Metals; Anders H. Nordstrom, Group Head of Environment, ABB; Chair, Kellie A. McElhaney, Professor and Faculty Director of the Center for Responsible Business at the University of California at Berkeley’s Haas School of Business. Read the reflections of members of our Sustainability Advisory Council on pages 40, 43 and 47 22 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC ACTIVE STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS AND OUR ENGAGEMENT TOOLS · Regular meetings according to Outotec Account Management, · Regular briefings and info sessions Sell and Deliver processes · Global intranet and social media · Customer satisfaction surveys · Performance development dialogues · Joint R&D projects · Outotec Round Table · Training sessions, user meetings, workshops · O’People surveys · Seminars, conferences, trade shows · Compliance helpline · Outotec Experience events · Young Professionals network · Creating value for customers · Company values and a culture · Sustainable products that enables professional development and services · Long-term economic perspective · Social license to operate · Compliance and transparency · Joint social programs ers Emp · Quarterly briefings tom loy with customers ee · CEO’s mid-quarter us · Support for local C s Q&A sessions initiatives · Transparency and · Return on investment · Capital Markets Day NG In v cal e st o rs a n d · Joint seminars proactiviness · Long-term economic · Roadshows, O co ms a n d lioes and events · Engagement and perspective one-on-one meetings, fin a nciers m u n it · Active use of local presence · Compliance and industry seminars social media · Social responsibility transparency · Annual General Meeting and respect · Excursions to S up p li a Outotec sites di e rs Me · Annual surveys · Fair treatment · Transparency and access · Long-term partnership · Interesting stories · Economic sustainability · Walk the talk · Working according to Outotec’s Deliver process · Media briefings and interviews · Supply policy and Supplier policy · Success stories and blog postings on website · Supplier assessments · Active use of social media · Joint continuous improvement of processes · Excursions to Outotec sites · Outotec Supplier Day Stakeholder groups Expectations Engagement OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 23 ABOUT OUTOTEC ACTIVE STAkeholder DIALOGUE Representatives from Outotec and CNIA met at the annual meeting of the Chinese-Finnish Joint Working Group for the Nonferrous Metals Industry in November 2015 to discuss achievements and common targets for coming years. It was concluded that the current downturn of the metallurgical industry has opened up opportunities for companies providing sustainable and resource-efficient solutions. Anders Norström, Group Head of Envithe decisions and major restructuring We have continued the practice of ronment, was nominated ABB’s reprethat had to be realized in our organihaving quarterly live internal webcasts sentative in the Advisory Council. zation in response to subdued market where the CEO presents our financial activity. performance and other topical issues. Focusing on customers’ needs Outotec’s headcount totaled 4,948 Employees may directly ask the CEO In 2015 Outotec devised a new way to in September 2014 when the EUR 45 questions through the webcasts, and measure and manage customer satisfacmillion cost saving program started. this has become a popular way to drive tion and loyalty globally. The first survey Through the program the total number of discussions on important issues. Video was conducted in the first half of 2015, employees was reduced by 586. In addiclips, blogs and video meetings are all with a 48 percent response rate from 170 tion, the cost structure program started regularly and increasingly used in our incustomers. The survey findings indicate in November 2015 is expected to reduce ternal communications to promote diathat customers rate Outotec’s perforheadcount by 650 employees in 2016. Oulogue within our organization. mance most favorably in health and setotec offered monetary support to those Our internal development agenda for curity measures, high ethical integrity, affected, depending on the length of their engaging employees during 2015 includthe quality of Outotec technology, and the employment, as well as training proed new collaboration tools. This project quality of the equipment delivered. The grams and coaching designed to help was rolled out globally to promote effilowest survey scores relate to being prothem find new employment or consider cient collaboration across Outotec and active in solving problems, and final proentrepreneurship. with our partners. By the year-end, 84 ject documentation. Corrective actions Even in the current very challengpercent of the targeted employees were designed in response to the feedback ing market environment – and perhaps using the new tools. have already been taken, and further especially in such a situation – Outotec Our global intranet serves as a platplanning is ongoing. emphasizes the importance of a uniform for day-to-day information sharing, fied company culture, shared values, esand our new corporate social media also Engaging with employees tablished business processes, and the provide new channels for communicaThe year 2015 continued to be chalfull understanding of our strategy and tion, encouraging open dialogue. lenging in terms of employee relabusiness environment. To deliver these The Outotec Round Table event with tions, as reflected in the findings of the messages, a two-day Outotec Experi21 personnel representatives was held bi-annual Outotec employee engageence program was run globally with 581 once in 2015. The topics discussed inment survey O’People conducted in Auemployees participating in 17 events. We cluded our strategy, acquisitions, regust-September 2015. The 79 percent originally aimed to roll-out this program wards, organizational change, and interresponse rate was extraordinarily high, to all market areas during 2015, but the nal development programs. but the results were less favorable than cost structure program also put the Many of Outotec’s employees are also those of the previous survey, reflecting Outotec Experience on hold. part-owners of the company. Our em24 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC ACTIVE stakeholder DIALOGUE On September 15, 2015 Outotec’s Supplier Day event brought together around 50 representatives from our key suppliers, and 30 of our own employees. The event was run to initiate a long-term process aiming to improve competitiveness jointly with Outotec’s suppliers. ployee share savings plan, the O’Share to enhance quality, and provides guideprogram, was launched in 2013, reclines for all employees involved in supRead more about our Sustainable ognizing that competent and motivatply-related activities. Outotec’s Supplier supply chain on page 55, and ed personnel are central to the compaPolicy imposes high-level requirements supplier data on page 69. ny’s success. O’Share is a reward system for Outotec’s suppliers, and sets princithat particularly rewards employees for ples on ethical conduct, compliance with long-term commitment to the compalaws and regulations, the environment, Regular dialogue with investors ny through thick and thin. Twenty-seven health and safety, labor, intellectual propand financiers percent of employees participated in the erty and improper benefits. We expect Outotec’s approach to investor relations program in 2015 (2014: 34%). our suppliers to comply with this policy and communicating with the financial in their dealings with Outotec, their own markets is based on Finnish law, EU diBuilding long-term partnerships employees, their suppliers, and other rectives, and our policies on corporate with selected suppliers third parties. Our suppliers are also exgovernance and disclosure, as well as Outotec is determined to develop longpected to identify deviations and manage stock exchange rules and regulations. term relationships with selected supplicorrective actions transparently, aided by At the end of 2015, Outotec had ers. We have established common globsystematic communications. 33,830 (2014: 32,408) shareholders. al procedures for supplier qualification, Outotec screened 70 new suppliers Shares held in 11 nominee registers acquality assurance, continuous monitoring in 2015 prior to selection, through a doccounted for 27 percent (Dec 2014: 28%) and the joint improvement of processes umented process that applies a set of of all Outotec shares, while private Finnand practices. performance criteria. All of the compaish investors held 21 percent (2014: 19%). Two policies serve as the basis for nies that were screened were eventually Nineteen analysts conducted research Outotec’s collaboration with suppliers. approved as suppliers. We also organized focusing on Outotec. Our Supply Policy defines how supply aca Supplier Day event to improve compeIn addition to interim reports and tivities in the company should be steered tiveness jointly with suppliers. annual financial statements, the CEO’s OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 25 ABOUT OUTOTEC ACTIVE stakeholder DIALOGUE A group of South African and Chilean researchers visited Outotec in June to discuss sustainability, R&D and innovation in the mining industry. Q&A sessions continued to be an imporcollaboration with the Media operating with educational institutions. tant channel for maintaining dialogue in We interact with media representatives We also participate in local initiatives to between interim reviews, and to ensure both locally and globally to publicize our increase welfare in the countries where compliance with fair disclosure. These sustainability work. Our CEO’s quarterly we operate. audio casts aim to further clarify inforbriefings provide basic information about Outotec aims to support local promation already made public. In order to Outotec’s performance. We also organize jects that benefit communities where serve the capital market efficiently, to management interviews for journalists our major customers operate. These ensure equal access to company-related to discuss our goals, new products and community projects are based on local information, and to comply with disclonewsworthy events. We publish stories needs, and defined through dialogue with sure requirements, the audio casts are and blog postings on our website for the the local community. We aim to realrecorded and available on demand for fumedia and aim to organizae press trips to ize community projects in collaboration ture reference. Outotec’s R&D centers or our reference with our customers, using joint financing. Outotec also publishes a quarterly plants at customers’ sites to show conProjects are selected taking Outotec’s bulletin on investor relations highlights, crete examples of our work to journalists. own know-how into account, and utilizing compiling information on published orOur experts additionally meet trade it to the furthest possible extent. We aim ders, news and events. press representatives at exhibitions and to integrate voluntary work into commuIn September we were included in the conferences, and share the latest prodnity projects – both during and outside Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index uct news with them. working hours. All community projects for the third consecutive year. must bring measurable benefits to the working with NGOs and local local community. Read more about Outotec as an communities 2015 marked the second year of a investment at Outotec contributes to community partnership between Outotec and WWF www.outotec.com/investors. well-being by paying taxes, providing diFinland, focusing on promoting the green rect and indirect employment, and coeconomy and the sustainable use of nat26 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC ACTIVE stakeholder DIALOGUE ural resources. This cooperation particularly focused on Finland, although Outotec addresses the same issues globally. Outotec considers the planet Earth as one of its stakeholders, and WWF is an organization that can represent the voice of the Earth exceptionally well. As part of this partnership, Outotec and WWF organized the second national seminar on the green economy in November 2015 in Helsinki. The topical seminar attracted high-level panelists and a significant audience to discuss concrete proposals that can help to realize a green economy. Outotec CEO Pertti Korhonen was one of the panelists. The green economy and the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development were Together with our customer Dundee Precious Metals, Outotec funded the newly built dining hall at Ondudu Primary School in Namibia, and equipped its kitchen. The dining hall was the topics addressed by a round table inaugurated in November by the Honorable Ester Anna Nghipondoka, Namibia’s Deputy discussion headed by WWF Finland and Minister of Education, Arts and Culture. School meals can make a real difference to the Outotec in December 2015 – also involvlives of children in impoverished rural areas, and may even give them a decisive reason to ing 14 representatives of other compacome to school. nies, ministries, investors and institutions. According to our Donations Policy, Outotec can provide donations to global charitable projects that aim to improve climate change and dwindling natural reconcept to describe a vision for the year sustainable development and/or quality sources, while priming them to benefit 2050. The project tried to envision reof life. In 2015, the Board of Directors of from related business opportunities. sponsible and resource-efficient minOutotec authorized donations amounting In many countries we closely coopering, minerals and metals processing and to a total of EUR 70,000 to various charate with local universities and students, recycling, aiming to encourage debate itable causes. The biggest donation was often organizing events and activities that within Outotec, and to provide a starting EUR 50,000 granted to WWF Finland. Oubenefit our potential future employees. point for Outotec’s own, more detailed totec also continued to support the BalIn 2015, 23 percent (2014: 37%) of our strategic planning for the future. tic Sea Action Group’s initiatives for the operations ran local community engageOutotec has established several susrehabilitation of the Baltic Sea, and the ment programs. These activities were retainability prizes to encourage students work of organizations including the Finnduced due to the weakened financial perto apply their ideas to create practical ish Metals and Engineering Competence formance of the company. and sustainable innovations. At CenCluster (FIMECC), additionally sponsortral South University in China, Outotec ing the Millennium Technology Prize. considering Planet Earth and awarded the ten best projects promoting Outotec does not give donations to future generations sustainable design, in an annual comindividuals, political parties or pressure In addition to the key stakeholders depetition run for the third time in 2015. groups, religious organizations or any orscribed above, we also consider the planWe also sponsored sustainability prizes ganizations showing or encouraging any et Earth and future generations as our awarded at the University of Melbourne, type of prejudice regarding race, sex, restakeholders. Australia, and the South African Institute ligion or other factors. A project initiated by Outotec in 2014 of Mining and Metallurgy’s Mineral ProOutotec CEO Pertti Korhonen continat Finland’s Aalto University continued cessing Symposium. ued to serve as Chairman of the Board during 2015, involving students from diof Finland’s Climate Leadership Counverse academic backgrounds ranging Read also about our cil. Outotec is a founding member of the from engineering and metallurgy to busimemberships and commitment Council, which aims to boost the comness and the arts. We facilitated a workto external initiatives at petitiveness of Finland’s business sector shop in January, and in June students www.outotec.com/sustainability. and research organizations, by helping presented a comprehensive picture of the them prepare for the threats posed by future of mining, using a “Four Worlds” OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 27 ABOUT OUTOTEC topics that matter most topics that matter most Based on ongoing dialogue with our Outotec conducted a review of materiThe scope and aspect boundaries for al sustainability topics in 2014. Potenthe material topics were then evaluated, key stakeholders, and considering the tial topics were identified together with and relevant GRI indicators were chosen economic, environmental, and social an external partner based on a previous by Outotec’s sustainability specialists. impacts of our operations, we have materiality assessment in 2011, as well The results of the materiality assessas management interviews, a review of ment were validated by Outotec’s Execudefined nine sustainability topics that sustainability trends impacting the intive Board in January 2015. Based on the are particularly important for Outotec dustry, and stakeholder feedback. We materiality assessment, the topics that mapped all of the relevant economic, enmatter most for Outotec are: either from a risk management or a vironmental and social impacts that can 1 Safety value creation point of view. influence stakeholders’ perceptions of 2 Sustainable offering for customers Outotec. 3 Responsible business practices The identified aspects were initially prioritized in a Sustainability Work4 Sustainable supply chain ing Group workshop, and then validated 5 Development of our people in the Outotec Leaders’ Forum, where 6 Equal opportunities and diversity about 100 of Outotec’s leaders shared 7 Stakeholder dialogue their views on the topics. Finally, the results of the materiality assessment were 8 Community involvement reviewed and verified by external advi9 Minimizing our own sors representing our stakeholders in environmental impact Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Council. The first five of the nine material themes, and eleven G4 aspects identified as material, were chosen as the most significant issues for Outotec’s business. These issues are all reviewed in detail in this report. 28 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 ABOUT OUTOTEC TOPICS THAT MATTER MOST 3 2 Level of concern to stakeholders 5 8 4 7 6 9 Current or potential impact on Outotec Material theme G4 material aspects Aspect boundaries 1 Safety Occupational health and safety, Customer Outotec’s employees health and safety,Training and education Subcontractors at project sites 2 Sustainable offering for customers Energy and emissions, Customer health and Customers’ operations safety, Compliance Outotec’s operations 3 Responsible business practices Compliance, Environmental grievance Outotec’s operations and products mechanisms, Occupational health and Suppliers safety, Customer health and safety, Grievance mechanisms for impact on society, Non-discrimination, Anti-corruption, Local communities 4 Sustainable supply chain Environmental grievance mechanisms, Subcontractors at project sites Occupational health and safety, Grievance Suppliers mechanisms for impact on society, Anti-corruption, Emissions 5 Development of our people Training and education Outotec’s employees Subcontractors at project sites 6 Equal opportunities and diversity Non-discrimination, Compliance Outotec’s employees Suppliers 7 Stakeholder dialogue Local communities Outotec’s key stakeholders 8 Community involvement Local communities, Grievance mechanisms Outotec’s local offices and project sites for impact on society 9 Minimizing our own Energy and emissions, Environmental Outotec’s operations environmental impact grievance mechanisms OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 29 MATERIAL THEMES SAFETY SAFETY Safety arose as the most material theme in Outotec’s materiality analysis, partly as a result of deeper stakeholder dialogue, and partly because our top management saw a need to improve our safety performance and culture. Zero accidents is the ultimate target for Outotec’s occupational health and safety and product safety work. Outotec enables all employees and subcontractors working under our responsibility to work safely, by providing all the necessary procedures, instructions and training. Material themes The five most material themes are presented in detail on the following pages. Equal opportunities and diversity are described in the section Development of our people. Stakeholder dialogue and Community involvement are reported in the About Outotec section. Minimizing our own environmental impact is reported in Environmental performance in the GRI and data section on page 70. 1 Safety 2 Sustainable offering for customers 3 Responsible business practices 4 Sustainable supply chain 5 Development of our people 30 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES SAFETY Working to achieve zero accidents Outotec’s occupational health and safety principles are defined in our Code of Conduct and Quality, Environment, Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy. Outotec’s management is committed to continuously enhance our safety performance. Outotec’s certified, globally harmonized QEHS management system covers 38 locations (2014: 34). It defines the procedures, work instructions and form templates to be used in our global business processes. Key elements in the management system include: compliance with legislation, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001; identifying and minimizing health and safety risks; preventing incidents; recording and investigating occurred incidents; personnel training; and the continuous improvement of our QEHS performance. In 2015, Outotec’s Executive Board decided that the longterm target for our safety work will be zero accidents. We primarily measure our safety performance by the Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR), though we also collect data on near misses. Our EHS reporting covers Outotec employees and any of our contractors’ and partners’ employees who work under Outotec’s direct supervision at Outotec premises and at those customers’ premises that have been contractually agreed to be under Outotec’s responsibility during delivery projects, operation and maintenance work and process and equipment tests. Furthermore, our reporting covers Outotec products and services delivered by us during their entire lifetime, including demolition. To respond to the obvious need for people to improve their safety behavior, act according to our globally defined procedures, and use Outotec’s health and safety templates, our work in 2015 focused on the training of our employees. Altogether 8,245 EHS e-learning courses were completed by our employees globally. These courses covered EHS risk assessment, EHS reporting, and different types of high risk work. We also started to regularly report on our safety performance as part of our CEO’s quarterly internal webcasts. We will continue EHS training, and our target for 2016 is to implement a new Incident Management System in our major locations globally. Any of our employees may report incidents by filling in a form in our intranet. Local QEHS managers facilitate incident investigations and follow up to ensure the resulting actions are completed. A global QEHS committee was established to discuss and agree on our annual targets and development agenda, to follow up implementation, and to act as a link to our top management. The QEHS committee has representatives for quality, environmental and safety management, product compliance, operational excellence, communications and human resources, as well as an employee representative. The committee held its first meeting in August 2015. Our local health and safety committees monitor actions, collect feedback, and discuss health and safety issues in their respective locations or projects. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 31 MATERIAL THEMES SAFETY Safe products for our customers cleanliness. All Outotec’s project and service specialists follow Outotec has a mandatory Product Compliance Management our customers’ safety regulations when working on site. From process to ensure that all products engineered and delivered the occupational safety standpoint, the greatest risks are assoby the company meet the applicable safety standards during ciated with assignments in countries where awareness of safe each phase of their life cycle. working practices is low and occupational safety culture is Compliance with legal requirements is the prime concern underdeveloped. In such countries our employees are instructin Outotec’s product compliance management. Outotec mained to follow Outotec’s own occupational safety principles. tains an extensive database of product compliance procedures Employees whose work involves installation, commissionand documents used during business processes including the ing, maintenance, or general site operations related to plants, development, sales and delivery of our products and services. equipment or services delivered by Outotec, are trained regWe measure our performance by calculating the percentage of ularly in health and safety matters and the use of protective our products and services covered by health and safety impact equipment. The objective of this training is to induct employees assessments. in hazard identification, risk assessment and required control Outotec’s products include equipment, processes, enactions, to prevent any harm, and to improve practical collabotire plants and services. Equipment and services delivered ration between the customer’s and supplier’s organizations on by Outotec fulfill safety-related industrial standards such shared sites. as ISO 12100 and IEC 62061 for the safety of machinery, and During 2015 Outotec audited the safety practices and perall the European directives relevant for safe process plants formance of the service sites acquired with Kempe Engi(e.g. 1997/23/EC, 2009/105/EC, 2006/42/EC, 94/9/EC (ATEX), neering in Mozambique, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. 2004/108/EC, 2006/95/EC, IEC 61508 and IEC 61511). ProceSafety performance was found to be very good at the auditdures for detecting hazards such as explosion, fire, and lighted sites, with the exception of small deficiencies in documenning, and subsequent IEC 61882 HAZOP studies and SIL Allotation. The Maputo site in Mozambique recently reached one cation Assessments, are mandatory at Outotec. In equipment million LTI-free working hours. The new sites will take Outodesign all our engineers use the SafExpert risk assessment tec’s safety procedures in use, and the full QEHS system will tool to ensure that the equipment fulfills all relevant safety be implemented in 2016. standards. Outotec’s employees often travel in challenging circumNo fines were imposed in relation to non-compliance with stances and high risk countries. Outotec has a medical and selaws and regulations regarding the use of Outotec products curity services agreement with the global service provider Inin 2015. ternational SOS to ensure the security and well-being of our We provide relevant information to our customers about employees. This 24/7 service covers all Outotec employees and the impacts of our products and services, including their enerservice providers for emergencies that occur during business gy consumption, emissions, metal recovery, and water usage, trips. Through the related Medical Alerts and Travel Security as well as safety information provided according to industry Online service, our employees can also find information about standards. Safety issues form an integral part of our operadisease risks and other health, safety and security issues, as tional manuals for industrial processes. Outotec manuals well as high risk countries. The rule is that employees should cover the entire life-cycles of the products delivered, in line check before their trips the risk level and required security and with the IEC 82079-1 standard. This means they contain inforhealth mitigative actions. In 2016 we plan to compile global stamation on transport, installation, operation, maintenance and tistics on yhe numbers of employees visiting and working in decommissioning. In addition, we offer our customers mainhigh risk countries. tenance services as part of a wider package. We also routinely provide safety training for our customers as part of our prodNew Lost time Incident Management System uct training services. To enable efficient health and safety reporting, Outotec develBy the end of 2014, more than 90 percent of Outotec’s oped a new Lost Time Incident Management System in 2015. managers were involved in the product compliance training This system enables incidents to be reported utilizing an easyprogram and in 2015 we continued with the training of our to-use web tool. The system then documents incident investigaproduct line managers. The majority of our offices use harmotions and the actions required to remove the root causes of the nized product compliance management procedures. incidents. This makes it easier to follow up corrective and preventive actions. Safety in field operations The new Lost Time Incident Management System was sucThe safety of our employees and contractors is an important cessfully piloted in Germany, Sweden and the Turula manufacaspect of Outotec’s field operations at customers’ sites. Outoturing unit in Finland. Since the system enables the reporting of tec’s project managers are responsible for the site activities of near misses and unsafe situations, it will facilitate the planning Outotec and our sub-contractors, including the management and follow-up of many improvement actions. We now plan to of environmental issues, safety, systematic practices, and take the system into wider use in 2016. 32 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES SAFETY Awards for our work with ilmenite smelter construction site in customers Saudi Arabia. This excellent safety reOutotec has a good track record of cord in challenging circumstances QEHS performance in large customer stretches back to the day Outotec first projects, and the company has received started to work in this desert site two several awards from customers related and a half years ago. to safety. This reflects our commitment The Aprimin Association of Mining to enhance safety performance and Suppliers in Chile granted Outotec its culture. Safety Award 2015, after we reached Together with the multiple subconone million hours with zero accidents. tractors under our control we achieved This is the third consecutive year Read more about our health a milestone of eleven million safe and Outotec has received such recognition and safety performance on accident free work hours at Cristal’s in Chile. page 69. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 33 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable Offering for customers Sustainable Offering for customers Our contribution towards overcoming the world’s environmental challenges is made through our products and services, which enable our customers to run environmentally sound, profitable and socially acceptable businesses. In this sense our handprint – or our positive effect in terms of sustainability – is bigger than our footprint. Our solutions utilize primary resources efficiently and minimize ecological impacts by reducing energy and water consumption, and producing less waste and emissions – while also cutting operating costs. We additionally offer solutions for processing secondary resources. Outotec’s world-class technologies and services for entire value chains for processing ore into refined metals, for producing Read about how we calculate our renewable energy and waste-to-energy, and for industrial water handprint on page 44. treatment, allow our customers to make the best possible use of limited raw materials. Customers are increasingly looking for safe solutions to produce more with less, reduce costs, manage Primary production of minerals and metals their water and effluents, recover energy, minimize emissions Although metals and minerals, once extracted, have a very and waste to landfill, and turn their side streams into saleable long usage life-cycle and are close to 100 percent recyclable, products. their production is often linked to negative impacts on the enWith our broad technology and service portfolio, as well as vironment. As a provider of technologies and services for these long expertise in designing and delivering plants, processes and industries, we see our role as an essential contributor to posispecial equipment for the world’s major resource companies, tive change. we can offer sustainable solutions to meet our customers’ speOutotec’s technological developments have the potential cific needs. to reduce the environmental impacts of a large number of inOur long-term targets relate closely to our handprint – we dustrial operations worldwide. However, even if customers use aim to offer more sustainable technologies and services to our Outotec’s best available technologies in mineral and metal procustomers with less harmful impacts on the environment by cessing, they may have improper operational practices or less 2020. We measure our success through four indicators: sustainable technologies in use at the same time. Industry in1. The share of Environmental Goods and Services (OECD defivestments have a lifetime of decades. Outotec also provides nition) in our order intake, which we aim to keep permamachinery, spare parts and services to old industrial plants that nently at over 90 percent. According to our self-assessment, may, despite modernization initiatives, still have a significant as much as 90 percent (2014: 90%) of our order intake in negative impact on the environment and human health. There2015 qualified as Environmental Goods and Services. fore, through our customers’ operations Outotec may indirect2. The emissions avoided by our customers through the use of ly be involved in environmental damage, including the contamfive Outotec technologies. We aim that the CO2 emissions of ination of soil or water, or public health effects. To reduce the customers using our solutions should be at least 20 percent industry’s negative impacts, Outotec also offers solutions for less than the industry average. Emission reductions are diequipment upgrades and plant modernization, as well as perrectly proportional to energy savings. formance and long-term operation and maintenance services. 3. The amount of fresh make-up water/tonne of ore in non-ferOutotec’s advanced tailings management solutions and mine rous metals concentrators. We aim to achieve a reduction of backfilling technologies help customers to rehabilitate mine at least 50 percent from 2013 levels through our solutions. sites. 4. The amount of energy produced through our waste-to-energy In mineral and metal processing, energy consumption is the solutions, which we aim to double compared to 2013 levels. most significant cost item, and the main reason for CO2 emis34 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable Offering for customers The Sewage Sludge Incineration Plant in Switzerland designed by Outotec operates as a self-sustained process, without external fuel. It can produce a surplus of electrical power or heat, and complies with all emission standards. sions. Outotec designs sealed processes that utilize the enerhierarchy, smart product design linked to an economically viable gy contained within the raw materials. In 2015, the emissions system of physical separation and metallurgical processing will avoided by the metallurgical industry through the use of five minimize the need to resort to the undesirable landfill option. Outotec technologies amounted to 6.6 million tonnes of CO2 Many products that we as consumers eventually abandon equivalent (2014: 5.9 mt CO2-e ). These technologies are our ferare highly important in terms of metals recycling. Outotec aims rochrome process, copper flash smelting, alumina calcination, to provide technologies and optimized systems that can miniceramic filters, and the co-generation of electricity in the ferromize landfill. Landfills will nevertheless remain an important chrome process, where Outotec’s carbon monoxide filter enapart of the system, since they ensure that materials which canbles the use of process gas in direct electricity generation. not be further processed under present economic conditions are contained well to ensure they do not harm the environment. Read about Going for gold sustainably on page 38. Read our blog posting about using secondary resources at www.outotec.com/en/About-us/Blogs Metals from secondary resources Moving towards the circular economy means recovering more Water management and effluent treatment metals from residues, scrap and used products. At Outotec we Outotec has developed solutions for efficient water managehave a technology mix and deep knowledge to tailor-make sysment in the mining and metals industry, and we are continuoustem solutions to treat a wide range of feed materials, for both ly working to develop new concepts to meet various customer primary minerals from geological mines and secondary maneeds. terials containing minerals sourced from the urban mine. The Water streams in the mining industry are very complex and challenge in using secondary raw materials is the complexity of always site-specific, as the composition of constituents is rethe raw material, which may include a mixture of alloys in diflated to the ore itself and to the processing of the ore. Typical ferent physical forms, as well as electronics, plastics, oil, fluids, impurities in wastewaters include metals, arsenic, sulfate and textiles, metals, glass, sand etc. Several different technologies chloride. Due to the complexity of wastewater streams and the must be smartly integrated to maximize the economically viable high concentrations of sometimes toxic impurities, expertise recovery of multiple materials and energy. is needed not only in effluent treatment technologies but also Outotec’s TSL and Kaldo smelting technologies have the in mineral processing technologies. Firstly, the treated water valuable capability that they can recover various metals into difshould be of high enough quality that it can be recycled back ferent phases, while utilizing the energy content of the noninto the mineral processing facility, and thus reduce fresh water metallic materials in smelting and/or as reductant. Outotec’s consumption. Secondly, the selected effluent treatment process hydrometallurgical solutions can then produce refined metals should be efficient and reliable, so that the mining company can and materials from these intermediates. Considering the waste securely meet the requirements of environmental permits. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 35 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable Offering for customers Outotec’s solutions may include the optimization of waIMPROVING PERFORMANCE THROUGH ter management in entire mines, including concentrator sites. LIFE-CYCLE SERVICES This can involve minimizing fresh water consumption and waste A significant impact on a plant’s sustainability can be achieved generated by water treatment, as well as implementing water through life-cycle services and technological improvements. reuse and recycling practices. Our paste plant technology for Based on a site-specific performance assessment, Outotec mineral concentrators and effluent treatment of metallurgical identifies improvement areas and offers a solution for optimum processes are proven solutions. In addition, we have developed plant performance and return on investment. Equipment upa process for managing sulfate, which is a common and growgrades and plant modernization, as well as long-term operaing challenge in the industry. The Outotec Ettringite process tion and maintenance services ensure that the plant will run precipitates sulfate and calcium, thereby lowering the scaling smoothly, safely, and efficiently with minimum environmental potential and total dissolved solids (TDS) content in the treated impact at all times. water, while also removing many other impurities, such as metals, within the two to three step process. Companies that strugOffering development gle with sulfate within their processes or in their environmental Thanks to our vast experience and our in-house research and discharge streams are now able to flexibly control the sulfate technology centers in Pori and Lappeenranta in Finland, and content with this new process, and thereby curb the TDS conFrankfurt in Germany, we have the capability to test and scale tent in their water streams. up processes designed for varied and increasingly complex raw materials, while also developing new processes and concepts. Renewable and waste-to-energy solutions In technology development, Outotec focuses on increasing We offer renewable energy and waste-to-energy systems that resource efficiency, for example, by reducing energy and water can treat over 200 different biomass fuels – from waste wood to consumption and the environmental impact of products and the lignin sludge generated during bioethanol production. services. Our key areas of expertise include physical separation, In addition, we have developed an efficient solution to exploit chemistry and thermodynamics including pyroand hydrothe energy and nutrient potential of certain farmyard wastes metallurgy, as well as gas-handling technologies. The company and sewage sludge. This solution combines Outotec’s fluidalso has extensive knowledge of material technology, plant and ized-bed-based biomass incineration technology and the ASH equipment engineering, equipment and process automation, DEC process, which cleans the ash from biomass/sludge incinand the implementation of large international projects. Dureration and converts the phosphate into a bio-available fertilizer ing the bi-annual Outotec Technology Days held in November compound. 2015, Outotec awarded several teams and individuals on their Nutrient run-off from large animal farms today represents a achievements in technology development. major threat to the sea and groundwater reservoirs. ImproperIn 2015 Outotec’s new Dewatering Technology Center was ly managed manure also results in harmful atmospheric emisinaugurated in Lappeenranta, Finland. The center is dedicated sions. To address these problems, Outotec cooperated with KIC to developing new products, processes and services to facilitate InnoEnergy and LIFE+ organizations to build a new pilot plant in solid-liquid separation and raw material reuse during the entire Sweden in 2015. The plant enables renewable energy to be genlife-cycle of processing plants. erated efficiently from human and animal bio-waste, and allows In recent years, Outotec has developed modular plant confor high recovery of nutrients. Outotec’s dryers and gasification cepts and launched several new products based on these contechnology can now be used for sewage sludge, farmyard macepts, such as the modularized VSF®X Plant for copper solvent nure and biomass slurries in renewable energy applications. extraction, a modular hydrometallurgical precious metals proOutotec’s bubbling fluidized bed combustion technology is a cess, and the cPlant for flotation of ores. Modular design proproven solution for turning waste into energy and disposing of vides a novel way to create, manufacture, transport, install, opsolid or liquid by-products. We can ensure that strict emission erate and maintain a plant with environmentally sound and safe limit values set by municipal and federal governments are met, methods, and lower total cost of ownership. In 2015 Outotec’s by applying a combination of gas cleaning measures adjusted VSF®X plant was selected for the International Mining Technolaccording to the fuel designated in the overall process design. ogy Hall of Fame for its environmental benefits and innovative In 2015 Outotec sold seven such waste-to-energy plants to cusdesign. tomers in the United Kingdom and Canada. Cooperating with universities, research Read also Waste-to-energy technologies in institutes and authorities demand, on page 41. Outotec has been very actively involved in response to the call made by the European Institute of Innovation and Technology 36 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable Offering for customers Outotec’s new Dewatering Technology Center in Lappeenranta, Finland was inaugurated in September 2015 (EIT) for proposals relating to the Raw Materials Knowledge and ronmental impacts of our technologies, and typically cover the Innovation Community. One of six Co-location Centers of the EIT extraction of raw materials, as well as the production, use and Raw Materials KIC will be on the Otaniemi campus in Espoo, disposal of the equipment/process/plant in question. Finland. Not having production units of its own has driven Outotec Our expert representatives in both the EU’s technical workto conduct screening LCAs using design parameters, e.g. from ing group and an environmental working group of the FedOutotec’s HSC Sim process modeling software and basic engieration of Finnish Technology Industries enabled Outotec to neering data. In fact, these data sources allow a fair comparicontribute to the finalization of BREF best available technique son already in early design phases, which can help customers reference documents on non-ferrous metals. BREF documents to choose a more sustainable process option. Furthermore, this are created for authorities involved in the implementation of mitigates the risky comparison with data from public environthe EU Industrial Emissions Directive, which deals with pollumental databases for which the boundary conditions for mining, tion prevention and control. Outotec also participates actively in crushing, location, energy mix and other aspects are not always the technical secretariat of the EU’s Operational Environmental precisely defined. Footprint Sectoral Rules (OEFSR), piloting for copper. Most recently, Outotec carried out a comprehensive LCA for Outotec was also involved with the work of the International the modular cPlant for the flotation of ores or tailings, aiming to Copper Association’s Health, Environment and Sustainable Deunderstand and discover ways to minimize the plant’s environvelopment Steering Committee, and the European Technology mental impact. The LCA studied the impacts in terms of globPlatform – Sustainable Minerals Resources High Level Group. al warming, eutrophication, acidification, photochemical ozone depletion and water consumption. The results clearly indicate Read about our commitment to external initiatives at that the electricity consumption in the use phase of the cPlant www.outotec.com/sustainability is clearly the dominant flow, contributing to more than 90 percent of the plant’s overall impact on global warming with given assumptions. Life-cycle assessment of Outotec’s technologies As a service for the customer, Outotec is able to provide eiAs a response to the increasing need to study the quantitative ther early phase screening LCAs for the basis of making an inenvironmental impacts of producing metals, Outotec has convestment decision based on basic engineering data, or more ducted life-cycle assessment (LCA) screening studies for sevdetailed LCA studies to be conducted later, when the actual proeral of its technologies. These LCAs evaluate the potential envicess data is available. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 37 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS case Going for gold – sustainably Extracting valuable gold from complex ore deposits can be highly costly and challenging, but harmful impacts and resource use can be minimized by carefully applying specially devised technologies. Gold is one of the most useful metals due to its special proply 20 percent of the world’s current gold projects, and a third of erties. It conducts electricity, does not tarnish, is very easy to upcoming projects, are seeking to extract gold from complex rework, alloys with many other metals, and can be melted and fractory ores. It is vital to find treatment processes that are both cast into intricate shapes. Gold is increasingly used in the maneconomically viable and environmentally sustainable. ufacture of electronics and computers, and the aerospace and medical industries, as well as for jewelry. Comprehensive life-cycle solutions Demand for gold is sure to increase as society requires “With our recent acquisition of Biomin’s BIOX and ASTER techmore sophisticated and reliable materials. Since few substinologies, Outotec can now provide all three of the main techtutes are available, and supplies are limited, the value and imnologies used to pre-treat gold ore as sustainably as possible: portance of gold can therefore be expected to increase steadily. pressure oxidation, roasting and bio-oxidation. In addition, we But can it be produced sustainably? have technologies for the recovery of gold from anode slimes One of the most challenging issues facing the gold processin copper refineries and secondary materials,” explains Mikko ing industry is to find ways to effectively recover gold while minRuonala, responsible for Business Development Gold. imizing the consumption of energy and water, and ensuring that “Our customers will benefit from our ability to define the residues are sustainably handled. The ore deposits under exmost feasible solution for processing gold all the way from the ploration are increasingly of the more complex ‘refractory’ type. ore to the refined metal. We can supply all necessary technolThis means that their gold content can only be extracted through ogies under one roof, which reduces costs, and simplifies the leaching processes after the ore is carefully pre-treated. Roughengineering and procurement phase. By combining our pro38 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS cess expertise with our engineering capabilities and proprietary ASTER enables the safe treatment of process solutions containequipment, such as grinding mills, reactors and thickeners, we ing cyanide and thiocyanate, which are broken down by bactecan provide gold producers with complete, sustainable plants. ria, enabling water to be recycled back upstream to the plant or With long-term operational and maintenance services, the ensafely discharged. vironmental performance of a plant can be further improved,” Environmental legislation on the treatment and disposal of says Ruonala. cyanidation tailings and water discharges is becoming increasingly stringent, so there is an urgent need for this kind of safe A wide range of treatment options alternative to conventional chemical processes, especially in No single technology is optimal for the treatment of all ores, arid and semi-arid regions where the recycling of precious waand the choice of the best process depends on many technical ter is even more important in mining operations. and financial parameters. Exploitable gold ores have two main “From an environmental point-of-view ASTER is also a very mineralogies: oxidized ore, which contains ‘native’ gold; and important technology, as it offers a low cost alternative to the sulfide deposits that contain ‘refractory gold’. Outotec’s process more traditional chemical processes for the treatment of consolutions include comminution, flotation, pressure oxidation, taminated process solutions,” adds Ruonala. roasting, leaching and recovery with analyzers and automation systems. Tailings and effluent treatment are an integral part of Gold from slime environmentally sound process solutions. Anode slime from primary copper production is a very valuaTogether with mining companies, research institutes and ble secondary resource, as it contains gold, platinum and othuniversities, Outotec has participated in the ‘Tools for sustainaer valuable elements. Leaching, pyrometallurgical processing, ble gold mining in the EU’ program to develop more sustainable reduction and refining technologies are used to produce an alsolutions for gold processing and related water management. loyed mixture of precious metals known as ‘doré’. Gold can be In refractory ores, gold is locked within sulfide minerals leached and precipitated from the gold mud produced in the making these ores unamenable to conventional cyanide leachsilver electrorefining process. In hydrometallurgical processing ing without pre-treatment. Outotec offers two proven pre-treatdifferent components are separated utilizing sequential leachment options, pressure oxidation and roasting, to convert the ing, precipitation and filtration steps. refractory or double refractory ores into easily and effectively leachable form. Following the pre-treatment by pressure oxidaNew modular concepts tion or roasting, Outotec can provide gold recovery technologies Outotec has recently introduced a modular hydrometallurgias an integrated process solution including cyanide detoxificacal process that enables the cost-effective recovery of precious tion and tailings disposal. metals with low environmental impact. The process can be According to Ruonala, Outotec’s newly-acquired BIOX adapted for a variety of different applications and combined with bio-oxidation technology provides a useful alternative pre-treatother precious metal technologies. The resulting high-grade ment step for the treatment of refractory ore. In this biologisilver and gold can be melted and cast into ingots or granules, cal process bacteria are used to break down the pyrite mineral while impurities can be converted into saleable products such matrix in the ore, making the gold available for recovery using as selenium, copper telluride and lead sulfate, to improve operconventional cyanide leaching methods. BIOX thus provides a ational profitability. complementary alternative to the more conventional roasting Such developments show how Outotec is actively seeking and pressure oxidation technologies already available in Outomore sustainable ways to go for gold. Although the gold protec’s portfolio. cessing industry still has far to go before it can become truly sustainable, safe ore pre-treatment methods are particularly Safe treatment of cyanide essential when it comes to minimizing environmental impacts One problem related to conventional gold extraction methods while ensuring that recovery rates make projects economically concerns the use of cyanide, a highly toxic substance whose use viable. “If the optimal pre-treatment technologies are not used, is banned in a number of countries. Outotec’s biological process then projects cannot be feasible,” concludes Ruonala. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 39 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS Reflections of members of Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Council John Hasyn Liisa Rohweder Director Secretary General Corporate Social Responsibility WWF Finland Dundee Precious Metals Liisa plex than in the past. Elevated levels of John In some 30 years there will be 2 billion impurities, such as arsenic, will become It seems that Outotec’s business model more people on this planet. The global the norm. Sustainable technologies that allows both big picture strategic posimiddle class will have 2 to 3 billion new deal with the processing and handling of tioning, and a focus on grassroots levmembers. Today humanity consumes impurities will become all the more imel engineering issues. It is like a ‘zoom natural resources at a rate that would portant. Technology that enhances yields lens’ that has the ability to see issues require 1.5 planets to provide them. If without the use of toxic substances, such both wide angle and in close-up. At first we continue with business as usual we as cyanide, is in focus. Effective ways of glance, Outotec’s mission ‘Sustainable will need 3 planets to meet our needs by handling and managing waste will also use of the Earth’s natural resources’ may 2050. This means that business as usubecome paramount. Outotec is well posiseem like a paradox, but after a closer al is not an option if we want to keep our tioned to be a leader in these important look it makes sense. Outotec’s approach planet suitable for human well-being. shifts. to the application of sophisticated sciWith growing and wealthier populaence, engineering and technology to retions and increasing industrial appliLiisa solve some of the complex paradoxes in cations, demand for gold will probably John’s view of the future is challenging today’s world is unique. grow. In order to minimize the need to and interesting. From the demand perturn the ground and the ecosystems on it spective, elements of the circular econupside down to get this gold, we need to omy provide solutions for managing the take every action to manage demand for need for gold. It will be essential for exgold. It’s also a question of allocating example to prolong product life cycles, reisting above ground gold reserves. use products as far as possible, recover gold from end-of-life products, and John design products to be recyclable. In orOutotec is bridging the gap between der to perform to the maximum, totally old world gold mining, where methods new solutions that can extract gold from have not changed for centuries, and new previously discarded waste materials or world constraints. In the coming years, lower grade ores are also needed. This is most ore deposits will be far more comwhere Outotec comes into play. 40 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS case Waste-to-energy technologies in demand Refuse derived fuel (RDF), which is created by removing all recyclable and non-combustible materials from solid municipal waste, can be efficiently combusted in Outotec’s fluidized bed boilers. Modern waste-to-energy solutions can help to ease two major environmental problems by reducing both the landfilling of wastes, and demand for fossil fuels. Outotec’s technologies can greatly facilitate this favorable utilization of recovered wastes. The main fuels used in waste-to-energy schemes include muA waste-to-energy hotbed in the UK nicipal solid waste (MSW), refuse derived fuel (RDF), solid reOver the last few years a perfect storm has been brewing in the covered fuel (SRF), construction and demolition waste, sewage UK energy market. A combination of changes in government sludge, organic wastes from wood processing industries, and subsidies and growing demand for green-and-clean energy agricultural wastes such as manure and harvesting residues. have helped to make the UK a hotbed for waste-to-energy proIn a future circular economy, combustion will not be the optijects. Outotec has been well positioned to strike while the iron mal way to use wastes, since the recycling of their material conis hot, receiving orders for seven waste-to-energy or renewable tent will be preferable. But incinerating waste to generate energy energy plants six of them from the UK with a total value of can in the meantime still help to reduce the amounts of waste more than €150 million over a period of just nine months. going to landfill, while also curbing demand for fossil fuels. “The UK energy market is quite unique,” says Dr Mika SaaOutotec’s advanced combustion solutions can enable a wide riaho, Outotec’s SVP for Energy & Environment. “The global range of biomass and waste materials to be used efficiently as energy market at the moment is very challenging, because the fuels, in plants that can be sustainably run and maintained. prices of electricity and oil have gone down. But there are alOUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 41 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS Over the next few years six new waste-to-energy plants using Outotec’s fluidized bed technology will start running in the UK. ways good opportunities for us where governments and the lo“We are able to optimize benefits and minimize risks by cal authorities are promoting green and clean energy.” leveraging the extensive knowhow we have built up over the BP’s Energy Outlook 2030 spotlights renewable fuels as the years,” explains Saariaho. “Our more than 100 waste-to-enerfastest growing energy source, with annual growth averaging gy and bioenergy plants around the world utilize more than 250 7.6 percent from 2011 to 2030. By offering a complete life-cydifferent fuel sources, and we also have a lot of experience with cle solution together with performance guarantees, Outotec has ‘difficult fuels’ such as RDFs.” been able to give customers the peace of mind they seek when selecting a green technology partner. Ash to cash “Particularly in the UK, to get the subsidies that make these Saariaho describes Outotec’s ASH DEC ash decontamination projects feasible you have to be able to demonstrate and give process as a good example of a fluidized bed technology that absolute guarantees that the technology works, and that tarperfectly complements the company’s other waste-, sludgegets for greenhouse gas emissions will be met,” explains Saaand biomass-to-energy solutions. Treating ash with ASH DEC riaho. “The robustness of our technology and our experiences creates fuels that can be efficiently utilized regardless of their with different fuels have also been major factors. We have also heavy metal content. The process closes critical metal and nubeen able to demonstrate a complete technology solution for trient cycles by turning the waste ash into a new product or raw the whole life cycle of any new plant.” material. As long as the product value exceeds the process costs, ASH Proven technologies DEC can create welcome savings in landfill disposal, and faciliOutotec’s proven bubbling fluidized bed combustion technology is tate the separate storage of materials that may become scarce an environmentally favorable option for the generation of energy and expensive in the foreseeable future. The application of this and the disposal of solid or liquid by-products. Outotec can guarprocess is not limited to ash. A specially designed process variantee that strict emission limit values set by the municipal and ation was successfully tested for removing cadmium from phosnational authorities will be met, by applying a combination of gas phate rock, and many other applications are conceivable. cleaning measures adjusted to suit the fuel in question, and more This kind of flexibility exemplifies how Outotec’s wide-rangthan 60 years of experience in fluidized bed technology. ing experience facilitates the development of innovative soluOutotec’s sewage sludge incineration systems are industions that can promote the recycling of materials as targeted in try-leaders, thanks to our long track record in bubbling and circircular economy thinking. culating fluidized technologies. A state-of-the-art fluidized bed sewage sludge incineration plant can operate as a self-sustaining process, without external fuel, producing a surplus of electrical power or heat, and fully complying with emission standards. 42 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS Reflections of members of Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Council Katarina Hammar Kellie A. McElhaney Senior ESG-Analyst Professor Responsible Investments Haas School of Business Nordea Asset Management University of California Berkeley Kellie Health and safety have a high prioriTrends in regulation and internationThe waste-to-energy topic links strongty from our environment, social and goval climate change processes are shaping ly with the newer concept of the circular ernance (ESG) perspective. What kind of the waste-to-energy business horizon. economy, and with core resource effihealth and environmental risks might Predictability is crucial for business, and ciency. This gives it incredible imporwaste-to-energy plants cause, and how this is an important message for regulatance and value. Societies need two-fold are those risks mitigated? Comparisons tors and decision makers. strategies, involving re-using waste, inwith other energy sources would also ofcluding energy use, as well as reducing fer interesting information. These are poand avoiding waste. tential next aspects for Outotec to highlight. Katarina Two interesting topics meet here in a Kellie fruitful way. Societies and businesses I agree with Katarina. From an impact need to transform to a more low carviewpoint it is also interesting to consider bon direction, and waste is an issue what kind of economical and social valcalling out for solutions. The combinaue waste-to-energy generates for local tion of these two issues opens interestcommunities and societies in a broader ing business opportunities for Outotec. perspective. Less waste and a more flexWaste-to-energy is also a good portfolio ible local energy supply are likely bendiversifier, as Outotec’s business enviefits. What kind of human impact does ronment in minerals and metals is chalwaste-to-energy leave? lenging. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 43 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS case Demonstrating the benefits of Outotec’s products by calculating our handprint To show our stakeholders how well Outotec’s products and services help the environment, we need to accurately calculate their handprint – in terms of quantifiable positive impacts – as well as their negative footprint, including impacts along the entire supply chain. Wherever companies operate in the metal supply chain, it is and our supply chain. This is a strong statement that must be becoming increasingly important – and often essential – to be backed up by verified data. aware of the environmental impacts of their upstream suppli“We have worked for many years to calculate the impacts of ers, and to provide similar reassurance about their own activour technologies in ways that can be assured by a third party,” ities to customers downstream. To facilitate compliance with explains Dr Ilkka Kojo, Director of Sustainability and Environever tougher legislation and to meet environmentally aware ment at Outotec. Life-cycle assessments (LCAs) can be useful consumers’ needs, large companies, financers and governtools, though even the best LCA databases are often based on ments are increasingly demanding audit trails of entire supply industry averages. chains, as well as verifiable figures that demonstrate a compaIn the steel industry, Outotec’s technology is used only in ny’s environmental benefits. one part of the process, whereas published figures for producWhen at Outotec we proudly say that our handprint is largtion and environmental impacts cover entire plants. In certain er than our footprint, we mean that the positive impacts of our areas such as copper production, however, it is possible to get products and services on the environment are demonstrably detailed, reliable and comparable information on environmental greater than the negative impacts generated by our operations impacts from producers or research institutes. 44 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS OUR positive impact is greater than the emissions of our operations and supply chain Emissions avoided 6,600,000 TONNES CO2-e through the use of five Outotec technologies: • Ferrochrome process 33,584 • Copper flash smelting TONNES CO2-e • Alumina calcination • Ceramic filters Greenhouse • Co-generation of electricity gas emissions from Outotec’s operations “Industry data is also to a certain extent publicly available in producers’ sustainability reports, which helps us in data col345,000 lection. However, for certain technologies the publicly available data tends to be massive, complex, and seldom comparable. For this reason we have been able to get reliable reference data for five Outotec technologies so far,” adds Kojo. What makes goods and services green? TONNES CO2-e Outotec’s benchmark is the definition of environmental goods and services (EGS) made by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). This definition covers goods and services used to measure, prevent, limit, minimize or correct environmental damage to water, air and soil, as well greenhouse gas emissions as problems related to waste, noise and ecosystems. EGSs thus of our supply chain OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 45 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS include cleaner technologies, products and services that reduce ment, and that there are no formal procedures in place for environmental risks, minimize pollution and curb resource use. OECD EGS evaluations by independent institutions – or for EGS Outotec has worked with the Finnish consultancy Insinöörilabeling,” says Kojo. toimisto Ecobio to devise methodology for assessing our tech“To verify our handprint in practical terms, we also calculate nologies against the EGS criteria. the emissions avoided through the use of Outotec technologies, Kojo explains that four key questions need to be answered and the ecological footprint of our own operations and supply when assessing a specific technology against these criteria: chain,” adds Kojo. “We have calculated the carbon dioxide (CO2) Does the technology reduce negative environmental impacts? emissions from the use of five significant Outotec technologies, Does the product reduce the need for resources or energy? Is combined this information with production data, and then comthe service or product clearly meant for an environmental purpared it with emissions from other corresponding technologies pose? Or does it provide a solution to an environmental protecon the market.” tion problem? Using this methodology Outotec’s technologies can be diTangible net benefits vided into three categories: those that are clearly EGS technolThese calculations have resulted in a figure for the CO2 emisogies; those that may qualify as EGS technologies depending on sions avoided through the use of the five Outotec technologies their application; and non-EGS technologies. These definitions during 2015, amounting to 6.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivacan then be applied in-house to determine the proportion of lent (CO2-e) emissions avoided. This figure and the calculation new orders placed in any reporting year that qualify as EGSs. method have been assured by a third-party auditor. “Our classification of our sulfuric acid plants provides a When it comes to calculating our carbon footprint it is imgood example of how we assess technologies. If a plant proportant to look at our whole supply chain. Using supply chain duces acid using by-products from a smelter, this is clearly an emission factors defined by the UK Department for EnvironEGS technology as it is used for pollution management; but in ment, Food and Rural Affairs together with figures for Outotec’s the case of sulfur-burning based acid production, we define the spending, we were able to calculate that the footprint of our plant as ‘maybe EGS’,” says Kojo. supply chain amounted to 345,000 tonnes of CO2-e in 2015. The “Orders cannot be classified as EGS orders if the technolocarbon footprint of Outotec’s own operations is relatively small gies do not include the latest favorable acid production techin comparison, amounting to 33,584 tonnes. nologies. Such technologies include Outotec’s improved HEROS Comparing all these figures reveals that our handprint is heat recovery systems, and our LUREC technology, which almuch greater than our footprint. Such tangible evidence of falows the treatment of gas containing higher levels of sulfur divorable environmental performance can give us a vital competioxide (SO2), and enables better SO2 recovery rates than conventive edge, and benefit all of our stakeholders. tional technology.” Environmental goods and services dominant in Outotec’s offering The calculations revealed that as much as 90 percent of Outotec’s order intake in 2015 qualified as EGS. “It must be emphasized that this whole approach requires self-assess46 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSToMERS Reflections of members of Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory Council Anders H. Nordström Caitlin Glynn-Morris Group Head of Environment Corporate Manager ABB Community Relations and Development First Quantum Minerals Anders Anders expectations are with regard to further From the perspective of an industry peer, The report gives a good indication of the emissions reductions. For example, it environmental calculations are an imporaccuracy of methodology, which is cruwould be great to gain a deeper insight tant and increasingly advanced issue. On cial. Classifying order intake according concerning how employees can continue the other hand, it is of the utmost importo the OECD’s EGS evaluations seems to reduce emissions by improving their tance that Outotec demonstrate awarereasonable. It is also convincing that Ouown systems, and how the company enness of their environmental impact, as totec has calculated the carbon dioxide courages these extra steps. they are serving controversial businessemissions from the use of five signifies. We are also interested to see what cant technologies and compared them Anders Outotec is able to calculate, and how. with emissions from other corresponding Outotec’s policy is to take a bold sustaintechnologies on the market. As a develability approach backed up by sensitive Caitlin opment suggestion it could be beneficial handprint and footprint analysis. Having Outotec’s handprint concept speaks well to explain how crude comparison betechnologies that help their customers to the company’s subtle yet meaningful tween the company’s handprint and footto improve is tremendously valuable for commitment to understand and miniprint is in practice. Outotec. They gain additional credibility mize the environmental impact of their by also doing the same in Outotec’s own business. With a global handprint like Caitlin operations. Outotec’s, I am impressed that the most Outotec shows strong commitment and senior levels of management take corputs a lot of effort into gathering and reporate responsibility seriously and have porting on environmental data. We would taken active steps to actually be more like to have a better sense of how they sustainable. loop back with their employees on what the data means, and what the company’s OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 47 MATERIAL THEMES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES We aim to take economic, environmental and social responsibility into account in all our activities according to our core value commitment to sustainability. Achieving sustainable financial performance was in focus in the challenging year 2015. For us, being a responsible business partner means that we fully respect laws and regulations, have solid governance practices, manage risks effectively, and behave ethically according to our code of conduct in all our relationships. Governance is often considered to be a governance issues we ensure that our • Creating Leading Technologies. This matter of mere compliance. However, we employees in each Outotec location are means creating technology breakbelieve that the way how sustainability sufficiently empowered to operate effithroughs and leading the way, seeing is managed and governed makes a big ciently and as guided by Outotec policies. change and complexity as opportunidifference. We have a clear hierarchy of ty, leveraging our expertise, encourethics guidance and decision making on Building on common values aging innovation and rethinking as sustainability issues. We want to encourage everyone at Outowell as leading in sustainable techEverything we do is first and foretec to consider their actions through one nology. most based on our mission and values. simple question: “Is this sustainable?” • Building Success Together. This Our everyday work is guided by our Code In addition to our core value of commitmeans pursuing our mission, buildof Conduct and other detailed policies. ment to sustainability, we have three valing long-term customer and supplier Through training and active dialogue on ue statements: relationships, trust and respect, celebrating success together, taking care of life balance, leveraging diversity, and acting with courage. Aspiring • Aspiring for Excellence. This means for Creating Building leading continuous improvement every day, excellence success technologies setting the bar high, challenging together the status quo, growing and renewing ourselves as individuals, staying humble and adaptive to learn, finding out what good looks like and flourishing in what we do. Ensuring good governance We have been developing a solid governance structure to ensure good governance, effective risk management, adequate controls, and the internal audit principles to support them. We follow the most recent Finnish Corporate Governance Code for listed companies issued 48 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES by the Securities Market Association to may not have been disclosed to Outotec ing and monitoring procedures. The Exavoid possible conflicts of interest. Outoby the customers or local communities. ecutive Board is responsible for defintec’s corporate governance is described ing and implementing risk management in more detail in our Corporate GovernRead more about safety and processes, and for ensuring that risks ance Statement 2015 at www.outotec. product compliance on page 30. are taken into account in strategic plancom/cg. Read more about how we favor ning and operative business. The manOutotec endorses ethical business local suppliers on page 57. agement evaluates strategic enterprise practices and complies with national and risks in the annual strategy process, and international laws and regulations. We makes mitigation plans at least once a have zero tolerance for corruption and The key role of the Board of year. Our Business Units, Markets Unit non-compliance with our Code of ConDirectors with market areas and global functions duct. At the end of 2015, the Board of Directors are responsible for achieving their straOutotec was not subject to any corof Outotec consisted of seven members, tegic targets and for mitigating and manruption-related suspicions in 2015, did all of whom are independent. Two of the aging risks with support from our risk not have to pay any fines, and was not Board members are female. One of the management, contract management and exposed to any non-monetary sanctions Board members is a Canadian citizen, internal audit function. for non-compliance with anti-corruption and the other members are Finnish. Outotec’s strategic and operational laws, competition laws or regulations, or The work, duties, composition and risks are described at www.outotec.com/ any environmental laws. committees of the board are described investors, and the company’s risk manHowever, Outotec was subject to a in our Corporate Governance Statement agement policy, responsibilities and promarket position investigation in China by 2015. The Board of Directors conducts an cesses are set out in our Corporate GovThe Price Supervision and Anti-Monopoly annual evaluation of its operations and ernance Statement 2015. Bureau of the National Development and working methods. During 2014 –2015, Outotec’s proReform Commission of the P.R. China In 2015, the Board of Directors’ speject risk management tools have been (NDRC), in September 2015. The investicial focus areas have related to current renewed to improve project risk mangation was closed after Outotec cooperchallenges in the macroeconomic enagement in the sales and delivery phasated with NDRC to submit the requested vironment, cost efficiency, project risk es. The key objective of the process is to further information. management, Outotec´s organizationidentify and manage risks and opportuOutotec has a Product Compliance al structure and long-term strategy. The nities intelligently and transparently. It is Management process to ensure that the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee fonot only about avoiding risks, but about products and services engineered and cused especially on project-related risk recognizing and managing them at an delivered by the company worldwide reviews and on Outotec’s internal risk early stage to reduce or avoid negative are reliable and meet all applied safety management systems and internal conimpacts. standards during all phases of the prodtrols. Project risk management at Outotec uct life-cycle. We follow negative impacts The remuneration of board memcovers all stages of a project starting in and incidents through our QEHS manbers is described in Outotec’s Corporate the sales phase and continuing through agement system and product compliance Governance Statement on pages 10-13. the bidding, negotiation, and execution management system as well as customThere is no correlation between the comphases up until the end of the warraner feedback collected after each major pensation for board members and Outy period. delivery and through customer surveys. totec’s social or environmental perforIdentified risks and mitigation measOutotec has not identified any signifmance. ures are documented in risk assessicant negative impacts of its operations ments, which are then used as a basis or products on employees’ or suppliers’ Our approach to risk for specifying appropriate follow-up achealth and safety or labor practices, or management tions. These actions may include the on local communities. During 2015 no isOutotec operates in accordance with the abandonment of a proposal to a customsues emerged concerning the rights of company’s own enterprise risk manageer. Outotec’s internal audit system aims indigenous people. ment policy, which specifies the objecto verify that the company’s operations However, after completion of the protives, principles, operating procedures, are efficiently managed and profitable, ject delivery, the possibility remains that organization and responsibilities of risk and that risk management and internal information on indirect negative impacts management, as well as related reportcontrols are at a sufficient level. Our inOUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 49 MATERIAL THEMES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES ternal audit function reports administraand QEHS. We additionally have a sustainthe economic, social and environmental tively to the CFO and, in matters relatability working group, who coordinate the impacts of our decisions. The Council is ed to the internal audit reports, directly work and meet several times a year. not part of Outotec’s formal governance. to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee Outotec’s Sustainability Advisory In 2015, the Sustainability Advisory Counand the CEO. Council, established at the end of 2014, cil met twice. Outotec’s internal and external audit advises the company regarding sustainSustainability related personal tarprocesses take into account any corrupability trends, strategies and reporting, gets are included in the annual bonus tion suspicions and fraudulent acts that and gives input on how stakeholders view plans of Outotec’s QEHS, environmental may occur. Training sessions are held in connection with audit activities at our market area operations to train employees in anti-corruption policies and procedures for the purpose of preventing misconduct and crimes, and virtual training Board of sessions on anti-corruption are available Directors to all employees. In 2015, specific audits were conducted in our Sub-Saharan Africa and Middle East market areas, covering our company-wide delivery process, and for our Moroccan service projects. Follow up audits CEO were also run for our supply function and Executive our Indian and Russian offices. Board Read more about the Board’s work, internal controls and auditing in our Corporate Governance Statement 2015 at Sustainability Technology and Head of Legal www.outotec.com/cg. & CR Advisory Council Product Board CTO Managing sustainability Outotec’s Executive Board is responsible for our sustainability agenda. The Executive Board approves the sustainability Working group strategy, targets and reporting. Our General Counsel, who is a member of the Executive Board, has had overall responSustainability aspect sibility for corporate responsibility since October 2015, when the former Head of Marketing, Communications & Corporate Responsibility left the company. ResponPeople Supply chain Governance Strategy Head of Head of Human Head of and compliance sibility for sustainable products and serHead of Legal Strategy Resources Supply vices lies with the Technology and Prod& CCO uct Board, chaired by the CTO. Decisions, actions and commitments are reported to the Board of Directors. Sustainability is integrated into all QEHS Economic Investor Communications Head of Relations Head of relevant organizational functions, such as QEHS CFO Head of IR Communications Human Resources & Communications, Supply, Legal & Contract Management, 50 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES and sustainability managers and severand the Head of Human Resources. tection of internationally proclaimed hual Executive Board members. Inventors During 2015 we saw increased acman rights, and this commitment is reworking with new, patentable solutions tivity through the compliance helpline flected in our Code of Conduct. We are also receive monetary rewards for their in our Sub-Saharan Africa and Middle committed to treating people with dignity, inventions. Furthermore, Outotec reEast market areas, where we held classand every individual is equally entitled to wards all employees for making proposroom-training sessions on our Code of enjoy human rights without discriminaals that improve the sustainability of the Conduct and compliance topics. This has tion. We do not provide goods or serviccompany’s internal processes. clearly encouraged people to contact the es that we know will be used to carry out Our Code of Conduct, which we deCCO with their questions and concerns. human rights abuses, and we work tofined on the basis of our values in 2012, During 2015 the compliance helpline was wards the effective abolition of the use of gives everyone at Outotec ethical guidalso opened in Germany, and our German compulsory, forced or child labor. ance on many issues. The Code of Conpersonnel received virtual training on the Outotec joined the United Nations duct has been approved by the Board of Code of Conduct and anti-corruption isGlobal Compact Initiative in December Directors and communicated to employsues. 2010, and we are committed to its prinees through e-learning and classroom We will continue to promote the comciples. training sessions since 2013. pliance helpline during 2016, with a speOutotec does business globally, and By the end of 2015, a total of 3,527 cial focus on retraining our employees has acquired companies in countries employees had completed training on the on the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption where human rights risks are widely recOutotec Code of Conduct, correspondand other compliance topics through our ognized. As part of the integration of the ing to 73 percent of our personnel. In ade-learning platform. Focus areas will inacquired companies in 2015, Outotec has dition, a total of 3,645 employees have clude building trust in the compliance been providing training on its global policompleted virtual training on anti-corsystem and raising awareness in differcies, Code of Conduct and labor practicruption; 3,082 employees on competition ent locations. es to the employees and local managers law and 3,366 employees on intellectual We follow up on our performance of acquired companies in the Middle East property rights. by monitoring the number of filed, adand Africa. dressed and resolved grievances about In 2015, as a preliminary step toRead our Code of Conduct at labor practices or impacts on society. Alwards conducting human rights assesswww.outotec.com/sustainability. together 17 registered cases (2014: 21) ments at Outotec, we commissioned a were brought to the attention of the CCO Master’s thesis study assessing current directly or through the compliance helpdrivers in relation to the implementation Compliance helpline for line during 2015. of human rights at Outotec. The study raising concerns The majority of these cases related involved interviews with selected repOutotec’s Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) to employee and management relations, resentatives of Outotec’s key functions, reports directly to the Board Audit and conflicts of interest, or compliance with and set out a plan for human rights imRisk Committee on a quarterly basis reinternal policies and processes. In adplementation and assessment. Outotec garding any material compliance cases dition, one serious forensic case arose, will consider conducting further human and developments. where investigations and actions are rights assessments in future, taking into Outotec has a compliance helpline ongoing. During the year we also saw a consideration the challenging financial available to both internal and external clear increase in cyber fraud attempts, in situation. We will also continue to supstakeholders. This helpline enables line with global trends. port and advance human rights in our anyone to raise concerns or seek advice Our external stakeholders have not operations and in dealings with our busiregarding ethical behavior or Outotec’s used our compliance helpline on Outoness partners. During 2016 we will parCode of Conduct. All compliance contec’s website. ticularly review our Code of Conduct from cerns raised are treated confidentially, the human rights perspective. and there is a clear no retaliation policy Read about our work on equal against anyone raising a question or conopportunities and diversity on Financial performance cern in good faith. More severe complipage 57. DETERIORATED ance cases may be submitted to OutoOutotec’s approach to economic sustaintec’s Compliance Board, which consists ability is demonstrated by our long-term of the Chief Compliance Officer, the GenRespecting human rights financial targets involving continuous eral Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer Outotec supports and respects the progrowth and profitability. Robust business OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 51 MATERIAL THEMES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES allows us to pay dividends to our shareDIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED FOR STAKEHOLDERS holders, salaries to our employees, and taxes to governments. Due to the weakened market situation, Outotec’s financial performance further deteriorated in 2015. The total order GENERATION OF ADDED VALUE intake remained on the previous year’s level, but sales contracted because customers initiated fewer investment pro+ CUSTOMERS – SUPPLIERS jects and made slower progress on existSales Cost of goods, materials and ing projects. services purchased Our 45 million euro cost savings proEUR 1,201.2 million EUR 745.6 million gram launched in 2014 reached its gross cost reduction targets, but its net effects were diluted by lower than planned resource utilization, currency exchange effects, and extraordinary IPR litigation costs. = EUR 455.6 million As profit before taxes was negative, the Board of Directors proposed to the Annual General Meeting that no dividend would be paid to shareholders from 2015. To adapt our operations to the accelerated weakening of markets, Outotec launched a new cost structure program OUTOTEC in November 2015 aiming to reduce fixed costs by EUR 70 million during 2016. The total wealth created by Outotec in 2015 was EUR 455.6 million (2014: 457.8 million). Our total procurement spend was EUR 745.6 million (2014: 944.8 million), a 21 percent decrease compared to DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE 2014, mostly due to fewer large customer projects. As a buyer of goods and services we play an important role in supporting local businesses. This generates employment and drives socio-economic development in local communities. In 2015, 43 percent of our customer-related purchases were sourced locally. At the end of 2015, Outotec’s market Employees Public sector Creditors Shareholders capitalization was EUR 623 million (2014: Wages Direct taxes Interest on debt Dividends 803 million). and salaries and borrowings EUR 353.4 million EUR 1.7 million EUR 12.9 million EUR 18.1 million 52 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES Fair and non-discriminatory tax policy Country Effective income tax, % As a globally operating company, Outotec faces a Australia 30.0 variety of tax laws and regulations. InternationAustria 25.0 al taxation is not always an easy environment in which to navigate, but our principle is clear: we Brazil 34.0 want to pay the right taxes in the right places. We Bulgaria 10.0 aim to be transparent and non-discriminatory in Canada 25.8 our tax practices. Our Board of Directors has deChile 35.0 cided on an approach in which no aggressive tax China 25.0 planning is done, nor will Outotec maintain any leFinland 20.0 gal entities in the so-called tax havens, unless a Germany 29.2 justified business reason arises. Currently there are no such entities. Ghana 25.0 In 2015, Outotec paid a total of EUR 3.3 million India 33.1 in taxes (2014: 30.3 million). Our average effecIndonesia 25.0 tive tax rate was 25.1 percent (2014: 28.7%). The Kazakhstan 20.0 tax rate tends to vary depending on the geographMexico 30.0 ical distribution of sales, which in turn is affected Mongolia 10.0 by our product mix and the locations of customer Morocco 30.0 projects. The table on the right lists the tax rates Mozambique 32.0 affecting us in the countries where we operated in 2015. Namibia 33.0 There has been extensive public discussion Netherlands 25.0 about total transparency on taxes paid in individNew Caledonia 30.0 ual countries. Outotec delivers large projects, and Norway 27.0 in some countries there may be only one project Peru 28.0 ongoing. Revealing country-specific financial inPoland 19.0 formation in such cases could breach our commitQatar 10.0 ments concerning access to project-specific confidential information. Also, the destinations of our Russia 20.0 sales typically do not correspond with the places Saudi Arabia 20.0 in which the work and activities connected to the South Africa 28.0 sales are performed, where value is created, and Spain 28.0 where the income must be reported and taxes paid Sweden 22.0 based on globally applied tax principles. For these Turkey 20.0 reasons, we do not believe that providing counUnited Arab Emirates 0.0 try-specific tax information would give a compreUnited Kingdom 20.0 hensive picture of the fairness of the tax distribution in Outotec’s case. United States 38.0 Zambia 35.0 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 53 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable supply chain 54 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable supply chain Sustainable supply chain 80 percent of Outotec’s manufacturing is outsourced, so sustainability along our supply chain is highly material to us. In the current weak market situation, we have focused on developing a cost-competitive supply base without compromising on product quality, safety and sustainability. Our supply chain management covers both Outotec’s own operations and those of our suppliers. Our Supply function manages the supplier base through sourcing category management, while also leading and developing sourcing activities for customer deliveries that are executed through locally-based purchasing. Outotec has two main policies serving as the basis for collaboration with suppliers. Our Supply Policy steers supply activities throughout the company, defines ways to enhance supply quality, and sets out guidelines for all people involved in supply-related activities. Our parallel Supplier Policy imposes strict requirements on Outotec suppliers and defines our principles on ethical conduct, compliance with laws and regulations, environment, health and safety, labor, intellectual property and improper benefits. We expect our suppliers to comply with this policy in their dealings with Outotec, their own employees, their suppliers, and other third parties. Suppliers are expected to ensure compliance with Outotec policy, identify any deviations, manage corrective actions, ensure the transparency of these actions, and communicate with us systematically on such issues. We measure our performance by calculating the percentage of new suppliers screened using labor practices, environmental and human rights criteria. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 55 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable supply chain Focusing on supplier selection gineering companies, construction comscreened using quality, labor practices, Since some 80 percent (2014: 85%) of panies and other service providers. In environmental and human rights criteria. Outotec’s manufacturing is sourced from addition, thousands of our direct suppliAll the screened companies met our criexternal suppliers, supplier selection is ers’ own suppliers form part of Outotec’s teria and qualified as new suppliers. of key importance in our business. supply chain. The majority of our direct Most of our suppliers are based in Outotec gives performance guarantees suppliers are either component or equipFinland, Germany, Australia, Sweden and for the plants and processes we delivment manufacturers. Brazil. Outotec has also developed bester to our customers. We are also natuBecause Outotec delivers large taicost-country sourcing in China, India, rally responsible for the equipment and lored solutions, the set-ups and comEastern Europe and Mexico, and negomaterials supplied, as well as the engibinations of suppliers vary a great deal tiated new agreements and prices with neering, construction and service work from one year to the next, which makes European suppliers. Our global supply provided by our suppliers and subconit difficult to run joint long-term develophub concept, which had earlier been tractors. ment programs with them. Outotec had planned to consist of three supply hubs Our suppliers include distributors, approximately 3,400 active direct sup– China, India and Mexico – was changed component manufacturers, equipment pliers in 2015 (2014: 3,500). Out of 380 in 2015, leaving China as our only globmanufacturers, logistics companies, enpotential new suppliers, 70 (18%) were al supply hub. The company has also 56 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES Sustainable supply chain strengthened its capabilities to handle sition of Sinter Plant Services in DecemIndia, and 2 percent in Mexico. We have quality control, expediting and logistics in ber 2015 has brought us a small spare dedicated supply persons in each of our China and India. parts manufacturing facility in South AfMarket Area offices, whose task is to The cost-competitiveness of our rica. The share of our own manufacturing perform Supplier Assessment and Approducts is of crucial importance in the has increased from previous years. This proval Processes carefully and make obcurrent weak market situation. Improvis mostly due to a reduced order backlog servations during audits and other visits. ing cost efficiency without compromising in a weak market situation, the realizaDuring 2015 we updated our proon product quality, safety and sustaination of more manufacturing in-house, ject risk assessment process and tool, bility was the main challenge for supply and new acquisitions of manufacturing and also tested them in larger sales chain management in 2015. The allocacapacity. cases. The super users and facilitators tion of more business to fewer suppliers Outotec’s manufacturing facilities are were trained, and the training of sales enables better management and develrelatively small. They all have local qualand project implementation personnel opment partnerships, in turn enhancing ity, health and safety systems in place, will continue in 2016. The feedback from delivery excellence and cost competitiveand they duly manage, sort and process project managers and teams has mostly ness. their wastes. No notable risks relatbeen positive, and risk assessments have ed to the use of child labor or forced or provided our management with impor43% of spending on local compulsory labor have been identified in tant information about major risks and suppliers Outotec’s own manufacturing units. The planned mitigation actions. In addition, We define “local suppliers” as supplidue diligence process applied during aca major training event was organized at ers who we do not manage globally, and quisitions covers labor practices, human Outotec House in Espoo, Finland, to inwho are located in a country other than rights and environmental criteria. crease awareness of potential risks in Finland and Germany, where Outotec’s supply chain among personnel responsitwo global plant delivery hubs are locatMitigating risks along ble for procurement. ed. Spending on local suppliers contribthe supply chain utes to local employment and regionWe have nominated Supplier Account The carbon footprint of al development. Outotec’s supply chains Managers to work with our most imour supply chain are characterized by logistic complexity, portant global or local suppliers. These In 2015, we continued to analyze the especially those that combine global propersons are responsible for facilitating footprint of our supply chain in terms of ject deliveries and purchases from local collaboration between Outotec and the greenhouse gas emissions. Calculations suppliers. suppliers across and above individual were based on Outotec’s spending and Our spending on local suppliers projects. This procedure enhances visisupply chain emission factors defined in 2015 amounted to EUR 270 million, bility, alignment and the management of by the UK Department for Environment, equivalent to 43 percent of our total supsupplier-related risks, while also improvFood and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). ply spend. The largest shares by country ing overall collaboration between Outotec The analysis showed that the biggest – each amounting to EUR 10–70 million – and individual suppliers. sources of CO2 emissions in Outotec’s were spent in Sweden, Australia, Russia, The main sustainability-related risks supply chain were metal products, repChile, USA, China and the United Arab identified in our internal workshops inresenting 40 percent of the total. In 2015, Emirates. The remaining local spend was clude bribery and kickbacks, occupathe carbon footprint of our supply chain, distributed among 50 countries. tional safety, protecting information and at 345,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent We estimate that 20 percent (2014: reporting misconduct. With regard to (2014: 386,000), was considerably larger 15%) of Outotec’s manufacturing and asenvironmental issues, material toxicity than the footprint of Outotec’s own opersembly took place in the company’s own and chemicals were ranked as the greatations, which amounted to 33,584 tonnes manufacturing workshops and assemest risks. In addition, we have identified of CO2-e (2014: 34,787). bly shops. The acquisition of Kempe Enthree countries in our supply chain with gineering in May 2015 brought three new potential risks regarding child labor, hazSee also the supplier data workshops to the company, focusing on ardous work, or rights to exercise freeon page 69. service operations and the manufacdom of association or collective bargainturing of spare parts close to customing. These countries are China, India and er sites in Mozambique, Qatar and the Mexico. In 2015, 3 percent of our supUnited Arab Emirates; while our acquipliers were based in China, 2 percent in OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 57 MATERIAL THEMES DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE The year 2015 continued to bring new challenges for Outotec employees. To adapt the company’s operations to the further weakened market situation, Outotec was compelled to launch a new cost structure program to follow the earlier EUR 45 million cost saving program that resulted in more than 500 redundancies globally. Despite the many challenges, our people remain committed to enhance Outotec, and we have planned various actions to improve employee engagement and satisfaction. 58 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 59 MATERIAL THEMES DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE Several rounds of restructuring in pretop leadership. A special emphasis will ues and behave in line with them in their vious years had an impact on employee be put on building engagement, spirit everyday work. We also encourage our engagement. According to our bi-annuand trust, even in these uncertain times. employees to set themselves behavioral al employee survey O’People, conductEmployee events and change managedevelopment objectives through PDDs ed in September 2015, all our key human ment activities will support these acwith their line managers. These objecresources indexes – employee engagetions. The O’People Challenge campaign tives provide a concrete tool for manment, performance enablement and job has been launched to promote local acagers to give structured feedback and satisfaction – declined. The Employtions and share success stories. Teams support employees in their personal deee Engagement index fell to 56 percent can challenge each other to share their velopment. (2013: 69%); the Performance Enablecommitments, actions and stories, by ment index was 63 percent (2013: 67%); posting short video clips in our internal Professional growth and the Job Satisfaction index decreased social media. Progress will be measured Outotec’s main development initiatives in to 61 percent (2013: 67%). in the O’People surveys in 2016. 2015 were strongly linked to our five straThese weaker results represent a tegic programs. A new Project Manager serious message for Outotec, and we Performance management curriculum was developed as part of our have already taken action in response. More than 95 percent of Outotec employDelivery Excellence program, and a sales The results have been discussed by all ees have engaged in performance develdevelopment assessment was conducted our management teams and in different opment dialogues (PDD). During 2015 we as part of our Customer Focused Sales locations in facilitated employee workfurther improved our performance manprogram. shops. The high 79 percent response rate agement practices. A new component, The Project Manager curriculum has to the survey nevertheless shows that Outotec value-based behaviors, was embeen designed to support the professionour employees are committed to help us bedded into the PDD process in order to al growth of project managers. It conenhance Outotec. enhance Outotec’s value-based culture. sists of three different levels from junior All leaders are held accountable for Related training was initiated, but due project manager to project director, and planning actions, taking corrective action to our new cost structure program the focuses on commercial project managebased on results, and continuously folplanned wider training was put on hold in ment and leadership. Training modules lowing up on actions. All our top leaders the fourth quarter of 2015. are supported by on-the-job learning, also made personal commitments relatOutotec’s values are the foundation self-reflection and e-learning. During ing to the results in the Leaders’ Forum, of our strategy, and we want to ensure 2015 approximately 50 project managers an annual event that brings together our that all employees are aware of our valcompleted the program. One of the highlights of the Outotec Experience training was a session where participants wrote postcards with personal messages of thanks and recognition to colleagues near and far. 60 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE An assessment of sales competencto facilitate access to learning opportuproximately 350 of our employees were es was carried out in the autumn 2015 to nities, and the creation of new tools for sent on international project assignidentify Outotec’s strengths and developsupporting the design of high impact dements, with an average length of three ment needs in sales and sales managevelopment initiatives. Many development months. The fact that we employ over 70 ment. Based on the results, personal deactivities including induction, leadership, expatriates in 16 countries is an imporvelopment objectives were set for each languages, ICT and project management tant indication of Outotec’s investment in participant. training were run locally in Outotec’s on-the-job learning and knowledge sharOutotec also continued to offer classMarket Area offices. ing around the globe. room or virtual classroom training on In addition, Outotec is continuing to Outotec’s Spare Parts team tested products and technologies, global Outofocus on on-the-job learning. Our menshort-term job rotation during 2015 to tec business processes and QEHS. Outotoring concept is being rolled-out in endorse change and development within tec has a strong portfolio of product and different locations. In 2015, a second their organization. The program involved technology training, from introductory mentoring program was organized in six job positions, with participants make-learning to advanced training on speFinland with 14 mentor-mentee pairs. A ing extended business trips of approxicific products, product groups or techcross-company mentoring program with mately four weeks as job swaps between nologies, and these modules are con13 participants was successfully completChile, Australia, US, Peru and Finland. tinuously enhanced. In 2015, special ed with KONE Corporation. Feedback from participants was very emphasis was put on the internal marJob rotation opportunities are propositive, and there are plans to continue keting of our training offering, measures moted within Outotec. During 2015 apthe program in 2016. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 61 MATERIAL THEMES DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE Leadership development and the world. Since the start of the program talent management in 2014, nearly 770 of our employees Outotec’s leadership profile is used as a from seven market areas have participatframework for leadership development. ed, and their feedback has always been The first profile-based leadership develvery positive. The workshops’ learning “Outotec Experience was a opment tool, a 360° assessment, was impact has also been measured through rolled out globally in 2015, with a netquestionnaires, with results showing regreat chance to understand work of facilitators trained to support the markable improvement, especially conuse of this tool. Leaders and managers cerning participants’ better understandbetter what our values and are guided to base their work on the four ing of our strategy, business process and ‘One Outotec’ mean,” cornerstones of the profile: Provides diorganization. rection; Inspires for collaboration; Drives said one participant in high performance; and Drives change. Fair compensation We have also produced new virtual modFor Outotec, it is very important to be Canada. ules to support managers’ target setting able to recruit and retain world-class and performance management skills. professionals as key assets who help to Leadership development training was create the company’s intellectual propdelivered as part of the new Project Manerty. Fair and motivating compensation is ager curriculum. achieved through remuneration scaled to Change management training sesthe requirements of the job and the persions were organized to help leaders formance and competences of the emdrive changes. Transitional leadership ployee. was also on the agenda in the Leaders’ According to Outotec’s compensaForum, an annual event for our top leadtion policy, total compensation should ers. align closely with the interests of Outotheir position. Due to the difficult market Active talent management, succestec, its shareholders and all employees. environment and consequent operatsion planning and internal job rotaOur employee share savings plan suping losses and personnel reductions, no tion continue to be the key elements in ports this principle by making our embonuses will be paid to management or leadership development. Our ability to ployees into shareholders. A significant employees for 2015. promote internal job rotation and fill proportion of total compensation should leadership positions with good internal be based on the company’s performance, Read more about our HR data, candidates has improved significantly. as well as on each employee’s individual labor practices, and We have been able to enhance our performance. In order to attract and recompensation on talent management maturity and expand tain highly competent professionals, total pages 65-68. the scope of our annual talent managecompensation should also be competitive ment process. More than 1,000 employcompared to compensation levels in the ees are invited to the annual process. relevant labor market. Equal opportunities and Almost all Outotec employees benediversity Outotec Experience fit from an annual bonus system. These Outotec has employees of over 60 naOutotec Experience is a two-day interacbonuses are paid to employees who have tionalities in 32 countries. The compative workshop designed to give employbeen employed by the company for at ny has signed the United Nations Global ees deeper insights into the company’s least six months during the calendar Compact, and we are committed to its strategy, business, customers, values year, and are still employees when boprinciples on human rights, environment, and processes. The program aims to ennuses are paid. If a person was first hired labor, and anti-corruption. Our commithance collaboration by engaging people during the accounting period, they qualify ment to the Global Compact demonfrom different parts of the organization. for the bonus after four months. strates our desire to further advance Discussions focus on how we can work Incentive bonuses are determined on sustainability and social responsibility in together to add value for Outotec’s custhe basis of the attainment of the comour business practices. tomers. The program is developed inpany’s financial targets, as well as tarWe also recognize the UN’s Guidhouse, with Outotec leaders functioning gets set specifically for the employees or ing Principles on Business and Human as presenters. their departments. Maximum bonuses Rights, and we are developing an apDuring 2015 a total of 17 Outotec Exgenerally range from 10 to 60 percent of proach on this basis. We support the reperience workshops were held around employees’ annual salary, depending on alization of basic human rights global62 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 MATERIAL THEMES DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE ly, and we do not knowingly provide any abuses or discrimination of any type in Outotec does business globally and goods or services that will be used to 2015. has acquired companies in countries carry out human rights abuses. We do We monitor diversity and equal opwhere certain human rights risks are not use any form of compulsory, forced portunities in relation to the composition widely recognized. As part of the integraor child labor, and we expect the same of our governance bodies and the breaktion of the acquired companies in 2015, from our agents, suppliers, contractors down of employees by category, gender, we have been providing training on our and other business partners. We strive age group and other indicators. Code of Conduct. This training emphato contribute towards the effective aboTraditionally there are fewer womsizes Outotec’s commitment to human lition of the use of compulsory, forced or en than men working in the mining and rights and globally recognized labour child labor globally, and we also respect metals industry. To share the career expractices to the employees and local the rights of indigenous peoples. Outotec periences of female leaders, Outotec ormanagers of the acquired companies in also fully respects freedom of associaganized a panel discussion and networkthe Middle East and Africa. tion and the right to collective bargaining. ing event ’Women at Outotec’ in Espoo, We additionally value diversity in the Finland. More than 100 women attended Read about our stakeholders’ workplace, and follow the principle of the event in March 2015. expectations and engagement equal opportunities. Employees are seOur newly established company Ouon page 23. lected and treated on the basis of their totec Services RSA, which makes up abilities and merits. Every individual is a significant part of our business in equally entitled to enjoy fair treatment, Sub-Saharan Africa, has qualified as a respect and common courtesy, without Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) discrimination and regardless of their entity in South Africa. A BEE entity is deethnic origin, nationality, religion, politfined as a company of which 25% +1 vote ical views, gender, sexual orientation or of share capital is in the hands of historage. We do not tolerate any form of harically disadvantaged South African ethassment or behavior that could be connic groups. This ownership may involve sidered offensive, intimidating, discrimiindividual shareholders or organizations nating or insulting. such as educational trusts, community There were no reported incidents trusts and employees’ share ownership directly linking Outotec to human rights plans. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 63 GRI and DATA GRI AND DATA About the report the use of Outotec’s technology, and Training data is collected from a At Outotec we report on our sustainaour supply chain. The report boundary learning management system, our bility targets and performance annually. includes all our major operations. Our e-learning platform and local human This report covers the company’s susaim is to expand the coverage of inforresources personnel. However, the covtainability performance for the calendar mation collection and include site opererage and quality of training data still year 2015. It has been prepared accordations, construction, and commissionneeds to be improved. ing to the Global Reporting Initiative ing work carried out at our customers’ Outotec’s global health and safety (GRI) G4 guidelines and the UN Global sites. Since 2013, we have also calcureporting system is used for data colCompact principles. lated the CO2 emissions along Outotec’s lection and to set and monitor progress In 2014, we reviewed our materisupply chain. towards common health and safety taral sustainability topics with an exterSome of the material indicators gets in all Outotec operations. It also nal partner, on the basis of an earliin the GRI Index list are reported only provides qualified metrics and covers er materiality assessment from 2011, partly due to the lack of measured data. subcontractors on construction sites. management interviews, a review of Concerning labor data, the reason is ofEnvironmental data is compiled on sustainability trends impacting our inten that in certain countries we are not Microsoft Excel spreadsheets to a dadustry, and stakeholder feedback. Topallowed to compile such statistics. This tabase and the data is analysed and ics were identified by mapping releis an issue we would like to improve in combined to one file to carry out calcuvant economic, environmental, and the future reports. lations. Performance data on environsocial impacts that could be important In 2015, our new Dewatering Techmental aspects has been collected from to stakeholders. The identified aspects nology Center started operation in Lapour major business units for electricity were initially prioritized in a workshop peenranta, Finland, and it is included in use, heating, owned or leased company with Outotec’s Sustainability Working the data of Lappeenranta facilities. Oucars, flight emissions, water use, paper Group, and then validated in Outotec totec also acquired four new businessuse, recycled waste, and landfill waste. Leaders’ Forum, where about 100 of es. Three of these businesses – KemThe report also includes information Outotec’s leaders shared their views on pe Engineering, Kovit Engineering and on the combustion of fuels in compathe topics relevant to the company. FiBiomin – are included in the reportny-owned combustion sources (scope nally, the results of the materiality ased data. The acquisition of Sinter Plant 1 emissions), and figures on hazardsessment were reviewed and verified Services was only completed in Decemous wastes generated in our research by external advisors representing our ber, and related data is not fully includcenters, manufacturing workshops, and stakeholders in Oued in this report. ceramic plate production plant. Figures totec’s Sustainability Advisory Council. for our combustion sources are comThe scope and aspect boundaries for Data collection piled from separate annual environthe material topics were evaluated, and Financial data is based on data collecmental data reports. When required, relevant GRI indicators were chosen by tion through our enterprise resource information was also collected from Outotec’s sustainability specialists. The planning and management reporting business units via e-mail correspondresults of the materiality assessment systems. The figures used in Outotec’s ence. were validated by Outotec’s Executive consolidated financial statements have Environmental data was readily Board in January 2015. been prepared according to the Internaavailable for Outotec’s most important The material aspects identified as tional Financial Reporting Standard. In and largest business units. The smallmost relevant to the company and our addition, some data has been collected est offices were not able to report enstakeholders form the basis for our manually from Microsoft Excel spreadvironmental data, because they are losustainability management and reportsheets. cated in larger office premises together ing. We have identified our customers, For the collection of social perwith other companies. They typically pay employees, suppliers, and investors and formance data, a global master data a monthly lump sum to the office space financiers, as well as the media, NGOs system based on SAP Human Capital providers, and therefore it is not possiand local communities as the main usManagement was applied. The system ble to determine their electricity, heat, ers of this report. includes accurate data on Outotec emor water consumption. For this group, We fully report on our own operaployees globally, covering all business average figures were calculated based tions, and partly include information units and providing basic information on on available and comparable data. on our contractors in delivery projects, all employees. 64 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 GRI and DATA HR data and labor practices At the end of 2015 Outotec had a total of 4,859 Temporary personnel accounted for about eight PERSONNEL BY REGION employees (2014: 4,571). The increase of 288 percent of the total. In addition, Outotec had 405 compared to the previous year was due to full-time equivalent contracted persons working acquisitions (449 new people). Since September in project execution and services (2014: 454). 2014, 568 persons have been made redundant as Outotec has employees on all continents, but part of our EUR 45 million cost saving program. nearly half of our personnel are based in Europe. Personnel by region Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013 EMEA (including CIS) 3,159 2,627 2,891 Americas 1,012 1,214 1,144 EMEA (including CIS) 57% Americas 27% APAC 688 730 820 APAC 16% Total 4,859 4,571 4,855 Employees, key data 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator PERSONNEL BY AGE RANGE Employees at year end 4,859 4,571 4,855 G4-10 Employees on average 4,855 4,776 4,927 G4-10 Temporary, % of total 8 8 8 G4-10 Full-time equivalent 405 454 495 G4-10 contracted persons Share of women in employees, % 18.4 18.8 19.6 G4-LA12 Share of women in management, %*) 13.3 13.1 12.1 G4-LA12 G4-LA13 <25, 5% 26–30, 13% Wages and salaries paid, EUR million 353.4 362.8 385.8 G4-EC1 31–35, 19% Ratio of annual total compensation 10.3 9.7 18.8 G4-54 36–40, 16% of CEO to median compensation of 41–45, 14% employees 46–50, 11% Change in annual total compensation -2.9% -40.9% N/A G4-55 51–55, 10% of CEO 56–60, 7% >60, 5% Change in annual median compensa-2.9% -4.4% N/A G4-55 tion of employees n = 4,859, coverage 100% Average age of employees 41.3 41.0 40.9 G4-LA12 n = 4,859, coverage 100 % *) n = 1,307 employees in management based on Outotec grading The share of men in the mining and metallurgical industry has traditionally been high, which partly explains the current low share of women. Outotec is committed to close cooperation with administration of the Round Table, had meetings When Outotec starts a new operation in a local employee representatives, unions and once per quarter. Since the Council consists of new country, an expatriate employee is typically works councils, based on local practices and personnel and management representatives, it assigned to integrate the new operation into regulations. also serves as a forum for additional discussions Outotec. Our goal is nevertheless that senior The Outotec Round Table is a discussion and information-sharing. management should be hired locally. In 2015, 63 forum that enables representatives of our Approximately 50 percent of employees are percent of our market areas had local managers personnel and management to discuss matters covered by collective bargaining agreements (2014: 70%). The decrease is due to the fact that concerning the whole company. It is based on (2014: 51%). Binding collective agreements are certain market areas were combined during the the European Works Council directive 94/95 followed in each country where they are applicayear. EU, Article 6, and covers all employees in the ble to Outotec employees. The minimum notice EU countries, Norway and Switzerland. The periods regarding significant operational changOutotec Round Table was held once in 2015. es depend on locations and national legislation, Topics discussed included strategy, acquisitions, and therefore differ significantly. Notice periods rewarding, organizational change, and cost range from two weeks to one year. saving programs. 21 personnel representaHealth and safety topics are not covered in tives participated in the meeting. The Outotec formal agreements with trade unions, since they Council, a sub-committee of the Outotec are duly addressed by statutory regulations and Round Table which works to ensure the smooth laws that Outotec complies with. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 65 GRI and DATA Employee turnover rate 2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 2013 GRI indicator EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY # % # % # % by age group G4-LA1 <25 68 27 66 24 71 29 26–30 101 16 104 16 112 18 31–35 121 14 118 14 106 12 36–40 144 19 92 13 106 15 41–45 109 16 76 13 69 11 Senior management 5% 46–50 82 15 67 13 47 8 Middle management 22% 51–55 85 17 41 9 40 8 Specialists 54% Blue-collar workers 19% 56–60 39 12 33 10 30 8 >60 49 20 71 31 73 21 Total 798 16 668 15 654 13 EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND by gender G4-LA1 Women 147 16 127*) 15 114 12 Men 651 16 543*) 15 558 14 by region G4-LA1 Finland 132 9 120 9 65 4 Germany 68 12 42 8 28 5 Rest of Europe 72 19 133 35 29 7 The Americas 324 32 216 18 414 36 Primary and lower secondary level 24% Australia 74 18 70 15 77 14 Upper secondary level and Rest of the world 128 13 89 14 55 9 lower university degree 47% Higher university degree and * The total figures for employee turnover by age and gender for 2014 differ slightly due to ) postgraduate 29% missing age information for two people. n = 2,401, coverage 49% The higher employee turnover in 2015 compared to 2014 is partly a result of personnel The collection of education information has been reduction due to cost saving programs. optional in some countries in the past, which partly explains the low coverage. GRI Training 2015 2014 2013 indicator All types of vocational training and instruction G4-LA9 Number of employees 2,444 1,301 2,704 *)Training on Microsoft Office365 tools started Hours 31,788 27,521 67,750 in December 2015. Training or education pursued externally and paid for G4-LA9 **)Training as part of Code of Conduct e-learnin whole or in part by Outotec ing modules and classroom training. Number of employees 500*) 807 1,395 Hours 3,000*) 6,877 40,200 In 2015 we completed a safety training program Training on health and safety G4-LA9 for our employees and subcontractors working on our projects, which had started in 2014. We Hours 87,277 200,979 124,695 also continued to hold customary seminars Training on human rights issues**) G4-LA9 about the prevention of occupational health Number of employees 954 1,104 1,039 diseases. Hours 1,431 3,139 1,168 GRI Vocational training hours By gender By employee category indicator Total Men Women Senior Middle Specialists Blue-collar management management workers Number of employees 2,444 1,908 536 198 761 1,521 5 G4-LA9 Hours 31,788 25,099 6,693 3,330 11,245 16,950 176 G4-LA9 66 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 GRI and DATA Employee categories, gender balance and age structure 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator Total number of employees in each employee category G4-LA12 Senior management 255 238 209 Middle management 1,052 1,008 969 Professionals 2,648 2,536 2,520 Blue-collar workers 904 789 774 Executive Board, % G4-LA12 Women 23 29 29 Men 77 71 71 < 30 years old 0 0 0 30-50 years 31 57 64 > 50 years old 69 43 36 Senior management, % G4-LA12 Women 14 14 13 Men 86 86 87 < 30 years old 0 0 0 30–50 years 59 60 54 > 50 years old 41 40 46 Middle management, % G4-LA12 Women 13 13 12 Men 87 87 88 < 30 years old 3 2 1 30–50 years 64 66 64 > 50 years old 33 32 35 Specialists, % G4-LA12 Women 26 27 27 Men 74 73 73 < 30 years old 22 19 19 30–50 years 59 61 59 > 50 years old 19 20 22 Blue-collar workers, % G4-LA12 Women 2 3 3 Men 98 97 97 < 30 years old 30 33 31 30–50 years 54 52 50 > 50 years old 16 15 19 Board of Directors, % G4-LA12 Women 29 25 29 Men 71 75 71 < 30 years old 0 0 0 30–50 years 0 0 29 > 50 years old 100 100 71 n = 4,859, coverage 100% OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 67 GRI and DATA Compensation 168 key employees (2014: 169) were part of the compaThe total compensation paid by Outotec in 2015, ny’s share-based incentive program in 2015. In addition, amounting to EUR 353 million, consisted of: 1,211 employees equaling 27 percent (2014: 33%) of 1) Base salaries the eligible personnel participated in the employee 2) Short-term incentives share savings plan. The employee share savings plan Outotec’s global annual bonus system, was not offered to employees in Russia, Kazakhstan, or project bonuses Mozambique, Morocco, Qatar and Saudi Arabia due to 3) Long-term incentives legal restrictions or acquisition during the year. Share-based Incentive Program for key employees Outotec runs several pension plans in various Share Savings Plan for all employees countries. These plans are mainly classiﬁed as deﬁned 4) Rewards for innovation contribution pension plans. Other post-employment 5) Ad-hoc rewards for extraordinary achievements beneﬁts relate to retirement medical arrangements in 6) Pension and life insurance benefits Germany. Benefits provided Full-time employees Temporary employees by Outotec covered, % covered, % GRI indicator Life insurance 66 52 G4-LA2 Health care 82 66 G4-LA2 Disability/invalidity coverage 95 66 G4-LA2 Maternity/paternity leave 98 84 G4-LA2 Retirement provision 49 3 G4-LA2 n= 4,813 coverage 99% The retirement provision is significantly changed from previous years due to more precise numbers for the temporary employees in certain countries. Thus also the total coverage was improved. Read also about fair compensation on page 62, Corporate Governance Statement on pages 10-11 and Financial Statements 2015 on page 60. R&D DATA R&D and innovation 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator R&D expenditure, EUR million 61.2 56.9 *) 48.7 G4-EN27 R&D expenditure, % of sales 5.1 4.1*) 2.6 G4-EN27 R&D grants, EUR million**) 3.0 2.3 2.6 G4-EC4 Number of new patent applications filed 93 62 101 New national or regional patents granted 531 370 419 Number of patent families 824 749 702 Proportion of environmental goods and 90 90 87 G4-EN27 services in order intake, % *) Restated figures In April 2015 Outotec published the reclassification of its research and development expenses as of January 1, 2015 including 2014 comparison figures. The reclassification of costs is consistent with the redefinition of Outotec’s product management processes. This change explains the increase in R&D expenditure in 2014 and 2015. The relative increase as a percentage of sales in 2015 was also due to contracted sales. **) R&D grants were awarded to Outotec in Finland and Germany. 68 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 GRI and DATA Health and safety performance Outotec operates with a single harmonized QEHS our main locations. In 2015, the certificates were management system, including QEHS policy, revised because some new locations were added procedures, work instructions and training maand there were several changes in company terials, in line with our ‘One Outotec’ approach. names and addresses. The multi-site matrix certification includes Local health and safety procedures in Brazil, ISO 9001 (Quality management), ISO 14001 Chile, Mexico, Peru, USA and South Africa were (Environmental management), BS:OHSAS 18001 harmonized with our global procedures. This (Occupational Health and Safety management) means we have now harmonized health and and Safety Construction Certificate (SCC) for all safety documentation across eleven countries. CO2 EMISSIONS BY SUPPLY CATEGORY GRI Health and safety 2015 2014 2013 indicator Non-fatal injury arising from or in the course of work 41 33 54 G4-LA6 Fatal injury arising from or in the course of work 0 0 2 G4-LA6 Lost time injury rate (LTIR) (number/1 million working hours) 2.8 1.5 1.9 G4-LA6 Occupational diseases 0 0 1 G4-LA6 Components and systems 16% Occupational disease rate (number/1 million working hours) 0 0 0.03 G4-LA6 Small parts 17% Lost days because of an occupational accident or disease 512 173 307 G4-LA6 Metal products 25% Plastics 4% Lost day rate (number/1 million working hours) 35.1 7.6 10.6 G4-LA6 Indirect 20% Absentee rate, % 1.2 0.9 0.8 G4-LA6 Undefined 18% Total workforce represented in health and safety committees, % 98 98 NA G4-LA5 n = 4,813 coverage 99% SUPPLY SPEND BY CATEGORY Outotec’s office work has a relatively low safety risk, whereas the manufacturing, laboratory and test work as well as work at customers’ sites have higher safety risks. The amount of working hours in 2015 was significantly smaller than in 2013 and 2014 when we had large challenging construction projects under implementation and special focus was put on their safety management. The safety performance in these projects was extraordinary compared to global peers. In 2015 the LTIR and LDR returned to earlier levels, and we will next analyze the good practices in these projects and implement the same measures in our own manufacturing operations We also collect data on near-miss cases and we will continue to further develop our Health and Safety Management System to prevent any accidents. Our health and safety committees monitor and collect feedback and discuss health and safety related issues. They typically operate on location and project level. Some units with fewer than 20 employees do not have nomiComponents and systems 18% nated health and safety committees. Small parts, production support materials and services 22% Supplier data Metal products and basic materials 15% Outotec had approximately 3,400 direct and active suppliers in 2015, Plastic and fiber products including distributors, component manufacturers, equipment manuand linings 4% facturers, logistics companies, engineering companies, construction Indirect 24% companies and other service providers. Suppliers, set-ups and combiUndefined 17% nations vary project by project. The majority of our suppliers are either component manufacturers or equipment manufacturers. In 2015 the majority of Outotec’s suppliers were based in Finland, Germany, Australia, Sweden and Brazil. SUPPLY BY REGION LOCATION OF SUPPLIERS The total spend on customer-related purchasing in 2015 was approximately EUR 629 million (2014: 800). Total spend was lower than in the previous year because of decreased order intake and sales in a weak market situation. The majority of our purchasing, approximately 66%, took place in our Europe, Middle East and Africa region (EMEA). The share of indirect spend increased in 2015 from 2014 because there were fewer large customer projects. Previously the Undefined category was not shown, because most of those items were individually assessed and relocated in other categories. In 2015 the share of Undefined increased significantly, because resources were not available for this categorization process. Americas 20% Americas 34% The number of suppliers increased in the Americas and decreased EMEA 66% EMEA 52% in the Asia Pacific region (APAC) in 2015. APAC 13% APAC 14% The carbon footprint of our supply chain in 2015 totaled 345,000 tonnes of CO2 (2014: 386,000). The majority of the greenhouse gas n = 3,400 direct and active suppliers emissions of the supply chain originated from metal products. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 69 GRI and DATA Environmental Energy performance Energy consumption, TJ 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator The bulk of Outotec’s operations involve engiDirect energy consumption: 48.5 38.8 38.0 G4-EN3 neering and business management in offices loPropane gas 11.2 7.9 11.4 cated in 32 countries. In addition, our operations include two research centers in Finland and Light fuel oil 0.3 0.3 0.4 Germany, a Dewatering Technology Center, two manufacturing workshops and a ceramic plate Coal, coke, semi coke 0.4 0.2 4.1 production plant in Finland, assembly shops Natural gas 23.5 22.7 15.0 in Brazil, Canada, China, and the USA, spare parts and service workshops in Qatar, United Diesel and gasoline 13.3 5.7 7.1 Arab Emirates, Mozambique and South Africa, Indirect energy consumption: 116.0 116.1 118.8 G4-EN3 and several warehouses. However, 80 percent of Outotec’s manufacturing is outsourced. Electricity (incl. cooling)*) 73.7 71.8 70.1 The environmental impact of office work is relatively small, and is managed through our quality, District heating 40.8 43.2 47.5 environment, health and safety (QEHS) manageSteam 1.5 1.1 1.2 ment system. Outotec adheres to the principles of sustainable development, pollution prevention TOTAL energy consumption 164.5 152.9 156.8 G4-EN3 and sound environmental management in all of Energy intensity (energy, TJ/EUR 1 million sales) 0.14 0.11 0.08 G4-EN5 the company’s operations. The management’s commitment to the continuous improvement of *) MWh converted to TJ: 20,482 (2014: 19,947) MWh our environmental performance is visible in our target setting and results. We identify and evaluate the environmental In 2015 Outotec’s total energy consumption increased due to the use of diesel and gasoline for aspects of offices, research centers, manufacelectricity production in workshops acquired by the company in Qatar and Mozambique. turing workshops, customer construction sites and industrial plants. The aspects related to significant impacts are considered when we set our environmental objectives and annual targets. Energy consumption and emissions in GRI When selecting new office premises, environmenFinnish units 2015 2014 2013 indicator tal criteria are taken into account. Outotec’s two largest offices, in Espoo, Finland, and Oberursel, Pori research center and Turula works Germany, fulfil LEED® Gold requirements. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Energy consumption, TJ 33.4 38.5 43.1 G4-EN3 (LEED) is a globally recognized green building Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, 14.4 9.4 4.8 G4-EN6 certification program. TJ compared to base year We strive to operate with minimum inputs of energy and materials, and to record our Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 2,248 2,585 2,900 G4-EN15 consumption of electricity, heating and water G4-EN16 annually. At our research centers, electric power and natural gas consumption for test purposes Emissions avoided, tonnes CO2-e 965 628 313 G4-EN19 are recorded monthly. All our Finnish manuLappeenranta works facturing units and the Pori research center are committed to the Federation of Finnish Energy consumption, TJ 18.0 18.3 17.9 G4-EN3 Technology Industries’ energy efficiency agreements for 2008-2016, and thus committed to save Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 2.1 1.8 2.2 G4-EN6 nine percent in energy consumption compared to compared to base year the baseline year, 2006. We have also set local or Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 1,207 1,226 1,200 G4-EN15 unit-specific targets for the energy efficiency of G4-EN16 other operations. Our waste management system provides for Emissions avoided, tonnes CO2-e 138 120 146 G4-EN19 the collection, sorting, storage and disposal of Turku works waste on our own premises. Outotec employees are requested to separate waste for sorted Energy consumption, TJ 13.0 11.0 13.8 G4-EN3 collection. Where hazardous wastes such as Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 3.8 5.8 3.0 G4-EN6 radioactive, flammable, explosive, toxic, corrosive compared to base year or bio-hazardous materials need to be disposed of, local legal requirements and customers’ Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 873 740 923 G4-EN15 requirements at construction sites are duly conG4-EN16 sidered together, and specialized contractors are commissioned for the disposal. Emissions avoided, tonnes CO2-e 253 387 203 G4-EN19 No significant spills were reported in relation to our manufacturing and R&D activities in 2015. However, one small oil spill took place at a project site, and another oil spill was reported in a parking garage of an office building. Read about our environmental performance targets on page 17. 70 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 GRI and DATA Emissions The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator Accounting and Reporting Standard was used Scope 1 emissions (own fuel combustion, to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 4,431 3,774 3,910 G4-EN15 company cars) Emission factors were retrieved from the GHG Scope 2 emissions (purchased heat and 7,646 8,746 9,160 G4-EN16 Protocol’s calculation tool ‘GHG emissions from electricity) (7,392)*) purchased electricity, heat of steam’. Scope 3 emissions (air travel and commuting) 21,762 22,267 32,235 G4-EN17 Total greenhouse gas emissions 33,839 34,768 45,305 G4-EN15 *) In 2015, Outotec purchased 1,871 MWh of (33,584)*) G4-EN16 CO2-free electricity from hydroelectric instalG4-EN17 lations in Finland. We are gradually moving to Flight emissions, tonnes of CO2/EUR 1 million 16.4 14.6 15.8 G4-EN18 hydropower in our major locations in Finland, sales excluding the Pori research center. Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of 28.2 24.8 23.7 G4-EN18 CO2/EUR 1 million sales (27.9)*) Greenhouse gas emissions avoided through 6,600,000 5,900,000 5,400,000 G4-EN19 the use of five Outotec technologies SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS Our total greenhouse gas emissions decreased conferencing, teleconferences and Skype for by 2.7% in 2015. However, relative emissions Business are used for internal meetings. In increased due to reduced sales. 2015 Outotec took a new set of collaboration and Scope 1 emissions increased due to the use of information sharing tools, Office365, into use, diesel and gasoline for electricity production at which significantly increased the use of Skype for workshops acquired in Qatar and Mozambique. Business in internal meetings, and reduced the Electricity consumption increased by need for traveling. 2.5% from 2014. However, scope 2 emissions Flights to visit our customers are an integral decreased by 6.5% mainly due to the changed part of Outotec’s business activities, by which Greenhouse Gas Protocol country-specific grid means we contribute indirectly to avoiding CO2 emissions. emissions by promoting the use of our favorable Scope 1 emissions (own fuel combustion, Within Scope 3, emissions from air travtechnology solutions and services. The positive company cars) 13% el are the biggest single source at Outotec. impact of Outotec’s business travel can be best Scope 2 emissions (purchased heat and These emissions decreased in 2015 despite illustrated by comparing our annual greenhouse electricity) 23% the increased amount of flight kilometres (15 gas emissions in 2015, which were 33,584 tonnes Scope 3 emissions (air travel million kilometres more in 2015), because of CO2-e (2014: 34,787), with the emissions avoided our personnel’s increased use of economy class through the use of five of our key technologies, and commuting) 64% tickets on long-haul flights. However, flight which amounted to 6,600,000 tonnes of CO2-e emissions per EUR 1 million sales increased by (2014: 5,900,000). 11% because sales declined by 14% from 2014. Outotec has paid attention to the use of reThe CO2-e calculations for flight emissions are sponsible air carriers and hotels. Lufthansa and FLIGHT EMISSIONS, TONNES OF CO2 / based on guidelines produced by DEFRA/DECC’s Finnair, for instance, use relatively new fleets, MILLION EURO SALES GHG Conversion Factors. Economy class flights which generally produce lower emissions. In produce lower emissions per kilometer than agreements with hotels, Outotec prefers hotels 20 business class travel. with favorable social responsibility policies. Video conferencing systems are available in 16 all of our major locations. In addition to video 12 Company cars in Finland 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator 8 Company car emissions, g CO2-e/km 121 123 132 G4-EN15 4 Reduction from 2008, % 37 35 31 0 2013 2014 2015 According to Outotec’s company car policy, employees in Finland are incentivized progressively when they take a car with emissions of less than 120 g CO2/km and 100 g CO2/km. In 2015, out of 235 company cars 159 cars emitted less than 120 g CO2/km and of those 40 emitted less than 100 g CO2/km. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emissions from paint shops 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator VOCs emissions, tonnes 8.8 11.0*) 15.6 G4-EN21 *) Restated due to an error in 2014. We calculate VOC emissions from our paint shops based on annual paint consumption. VOC emissions decreased due to a reduction in the amout of equipment delivered to customers. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 71 GRI and DATA Materials Materials used, tonnes 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator We manufacture high-tech ceramics in Turku, Finland, for use in Outotec filters. This unit used Paper 70.4 70.9 94.7 G4-EN1 109 tonnes of ceramics in 2015. Outotec’s Finnish workshops in Lappeenranta, Steel 5,600 6,200 9,300 G4-EN1 Turula and Turku report the amount of packagCeramics 109 113 121 G4-EN1 ing they use annually to the Finnish Packaging Recycling Ltd RINKI. Cardboard packaging 12.9 13.8 11.4 G4-EN1 Plastic packaging 1.1 1.7 7.6 G4-EN1 Metal packaging 1.2 1.6 1.0 G4-EN1 Wood packaging 210.6 230.1 851.5 G4-EN1 The figures decreased for all materials in 2015 due to fewer equipment deliveries to customers. Waste A small amount of hazardous waste is produced Waste, tonnes 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator in the final surface treatment of filter presses in Waste recycled 1,013 1,346 1,523 G4-EN23 the Lappeenranta works. In addition, oily waste from lubricants used in the Turula works is Landfill waste and incinerated waste 1,484 1,482 1,251 G4-EN23 classified as hazardous. These hazardous wastes are sent for Hazardous waste 261*) 98 243**) G4-EN23 treatment to local hazardous waste treatment Total waste 2,758 2,926 3,016 G4-EN23 facilities. Paper recycled 120 151 146 G4-EN23 *) A large amount of hazardous waste was removed from a workshop acquired in Mozambique. **) While building a new Dewatering Technology Center in Lappeenranta, Outotec discovered soils that had been contaminated by the earlier operations of an old laundry at the site. This land had to be removed, which increased the volume of our hazardous waste. Water Water is purchased locally from municipal Water consumption, m3/year 2015 2014 2013 GRI indicator water suppliers, and wastewater is channeled Drinking water 61,348 53,506 53,945 G4-EN8 into municipal wastewater systems. Because our workshops are mainly assembly shops, no River water for cooling 2,628 9,548 49,949 G4-EN8 process water is discharged. Outotec’s research Total water usage 63,976 63,054 103,894 G4-EN8 center in Pori uses river water for cooling purposes in their test facilities. After use, the water is channeled back to the river. We also monitor water consumption at our premises. Our total water usage decreased in 2015 due to the reduced amount of river water used for test work at the research center in Pori. Drinking water consumption increased because the restaurant at Outotec House Espoo had its first full year of operation, serving daily lunch for over 500 employees. The acquisitions of new sites in Mozambique, United Arab Emirates and Qatar also increased water consumption, though some other locations reduced their water consumption. During 2013, leakage from a drainage well was discovered in our Lappeenranta works. The incident was investigated with the city’s environmental authorities in 2014, and Outotec was not consequently prosecuted for any offense. 72 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 GRI and DATA GRI index and UN Global Compact Based on our own assessment, Outotec has self-declared this report to be compliant with the GRI G4 guidelines in accordance with the core level. This compliance has been checked by a third party, Ecobio Ltd. Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles General Standard Disclosure Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO's statement CEO’s message, p. 3 Fully G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Megatrends driving our business, p. 11 Fully Topics that matter most, p. 28 Our sustainability agenda, p. 14 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-8 Markets served This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully Financial Statements 2015, p. 22 and 28 G4-10 Breakdown of workforce HR data and labor practices, p. 65 and 67 Fully 6 G4-11 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements HR data and labor practices, p. 65 Fully 3 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Sustainable supply chain, p. 55 and 57 Fully G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully size, structure, or ownership G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle Our approach to risk management, p. 49 Fully G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles, www.outotec.com/sustainability Fully or other initiatives endorsed G4-16 Memberships in associations www.outotec.com/sustainability Fully Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial Financial Statements 2015, p. 62 Fully statements at www.outotec.com/investors G4-18 Process for defining report content Topics that matter most, p. 28 Fully Active stakeholder dialogue, p. 22 G4-19 Material aspects Topics that matter most, p. 28 Fully G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation About the report, p. 64 Fully Topics that matter most, p. 28 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization About the report, p. 64 Fully Topics that matter most, p. 28 The carbon footprint of our supply chain, p. 57 G4-22 Explanation of re-statements This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully VOCs emissions, p. 71 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully scope and aspect boundaries About the report, p. 64 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24–27 Stakeholder engagement Active stakeholder dialogue, p. 22 Fully Report profile G4-28-31 Report profile About the report, p. 64 Fully Contact information, p. 78 G4-32 GRI content index GRI Index and UN Global Fully Compact, p. 73 G4-33 External Assurance Independent assurance, p. 77 Fully OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 73 Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles Governance G4-34 Governance structure Ensuring good governance, p. 48 Fully G4-35 Delegating authority for sustainability topics Managing sustainability, p. 50 Fully G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for Managing sustainability, p. 50 Fully sustainability topics G4-37 Consultation with stakeholders Sustainability Advisory Council, p. 22 Fully G4-38 Composition of the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement, p. 4 Fully G4-39 Position of the Chair of the Board Corporate Governance Statement, p. 4 Fully G4-40 Selection of the Board Corporate Governance Statement, p. 3 Fully G4-41 Avoiding conflicts of interest Ensuring good governance, p. 48 Fully G4-42 Board's role in setting the organization’s purpose, values Corporate Governance Statement, p. 3 Fully and strategy G4-44 Board’s performance evaluation Corporate Governance Statement, p. 5 Fully G4-45 Board’s role in the identification and management of risks Corporate Governance Statement, p. 5 Fully G4-46 Reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Corporate Governance Statement, p. 5 Fully G4-47 Frequency of risk reviews Corporate Governance Statement, p. 5 Fully G4-48 Formal approval of the organization’s sustainability report Executive Board Fully G4-49 Communicating critical concerns Managing sustainability, p. 50 Fully G4-50 Nature and number of critical concerns communicated to Managing sustainability, p. 50 Fully the Board Compliance helpline, p. 51 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Board and senior executives Corporate Governance Statement, p. 11 Fully G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s HR data and labor practices, p. 65 Partly highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation for all employees G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation HR data and labour practices, p. 65 Partly for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles and codes Building on common values, p. 48 Fully 10 Responsible business practices, p. 48 G4-57 Mechanisms for finding advice on ethical and Compliance helpline, p. 51 Fully 10 lawful behavior G4-58 Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour Compliance helpline, p. 51 Fully 10 Specific standards disclosure ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to economic responsibility Financial performance deteriorated, p. 52 Fully G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Direct added value for stakeholders, p. 52 Fully Employees key data, p. 65 G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change CEO’s message, p. 3 Fully 7 Megatrends driving our business, p. 11 Climate Leadership Council, p. 27 G4-EC3 Employee benefit obligations Compensation, p. 68 Partly Fair compensation, p. 62 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government R&D data, p. 68 Fully G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local HR data and labor practices, p. 65 Fully 6 community G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Working with NGOs and local communities, p. 27 Fully and services supported Commitment to external initiatives, www.outotec.com/sustainability G4-EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts Direct added value for stakeholders, p. 52 Partly G4-EC9 Spending on local suppliers 43% spending on local suppliers, p. 57 Fully ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to environmental responsibility Environmental performance, p. 70 Fully G4-EN1 Materials used Environmental performance, p. 72 Fully 7, 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental performance, p. 70 Fully 7, 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environmental performance, p. 70 Fully 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental performance, p.70 Fully 8, 9 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services The emissions avoided by our customers, Fully 8, 9 p. 34 G4-EN8 Water withdrawal Environmental performance, p. 72 Fully 7, 8 74 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles G4-EN15– Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) Environmental performance, p. 71 Fully 7, 8 G4-EN17 Finnish units, p. 70 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Environmental performance, p. 71 Fully 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Annual targets, p. 16 Fully 8, 9 Environmental performance, p. 70, 71 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions VOCs emissions globally, p. 71 Fully 7,8 G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental performance, p. 72 Fully 8 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental performance, p. 70 Fully 8 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste Environmental performance, p. 72 Fully 8 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Our sustainability agenda, p. 14-16 Fully 7, 8, 9 products and services Sustainable offering for customers, p. 34 Life-cycle assessment of Outotec technologies, p. 37 Safe products for our customers, p. 31 EGS in order intake, p. 68 G4-EN29 Compliance with environmental laws Ensuring good governance, p.48 Fully 8 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Emissions, p. 71 Fully and other goods and materials for Outotec’s operations, and Share of local suppliers, p. 57 transporting members of the workforce The carbon footprint of our supply chain, p. 57 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Sustainable supply chain, p. 55 Fully 8 environmental criteria Focusing on supplier selection, p. 56 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental Mitigating risks along the supply chain, p. 57 Partly 8 impacts in the supply chain The carbon footprint of our supply chain, p. 57 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts Mitigating risks along the supply chain, p. 57 Fully 8 Environmental performance, p. 70 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Labor practices and decent work Management approach to labor practices and decent work Development of our people, p. 58 Fully HR data and labor practices, p. 65 G4-LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, HR data and labor practices, p. 66 Partly 6 gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not providHR data and labor practices, p. 68 Partly ed to temporary or part-time employees G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational HR data and labor practices, p. 65 Partly 3 changes G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Health and safety performance, p. 69 Fully management worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenHealth and safety performance, p. 69 Partly teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related Working to achieve zero accidents, p. 31 Fully to their occupation Safety in field operations, p. 32 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with HR data and labor practices, p. 65 Fully 1 trade unions G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee category HR data and labor practices, p. 66 Fully 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Professional growth, p. 60 Fully G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Performance management, p. 60 Fully 6 career development reviews G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of emHR data and labor practices, p. 65, 67 Fully 6 ployees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Sustainable supply chain, p. 55 Fully practices criteria Focusing on supplier selection, p. 56 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor Sustainable supply chain, p. 55 Fully practices in the supply chain and actions taken Focusing on supplier selection, p. 56 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices Compliance helpline, p. 51 Fully OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 75 Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles Human rights Management approach to human rights Equal opportunities and diversity, p. 62 Fully Safety, p. 30 Building on common values, p.48 G4-HR2 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning Building on common values, p. 48 Fully 1 human rights relevant to operations HR data and labor practices, p. 66 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination HR data and labor practices, p. 65 Fully 6 and actions taken Managing sustainability, p. 51 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to Mitigating risks along the supply chain, p. 57 Fully 3 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Ensuring good governance, p. 48 Fully 5 risk for incidents of child labor Mitigating risks along the supply chain, p. 57 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Mitigating risks along the supply chain, p. 57 Fully 4 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Ensuring good governance, p. 48 Fully 1 indigenous people and actions taken G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Focusing on supplier selection, p. 56 Fully 2 human rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights Mitigating risks along the supply chain, p. 57 Fully 2 impacts in the supply chain G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts Compliance helpline, p. 51 Fully 1 Society Management approach to society Our sustainability agenda, p. 14 Fully Active stakeholder dialogue, p. 22 Working with NGOs and local communities, p. 26 G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments, and Active stakeholder dialogue, p. 22 Fully 1 development programs Engaging employees, p. 24 Working with NGOs and local communities, p. 26 G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative impacts on local comEnsuring good governance, p. 49 Fully 1 munities G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Mitigating risks along the supply chain, p. 57 Fully 10 risks related to corruption Ensuring good governance, p. 48 G4-SO4 Communication and anti corruption training Ensuring good governance, p. 48 Fully 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ensuring good governance, p.48 Fully 10 Compliance helpline, p. 51 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions Working with NGOs and local communities, p. 27 Fully 10 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Ensuring good governance, p. 48 Fully anti-trust, and monopoly practices G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Ensuring good governance, p. 48 Fully non-monetary sanctions for non compliance with laws and regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Focusing on supplier selection, p. 56 Partly criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society The carbon footprint of our supply chain, Fully in the supply chain p. 57 43% spending on local suppliers, p. 57 G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Compliance helpline, p. 51 Fully Product responsibility Management approach to product responsibility Safe products for our customers, p. 31 Fully Sustainable offering for customers, p. 34 G4-PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services Safe products for our customers, p. 31 Fully Annual targets, p. 16 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with reguCompliance helpline, p. 51 Fully lations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by proceSafe products for our customers, p. 32 Fully dures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction and loyalty survey, Fully p. 17 Focusing on customers’ needs, p. 24 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Responsible business practices, p. 48 Fully laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Safe products for our customers, p. 32 products and services 76 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 GRI and DATA Independent Assurance Report – Outotec Sustainability Report 2015 To the Management January to March 2016. The assurance process Outotec has made further progress on of Outotec Oyj included: including the whole value chain within the Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio) Interviewing employees responsible for data reporting boundary, which is consistent with has been commissioned by Outotec Oyj (herecollection and reporting at Outotec’s group the work done during previous reporting after Outotec) to perform a limited third party level. periods. This could still be enhanced to even assurance engagement regarding the content of Evaluating procedures for gathering, analyzing, more comprehensively cover impacts outside Outotec’s Sustainability Report for 2015. and aggregating quantitative data for the the organization, as most of the impacts are Sustainability Report 2015 as well as performidentified to happen there. This would improve Outotec’s Responsibility ing cross-checks on a sample basis concernthe completeness of the report. Outotec was responsible for the collection, ing the reported sustainability data. The documentation of the work processes and preparation and presentation of the informaChecking the internal guidelines of the data the internal guidelines for data gathering has tion in the Sustainability Report (hereafter collection. been further improved. This is of importance as Sustainability Information) according to the Checking the sufficiency of the documentation to maintain consistency in data gathering and Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4) of the data gathering process. compilation as well as accuracy and reliability set up by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Checking the consistency of the Sustainability in the reporting over time also when organEcobio, as an independent assuror was not Report 2015 compared to the GRI G4 Susiza-tional changes occur. involved in the data gathering and preparation tainability Reporting Guidelines. of the Sustainability Information, apart from the Practitioner’s Independence Independent Assurance. The Management of Conclusions Outotec has approved the information pro-vided Based on the work described in this report, nothand qualifications in the Sustainability Report. ing has come to our attention that would cause Ecobio is an independent consulting company us to believe that the information presented in that specializes in environmental, health and Practitioner’s Responsibility Outotec’s Sustainability Report 2015 is not fairly safety management with over 25 years of history. Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a conclustated, in all material respects, or that it would Ecobio provides corporate sustainability and sion on the Sustainability Information subject to not comply with the Reporting Criteria stated environmental consultancy services, combined the assurance performed by Ecobio. before. with training, modelling, research and planning, The scope of work included assurance of for companies in the infrastructure, industry and completeness and correctness of information Observations and service sectors. Ecobio’s assurers are skilled presented by Outotec in the Sustainability Report and experienced within non-financial assurance 2015. The assurance engagement was limited to Recommendations and have good knowledge of industry related the non-financial performance data disclosed in Based on our limited assurance engagement sustainability issues. the Sustainability Report for the reporting period we provide the following observations and As an independent consultancy, Ecobio has no of January 1st 2015 to December 31st 2015. recommendations related to GRI Sustainability financial dependencies on Outotec beyond the The Sustainability Information assured Reporting principles. These observations and scope of this engagement. Ecobio has conducted covered the Standard Disclosures in accordrecommendations do not affect the conclusions this assurance independently, and there has ance with the core-level option, including the presented earlier. been no conflict of interest. reported Environmental and Social Performance In general, the report is comprehensive, Indicators. In addition, the level of the consistwell-structured and claims are reported in a Helsinki, 23rd of March 2016 ency of the Economic Performance Indicators clear and reasonable fashion. Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy reported was checked against the GRI G4 Outotec presents a good understanding of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. sustainable development conditions and the Ecobio disclaims any liability or responsibilre-ported strategy and performance relate to ity for any third party decision based upon this the understanding of these conditions. assurance report. The materiality assessment is comprehensive taking into account different dimensions of Methodology sustainability. The process for defining the Taru Halla Ecobio based the assurance process on the report content could though be described more Senior Consultant (M.Sc.) following guidelines and standards: the Global in detail. Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting All relevant topics are covered in the report. Guidelines GRI G4, the International Standard However, even a more focused content could be on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE3000) possible and if omissions are made they should and Outotec’s internal reporting guidelines. be clearly stated and preferably on indicator The assurance process was performed utilizing level. Thomas Andersson Ecobio’s internally developed GRI assurance tool, Stakeholder dialogue is active and relevant Senior Consultant (M.Sc.) covering the principles, standard disclosures topics are well identified. We recommend and indicators of the GRI G4 Guidelines. The keeping an active dialogue with stakeholders to Standard Disclosures were assessed based on a maintain a high level on inclusivity in future resampling plan composed by Ecobio. porting periods and to ensure that also future Concerning limited assurance engagement reports responds to stakeholder expectations the evidence-gathering procedures are more and interests. The report could also support limited than for a reasonable assurance engagethe interactivity between stakeholders and the ment, and therefore less assurance is obtained. reporting organization more by offering means This assurance engagement was conducted from to be in contact with the organization. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 77 Contact information Dr. Ilkka Kojo Director – Environment and Sustainability e-mail: ilkka.kojo@outotec.com Eila Paatela Director – Corporate Communications e-mail: eila.paatela@outotec.com Saija Kinanen Communications Manager e-mail: saija.kinanen@outotec.com Outotec Oyj PO Box 1000, FI-02231 Espoo, Finland Tel. +358 20 529 211 www.outotec.com/sustainability www.facebook.com/Outotec www.linkedin.com/company/Outotec www.twitter.com/Outotec www.youtube.com/user/OutotecOyj 78 OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 FROM THE GROUND UP Outotec’s customers in the minerals and metals processing, renewable energy production, and industrial water treatment industries need technologies that allow them to make the best possible use of increasingly limited raw materials. By making prudent choices today, we can ensure the prosperous growth of businesses and societies worldwide, while preserving the planet for the benefit of future generations. This is our mission: sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. This is where we see modern society. Let’s not forget that Outotec’s solutions make all this possible. Our technologies provide the backbone of our customers’ operations, and the full life-cycle support we provide ensures the best return on their investments. We are a technology partner to the world’s major resources companies. Their facilities are where you’ll find our varied offering at work. They in turn supply the materials that underpin the infrastructure of our lives. We all understand by now that natural resources of all kinds require more efficient, environmentally friendly treatment. We answer this challenge by developing breakthrough technologies which utilize natural resources and raw materials efficiently. They also recycle materials and reduce energy and water consumption, waste, and emissions, while optimizing a plant’s lifetime operating costs. All this is underpinned by decades of experience as well as constant innovation at our in-house R&D centers. Our people and their expertise, not to mention their commitment and drive, are what make all this possible. The planet’s inner layers are the source of the metals and minerals that represent Outotec’s heritage. Our experts now look beyond the use phase of a variety of resources, including water and biomass, to examine their entire life cycles. Deep process knowledge of these raw materials – the building blocks of our lives – is our most important asset. For the whole story, please visit our YouTube channel. OUTOTEC / sustainability report 2015 79 81 Outotec provides leading technologies and services for the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. As the global leader in minerals and metals processing technology, we have developed many breakthrough technologies over the decades for our customers in metals and mining industry. We also provide innovative solutions for industrial water treatment, the utilization of alternative energy sources and the chemical industry. Outotec shares are listed on NASDAQ Helsinki. www.outotec.com Copyright © 2016 Outotec Oyj. All rights reserved.
