2015 2015 2015 Annual Financial Sustainability Review Report Supplement 2015 Sustainability Supplement Accelerating change Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach About this report NN Group adopts a combined reporting strategy, which enables us to tailor our reporting for different stakeholder groups The 2015 Annual Report provides an integrated review of the performance of our company. It is in accordance with applicable Dutch law and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which were endorsed by the European Union, as well as with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guidelines (GRI). It aligns relevant information about our strategy, governance systems, performance and future prospects in a way that reflects the economic, environmental and social contexts in which we operate. Three documents comprise our 2015 Annual Report 2015 2015 2015 Annual Financial Sustainability Review Report Supplement 2015 Annual Review 2015 Financial Report 2015 Sustainability Supplement This is our top level communication aimed This report covers NN Group’s financial This supplement provides additional at all NN Group stakeholders. It is a concise, developments and annual accounts, information with regard to our strategy, integrated review that provides information the report of our Supervisory Board and objectives and achievements related about our dynamic operating environment our approach to risk management, capital to the social, ethical and environmental and key material trends, our strategy, management and corporate governance. aspects of our businesses. It is especially how we create value, the financial and Target audiences are shareholders, rating aimed at shareholders, rating agencies non-financial performance of our business agencies and other stakeholders interested and NGOs. and the statement of our CEO. in the financials and governance of NN Group. www.nn-group.com/annual-report NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 01 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Annual Report contents Annual Review Financial Report Sustainability At a glance 03 Financial developments 03 Supplement −− 2015 highlights 03 −− NN Group 03 −− How we are structured 05 −− Netherlands Life 05 Corporate citizenship and −− Netherlands Non-life 06 sustainability at NN Group 03 About NN Group 07 −− Insurance Europe 06 −− Our approach 03 −− Our brand 07 −− Japan Life 07 −− Our objectives 04 −− Our values 09 −− Asset Management 08 −− Governance05 −− CEO statement 11 −− Other08 −− Stakeholder engagement 06 −− Japan Closed Block VA 09 Strategy and value creation 13 Improving financial well-being 07 −− What matters to us 13 Report of the Supervisory Board 10 −− Customer empowerment  07 −− Our operating environment 14 −− Financial inclusion 07 −− Our strategy 18 Corporate governance 18 −− Community investment 08 −− How we create value 21 −− Active Risk management 23 Remuneration Report 29 Responsibly managing our assets 09 −− Engagement topics in 2015  09 Delivering on our strategy 24 Works councils 34 −− Sustainability of our real estate −− Creating value as an insurer portfolio10 and asset manager 24 Report of the Executive Board −− Specialised SRI funds and −− Creating value as an investor 28 on internal control over responsible investment solutions 11 −− Creating value as a listed company 30 financial reporting 35 −− External assessments −− Creating value as an employer 32 and benchmarks 11 −− Creating value as a corporate citizen 34 Conformity statement 36 −− Governance, advice and implementation 11 Governance36 Consolidated annual accounts 37 −− Governance and compliance 36 −− Consolidated balance sheet 38 Managing our −− Our Management Board 37 −− Consolidated profit and loss account 39 environmental footprint 12 −− Consolidated statement of −− Energy and business travel efficiency 12 Additional information  38 comprehensive income 41 −− Carbon neutrality in 2015 12 −− Facts and figures 38 −− Consolidated statement of cash flows 42 −− Glossary41 −− Consolidated statement Performance data 13 of changes in equity 44 Contact and legal information 44 −− Notes to the Consolidated Reporting approach 16 annual accounts 46 −− About this Sustainability −− Risk management (Note 50) 119 Supplement16 −− Capital and liquidity management −− Assurance report (Note 51) 141 of the independent auditor 17 −− Authorisation of Consolidated −− Progress report Principles for annual accounts 148 Sustainable Insurance 18 −− Progress report UN Global Compact 19 Parent company annual accounts 149 −− Parent company balance sheet 149 Contact and legal information 21 −− Parent company profit and loss account150 −− Parent company statement of changes in equity 151 −− Notes to the Parent company annual accounts 153 −− Authorisation of Parent company annual accounts 158 Other information 159 −− Independent auditor’s report 159 −− Proposed appropriation of result 164 −− Subsequent events 165 Contact and legal information 166 www.nn-group.com/annual-review www.nn-group.com/financial-report NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 02 Corporatecitizenship Corporate citizenship and and sustainability sustainability atat NNNN Group Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Our approach At NN Group, we aim to By understanding the global trends society For more information on our values, refer to is facing, and the impact that these the Annual Review, pages 9–10. For the full help people and businesses developments might have on our customers text of the statement visit our corporate manage and protect their and on our businesses, we can contribute website www.nn-group.com. to a healthy economy as well as a stable assets and income. We society. In doing so, we create value for Focus areas believe that our role as NN Group and our stakeholders, and will Our corporate citizenship strategy is built contribute to improving lives for people upon our company’s purpose and values. In a company goes beyond today and generations to come. 2015, our Management Board reconfirmed delivering monetary returns our approach, including the focus on two for our shareholders. We More information on how we create value main areas: for our stakeholders, can be found in the aim to use our resources, Annual Review, pages 21–22. In developing • Improving people’s financial well-being • Responsibly managing our assets expertise and reach to help our simplified model of how we create value we used the framework of the society achieve long-term International Integrated Reporting Council These areas are directly related to the nature of our core business, and are sustainable prosperity. (IIRC) that is based on, amongst others, indicated by our stakeholders as important financial, intellectual, human, and social to our organisation (see table below). For and relational capital. information on our materiality assessment, refer to the Annual Review, page 13. The Purpose and values focus areas interrelate with the different g enc e Resp ons NN Group’s relationship with our pillars we use to communicate about our eri ibl xp stakeholders is based on our values: we g people’s financ e ei n non-financial performance. By focusing on rovin er Our values ly managing our ass t care, we are clear, we commit. Throughout ial w en Imp stm these areas, we feel NN Group can make ve NN Group these values drive the behaviour nsib ell it W m e the biggest impact. ets -b We co re that is needed to realise our company’s spo ca ein al footprint m We help C o m m u n it y i people secure purpose: to help people secure their This document is structured along the Cu their financial Re futures financial futures. two focus areas of our strategic direction sto e nt W for corporate citizenship. It serves as a m e a re cle ar nve nm The values are published under the title supplement to the Annual Review and st m ir o nt e nv E NN statement of Living our Values, which provides more detailed information and Em pow es explains what NN Group stands for, both for data on all pillars of our approach. e ri n g e m p l o y e internal and external stakeholders. In 2015, our focus was on creating awareness and encouraging behavioural change, embedding our values in regular processes and programmes, and on monitoring the effectiveness of the implementation. Priority measures indicated by our stakeholders Read our position 1. Offer transparent products and services AR: pages 17–18, 24–27 2. Maintain a strong balance sheet AR: pages 11, 15, 18, 23; FR: pages 119–141 3. Create products with social added value AR: pages 24–26; SS: pages 7, 10 4. Promote responsible investment AR: pages 21–22, 28–29; SS: pages 3–7, 9–11, 13 5. Offer guidance and financial education to customers AR: pages 11–12, 18–20, 24–27; SS: pages 7–8 6. Stimulate employees to develop themselves AR: pages 12, 21–22, 32–33 7. Reduce costs through efficient operations AR: pages 11–12, 18–20, 27 8. Reduce environmental footprint AR: page 34; SS: pages 4, 12, 15 9. Ensure fair remuneration AR: pages 32–33; FR: pages 29–33 10. Support local communities AR: pages 12, 21–22, 34–35; SS: pages 3–4, 7–8, 14 AR = 2015 Annual Review FR = 2015 Financial Report SS = 2015 Sustainability Supplement NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 03 Corporatecitizenship Corporate citizenshipandand sustainability atat sustainability NNNN Group Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Our objectives Focus areas We improve financial well-being We responsibly manage our assets by focusing by empowering people to: on our efforts to: • Make sound financial decisions • Integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) • Maximise their potential to create income and cover factors into our investment processes their risks, for now and later • Take responsibility as an active owner towards • Build financial resilience so they can overcome adversity investee companies • Apply restrictions based on our policy framework • Offer specialised SRI funds and responsible investment solutions Ambitions for 2020 Progress achieved in 2015 Optimising customer experience by creating transparent, easy to understand products and services and supporting people to build and protect their assets and cover their risks • Provide tools and knowledge to our customers to improve • 13 countries offer online guidance and education tools their financial decision-making • All our insurance countries use Net Promoter Score • Increase research into consumer financial behaviour • Research on feeling and being in control of one’s financial and translate findings into product and service offerings future conducted in 14 European countries • Create products and services with social value added • 7 countries provide products that offer social value added • Be recognised as the ‘You matter’ company • In 7 of our insurance countries a growing number of people recognise us as the ‘You matter’ company Creating positive change in communities by supporting people in our markets to improve their financial well-being • Roll out NN Future Matters programme in all our countries • NN Future Matters programme rolled out in our main markets • Gradually target 70% of total charitable giving towards • 58% of our total charitable donations (EUR 1.5m) towards NN Future Matters related areas* NN Future Matters target areas** • Engage at least 25% of total employees in • 7.3% of employees actively engaged in volunteering, an increase NN Future Matters programme of 85% compared to 2014 • Continue company-wide effort to provide scholarships • 7 NN Future Matters scholarships provided • Reach out to at least 100,000 youngsters • 9,069 youngsters reached through NN Future Matters programme Investing responsibly by integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into our investment processes • Further develop NN Responsible Investment Policy Framework • Revised and published NN Defence policy • Strengthen ESG integration across all asset classes • Study conducted in partnership with the European Centre • Continue to grow sustainable assets under management for Corporate Engagement on the materiality of ESG factors and product offering for equity securities • Extend measurement of carbon footprint for our portfolios (new) • EUR 4.5bn sustainable assets under management, an increase of 11.3% compared to 2014 • Formalised sustainability approach for NN’s own real estate portfolio, including reporting on environmental performance Empowering our people by fostering an open, safe, inclusive and stimulating working environment in a values-driven organisation • Continue to strengthen employee engagement • 73% engagement score, an increase of 7 points compared to 2014 • Stimulate our employees to develop and grow • EUR 13m spent on training and development • Continue to invest in the diversity of our organisation • 53/47 male/female ratio • Further embed our values through global awareness programmes • ‘Living our Values’ programme implemented Group-wide; and integration in performance management at least 85% of our employees in the Netherlands signed the Financial Sector oath or promise Managing our environmental footprint by reducing the use of natural resources, seeking green alternatives and ultimately compensating the remainder of our CO2 footprint • Reduce CO2 emissions with 30% in 2020 compared to 2005 • 13% increase of CO2 emissions (in kilotonnes) compared to 2014 (Dutch operations) • 61% of electricity purchased from renewable sources • Increase purchase of renewable electricity • Further strengthen engagement with suppliers * Through time and charitable donations. ** In 2015, we calculated financial (cash) donations only. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 04 Corporatecitizenship Corporate citizenship and and sustainability atat sustainability NNNN Group Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Governance Governance At NN Group, corporate citizenship, Simplified organisation chart including our sustainability approach, is part of the portfolio of the Chief Change and Organisation (CCO) within the Management Board. Additionally, all members of the Supervisory Board Management Board have a responsibility for integrating sustainability in their respective businesses and functions. Management Executive Board Board CEO and CFO NN Group strives to structurally embed sustainability in our policies, processes and activities. To drive our strategy and the CEO CEO CEO Chief Chief Risk Netherlands International NN Investment Change and implementation of our processes, we have Officer Insurance1 Insurance2 Partners3 Organisation a dedicated team in place; the Corporate Citizenship team within the Corporate Communications & Affairs department. This team works closely together with the CC&A/Corporate different businesses and functions to steer Citizenship and advise on the implementation of the overall strategy. 1 CEO Netherlands Insurance is responsible for NN Group’s insurance and banking business in the Netherlands. Within NN IP, our asset management 2 CEO International Insurance is responsible for NN Group’s Insurance Europe, Japan Life, business, we have a specialised Responsible Japan Closed Block VA and NN Re businesses. Investing team. Additionally, there are 3 CEO NN Investment Partners is responsible for NN Group’s asset management business. experts within specific departments, such as Risk management, Legal and Compliance, that include ESG related activities in their respective roles. For more information about our Corporate Governance, refer to the Financial Report, pages 18–28, and our corporate website. International endorsements and memberships After being part of ING Group for many years, in 2015 NN Group became a To underline our ambitions, NN Group and/or our respective businesses standalone member of various international have endorsed various international standards and initiatives: organisations, such as the United Nations • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Environment Programme Finance • United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEPFI) Institutions and the UN Global Compact. • Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) • Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 2015 was an important year for sustainable • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) development, with amongst others the launch of the Sustainable Developments We are also a member of (inter)national organisations, including: Goals and the UN Conference on Climate Change (COP21) in Paris. Prior to COP21, we • International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN) endorsed both the Climate Risk Statement • European Fund and Asset Management Association (EFAMA) of the Geneva Association and the Global • CRO Forum, Sustainability Working Group Investors Statement on Climate Change. • Eumedion To demonstrate leadership, commitment • MVO Nederland and solidarity to the agreement reached, • Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Investment (VBDO) NN Group signed the Paris Pledge to Action • Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) in December 2015. For an overview of all endorsements and memberships visit our website www.nn-group.com/In-society.htm NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 05 Corporatecitizenship Corporate citizenship and and sustainability atat sustainability NNNN Group Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Stakeholder engagement To earn trust and support, NN Group considers customers, The instruments to conduct this dialogue shareholders, employees, business partners include regular interactions and feedback NN Group maintains an open and society at large (including regulators sessions for customers on our products and continuous dialogue with and societal organisations) as important and services; roundtable sessions with stakeholders. We seek feedback from them policymakers, academics and peers; various stakeholders about on different topics in order to learn which works council meetings with employee our products and services, issues are important to them. This input is representatives and continued dialogue used in both defining our strategy and our with our employees; frequent bilateral our business performance, decision-making processes, and tells us contact with regulatory and government our role in society and other how we can best align the interests of our authorities and societal organisations topics. We do this at all levels businesses with the needs and expectations (including non-governmental organisations, of our various stakeholder groups. labour unions and industry associations); in the organisation, and both briefing sessions and roadshows for at group and business level. journalists, analysts and investors. In 2015, we were confronted with various developments, issues and challenges. These were brought to our attention by, or discussed with, different stakeholders. In the table below, we provide a snapshot of the key issues. Stakeholder and topic Our response and engagement NGO – Fair Insurance Guide (NL) Our response: NN Group has a defence policy in place that restricts investments in companies that demonstrably have activities in the trade of arms to countries that are sanctioned by a UN, Investments in companies that make EU or US arms embargo. Companies that develop, produce, maintain or trade ‘controversial available weapons and military goods weapons’ are also part of our exclusion list. The investments found by the Fair Insurance Guide to controversial regimes and countries are not restricted under our defence policy. We communicate transparently about our policy, and publish it on our website. NGO – Reprieve (UK) Our response: We expressed our concerns towards the company for not taking measures to prevent the medicine to be used in lethal injections; amongst others referring to the reputational Investments in a pharmaceutical risk this may impose on the company. After earlier unsuccessful attempts to engage in a dialogue, company producing medicine to be used we raised our concerns with the board of directors ahead of the company’s AGM, as did several in lethal injections in the United States other institutional investors. Management responded to the investors’ concerns by committing to implement adequate distribution controls. NGO – Friends of the Earth (NL) Our engagement: In developing NN Group’s responsible investment real estate guidelines, we engaged with Friends of the Earth, representing the Fair Insurance Guide, to exchange views and Sustainability of real estate investments knowledge on embedding ESG factors in our investment process and decision-making. Whilst we share the goal to improve the sustainability of real estate, we are concerned about the overly detailed policy statements that are requested, which do not align with the way we integrate ESG factors in our portfolio. Regulators – Our engagement: Our Chief Change and Organisation, member of the Management Board, Dutch Central Bank (NL) participated in a roundtable on these topics. ESG integration is at the core of our approach to responsible investment, as we believe it contributes to better informed investment decisions The role and responsibilities of financial and the optimisation of the risk/return profile of our investment portfolio. It supports a gradual institutions regarding sustainability, transition towards a sustainable economy and society, and fits in our current balancing of risks responsible business and finance and interests of our stakeholders. Investor association – Our engagement: In 2015, the Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development Dutch Association of Investors (VBDO) published a new study ranking Dutch multinational companies on transparency on tax policy and disclosure. In our view, NN Group’s performance on this topic required further attention. for Sustainable Development (NL) As a response, we worked on improving our transparency, amongst others by publishing our tax Transparency on tax policy guidelines (see also Annual Review, pages 34–35). To understand societal expectations and to explain our tax strategy, we entered in a constructive dialogue with the VBDO. Employees – Labour unions, Our engagement: Early 2015, we updated representatives of labour unions on our ‘Living our Central Works Council (NL) Values’ programme, and our corporate citizenship approach including the NN Future Matters programme and topics related to being a responsible employer. Furthermore, we discussed the Implementation of our values and NN 2014 Sustainability Report with our Central Works Council. Corporate Citizenship approach NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 06 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Improving financial well-being This chapter describes our At NN Group, we aim to be a positive In Poland, we have introduced a mobile force in the lives of our customers by app which encourages early detection approach and performance helping them secure their financial of breast cancer as part of our cancer related to our focus area futures. We want to empower people cover campaign. In Slovakia, we provide a to make sound financial decisions, package for children including coverage for ‘Improving financial wellmaximise their potential to create life, critical illness, and permanent disability being’. It is a supplement to income and cover their risks – now and in case of an accident, hospitalisation and later – and build financial resilience so surgery. In the Czech Republic, the For You the chapters ‘Creating value they can overcome adversity. We do insurance product offers women insurance as an insurer and asset not only concentrate our efforts on our coverage in case of breast cancer. The manager’ and ‘Creating value customers, as many more people can product is offered with assistance services benefit from better financial knowledge on a dedicated website, and supported as a corporate citizen’ in the and skills. with cancer prevention and healthy lifestyle Annual Review, and provides advice. In Hungary, we provide modular Customer empowerment protection and health insurance which additional information on A key aspect of delivering a great customer offers financial support in the form of the following topics: experience is the ability to empower people monetary benefits, but also advice and to improve their financial decision-making. medical assistance services such as a • Customer empowerment We feel this will help them achieve their 24/7 medical hotline and a second opinion. financial ambitions, and protect and • Financial inclusion accumulate their wealth. Therefore, we For entrepreneurs, we launched a new invest in educating people about finance, individual disability insurance product via raise their awareness through campaigns income insurer Movir in the Netherlands. • Community investment and provide them with tools to enhance In Spain, we introduced Contigo Autónomo, their decision-making capabilities. which has been especially designed to cover specific needs around health for In the Netherlands, we organised the ‘Girls entrepreneurs. NN Group participated just wanna have funds’ event in partnership in the establishment of the Netherlands with How 2 Spend It, where we challenged Investment Institution (NLII). The NLII 150 women to think about their financial wants to increase long-term investment future. Via an online questionnaire, we opportunities in the Netherlands by raised awareness of pension planning matching supply and demand. This allows among readers of Dutch magazines entrepreneurs and SMEs to benefit from VIVA and Ouders van NU. Throughout additional financing opportunities, whilst 2015 we researched people’s thoughts on giving institutional investors the opportunity feeling and being in control of one’s financial to invest directly in the Dutch economy. future. This research was done in 14 countries Furthermore, through a partnership of where NN is present, in cooperation with the the Dutch Association of Insurers with University of Tilburg. With the insights microfinance organisation Qredits, we gained we are able to further improve our offer microfinance loans to both starting communications and product offer. For and experienced entrepreneurs who are example in Luxembourg the research not able to get a regular loan from a bank. outcome shows a clear need for financial education in terms of retirement. Financial inclusion also implies that we aim to help our customers improve their Financial inclusion well-being when they are experiencing We reach out to people who may not have adversity. In the Netherlands, NN Bank has access to insurance and can benefit from redefined its policies to help home owners additional support. We aim to provide an in financial distress by enabling them to inclusive and positive experience for many stay in their homes as long as possible. different groups of people anticipating their We provide grace periods, interest holidays, specific needs. budget coaching and the use of early warnings to mortgage clients in financial Through our health insurance business we distress. In Bulgaria, insurance customers provide products and services aimed at in financial distress can suspend paying people’s individual situations, for example, instalments for up to 12 months while critical illnesses. keeping their policy in place. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 07 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Improving financial well-being – continued Community investment Creating economic opportunities To maximise our impact, we partner with In addition to helping our customers improve By supporting youngsters in preparing several local charities that support families their financial well-being, we support the for the future, NN Group believes we with children living in challenging financial broader society and especially people in our can add value in helping them to find circumstances. local communities to achieve this objective. better opportunities in the labour market. NN Group would like to help young people For example in the Netherlands, we partner This ambition is reflected in our community to find a job that suits them, and offers them with the LINDA.foundation, a charity that investment programme ‘Future Matters’, the opportunity to obtain job experience helps families in financial distress. In 2015, launched in 2014 and now fully implemented within our company. we organised several initiatives, such as a in our main markets. This led to a substantial flea market, a Christmas fair and volunteers increase both in cash donations and Our colleagues provide job training to have helped assemble packages with gift employee volunteering in 2015. The goal is youngsters who may lack specific skills or vouchers for the families concerned. Our to gradually target our charitable giving more role models. This is in cooperation with JINC, customers are also involved in the LINDA. towards this common goal. In 2015, already a Dutch not-for-profit organisation focused foundation through our special credit card 58% of our total charitable donations of on helping youngsters become better that donates ten eurocents for each EUR 1.5 million went to NN Future Matters prepared for the labour market. With a transaction to the LINDA.foundation. and its related target areas. More details donation given at our IPO, we supported on our goals for 2020 and the progress we JINC to start their work at schools in As part of the promotion of the NN made, can be found in our objectives table The Hague in 2015. Rotterdam Marathon event, we partner on page 4 of this Sustainability Supplement. with the Jeugdsportfonds, a charity that Another way of creating economic helps children from families without the NN Future Matters’ goal to improve opportunities is by encouraging financial means to become members of people’s financial well-being in our markets entrepreneurship. In 2015, the Social a sports association of their choice. is achieved through focusing our efforts Innovation Relay took place as a flagship on three complementary target areas: programme of the NN Group and Junior To celebrate the first anniversary of promoting financial empowerment, creating Achievement Europe partnership; Spain, NN Future Matters, in 2015 we made extra economic opportunities and alleviating Romania, Bulgaria and the Netherlands donations that totalled EUR 100,000 to financial distress. were the first NN countries to participate local charities in ten of the markets where in the launch of the Social Innovation Relay. we operate. Promoting financial empowerment In Japan, NN Life started a partnership By giving people confidence to take care with the Social Entrepreneurship School – Other good causes of their finances, NN Group wants to ETIC. Two young entrepreneurs grew their In addition to the global community contribute to building a society that as business by receiving mentoring and advice investment target areas under the NN Future a whole is more financially aware and from various (NN) experts and senior social Matters umbrella, our businesses and capable. Responsible financial behaviour entrepreneurs. foundations support a broad scope of is developed at an early age, so many of our other local initiatives, such as health and initiatives are focused on youngsters. During Alleviating financial distress environmental care. With these activities, the 2015 Money Week in the Netherlands, NN Group wants to help people who are we connect with our employees, customers NN employees gave in total 81 guest lectures not getting by financially, and supports and business partners, and aim to address in primary schools, teaching 1,863 children them in overcoming adversity. societal needs together. about money and risks. NN Group has set up corporate foundations in several countries to enable employees to support causes close to their hearts Charitable donations by theme* that cover a wide variety of themes. For the amounts invested through these  FutureMatters NNFuture NN Matters 58% 58% foundations, refer to page 14 of this Promotingfinancial Promoting financial Sustainability Supplement. empowerment empowerment 24% 24% Creatingeconomic Creating economic opportunities opportunities 16% 16% Alleviating Alleviatingfinancial financial distress 18% distress Health 18% 27% Nature and animals 3% Health Disaster relief 27% 0% Nature Arts andand animals culture** 3% 2% Disaster Other relief 0% 10% Arts and culture** 2% Other 10% * Includes cash donations to charitable causes, corporate foundations and partnerships. ** Cultural partnerships and sponsorships are not included. Refer to the In society section on www.nn-group.com for more information on how we support arts and culture. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 08 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Responsibly managing our assets This chapter describes our NN Group is a long-term global NN IP has published a white paper on institutional investor with a duty green bonds, that we believe contains approach and performance to act in the best interest of our strong proposals for making a positive and related to our focus area policyholders, clients, shareholders measurable impact on the environment. and other stakeholders. To fulfil this NN IP wants to contribute to the steps ‘Responsibly managing our duty, we acknowledge the importance needed to develop the green bond market assets’. It is a supplement of structurally integrating environmental, further. That is why we are a member social and governance (ESG) factors of the Green Bond Principles and have to the ‘Creating value as into our investment and active voiced the opinion that more guidance an investor’ chapter in the ownership processes. and standardisation is needed for reporting Annual Review and provides on green bonds. NN IP also signed the Engagement topics in 2015 Paris Green Bonds Statement, which additional information on The primary focus of our formal calls on governments to develop policies the following topics: engagement efforts is on companies that that support the growth of the green act in breach of the UN Global Compact bond market. • Engagement topics 2015 Principles and on companies for which we identify material ESG-related risks, Social based on in-house research and information We engaged with companies on social • Sustainability of our real from external research providers. We also topics through collaborative initiatives estate portfolio participate in thematic engagements, coordinated by the Principles for in cases where a certain issue is of Responsible Investment (PRI). As a member • Specialised SRI funds importance to an entire industry or wider of the Bribery and Corruption working range of companies. Finally, we engage with group, NN IP continued to lead in the and responsible policymakers on sustainability topics and dialogue with a large pharmaceutical investment solutions corporate governance issues that may company. The main focus of the working impact the companies we are invested group is to enhance the transparency and • External assessments in or our position as a shareholder. disclosure of anti-corruption strategies, policies and management systems. This and benchmarks Environmental two-year engagement has concluded As an active investor, we initiate dialogue after successful dialogue with a range • Governance, advice with companies on environmental issues, of companies across regions and sectors. and implementation including environmental damage and The outcomes will be published in a joint climate change. In the past year, for PRI-UNGC publication to be released in instance, we have addressed multiple the summer of 2016. issues, ranging from stranded asset risks and carbon pricing to spills, with oil We also joined a new PRI working group and gas companies. We also continued our on ‘human rights in the extractive industry’. dialogue with companies that have This engagement intends to improve substantial exposure to oil sands. Because disclosure on, and implementation of, the these projects are more Greenhouse Gas UN Guiding Principles on Business and (GHG) intensive than conventional projects, Human Rights. The institutional investors it is important that ambitious targets are that participate in this initiative have set for GHG emission reductions. We also scheduled engagements with global started an engagement with the utility extractive companies to get a better sector focusing on ways that they can understanding of their commitment to increase power generation from renewable human rights, how human rights-related energy sources and reduce their carbon risks are being assessed, and how the footprint (see box on page 10 of this company engages with local communities. Sustainability Supplement). Many extractive companies have operations in sensitive areas, which makes it even more NN Investment Partners (NN IP) signed important to thoroughly embed respect the ‘Investor Expectations on Corporate for local communities and human rights Climate Lobbying’ statement. This public in the business processes. NN IP leads the statement addresses corporate lobbying dialogue with a large company in the oil and practices which may be inconsistent with gas industry and a company specialised in the interest of long-term investors. It calls the production and trading of commodities. upon companies to improve their practice and transparency regarding processes for climate policy engagement and bring them in line with the universally accepted goal of limiting global temperature rises to two degrees Celsius. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 09 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Responsibly managing our assets – continued Corporate governance Integrated reporting helps investors The score of our indirect portfolio was 67, One of the key corporate governance issues apply relevant ESG factors efficiently whilst 74% (or 14 out of 19) of our funds are that we regularly discuss with companies is and effectively. NN IP frequently discusses Green Stars. the board nomination and election process. with companies the benefits of this way of In 2015, NN IP joined a working group of the reporting that combines financial and ESG GRESB also tells us about the energy PRI that looked at best practices to optimise information in a clear, consistent and uniform performance of our real estate portfolio. the director nomination process. The working matter. In 2015, NN IP also took part in a pilot In the year under assessment (2014), group will actively approach a group of programme conducted by the International our portfolio achieved a 6% like-for-like French and American companies where Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), the reduction in energy consumption. The we identified points of improvement for the world’s leading proponent of integrated associated reduction in greenhouse gas director nomination and election process. reporting. By sharing our views on company emissions was 5%, which is on aggregate reports, we aim to further stimulate the the equivalent of 4,143 passenger vehicles NN IP actively contributed to a paper by journey towards integrated reporting. off the road, based on data provided by the International Corporate Governance 52% of participants. Network (ICGN) identifying concerns over Sustainability of our real recent legislation in Italy and France. These estate portfolio Going forward, NN Group intends to extend legislations seek to encourage the granting NN Group uses the GRESB Real Estate the analysis of the carbon footprint of its of double voting rights or loyalty dividends Assessment to evaluate the sustainability investment portfolio to other asset to promote long-term investment. Whilst the of our EUR 4.1 billion (proprietary) real estate categories too. ICGN is supportive of promoting longer-term portfolio. In October 2015, the results of the thinking and behaviours by investors, at annual assessment were revealed; 96% of the same time, it is concerned that such our portfolio was included in GRESB and our rights not only have the potential to hurt portfolio did well. On average, our (valueminority investors, but also the long-term weighted) portfolio score was 66 on a scale performance of a company. of 100, while the benchmark average (282 entities) was 55. This represented a strong We also joined other international investors relative improvement to the benchmark in early 2015 in voicing these concerns to compared to 2014 when our score was 50, the Italian, French and EU authorities. In the similar to the benchmark. case of Italy, the investor voice was heard, and the government abandoned plans We calculated separate scores for our earlier this year. In France, legislation is direct and indirect portfolios (i.e. we invest in a reality. Therefore, NN IP has sent letters underlying European properties directly and to French companies with the request to indirectly via private real estate funds). Our introduce our preferred ‘one share, one vote’ portfolio of direct investments had a score principle in their statutes. Many of these of 63, meaning it achieved top quadrant companies responded positively and added performance in GRESB’s scoring matrix the amendment of the statutes to their (similar to a Green Star qualification used AGM agendas. for funds). Impact investing study Support transition towards a low carbon world in the Netherlands At NN, we believe that engagement with Our engagement, supported by provider To explore the potential of impact companies is essential in the transition GES, will target a selection of 20 large investments for our clients as well towards a low carbon world. companies worldwide. We hold these as our own assets, NN Group was companies’ shares or bonds on behalf amongst the partners in the VBDO Over the next two years, NN Investment of our own assets and/or client study ‘Impact Investing, from niche Partners will engage with companies in assets. The engagement will focus to mainstream’. In this capacity, we the power utility sector on their climate on improving carbon risk management contributed to several joint learning policies and CO2 reduction targets. This and addressing aspects related to sessions. The central question of the sector is one of the largest contributors governance, policymaker interaction, study was how impact investing in of CO2 emissions to mainstream transparency, reduction targets and the Dutch institutional investor market investment portfolios. At the same time, action plans, and climate change risks can professionalise and grow. power utilities also have opportunities and mitigation strategies. to adapt and prosper in a carbon The outcome of the study was constrained economy. The overarching goal is to support presented during the ‘Investing with these companies in achieving a carbon impact’ event in February 2016, and risk exposure reduction from a long-term the publication can be found on the perspective and improved competitiveness website www.vbdo.nl. in a carbon constrained economy. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 10 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Responsibly managing our assets – continued Specialised SRI funds and Responsible investment is embedded The Dutch Association for Sustainable responsible investment solutions into its manager selection and monitoring Investment, VBDO, published its ‘2015 We are meeting the growing demand for process, through a dedicated ESG scorecard. Benchmark Responsible Investment by products that generate solid financial This scorecard covers a variety of subjects, Insurance Companies’. This benchmark returns and are good for society and the ranging from the active ownership efforts of investigates the responsible investment environment through specialised funds and a manager to their environmental and social activities of insurers by looking at mandates. Assets under management in policies. Clients can also use holdings-based governance, policies, implementation these sustainable equity and fixed income analysis, which shows how the individual and transparency. Thirty Dutch insurance products have grown with 11.3% to holdings of a portfolio scores on ESG factors. companies participated in the benchmark EUR 4,509 million by year-end 2015. and, out of these, NN Group ranked fifth, • NN Investment Partners’ flagship External assessments compared to the seventh position in 2014. Luxembourg and Dutch domiciled and benchmarks Our absolute score slightly declined, The Sustainable Equity funds have been reflecting new questions added, however NN Sustainable Equity Funds have been awarded recognised ESG labels from we improved our ‘implementation’ score, offered since 2000. They make use of both independent research institutions in various which is weighted most heavily in best-in-class and exclusionary criteria. countries. They demonstrate the quality of the benchmark. • The NN (L) Euro Credit Sustainable the incorporation of ESG considerations fund started in December 2011. It applies exclusionary criteria based on controversial throughout the investment process. Governance, advice and behaviour and also excludes tobacco • Our NN (L) Invest Sustainable Equity fund implementation (for the third consecutive year) and the Within NN Group, the Management Board companies. Since October 2014, we NN (L) Invest Europe Sustainable Equity holds ultimate accountability for the ESG also offer the Euro Credit Sustainable Fund (for the second consecutive year). aspects of our businesses. Besides the (including Financials) fund. received the French ‘Novethic SRI Label’ Management Board, several committees • Both funds have also been granted with board member leadership play an NN IP offers clients the possibility to set the Luxflag ESG Sustainable Label important role in our internal decisionup mandates according to their specific in Luxembourg and the FNG label making processes. preferences with respect to best-in-class and exclusionary criteria. In addition, we in Germany NN Group has a Responsible Investment provide investment advice to institutional NN IP has signed up to the UN Principles Working Committee. It steers the investors who wish to adopt a responsible for Responsible Investment (PRI) in 2008. implementation of the RI Policy Framework investment policy or evaluate and refine one Its latest assessment of our responsible from the perspective of an asset owner, and that is already in place. investment approach once again shows that monitors ESG aspects for all proprietary we have above-average scores on overall assets. Our NN Group Chief Investment Within NN IP, Altis is responsible for the ESG integration, promoting responsible Officer chairs this committee, combining external fund manager selection for both investing and taking into account ESG responsibility for the insurance business institutional and retail clients. Altis is fully aspects in external manager selection. with the areas of expertise of NN Investment owned by NN IP but operates at arm’s For ESG integration in equities, NN IP has Partners and involved NN staff functions. length, using its proprietary software platform to analyse external investment received the highest possible score. NN Investment Partners has an ESG Board, strategies on holdings level. chaired by its Chief Investment Officer. It consists of senior managers and ESG specialists. The ESG Board gives advice to NN Investment Partners’ executive team Assets under Management in specialised SRI products (in EUR million) about its positioning on responsible investments. The ESG Board has a Equity funds 1,373 mandatory advisory role on NN Group Equity Equity mandates funds 1,373 1,032 responsible investment-related policies Fixed Equity income funds mandates 1,032 556 and restricted list(s). It also steers the Fixed Fixed income Income fundsmandates 556 1,548 implementation of the framework in Total Fixed Income mandates 1,548 4,509 the investment processes of NN IP. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 11 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Managing our environmental footprint This section is a supplement In 2015, we continued to effectively Energy consumption manage our direct footprint by efficient to the ‘Creating value as use of natural resources, identifying a corporate citizen’ chapter and implementing green alternatives and ultimately compensating for the in the Annual Review and remainder of our carbon footprint. provides additional information Our sustainability initiatives continue to focus on energy and business travel on our approach and efficiency and paper use reduction. performance to minimise our We also encourage the recycling of direct environmental footprint. materials inside our office buildings. Energy and business travel efficiency NN Group’s facility management teams are continuously working to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings, especially in Electricity Electricity 22% 22% countries where renewable energy is Renewable Renewableelectricity electricity 35% 35% difficult to purchase. Furthermore, we Natural Naturalgas gas 24% 24% implemented a better system to monitor Districtheating District heating 20%20% energy consumption. Fueloiloil Fuel 0%0% Many of the buildings in which NN Group’s business units are housed, have maintained Carbon neutrality in 2015 our green labels, such as BREAAM or LEED. We continue to offset the remainder of Together with our local partners, we are our CO2 emissions through the purchase aiming for all NN Group local head office of Voluntary Carbon Units (VCUs), Gold buildings to have a green label by 2020. standard. As a result, we achieved 100% carbon neutrality over 2015. In 2015, NN Group renewed our partnership agreements on business travel with the The carbon credits that we acquired come aim of further monitoring and optimising from a windmill park in Manisa, Turkey. the frequency and intensity of air travel. The park exists of 23 modern wind turbines Besides generating financial benefits, this with a total capacity of 57.5 MW. The park renewed partnership aims to have a positive provides renewable electricity to around influence on our environmental footprint. 20,000 households. The project ensures that less greenhouse gas emissions will be NN Group encouraged our staff to drive emitted as fossil fuels are replaced by wind cleaner by introducing more electric cars energy. A contribution to the reduction of in the NN car pool, and installing additional climate change is made, in combination with charging stations at our offices in the other social, economic and environmental Netherlands. This approach aims to benefits of the project. decrease our CO2 emissions in the coming years. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 12 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Performance data Financial indicators (in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change 2013 Operating result ongoing business 1,435 1,086 32% 905 Net result (after attribution minority interest) 1,565 588 166% 322 Net operating ROE 10.8% 8.6% 8.9% IGD Solvency I ratio1 320% 300% Solvency II ratio1 239% Value of new business 202 178 13.1% Assets under Management (end of period, in EUR billion)2 187 195 -4.2% 174 Dividend proposal (per ordinary share, in EUR) 1.51 0.57 n.a. NN Group share price (COB 31 December 2015, in EUR) 32.55 24.85 n.a. Customer-related indicators (in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change 2013 Total claims and benefits paid 14,225 11,982 19% 12,653 New sales life insurance (APE) 1,295 1,315 -2% 1,227 Gross premium income 9,205 9,340 -1% 9,530 Customer satisfaction and loyalty Insurance business units using NPS 100% 85% 85% Insurance business units scoring on/above market average 95% 70% n.a. Countries offering tools improving financial decision-making (#) 13 13 12 Responsible investment indicators (in EUR million) 2015 2014 Change 2013 Sustainable Assets under Management (end of period) 4,509 4,052 11.3% 3,442 as part of total Assets under Management 2.4% 2.2% 2.0% SRI funds NN Duurzaam Aandelen Fonds 682 539 26.5% 201 NN (L) Invest Europe Sustainable Equity Fund 148 128 15.4% 41 NN (L) Invest Sustainable Equity Fund 544 268 103.0% 178 NN (L) Renta Fund Euro Credit Sustainable 471 457 3.0% 479 NN (L) Renta Fund Euro Credit Sustainable (including financials) 85 31 175.4% Subtotal 1,930 1,423 35.6% 899 Mandates Sustainable Fixed Income Mandates 1,548 1,706 -9.3% 1,768 European Sustainable Equity Mandates 333 286 16.5% 240 Global Sustainable Equity Mandates 699 637 9.7% 535 Subtotal 2,580 2,629 -1.9% 2,543 Shareholders meetings voted at (#) 2,013 1,699 18.5% 1,315 Agenda items on which voted (#) 26,580 20,005 32.9% 15,426 1 The solvency ratios are not final until filed with the regulators. Solvency II ratio is based on the partial internal model. 2 Assets under Management include the mortgage portfolio managed on behalf of NN Life and NN Non-life since 2Q14. The comparative figures have been restated accordingly. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 13 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Performance data – continued Human capital indicators  2015 2014 Change 2013 Workforce (end of year)1 Total full-time equivalents (FTEs) 11,643 11,890 -2.1% n.a. Total number of employees (headcount) 12,105 12,420 -2.6% 14,666 Netherlands Life 2,183 2,222 -1.8% 5,595 Netherlands Non-life 901 918 -1.9% Insurance Europe 4,228 4,242 -0.3% 4,401 Japan 697 706 -1.3% 787 Asset Management 1,191 1,188 0.3% 1,516 Korea (2013 only) 1,030 Other1 2,905 3,144 -7.6% 1,337 Part-time employees 16.1% 17.2% 26.7% Temporary employees 5.8% 5.2% 3.9% Male/female ratio (%) 52.7/47.3 53.5/46.5 51.5/48.5 Male/female ratio Top 50 (%) 82/18 80/20 75/25 Well-being and engagement Sick leave2 2.8% 2.6% 2.8% Engagement score 73% 66% 67% Participation in engagement survey 84% 62% 82% Employee participation Employees covered by a collective labour agreement (CLA) 71% 71% n.a. Complaints Grievances on labour practices2 5 7 -28.6% 12 Talent development Total spending on training and education (in EUR million) 13.0 13.6 -4.4% 14.0 Spending/average FTE (in EUR) 1,094 1,047 4.5% 954 Employees with completed standard performance process (2014/2015) 87% 90% n.a. Employee compensation Total employee wages and benefits (in EUR million)3 1,159 1,100 5.4% 1,111 Community investment indicators 2015 2014 Change 2013 Total donations to charitable organisations (x EUR 1,000)4 1,500 1,072 39.9% 1,172 Of which donations from corporate foundations (country/name): Hungary/NN Foundation for Children’s Health 33 26 26.9% n.a. Spain/Aprocor 37 35 5.7% n.a. Romania/Foundation for Life 137 142 -3.5% n.a. The Netherlands/Together for Society 293 264 11.1% n.a. Total hours of volunteering work 7,433 4,018 85.0% 3,350 Total number of employees participating in volunteering work 881 533 65.3% 430 Total number of youngsters reached through NN Future Matters programme5 9,069 – – 1 The data on our workforce differ from the total number of FTE stated in the Annual Review. This is due to a difference in our finance and human resources systems, where only the latter provides the details as stated above. The percentage part-time employees for 2014 was amended according to new sources. This amend also impacted the 2014 number of employees (headcount) for Insurance Europe, Other and Total. 2 Data only available for the Netherlands (representing >50% of total number of employees). 3 Excluding pension costs. For more details on the composition of employee wages and benefits, refer to Note 27 of the Consolidated annual accounts. 4 Includes cash donations to charitable causes, corporate foundations and partnerships. 5 Numbers reached only include Social Innovation Relay and main Dutch programmes. n.a. = not available NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 14 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Performance data – continued Environmental indicators 2015 2015/CO2 2014 2014/CO2 Change 2013 2013/CO2 Total CO2 emissions (kilotonne) 21 21 18 18 13% 29 29 CO2 emissions/FTE (kilotonne) 1.8 1.6 14% 2.5 Business travel – air travel (km x 1 million) 25 6 23 4 8% 25 4 Business travel – car travel (km x 1 million) 13 3 12 2 13% 53 10 Total energy consumption (MWH x 1,000)1 55 12 65 12 -15% 75 15 Electricity 12 6 11 6 16% 15 8 Renewable electricity 19 24 -22% 27 Natural gas 13 3 18 4 -28% 18 4 Fuel oil District heating 11 3 12 2 -8% 15 3 Total paper use (kg) 872,996 803,444 Sustainable paper (i.e. FSC) (kg) 730,277 527,624 Total waste (kg) 573,875 906,965 Recycled waste (kg) 152,053 131,691 Sustainability ratings 2015 2014 Change 2013 Sustainalytics rating (position/# insurance companies) 13/149 11/93 (Outperformer) (Outperformer) n.a. Oekom rating C (Prime) n.a. n.a. Carbon Disclosure Project 95C n.a. n.a. 1 The 2014 environment data are adjusted according to new sources. As the amend concerns renewable electricity, it had no impact on the total 2014 CO2 emissions. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 15 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach About this Sustainability Supplement Our approach to reporting Information in this report is based on Reporting guidelines We take a holistic approach to corporate extensive reporting from our countries, The NN Group Sustainability Supplement reporting. Our Annual Report consists of businesses and functions. All information and related content in the Annual Review three components: Annual Review, Financial is reviewed by NN Group’s Disclosure are in accordance with the G4 guidelines Report and (this) Sustainability Supplement. Committee and is subject to approval of (Core) from the Global Reporting Initiative our Executive Board and Supervisory Board (GRI). It aims to make information available In this year’s Annual Report, we made a next before publication. in a manner that is understandable and step towards more integrated reporting. accessible to stakeholders using the Therefore, elements such as our materiality We aim to provide transparency and report and reflects different aspects of matrix and a description of how our enhance the reliability of the reported the organisation’s performance to enable business model creates values for our content for our stakeholders. Therefore, a reasoned assessment of overall stakeholders, are included in the Annual the content has also been reviewed for performance. Review. The Sustainability Supplement limited assurance by our external auditor, contains additional information regarding Ernst & Young Accountants LLP. We provide The GRI Index table states the indicators our focus areas: Improving financial evidence to our external auditor to support NN Group is reporting on, including where well-being, and Responsibly managing our the statements we make in this report. Refer to find the respective information, either assets. Furthermore, it contains additional to their assurance report on page 17 of this in this Sustainability Supplement, the performance data regarding responsible Sustainability Supplement. Annual Review, Financial Report and/or investment, human capital, community the NN Group website. The index table investment and environmental footprint. Boundary and scope of the can be found on www.nn-group.com/ reported data annual-report. We believe that this reporting strategy We define ‘boundary’ as the range of entities enables us to tailor our reporting for over which NN Group has management Going forward different stakeholders, many of whom control. The scope for community investment Going forward, NN Group will continue require a different depth of information. and environmental data is all businesses to tailor our reporting to service different with more than 100 FTE. The aforementioned stakeholder groups. This includes further The online versions of the components applies to all material items as depicted in integration of financial and non-financial of our report contain a number of links the materiality matrix in the Annual Review, information and indicators to provide between the Sustainability Supplement and unless otherwise stated. stakeholders with a complete picture the other documents, more specifically the of our company’s performance. Annual Review and the Financial Report. NN Group used an online system, Credit360, Links to sources on the NN Group website for gathering the information and data for are also included. community investment and environmental footprint. We have tried to limit any Reporting profile uncertainties in the reported data through This is NN Group’s second Sustainability our internal validation process, which Report, after having been part of ING Group includes validation of data in Credit360. We for many years. We report annually, on have sourced the HR data directly from the a calendar year basis (1 January – HR data analytics department. The financial 31 December). data reported in this supplement has been fully sourced and aligned with NN Group’s Reporting process 2015 Financial Report. Relevant topics were selected for the 2015 Annual Report, more specifically the Annual In the reporting year 2015, no significant Review and the Sustainability Supplement, changes occurred regarding our definitions through a materiality assessment using and reported data. Also, no acquisitions or internal and external research and other disinvestments occur, therefore no changes sources. In addition, a survey was held occurred regarding our reporting approach. amongst external and internal stakeholders. For more information, refer to the Annual Review, page 13. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 16 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Assurance report of the independent auditor To: the Stakeholders and the Furthermore the Executive Board is • Evaluating the design and implementation Supervisory Board of NN Group N.V. responsible for such internal control as of the systems and processes for data We have reviewed the sustainability it determines is necessary to enable the gathering and processing of information information in the chapters ‘At a glance’, preparation of the Report that is free from as presented in the Report ‘About NN Group’ (excluding the paragraph material misstatement, whether due to • Interviewing management (or relevant ‘Our brand’), ‘Strategy and value creation’ fraud or error. staff) at corporate and business division (excluding the paragraphs ‘Our operating level responsible for the sustainability environment’ and ‘Active Risk management’), Our responsibility for the review strategy and policies ‘Delivering on our strategy’, ‘Facts and of the Report • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for figures’ and the ‘Sustainability Supplement’ Our responsibility is to express a conclusion providing the information in the Report, (except the paragraphs ‘Progress report on the Report based on our review. We carrying out internal control procedures Principles for Sustainable Insurance’ and conducted our review in accordance with on the data and the consolidation of the ‘Progress report UN Global Compact’) of Dutch law, including the Dutch Standard data in the Report the Annual Report for the year 2015 3810N ‘Assurance engagements relating • Evaluating internal and external (hereafter: the Report) of NN Group N.V., to sustainability reports’. This Standard is documentation, in addition to interviews, Amsterdam (hereafter: NN Group). based on the International Standard on to determine whether the information in The Report comprises a description of Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 the Report is reliable the policy, the activities, events and ‘Assurance engagements other than audits • Analytical review of the data and trend performance of NN Group relating to or reviews of historical financial information’. explanations submitted for consolidation sustainable development during the This requires that we comply with ethical at group level reporting year 2015. requirements and that we plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about We believe that the evidence we have Limitations in our scope whether the Report is free from material obtained is sufficient and appropriate The Report contains prospective misstatement. to provide a basis for our conclusion. information, such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and projections. A review is focused on obtaining limited Conclusion Inherent to this information is that actual assurance. The procedures performed Based on our procedures performed, and future results may be different from the in obtaining limited assurance are aimed with due consideration of the limitations prospective information and therefore at the plausibility of information which described in the paragraph ‘Limitations may be uncertain. We do not provide does not require exhaustive gathering in our scope’, nothing has come to our any assurance on the assumptions and of evidence as in engagements focused attention that causes us to conclude that feasibility of this prospective information. on reasonable assurance. The performed the sustainability information in the Report, procedures consisted primarily of making in all material respects, does not provide The GRI Index 2015 as published on inquiries of management and others within a reliable and appropriate presentation of www.nn-group.com is an integral part of the entity, as appropriate, applying the policy of NN Group for sustainable the Report and is within our engagement analytical procedures and evaluating development, or of the activities, events and scope. Other references in the Report (to the evidence obtained. Consequently performance of the organisation relating www.nn-group.com, external websites and a review engagement provides less to sustainable development during 2015, other documents) are outside the scope of assurance than an audit. in accordance with the ‘Sustainability our assurance engagement. Reporting Guidelines’ G4 (option Core) of Procedures performed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Responsibilities of the Executive Our main procedures included the following: reporting criteria developed by NN Group Board for the Report • Performing an external environment as disclosed in the chapter ‘About this The Executive Board of NN Group analysis and obtaining an understanding Sustainability Supplement’ of the Report. is responsible for the preparation of of the sector, relevant social issues, the Report in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations and the ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines’ characteristics of the organisation Amsterdam, 22 March 2016 G4 (option Core) of the Global Reporting • Evaluating the acceptability of the Initiative (GRI) and the reporting criteria reporting policies and their consistent Ernst & Young Accountants LLP developed by NN Group as disclosed application, such as assessment of the in the chapter ‘About this Sustainability outcomes of the stakeholder dialogue Signed by drs. R.J. Bleijs RA Supplement’ of the Report, including the and the reasonableness of accounting identification of the stakeholders and the estimates made by management determination of material issues. The • Evaluating the in accordance option disclosures made by management with with the ‘Sustainability Reporting respect to the scope of the Report are Guidelines’ G4 (option Core) of GRI included in the chapter ‘About this Sustainability Supplement’ of the Report. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 17 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Principles for Sustainable Insurance PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance Progress report Progress report 2015 In June 2012, we became a founding signatory of the UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance. The overview below provides a selection of examples from this progress, including We report on our progress in implementing references to the relevant pages in the report. the principles in our business operations throughout the NN Group Annual Report. (AR = Annual Review; SS = Sustainability Supplement) Goals Progress 2015 We will embed in Offer insight, tools and programmes to improve consumers’ financial We developed online and offline platforms for knowledge sharing and supporting people our decision-making decision-making in securing their financial futures (AR: pages 24–7; SS: pages 4, 7–8). environmental, social and governance issues, Maintain an up-to-date Environmental and Social Risk (ESR) policy framework We introduced an overarching Responsible Investment Policy Framework for NN Group, relevant to our business setting out our vision and approach on integrating ESG factors into our investment process (AR: pages 28–29; SS: pages 14–18). Develop a set of ambitions, goals and Our strategic approach to corporate performance indicators for our insurance citizenship has been approved by the and asset management business Management Board, including focus areas and ambitions 2020 (SS: pages 3–4). We will work together Aim to increase our sustainable assets allocated Our sustainable assets under management increased by 11.3% to EUR 4.5 billion, with clients and business compared to 2014 (AR: pages 28–29; SS: pages: 9–11, 13). partners to raise awareness of environmental, social and Manage our direct footprint and review our procurement process in order to The total extrapolated amount of carbon emissions from our business operations governance issues, manage create more sustainable practices increased by 13% compared to 2014. NN Group strengthened the embedding of sustainability risk and develop solutions in the procurement policy and process (AR: page 34; SS: pages 12, 15). We will work together with Engage with stakeholders on general developments or more specific issues We entered into dialogue with various stakeholders on different topics (SS: page 6). governments, regulators We also published reports on sustainability topics (www.nn-group.com; www.nnip.com). and other key stakeholders to promote widespread Promote responsible insurance and asset management amongst key stakeholders We are an active member of various (inter) national networks (SS: page 5,). We aim to action across society on contribute to positive change as we support investee companies to seek improvement environmental, social and in ESG practices (AR: pages 28–29; governance issues SS: pages 9–11). Strive to create positive change in Total funds raised in 2015 for charitable communities and increase employee organisations was EUR 1.5 million. Roll out participation in our community of NN Future Matters to our main markets investments initiatives (AR: page 35; SS: 7–8, 14). We will demonstrate Ensure public disclosure of our sustainability objectives, and the progress we make, in our NN Group published our 2015 Annual Report, including an Annual Review, Financial Report accountability and annual reporting and this Sustainability Supplement. This table serves as a cross-reference to the relevant transparency in regularly sections in this report and our website. disclosing publicly on our progress in implementing the principles NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 18 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach United Nations Global Compact Progress report UN Global Compact NN Group commitment Performance Principle 1 The NN statement of Living our Values includes NN statement of Living our Values Business should support and respect the the commitment to respect human rights. protection of internationally proclaimed NN Group Responsible Investment human rights Human rights are an integral part of NN Group’s Policy Framework Responsible Investment Policy Framework and ING’s ESR Framework and apply to all sectors ING’s Environmental Social Risk Framework that we conduct business with. Sustainable Procurement Policy We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with NN Group memberships the UNGC principles that promote human rights, fair labour practices, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. NN Group is a member of various international networks and initiatives Principle 2 The NN statement of Living our Values includes NN statement of Living our Values Business should ensure that they are not the commitment to respect human rights. complicit in human rights abuses NN Group Responsible Investment Human rights are an integral part of NN Group’s Policy Framework Responsible Investment Policy Framework and ING’s ESR Framework and apply to all sectors ING’s Environmental Social Risk Framework that we conduct business with. Sustainable Procurement Policy We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with NN Group memberships the UNGC principles that promote human rights, fair labour practices, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. NN Group is a member of various international networks and initiatives Principle 3/ILO Conventions The NN statement of Living our Values NN statement of Living our Values 87 and 98 includes the commitment to respect human Business should uphold the freedom of rights, advocate equal opportunities and NN Group Responsible Investment association and the effective recognition encourage diversity of thinking. Policy Framework of the right to collective bargaining HR Policies At NN Group, we uphold the freedom of association for all our employees and Sustainable Procurement Policy recognise the right to collective bargaining. We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with the UNGC principles that promote human rights, fair labour practices, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Principle 4/ILO Conventions The NN statement of Living our Values includes NN statement of Living our Values 29 and 105 the commitment to respect human rights. Business should support the elimination of NN Group Responsible Investment all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human rights are an integral part of NN Group’s Policy Framework Responsible Investment Policy Framework and ING’s ESR Framework and apply to all economic ING’s Environmental Social Risk Framework sectors that we conduct business with. Sustainable Procurement Policy We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with the UNGC principles that promote human rights, fair labour practices, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Principle 5/ILO Conventions 138 and 182 The NN statement of Living our Values includes NN statement of Living our Values Business should support the effective abolition the commitment to respect human rights. of child labour NN Group Responsible Investment We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with Policy Framework the UNGC principles that promote human rights, fair labour practices, environmental ING’s Environmental protection and anti-corruption. Social Risk Framework Sustainable Procurement Policy NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 19 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach United Nations Global Compact – continued UN Global Compact NN Group commitment Performance Principle 6/ILO Conventions The NN statement of Living our Values NN statement of Living our Values 100 and 111 includes the commitment to respect Business should support the elimination of human rights. NN Group Diversity and Inclusion policy discrimination in respect of employment and occupation At NN Group, we believe it is right for the composition of our workforce to reflect that of society and for our people to bring a diversity of talents, beliefs and perceptions to their work. Principle 7 The NN statement of Living our Values NN statement of Living our Values Business should support a precautionary includes the commitment to respect each approach to environmental challenges other and the world we live in. NN Group Responsible Investment Policy Framework NN Group’s Responsible Investment Policy Framework and ING’s ESR Framework aims ING’s Environmental Social Risk Framework to mitigate environmental and social risk of Sustainable Procurement Policy our business activities. Managing our environmental footprint NN Group’s Procurement policy includes environmental aspects. NN Group’s environmental approach aims to minimise the environmental impact of our own operations. Principle 8 The NN statement of Living our Values NN statement of Living our Values Business should undertake initiatives to includes the commitment to respect each promote greater environmental responsibility other and the world we live in. NN Group Responsible Investment Policy Framework NN Group’s Responsible Investment Policy Framework and ING’s ESR Framework aims ING’s Environmental Social Risk Framework to mitigate environmental and social risk of Sustainable Procurement our business activities. NN Group’s Procurement policy includes environmental issues, this is to ensure environmental sustainability. Principle 9 Growth in the sustainable assets under Responsible investment Business should encourage the development and management that represent business diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies conducted with sustainability criteria. Sustainable assets under management 2015 Principle 10 The NN statement of Living our Values NN statement of Living our Values Business should work against corruption in includes the commitment to act with integrity. all its forms, including extortion and bribery Governance and Compliance NN Group has zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption and has clear policies on this. NN Group implements a corporate policy on Financial Economic Crime (FEC). NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 20 Corporate citizenship and sustainability at NN Group Focus areas Performance data Reporting approach Contact and legal information This report is available as a pdf file on Disclaimer www.nn-group.com/annual-report NN Group’s 2015 Annual Report consists of three documents: the 2015 Annual Review, the 2015 Financial Report and the Prepared by 2015 Sustainability Supplement. NN Group Corporate Communications & Affairs Certain of the statements in this 2015 Annual Report are not Design and production historical facts, including, without limitation, certain statements Addison Group made of future expectations and other forward-looking statements www.addison-group.net that are based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could Contact us cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially NN Group N.V. from those expressed or implied in such statements. Actual results, Schenkkade 65 performance or events may differ materially from those in such 2595 AS Den Haag statements due to, without limitation: (1) changes in general P.O. Box 93604, 2509 AV Den Haag economic conditions, in particular economic conditions in NN The Netherlands Group’s core markets, (2) changes in performance of financial www.nn-group.com markets, including developing markets, (3) consequences of a potential (partial) break-up of the euro, (4) the implementation Commercial register of Amsterdam, no. 52387534 of the EC Restructuring Plan, (5) changes in the availability of, and costs associated with, sources of liquidity as well as conditions For further information on NN Group’s sustainability strategy, in the credit markets generally, (6) the frequency and severity of policies and performance, visit www.nn-group.com/In-society.htm insured loss events, (7) changes affecting mortality and morbidity levels and trends, (8) changes affecting persistency levels, We welcome input from our stakeholders. If you would like (9) changes affecting interest rate levels, (10) changes affecting to provide us with feedback, please feel free to contact us currency exchange rates, (11) changes in investor, customer and via Sustainability@nn-group.com policyholder behaviour, (12) changes in general competitive factors, (13) changes in laws and regulations, (14) changes in the policies of governments and/or regulatory authorities, (15) conclusions with regard to accounting assumptions and methodologies, (16) changes in ownership that could affect the future availability to us of net operating loss, net capital and built-in loss carry forwards, (17) changes in credit and financial strength ratings, (18) NN Group’s ability to achieve projected operational synergies and (19) the other risks and uncertainties detailed in the Risk Factors section contained in recent public disclosures made by NN Group and/or related to NN Group. Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of NN Group in this Annual Report speak only as of the date they are made, and, NN Group assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or for any other reason. This document does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities. NN Group’s 2015 Sustainability Supplement provides additional information with regards to our strategy, objectives and achievements related to the social, ethical and environmental aspects of our businesses. It is especially aimed at shareholders, rating agencies and NGOs. Nothing in this document is intended to extend or amend NN Group’s existing obligations to our clients, shareholders or other stakeholders. All NN Group policies, procedures, guidelines, statements or anything similar that have been mentioned in the Sustainability Supplement are intended for internal guidance purposes only and are not intended to be relied upon by any third party. © 2016 NN Group N.V. NN Group N.V. 2015 Sustainability Supplement 21
