MURABAHA CAPITAL LTD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS _COP_ 4/25/2016 1 4/25/2016 2 MURABAHA CAPITAL MEMBERSHIP IN UN GLOBAL COMPACT SINCE 2011 4/25/2016 3 MISSION OF MURABAHA CAPITAL LTD. * Providing excellent specialized consulting, financial, and investment services. * Commitment and focusing on sustainable projects that support environment, governance, transparency, and that are characterized by quality and accuracy. * Exceeding our customers’ expectations in Syria and Middle East. 4/25/2016 4 THE STRATEGY OF MURABAHA CAPITAL LTD. The strategy of MURABHA Capital Ltd. Is based on building long-term relationships with its customers and society. MURABHA Capital Ltd . has abided by its program for society service CSR for 19 years through its policy that involves service commitment to continually protect society all the time. 4/25/2016 5 THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF MURABAHA CAPITAL LTD. MURABHA Capital Ltd., is directed by highly qualified experts in the field of consultant and financial investments. It depends on a sustainable policy of business context according to the principles of UN Global Compact and the standards of international sustainability. 4/25/2016 6 GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATIONS OF MURABAHA CAPITAL LTD The structure of MURABHA Capital Ltd., consists of a group of companies in four regions: Syria, Lebanon, Sudan and Dubai. 4/25/2016 7 SOME CUSTOMERS Oil , Gas & Power Real Estate Governmental Projects Fund Raising Merger Create Investment Opportunities 4/25/2016 8 WE ARE COMMITTED TO GLOBAL COMPACT The strategy of MURABAHA CAPITAL is driven by a commitment to do the right thing in our own business and to be a catalyst for change in the world around us. Doing the right thing means playing our part in responsible business issues that are central to our businesses – from the quality of services and the diversity of our people, to our engagement with communities and our environmental footprint. Being a catalyst for change means that we use our skills, voice, and relationships to work with others and influence activities that make a difference, create change and have a lasting impact on the world around us. We have four focus areas to bring this strategic intent to life locally: Responsible business, Diversity and inclusion, Community engagement, and Environmental management. We describe our work in each of these areas within this report. The overlaps and intersections of these four areas with the UNGC four areas of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption, should become apparent throughout. 4/25/2016 9 HEAD OF BOARD DIRECTORS TALKS ABOUT MURABAHA’S SUPPORT OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND GLOBAL COMPACT Dear Partners and Stakeholders: We are committed to sustainable development, to create sustainable communities where people want to live and work. We support schools, charities and voluntary organizations in our community and focus our support on our lovely country SYRIA. We want to enhance the value of MURABAHA Capital in various aspects of Syrians’ life in the long run. We therefore view creation in a holistic manner because we believe that economic, environmental, and social responsibility go hand in hand. Regards Hassan Hamwi Chairman 4/25/2016 10 THE SIGNIFICANCE OF MURABAHA CAPILTAL INCORPORATION IN GLOBAL COMPACT • MURABAHA tries to fulfill our social responsibilities in the most favorable conscious manner. • MURABAHA aims to achieve a more powerful organizational structure. • MURABAHA intends to be a part of a freshly blooming culture in the international business platform. • MURABAHA seeks to become a business partner preferred by multinational business platform. • MURABAHA undertakes risk management by means of being proactive against risks. 4/25/2016 11 MURABAHA ACTIVITIES AND PROGRAMS IN SOCIETY SERVICE IN 2015  Helping Hama University to improve teaching quality and to obtain the first international quality certificate in Syria in 2015. 4/25/2016 12  Concerning MURABHA support of young generations, it trains them to join job market. It has participated in an encouraging project to develop human resources in Lattakia and Syrian Coast by providing financial support for the students of Diploma and higher studies. 4/25/2016 13 4/25/2016 14 A SHORT OVERVIEW OF MURABAHA ACTIVITIES IN THE FIELD OF SUPPORTING LOCAL SOCIETY DURING SYRIAN CRISIS  Providing all spiritual and materialistic support to all young persons who want to work with MURABAHA inside or outside Syria.  Having work teams to recognize the undergraduates' needs in order to develop their capabilities by attending free training courses in the fields of consultant and financial services in accordance with the requirements of job market. 4/25/2016 15  Taking care of Syrian Arab Army martyrs' families. The initiative started in 2014 by supporting 25 martyrs' families and continued in 2015 by supporting 40 martyrs' families spiritually, financially and materialistically.  Giving materialistic aids to some of those affected by Syrian conflict through some charity associations as a contribution to decrease their sufferings.  Participating in Paris Conference for Climate. 4/25/2016 16  Helping and training Syrian refugees in Swede to find a job by enrolling in the program of BACK TO JOB 4/25/2016 17  Passion talks goes to the camps Mostafa Hamwi, a Vice President in MURABAHA, goes three times a year to Syria refugees camps in Lebanon to help Syrian women and children affected by Syrian conflict. He carries out psychological support campaigns for those displaced persons. He shares them their daily experiences to inspire them to have faith that they will have a better life. He tries to have them smile in spite of all their difficulties. 4/25/2016 18 WE SUPPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT 4/25/2016 19 Human Rights First principle: Supporting and respecting the protection of Human Rights: MURABAHA aims always to provide a suitable work environment to its team due to its belief in the significance of human resources as a main resource for the group. MURABAHA seeks to attract and develop qualified manpower through focusing on the following aspects: 4/25/2016 20 IScientific and intellectual:  MURABAHA has a yearly plan to train its team members according to their specializations, qualifications, and tasks. It encourages technical and professional training; helps its team to acquire management skills; and provides several types of courses such as: archiving and record control. MURABAHA has achieved 90% of its plan in 2015.  MURABAHA believes in self-development and team learning, so its team members cooperate together to transfer their experiences and knowledge to one another. 4/25/2016 21 MURABAHA encourages its team to read. Consequently, it provides a library that contains more than 1170 in various specializations: management, computer, Internet, economics, business, quality, health, occupational safety. MURABAHA has trained “Consultant Piadretic Dentistry Center for Children” in Hama to attain ISO 9001-2015 certificate. As a result, the center has become the first to obtain this certificate in the Middle East.  MURABAHA is interested in social responsibility towards society and interested parties, so it organizes several free training courses. In 2015, it has focused on training 6 civil organizations, associations and assemblies to have good knowledge about management, human rights, and gender equality. In addition, it has provided them with training materials to be used by them to train their personnel. 4/25/2016 22 IIHealth: • MURABAHA provides health care for its team by participating in health insurance and health awareness programs, and by granting health service and medical care. • MURABAHA has offered guiding and warning bulletins about environment, health, and occupational safety. • MURABAHA provides free training courses for nurses at several hospitals in Syria to enable them to overcome the difficult situations in the present circumstances of Syrian crisis. 4/25/2016 23 IIISocial: • MURABAHA provides social services to its team members, so it gives them subsidies (subventions) and incentives periodically. • MURABAHA encourages invention and creation, so it urges its team to be creative and original. • MURABAHA takes the necessary procedures and arrangements to enable women to have their rights. So, it employs women and appoint them in leadership positions. (Females constitute 80% of the total number of team members) 4/25/2016 24 IVAdministrative and regulatory: • MURABAHA develops the basics of work ethic continually, applies work laws, seeks to achieve equality in salaries and rewards for all team members, and pays the fair fee according to effort. Moreover, it takes urgent emergencies of some members into consideration. • MURABAHA grants suitable healthy environment for its team, for example, it allows its team to have one hour break. • MURABAHA applies elastic policy in work, so it gives its members the choice to have a full-time or partial-time job. Also, it permits them to choose their work days. Accordingly, 30% of team members have partial-time jobs in agreed-upon days according to their own preferences. 4/25/2016 25 Second principle: Non-indulgence in human rights contraventions MURABAHA is committed to ethical conduct, truthfulness and justice in its dealings with its team and stakeholders. MURABAHA respects the rights of its team members regarding their occupational safety, and it offers them rewards and incentives according to their performance. The relationships of MURABAHA’s board of directors and all team members are familial. There is no mistreatment for any party. They all cooperate and collaborate in a harmonious group. 4/25/2016 26 * The relationships of MURABAHA’s board of directors and all team members are familial. They all cooperate and collaborate in a harmonious group. There is no mistreatment for any party. * MURABAHA evaluates its team members to measure their performance and to recognize the necessary training needs. Consequently, it trains them continually and provides equal opportunities for all of them to develop their work. * MURABAHA is concerned in following up its program of social responsibility as a main component of its yearly plan. * MURABAHA highly estimates gender equality in work between male and female members of its team. 4/25/2016 27 Third principle: Respecting the freedom of constituting assemblies and actual admitting of the group cooperation right MURABAHA follows Syrian labor laws. It respects the right of negotiation, including guild admission. MURABAHA encourages team members to participate in decision making because of its belief in their effective role in development and improvement. It is convinced that development starts at the bottom of work hierarchy. Therefore, it holds consecutive meetings to discuss difficulties, obstacles and problems in order to find suitable solutions. It motivates its team members to communicate with their directors about all work issues especially social responsibility. 4/25/2016 28 Fourth principle: Abolishing all kinds of forced labor MURABAHA has an administrative system that defines the relationship between it and its team members. Both parties sign a contract that identifies items of agreement including: type of work, office-hours, workdays, and vacations according to the members’ own circumstances. MURABAHA gives fair salaries to its team members to grant them the minimum level to their living. It asks them if their salaries are not adequate. It provides them with necessary facilities (workhours, leaving permissions, vacations,…). 4/25/2016 29 Fifth principle: Actual abolition of child labor MURABAHA abides by labor laws that prohibit work under 18 years old. 4/25/2016 30 Sixth principle: Abolition of discrimination in employment and jobs MURABAHA follows the policy of indiscrimination with its team members by: Enhancing workforce in selecting team members according to their specializations and scientific capabilities without discrimination in any of: race, gender, religion, nationality, or handicapping. Providing equal opportunities to all team members in occupational training and developing, paying the fee suitable to effort, and granting rewards, incentives, vacations, and health care. Enabling women to work and to obtain their right in having high positions. (The rate of female members is 4 to 5 of the total number of MURABAHA team) 4/25/2016 31 ENVIRONMENT Seventh principle: Encouraging preventive approach against all environmental challenges MURABAHA assures environment protection in its activities and services, through enhancing team awareness about the significance of environment protection from of all types pollution (noise, visual pollution,…). It acknowledges its team about energy, water resources and renewable energy. It automatizes all its works, mails and correspondences to decrease paperwork. Also, it does not employ smokers. 4/25/2016 32 Eighth principle: Enlarging the scope of environmental responsibility MURABAHA enhances the culture of environmental protection inside and outside its locations, through organizing free courses. It has conducted 16 courses about: medical wastes, the effects of war on environment, protecting environment from fires and bombs. MURABAHA has participated in Paris Conference for Climate. MURABAHA takes the necessary procedures to protect energy. MURABAHA has joined the Syrian association for environment in 2002 and participated in its activities. MURABAHA is the leader of Arabic Center for environment management systems. 4/25/2016  33  MURABAHA applies the environmental management systems ISO 14001 in several organizations. It has supervised on activating environmental management in 5 parks in the Ministry of Local Management.  MURABAHA has cooperated with Arabic organization for industrial development to deliver some training courses in the field of environmental management.  MURABAHA has conducted specialized courses for the disposal of medical wastes in 5 hospitals. 4/25/2016 34 Ninth principle: Encouraging the developing and communicating of environmentally safe technologies  MURABAHA protects environment from pollution as it provides suitable context without noise.  MURABAHA has contributed in supporting Syrian Inventors’ Association to invent new technologies to protect environment and to have training courses and seminars about protecting environment.  4/25/2016 35 Anti‐corruption Tenth principle: Fighting all kinds of corruption including blackmailing and bribe MURABAHA restricts itself to ethical conduct in fighting all kinds of corruption inside and outside its locations, especially in matters related to interested parties as it is convinced that those parties are partners. MURABAHA Capital is proud that it is not indulged or involved in any corrupted practices such as bribes or blackmailing. It has refused to accept works on the basis of paying bribes. Additionally, it has abandoned some governmental and private contracts because of illegal behaviors such as asking for money or privileges. MURABAHA has celebrated that 2015 is the 18th year in which it is clean of any corruption or bribes. 4/25/2016 36 We are going ahead RESULTS AND NEXT PLAN Our commitment to the standards of Global Compact has very positive effects on our work. Our communication with local society and its organizations increased. Moreover, team satisfaction increased. Also, we got more certificates for our programs in transparency and protecting environment. We assure that we are going ahead in fulfilling our commitment to the programs of Global Compact in the future. We will increase our activities and we will provide spiritual and financial support to our society especially in the present difficult circumstances that our homeland suffer from. 4/25/2016 37 MURABAHA addresses • Murabaha Capital Group BVI‐LTD • Damascus: +963 953680368 • Beirut: +961 7145029 Mob,Viber & WhatsApp • Dubai: +971 5583550 • Khartoum: +249 912339902 • Stockholm: +467 29415488 • Email:hamwi55@gmail.com hassan@murabahacapital.com • Website:www.murabahacapital.com • Skype: Hassan Hamwi 4/25/2016 38
