Communication on Progress Report 2014-2015 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Table of contents 1. Statement From the President of Wissol Group 2. About Wissol Group 3. Five Core Values of Wissol Group 4. Wissol Group’s CSR Vision 4.1 Marketplace and Customers 4.2 Employees 4.3 Community and Society 4.4 Health, Safety and Environmental Performance 4.5 Business Partners 4.6 Control and Finance 5. Wissol Awards 6. Contact 2 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Statement From Chief Executive Officer `With successful business activities of Wissol Group, we want to contribute to the economic development of Georgia and social well-being of its population. Strong business in its turn means employed people, technological and infrastructural development, highly professional human capital and sustainable development of the local economy. Quality represents the core value of our business. Thereore, by providing quality products and services, we offer our customers a unique Wissol experience. By means of introducing innovative standards in the business management and services, we contribute to the development of the living standards of the society we live in, as well as to the industries we are operating in. Besides, Wissol feels responsibility for environment protection and undertakes social investments, makes charity and implements community projects for social well-being of the society at large. Thus Wissol shares GC principles and furthermore, it is an honor for me personally to serve as the Chairperson of the GC Local Network in Georgia.” Dr. Samson Pkhakadze President of Wissol Group 3 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Wissol Group Wissol Group is one of the largest business groups in Georgia. With the largest chain of petrol and CNG stations and with aviation fuel deliveries, Wissol Group is the leading player in the country's energy sector. The group is represented in the tyre, lubricants and car service, real estate, construction and advertising industries as well and is currently engaged in the development of food supermarket chain in Georgia under brand Smart and American Restaurant chains of Wendy’s and Dunkin’ Donuts. Daughter brands: 1. Wissol Petroleum Georgia 2. Wissol Gas 3. Air Wissol 4. Wissol Gas Distribution Company 5. Car and tyre service chain Vianor Georgia 6. Auto Service centers of G Energy 7. Real Estate and Construction Company Vellagio 8. Supermarket Chain Smart 9. American Restaurant chain Wendy's Georgia 10. American Restaurant chain Dunkin’ Donuts 11. Advertising company Alma 4 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Facts o Wissol is the only Georgian brand that was enlisted in the Top Ten European brands at the European Business Awards in Paris; o Wissol holds ISO Quality Management Certificate since 2006. Nowadays Wissol is the owner of ISO 9001:2008; o Wissol is the owner of the widest chain of company owned petrol and CNG service stations; o Wissol has exclusive international partners like Wendy’s, Dunkin’ Donuts and Nokian Tyres Group, one of the biggest tyre manufacturers in the world represented by the daughter company Vianor in Georgia. Vianor operates up to 1000 tyre and car service centers in 24 countries. Since 2014 Wissol Group is the exclusive importer of Greek top quality fuel, Euro 5 standard EKO super, EKO premium and EKO diesel. (http://www.hellenic-petroleum.gr/online/generic.aspx?mid=30) Besides, Wissol signed an agreement with TOTAL, one of the world's major oil and gas groups based in France and became an exclusive importer of TOTAL lubricants in Georgia in 2010; o Wissol is an innovator in the Georgian energy sector. In 2001 the company was the first to introduce the Wissol Corporate Card to the Georgian market. Since May 2009 Wissol has been offering its corporate clients the unique GoLive fleet management satellite system; it was the first company in Georgia to do so. o With more than 5000 employees Wissol Group is the biggest employer in the Georgian oil sector; o Wissol Group is one of the biggest tax payers in the Georgian State Budget; 5 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Wissol Group’s Five Core Values o Focus on quality The strategic goal of Wissol is to get established as a brand distinguished with its superior quality petroleum products. Wissol offers the latest European standard fuel and the highest quality services, thus the company strives to create unique “Wissol experience“for customers. Every employee of Wissol Group is eager to fulfill the promises of `Wissol” brand. Professional approach of Wissol staff provides ability to offer valuable relation to customers. o Quest for development Wissol is an innovator in the Georgian petroleum industry. All new products and services for individual or corporate clients in the Georgian oil sector are pioneered by Wissol. Quest for introduction of innovative technologies is every day job inspiration for Wissol employees. o Social Responsibility Wissol believes that, wherever it operates Georgian-wide, the company activities should generate economic benefits and opportunities and enhance quality of life of all its stakeholders. o Justice Wissol operates its business in a transparent and responsible manner. Wissol Group strongly believes that its activities should be conducted in full respect of the society in which the Group operates. o Patriotism Wissol contributes to the economic development of Georgia. The Company is one of the biggest taxpayers and the biggest employer in the country. Besides, Wissol makes considerable investments contributing not only to the Georgian economy but supporting development and promotion of national values, culture and sport 6 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Wissol Group’s CSR Vision We believe that, wherever we operate Georgian-wide, our activities should generate economic benefits and opportunities and enhance quality of life of our stakeholders; that our conduct should have a positive influence; that our relationships should be honest and transparent; and that we should be held accountable for all our actions. Our CSR policy focuses on six areas: o Marketplace and Customers o Employees o Community and Society o Health, Safety and Environmental Performance o Business Partners o Control and Finance 7 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Marketplace and Customers o We run businesses applying business code of conduct approved and signed at the auspices of the Association of Petroleum Product Importers and strive to set European standards in our country. o Quality I Trust is the slogan of Wissol Group. Therefore, the most modern quality control technologies are applied at every daughter brand of the Group and we try to consider the right of the customer at every step of our performance. o We have implemented the best practices of corporate governance and transparently run the business processes. In reaching requests of our valuable customers, since 2014 Wissol Group is the exclusive importer of Greek top quality fuel, Euro 5 standard EKO super, EKO premium and EKO diesel. http://www.hellenic-petroleum.gr/online/generic.aspx?mid=30 o Customers have an opportunity to have transparent information on the company and communicate with it through `Your Voice` section on the web site. The company receives about 20 e-mails through the section per month. (www.wissol.ge) o Wissol toll free number *1000 works for 24/7 to give customers any necessary information or help. Up to 3000 people call at hot line per year and all of them receive necessary feedback. o Wissol Petroleum Georgia conducts the full cycle of quality control of its products and services. The company operates three labs at its oil terminals and the express lab is the last chain of the quality control system. The quality control department of Smart Supermarket guarantees the consistent quality of products and services offered in the supermarkets through constant quality control procedures and internal laboratories. o Introducing innovative products and service technologies Wissol strives to create unique Wissol experience and offer comfortable and time saving relations to customers while making purchase at Wissol Group daughter companies. o Wissol Group tries to award his loyal customers. Therefore, Unicard bonus points are possible to be accumulated only at Wissol chain of gas stations. Besides, customers can buy any products with the Unicard bonus points only at supermarket Smart. o In 2015 Wissol introduced Wissol Card, which is high-tech plastic card for individual clients. The card enables Wissol loyal customers make fuel purchases online through Wissol website or TBC PAY Instant Payment Terminals and promptly get any product at the company gas station network. Card holders will always enjoy from 5 to 10 Tetri discount according to the amount of fuel purchase. Wissol Card provides unique means to control expanses as SMS service, online account and receipt obtained at the gas station gives an information about the amount of purchased fuel and the rest of the balance. o Wissol Quality Control Expert gives advice to physical and corporate clients on recommended fuels for their vehicles that gives them opportunity to decrease their fuel 8 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report consumptions and release less emissions in the environment. (http://wissol.ge/index.php?eng&cat=98&type=1) o At the End of each year, Wissol Group evaluates the year and reports over business developments and social projects implemented by the Group. The purpose of the report is to maintain an active and fully transparent communication with the consumers and wider society. Employees o Wissol Group is one of the largest employer in the country, the company employees more than 5000 people. o Every year Wissol Group allocates millions of GEL for the social benefit packages of its employees. o Wissol Group supports professional development of employees. Therefore, in 2011 the company created Wissol Group Academy, where each employee of Wissol Group has an opportunity to raise qualification, develop new skills and competences and be promoted. o The company gives equal opportunity of promotion to all its employees. o Wissol practices the reward and bonus systems to motivate the staff. o Wissol Petroleum Georgia employees probationers cooperating with the Ministry of Corrections and Legal assistance of Georgia. o Wissol Group is involved in the employment projects of governmental and nongovernmental organizations and gives job opportunities to socially vulnerable groups. o The company enforces a non-discriminatory policy when hiring its employees, and treats its employees equally irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, or religion. o For the effective internal communications Wissol Group operates intranet and releases electronic and printed corporate newsletters. o Wissol Group tries to involve its staff in company’s social projects and sport activities. Besides, there are 18 football and 2 rugby teems staffed with Wissol personnel. They do exercises every week and take part in internal championships to relax after hard working days. Furthermore, Wissol is happy to entertain its staff and invite them to all art events and community activities sponsored or supported by Wissol. The company organizes corporate parties as well for raising the corporate spirit. o It is already three years that Wissol Group employees join in the largest charity running event in the world’s sporting history. Some will run, others will jog or walk, or even race in a wheelchair, but all of them will participate in the 2016 Wings for Life World Run. The World Run is an annual international charity event that sees people line up and race as far as they can before being caught by the ‘catcher car’ to raise money for research into finding a cure for spinal cord injuries. 9 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report o It is also a tradition for Wissol Group employees to join Tbilisimarathon. In 2015 the funds received from TbilisiMarathon registration, doubled by HeidelbergCement, was transferred for expanding and renovating the center for people with disabilities in Rustavi, Georgia!. Renovation of up to 400 sq. m. building is planned, which will enable the center to receive more beneficiaries, who did not have chance to get treatment before. o The “Employee of the year” nomination dates back to the initial establishment of Wissol Group. Among the evaluation criteria to reveal the winner the company considers not only the ability of the employee to precisely follow responsibilities listed in job description, but their initiatives to generate innovative ideas to support business development or refine working conditions for effective performance. Various queries are used as the main assessment tool. Apart from this status of “The Employee of the year”, employees receive numerous encouraging financial bonuses, diplomas and other gifts (e.g. improved insurance package) to boost their motivation. Community and Society o Wissol Group undertakes social investments, makes charity and implements community projects for well-being of the society at large. o Wissol Group organized awareness-raising activities for solidarity of Down Syndrome World Day and held a fun event for children with down syndrome. Wissol Group was eager to express solidarity toward events dedicated to Down Syndrome World Day, as we together with our society and customers “create a better future” and any activity, which aims to raise a public awareness to create an equal, harmonious and a friendly environment for all members of society, is vitally important for us and we want to be a part of this process. o Project A book to every village is implemented with united efforts of non-state and state sector, the Patriarchate of Georgia, the youth movement Davitiani, business sector and with initiative of Student Unity organization. The central and school libraries of the regions of Georgia Kvemo Kartli, Racha-Lechkhumi, Pshav-Khevsureti and Imereti villages are supplied with necessary books with the support of the Ministry of Sport and Youth Affairs of Georgia, Wissol Group, Georgian National Library, Palitra L publishing house and philanthropist society as books are donated and collected at the Wissol gas stations and Smart supermarket, Wendy’s and Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants. Accordingly, the project is aimed at popularization of books in population of those villages that are remote from regional centers and books are not available for socially vulnerable families. o Network of Smart Supermarket has launched a project “Buy Georgian” in 2015. “Buy Georgian” is a long-term project aimed at the development of Georgian agriculture and the promotion of local production. Smart employees go to villages and help local farmers in harvesting and then the company sells the agricultural products without any commercial interests at its supermarkets. Thus the deployment of local production at Smart shelves is 10 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report a significant motivation for peasants and small entrepreneurs to ensure the quality in details” that Smart offers to its customers. o The Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia and Wissol Group. The document was signed by the Minister of Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia David Sergeenko and the president of Wissol Group Soso Pkhakadze. The goal of the memorandum is to support employment through Public Private Partnership program. Particularly, to provide internship opportunities for job seekers registered in Social Services Agency Management Information System (www.worknet.gov.ge) and to promote employment. The Parties will promote joint employment measures, as well as will share information about most demanded profession on labor market. o Wissol Group Gori Rest and Service Complex hosted Wissol safe driving promotional campaign together with celebrities and called drivers for follow safety rules while driving. The event was held within the campaign – “Let’s Make Our Way Safe”, where a symbolic test running (The Drive) war organized and in which President of Rafting Federation David Katsarava and journalist Liza Vadachkoria participated. The campaign – “Let’s Make Our Way Safe!” is accomplished with the initiative of Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure of Georgia, Roads Department. Project is funded by the World Bank and NGO-Foundation Partnership for Road Safety promotes campaign popularization. Wissol joined the campaign during Easter 2015 when driving to regions is very intense. o Smart launched an Easter charitable event in 2015 within the frames of people's movement “Merciful Georgia”. Within the framework of the event Smart together with its loyal customers gathered food products in “Merciful Baskets” placed at Vake, Saburtalo and Rustaveli Supermarkets for those people, who have not had the opportunity to celebrate the Easter holiday properly and are socially vulnerable. o The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Wissol Group – Dr. Samson Pkhakadze visits different leading business schools from time to time and shares his experience with the students. o Wissol believes that young people in Georgia should be engaged in studying and sports, as a healthy lifestyle is a key to success on both personal and professional levels. Supporting Georgian Sports became a corner stone in Wissol CSR activities. Wissol has built 4 most modern sport centers at different locations in Tbilisi investing 25 million GEL for sport infrastructure development in total. Within the framework of the project 3 rugby stadiums and 4 modern football pitches have been constructed. Wissol has also built a 200 meter open, modern cycle track in Didi Digomi according to the project of a famous sports architect Sander Douma. Wissol has developed sport complex for wrestling and judo sports and developed in-house sports complex for playing and conducting matches in mini-football, basketball and volleyball. Sport Complexes care about healthy future of up to 3000 children per month in total. 11 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report Health, Safety and Environment o We fully accept our responsibility for the health and safety of our customers, employees and the community in which we operate; therefore, Wissol has put in place Company Health, Safety and Environmental Policy o Wissol is the first and only oil company in Georgia which has received an ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Certificate, having held it since 2006. o Wissol terminal in Tbilisi and the largest in-land oil storage facility in Samtredia follow strict safety regulations. o Wissol service stations are built according to all international safety standards. o From 2007 Wissol offers environmentally friendly Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) at its integrated service stations Georgian-wide. o Storage tanks at Wissol service stations are equipped with filters against oil evaporation and spill. o Oil products are transported by special fleet equipped with separate pipes for each six products available at Wissol and filters against oil evaporation. o Wissol traditionally celebrates 5th of June, World Environment Day, encouraging healthy lifestyle. Sport events are organized in cooperation with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) representation in Georgia and the Ministry of Environment Protection and Natural Resources. o All Wissol employees have health insurance. o Pump attendants at Wissol service stations are dressed in nonflammable clothing. o We have never had a case of traumas at work. o Wissol Group celebrated 5 June, the World Environment Day by hybrid cars test-drive. o At all Smart supermarkets customers can find bio corner and enjoy healthy products by German brand Bio Greno. Business partners We believe in long-term relationships built upon understanding and trust to achieve mutual prosperity. Control and Finance o Wissol operates its business in a responsible manner and does not get engage in any corruption practices. o The company contributes to the economic development of Georgia. Wissol is one of the biggest taxpayers in the oil sector. 12 Wissol Group Communication on Progress Report o Wissol has transparent financial management and displays its financial highlights audited by independent international auditors on its website as well as through mass media. o No cash payments are practiced. Wissol is engaged in electronic transfers. Contacts Wissol Group Head Office 74B, Chavchavadze Ave. Tbilisi, Georgia Phone: +995322 291 53 15 Fax: +995322 291 56 15 E-mail: office@wissol.ge; pr@wissol.ge 13
