1 TEMP-­‐TEAM Sverige AB is part of the international JuhlerGroup JuhlerGroup is a leading group of recruitment agencies founded in 1979 in Copenhagen, Denmark, by Erik Dymann Juhler, currently CEO of the Group. Since the inception, the company has grown to more than 40 offices throughout Europe and Asia and is today operating in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Singapore, Sweden and the UK. More than 1.500 permanent placements are made by JuhlerGroup companies annually and we employ around 2.600 outsourced staff on average, every single day. Board of Juhler Holding JuhlerGroup Asia, Singapore Juhler Holding A/S, Denmark Access Access Active TEMP-TEAM Flex Force ERIK JUHLER Talent-Team Professionals Personnel Selection Denmark Norway Singapore Denmark UK Denmark Finland Finland Norway Norway Sweden UK Singapore For more information concerning JuhlerGroup please visit www.juhlergroup.com Group Level Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee At the beginning of 2015 JuhlerGroup, started a group level CSR committee consisting of 10 participants across all our member countries including Denmark, Finland, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, and the UK. The committee will attend Skype meetings 2 to 4 times a year to discuss the CSR issues and investigate additional CSR initiatives. The goal is to exchange ideas more actively in the group and to work on joint projects and towards common objectives within the UN Global Compact framework. Group level CSR surveys will be sent out to all employees at least once per year to get further feedback how the CSR can be improved further. Members of The Global Compact Network Nordic Countries TEMP-­‐TEAM Sweden, Finland, Norge and Denmark are members of The Global Compact Network Nordic Countries to further interact with companies when it comes to developing our CSR practices in the Nordic region. 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. TEMP-­‐TEAM Sverige AB supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect the Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. With support from external advisors we always do our best to treat our co-­‐workers ethical and legally correct. TEMP-­‐TEAM is a decentralized organization where there is room for the individual. We have an open door policy for anyone to approach the management with complaints about any unfair treatment. We want to find areas where we can contribute to more equal living conditions for everyone. We feel that we can contribute in this area through different charity organization. Evaluation 2015: This year we have made a donation to Unicef by buying 1860 measles vaccines. TEMP-­‐TEAM has not been a subject to any investigations or violations of the global compact principles 1-­‐2 during the past year. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. TEMP-­‐TEAM Sverige AB is an authorized staffing recruitment company and members of the employer and trade federation Bemanningsföretagen. We follow existing Swedish labour law and collective agreements. Any employee is free to join a trade union of their choice and we respect collective bargaining. TEMP-­‐TEAM has policies in regards to equality, discrimination, work environment and safety related issues. We encourage gender equality and do not accept discrimination, forced labour or child labour. Changes in the law and collective agreements will been communicated in the organization. Our contracts and personnel handbook clearly state the conditions for employment such as salary, sick-­‐pay, vacation, insurance, benefits and other rights in regards to the employment. We are committed to ensure the best possible conditions 3 and work environment for our employees and our aim is to continuously evaluate and uncover areas that can be improved. A yearly survey is conducted with employees to follow up on performance, training, work environment, health etc. For 2016 our focus will be to evaluate our physiological work environment. Evaluation 2015: This years job satisfaction survey revealed that more training is requested during 2016. What cannot be conducted internally will be outsourced to an external partner. Also roller-­‐mouse have been requested of some staff and have been supplied. We fulfilled the requirements to be re-­‐authorized as staffing recruitment company. TEMP-­‐TEAM has not been a subject to any investigations or violations of the global compact principles 3-­‐6 during the past year. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies At TEMP-­‐TEAM Sverige AB we believe that active environmental profile is a sound mode of operation for all types of organizations and businesses. As a small service company our environmental impact is limited, but in areas were we have the influence we continuously work to improve our environmental performance. Our aim this year has been to reduce the number of paper invoices and send them on e-­‐mail. We want to encourage our staff, customers and the people around us to limit their carbon footprint. We follow Swedish environmental law and we have developed an environmental policy as a guide to minimize our negative effects on the environment. We will consider Give-­‐Aways that limit or take our environmental impact into consideration. By donating money to customers we also limit our transportation by not delivering the gift nor contributing to use of material. Plant-­‐A-­‐Billion-­‐ Tree campaign Forests help sustain all life on Earth. They are the source of clean water of billions of people around the globe, and provide clean air and climate control. In addition to the positive environmental impact, tree planting also provides new jobs and improves living conditions for the people in the area. In 2016 JuhlerGroup, including TEMP-­‐TEAM Sverige will commit to plant one tree for each assignment we place in 2016. We will cooperate with The Nature Conservancy which is an American charitable environmental organization. They have the mission to conserve the land and water on which all life depends. JuhlerGroup will participate in ‘Plant a Billion Tree’(PBT) campaign -­‐ One Gift. One Tree. One Planet which is under The Nature Conservancy. The program was launched in 2008 to address the urgent issue of deforestation in Brazil’s Atlantic Rainforest and Central Savannas in Brazil. Evaluation 2015: A “Greenoffice” policy has been communicated on our intranet and in the common areas as well have been brought into our introduction program for new employees. We highlighted Earth Hour on our social media and encouraged our staff to join as well. Juhlergroup has invested in a solar cell company to cover Juhlergroups electricity consumption through green investment. A Danish solar cell company is the partner for this project and in 2014 the production are equivalent to the annual consumption of electricity in about 6000-­‐7000 normal households in Denmark/136 tons of CO2. It is our group goal to be CO2 neutral in the long term. For our consultants we bought solar cell chargers for Christmas. And for our customers we made a donation to Unicef. 4 60 % of our customers now use invoices on e-­‐mail. Our aim for next year is to increase that number. Our aim was to evaluate all our suppliers during 2015 in regards to their environmental profile. We have not come any further with the evaluation of suppliers. This will be an ongoing project for 2016. TEMP-­‐TEAM has not been a subject to any investigations or violations of the global compact principles nr. 7-­‐9. Anticorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery TEMP-­‐TEAM has a strict zero tolerance policy against corruption, bribery or extortion. Compared to most countries the level of corruption in Sweden is low. To limit the risk even further we have policies for representation and purchases. All employees are informed on the company policy and legislation in this area. All invoices and representations are reviewed and approved by the financial department. Dual-­‐signatures are being used. An external auditor reviews and approves our finances each year. Evaluation 2015: After the annual audit TEMP-­‐TEAM Sverige AB has been approved for 2015. TEMP-­‐TEAM has not been a subject to any investigations or violations of the global compact principles nr. 10. 5
