We know Norway ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Organisation This is Posten Norge page 4 Our brands page 6 Employees, locations and services page 8 Group structure page 9 Group management page 11 Corporate Governance page 13 History page 22 Results Key figures page 24 Important events page 26 The CEO page 28 Board of Directors page 31 Report of the Board of Directors page 33 Mail Division page 45 Logistics Norway Division page 48 Logistics Nordic Division page 51 E-commerce Division page 54 Market report page 56 The future page 60 Sustainability Our most important resources for value creation page 63 Our employees page 68 Our relationships and partnerships page 81 Our networks and expertise page 90 Our ability to change page 99 Our financial capital page 104 GRI content index page 107 An extra effort for society page 109 Global Compact participant page 111 Financial statements page 112 Notes page 122 ORGANISATION 18,590 employees are working to make us the world’s most future-oriented mail and logistics group. The Group Posten Norge AS is a Nordic mail and logistics group that develops and delivers complete solutions within postal services, communications and logistics, with the Nordic area as its local market. Vision Posten Norge will be the world’s most future-oriented mail and logistics group. Business concept Posten Norge develops and delivers complete postal, communications and logistics solutions – with the Nordic region as its local market. Development goals for 2017 Posten Norge’s Group strategy is to develop a customer-oriented, integrated and industrialised Nordic mail and logistics business. The Group will develop leading Nordic positions within selected service areas. It will offer Nordic solutions to Nordic and international customers in the Nordic market. The Group’s value chains are being developed in the direction of an integrated distribution and terminal network with a coordinated customer interface. All information about products and capacity will be available throughout the value chain, across geographical and organisational units. The Group will create greater customer value and competitiveness through standardisation, industrial customisation and continuous improvement. Our values Through our values, we reflect a group that can be relied upon in all respects, and one for which we can be proud to work. These values help build our common culture and guide us in all our decisions. Established forms of cooperation between managers, employees, management organs, owners and the authorities will reflect our basic values: • Integrity • Respect • Cooperation • Openness • Courage POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 4 The Group Main goals and strategies The main goals are based on the requirements and goals of our operations, and are: • Satisfied customers • Leading market positions • Profitable growth and a competitive increase in value • Attractive workplaces and a good working environment Posten Norge has identified the following group-wide challenges for developing its prerequisites and ability to achieve the Group’s main goal: • Stronger customer orientation and ’winning the customer’s heart’ • Strengthening cross-sales and increasing synergies • Industrialisation and continuous improvement • Leading environmental position as a competitive advantage • Attractive workplace, leader within HSE • Communication with the market via two brands, Posten and Bring Leadership principles To be a manager in the Group means to set goals, release energy and control resources. The Group’s managers must practise value-based leadership that balances involvement and control. Good managers are a prerequisite for employees to be happy and to give their best. Managers shall be role models in terms of how they conduct themselves and must bring the Group’s values to life. Our managers are known for: • Being visible • Being clear • Taking and delegating responsibility • Developing and inspiring employees POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 5 Our brands Posten Norge AS has two brands in the market: Posten for the private market and Bring for the business market. Sponsoring handball Posten is responsible for the daily distribution of in Norway and Sweden mail throughout Norway, as well as the post office network and services for private individuals. Posten Norge is the general sponsor of the Norwegian Services: Offers a wide range of mail services Handball Federation (NHF) at both the national and loand emphasises secure delivery, flexibility and wer levels. The partnership is part of Posten and Bring’s predictability for mail and parcel recipients via a selection of delivery options and good, digital Norwegian public relations strategy. At the same time, self-service solutions. handball-related activities also provide good opportunities to bring employees from different parts of the Background: Posten was established in 1647 and Group together to build a sense of teamwork and pride. has 368 years of experience in delivering letters and parcels in Norway. In Sweden, the Group has a sponsorship agreement with the Swedish Handball Federation (SHF), as the sponsor Reputation: Despite regular changes and restructuring, Posten of the women’s and men’s national teams – via Bring. The has a stable, good reputation among the general public. It was cooperation with Swedish handball is a good match for ranked in 22nd place in Ipsos MMI’s annual reputation survey in the Group and boosts our efforts to win the hearts of 2015. Of the respondents, 65 per cent stated that they had a Swedish customers. It also raises awareness of Bring in positive impression of Posten. the Swedish market. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 6 Our brands Bring offers the market a range of services: Parcel services with a Nordic distribution network Express and courier services for both regular and occasional deliveries Freight transport by road, rail, air or sea within the Nordic region and internationally Bring is one of the Nordic Warehousing solutions for most types of products, whether these involve large region’s largest suppliers of volumes, bulk storage or individual pallets mail and logistics services. Temperature-controlled logistics services – delivery and storage of fresh, refrigerated and Bring wants to win customers’ hearts freezer goods from the producer to the table via proud, well-motivated employees who deliver high quality and good service. We handle the transport of large and small Fourth-party logistics solutions – consignments in the Nordic region and developing and operating complete the rest of the world every day and all of supply chains for companies them are equally important. Our customers are trusting us with their brands with each consignment we deliver. New technology and expertise enable Bring to develop smart, future-oriented solutions that improve our Distribution of letters and advertising– customers’ competitiveness. bespoke solutions or basic distribution services Strong brand: Since it was launched in 2008, Bring has established itself as a well-known, strong and preferred brand in the Nordic market, and today is one of the Nordic region’s largest suppliers of mail and logistics services. Customer dialogue and CRM based on customer insight, CRM tools and the customers’ databases POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 7 Employees, locations and services Posten: Head office in Oslo, Posthuset Presence: Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Italy, Belgium, China, Germany, Russia, Slovakia, Spain, and the USA. GLOBALLY 18 590 (of which 525 are outside the Nordic region) NORWAY Posten: Sales and customer service, Post in Shops, post offices, rural delivery staff, business centres and terminals. 14 906 Presence: Throughout Norway Bring: Freight transport by road, sea, air or rail, express logistics and courier services, temperature-controlled logistics services, parcel distribution, development and operation of complete supply chains for companies, warehousing solutions, distribution of letters, goods and advertising, customer dialogue and CRM. SWEDEN Bring: Freight transport by road, sea, air or rail, express logistics and courier services, temperature-controlled logistics services, parcel 2 661 distribution, development and operation of complete supply chains Presence: Stockholm, Helsingborg, Gothenburg, for companies, warehousing solutions, distribution of letters, goods Malmö, Jönköping and Orebro, among others. Total of more than forty offices in Sweden. and advertising, customer dialogue and CRM. FINLAND Bring: Parcel distribution, express logistics and courier services, temperature-controlled logistics services, 3PL and warehousing solutions. 40 Til stede: Helsingfors DENMARK Bring: Freight transport by road, sea, air or rail, express logistics and courier services, temperature-controlled logistics services, parcel 458 distribution, warehousing solutions, development and operation of Presence: Copenhagen, Frederikshavn, Aalborg, complete supply chains for companies. Randers, Risskov, Kolding, Odense, Avedøre and Kastrup, among others. Total of nine offices in Denmark. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 8 Group structure Posten Norge DAG MEJDELL HR and HMS RANDI LØVLAND Accounting/ Communication Finance/IT ELISABETH GJØLME TONE WILLE Logistics Logistics Mail Division E-commerce Norway Norden GUNNAR HENRIKSEN GRO BAKSTAD TORE K. NILSEN THOMAS TSCHERNING Posten Norge is organised into four divisions and three corporate staff units. The executive management team consists of the chief executive and seven executive vice presidents. The executive management team deals with matters and decisions relating to the Group’s strategy, goals, follow-up of results, major investments, pricing strategies, and important issues relating to public relations, the market and customers, as well as issues of a fundamental and strategic nature. The executive vice presidents head divisions or corporate staff units and report to the chief executive. Line responsibility The four divisions are: Mail, Logistics Norway, Logistics Nordic and E-commerce. The divisions are central to the management of the Group and develop and implement strategies for their respective business areas that support the corporate strategy. The divisions are responsible for developing and delivering services with the associated service and quality. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 9 Professional responsibility The Group has established corporate staffs with responsibility for governance, joint functions and professional development within the areas of HR/HSE, Communications and Accounting/Finance/IT. The corporate staffs develop and professionalise the various disciplines in the Group, are driving forces and help bolster the business strategies. The corporate staffs have especially been tasked with contributing to interaction and cooperation across Group boundaries in the development of policies and best practices. Certain professional functions are centralised at the Group level and provide services to the divisions and business areas. Two segments For financial reporting, the Group has chosen to split the business into two segments, Mail and Logistics, in accordance with international financial reporting standards (IFRS) and best practice. The Mail segment consists of the Mail Division, while the Logistics segment consists of two logistics divisions and the E-commerce Division. The Mail Division is responsible for traditional postal services in Norway (including statutory postal services) and Bring Citymail in Sweden. The division is also responsible for running the Group’s activities within digital services and dialogue services. The Mail Division is restructuring and streamlining traditional postal services, while developing new physical and digital services and infrastructure. The Logistics Norway Division develops and delivers the Group’s services within the Logistics segment in Norway. The division operates the domestic parcel and freight terminals and transports mail, parcels and freight. The division particularly focuses on realising economies of scale in its network, ensuring interaction and cooperation with the Mail and Logistics Nordic divisions, and developing integrated solutions in order to meet customers’ needs. The Logistics Nordic Division is responsible for the Group’s logistics operations in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. The division establishes, develops and operates networks for parcels and freight in the Nordic countries, and develops Sweden’s position as a natural hub for logistics in and out of the Nordic region. The geographical organisation of the Logistics segment is based upon the different positions and strengths in the Nordic countries. The logistics divisions are tasked with providing customers with uniform services, optimising national networks and utilising economies of scale across countries and business areas. E-commerce Division: The E-commerce Division represents an important growth area for the Group. The division is tasked with supporting the Group’s focus on online shopping and developing special expertise and new bespoke solutions for customers. The division serves the Group’s largest customers in the B2C segment and is also responsible for services and concept development targeted at all e-commerce customers, as well as Home Delivery. The E-commerce Division has no production; instead it is responsible for ensuring an efficient interface between other the divisions that are responsible for deliveries. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 10 Group management GRO DAG ELISABETH GUNNAR BAKSTAD MEJDELL HEGG GJØLME HENRIKSEN Born: 1966 Born: 1957 Born: 1960 Born: 1959 Executive Vice President Mail President and CEO (since Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Division (since September 2012) January 2006) of Communications (since E-Commerce Division (since Previous positions: Senior Previous positions: CEO April 2000) November 2012) Vice President/CFO at Posten of Dyno Nobel ASA, various Previous positions: Director Previous positions: Senior Vice Norge, Financial Advisor positions in Dyno ASA from of Communications at President Sales and Customer at Procorp, Director of 1981 (including CEO and CFO). Telenor Mobil, Marketing Service, Mail Division, Posten Finance at Ocean Rig Education: Master of and Communications Norge, Director Postal offices Education: Master of Economics and Business Manager at Oslobanken AS, network, Posten Norge, Director Economics and Business Administration Secretary General of Young Banking, Posten Norge. Various Administration and CPA Conservatives positions in the banking industry Education: Degree in and in 3M Group in the Nordic economics countries and USA Education: Master of Economics and Business Administration POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 11 Konsernledelsen TORE TONE THOMAS RANDI K. NILSEN WILLE TSCHERNING LØVLAND Born: 1956 Born: 1963 Born: 1961 Born: 1957 Executive Vice President Executive Vice President/CFO/ Executive Vice President Executive Vice President of Logistics Norway Division (since IT (since September 2012) Logistics Nordic Division (since HR and HSE (since September October 2012) Previous positions: Director November 2014) 2008) Previous positions: Executive of Finance and Corporate Previous positions: Manager Previous positions: Transport Vice President Mail Division at Governance in the Mail Division for parcel and express Director and Communications Posten Norge, Group Director of Posten Norge AS, Investment operations at Logistics Manager at Posten Norge AS, at Securitas, Divisional Manager Director at Norfund, Senior VP NordicDivision, CEO of Box Division Director and Strategy at Security Service Europe and CFO at GE Energy (Norway) Delivery, founder and CEO of Manager at Bravida Oslo and Education: Norwegian AS and the former Kværner several express companies Akershus AS, union leader Police Service Energy AS Education: Degree in Manager in the Norwegian Education: Master of economics Post Organisation Economics and Business Education: Posten Norge Administration POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 12 Corporate Governance Each year the Board of Posten Norge AS submits a report on Posten Norge AS’s compliance with the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance (NUES recommendation). An account of how the sections of the NUES recommendation have been complied with in Posten Norge AS (Posten) is provided below (sections 1-15). This includes both details of how the principles have been met, the reason for any non-compliance, if applicable, and how Posten rectified any non-compliance with the recommendation. The Norwegian State is the company’s sole owner. As a result of this, Posten’s corporate governance deviates from section 4 of the NUES recommendation on the equal treatment of shareholders and transactions with close associates, section 5 on freely negotiable shares, section 6 on general meetings, section 7 on nomination committees and section 14 on take-overs. The Board must also provide information on corporate governance in accordance with section 3-3b of the Accounting Act. The statement below complies with the NUES recommendation’s structure. Section 16 contains a summary of where the information required by section 3-3b of the Accounting Act can be found. Section 1 Implementation and reporting on corporate governance The Board believes it is important to establish and further develop a high standard for corporate governance, equivalent to Norwegian standards for best practice, including the NUES recommendation, see www.nuqes.no. Posten is a limited company wholly-owned by the Norwegian State. The Group’s corporate governance is based on and in accordance with Norwegian law and the Norwegian State’s ownership policy in force at any given time. Good corporate governance is a prerequisite for a profitable and vigorous company. The Board of Posten believes there is a clear link between good corporate governance and creating value for the company’s owners. Through its business activities, Posten is a prominent social actor and has been given an important social mission with its licence from the Ministry of Transport and Communications – that of ensuring nationwide, high quality and cost-effective postal services. This social mission also entails a special responsibility with regard to how this mission is carried out. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 13 The Group’s shared core values thus create an important premise for its activities – with regard to employees and its operating environment, such as customers, suppliers and business partners. The Group’s values are integrity, respect, cooperation, openness and courage. In addition to this platform of shared values, ethical guidelines and management principles have been established. Posten believes it is important to take responsibility for how its activities impact people, the environment and society. This is achieved by reducing the impact of its activities on the external environment, as well as developing the Group as an attractive workplace with a diverse and inclusive working environment. In the opinion of the Board, fulfilling its social responsibilities contributes to Posten’s good reputation and positive development for the Group. The Group’s attitudes towards corporate social responsibility is described in the Report of the Board of Directors and in the Group’s sustainability report, in accordance with section 3-3b of the Accounting Act. These documents are available from the Group’s website under ‘Report of the Board of Directors’ and ‘Sustainability’. Posten’s activities are labour intensive. In total the Group employs around 18,000 full-time equivalents. Health, Safety and the Environment (HSE) is therefore a high priority within the Group’s corporate responsibility work. The Group’s aims to ensure that nobody is injured or becomes sick as a result working in or for Posten and Bring. The Group works continuously in a goal-oriented manner to reduce sick leave and the number of employees who become unfit for work and to avoid lost-time injuries. The Group has developed ethical guidelines that are included in the Group’s integrity programme. The aim of the integrity programme is to increase awareness and knowledge about how to handle typical ethical dilemmas. This will help to ensure that the Group always takes human rights, anti-corruption, working conditions, HSE, discrimination and environmental conditions into consideration. The Group’s integrity work is further described in the sustainability report. Section 2 Business Posten’s social mission is to ensure the provision of nationwide, high quality and cost-effective postal services in Norway. This social mission is described in Posten’s licence issued by the Ministry for Transport and Communications. The current licence is valid from 1 January 2016 and until it is succeeded by signed agreements or decisions taken concerning the services it must deliver pursuant to section 6 of the Postal Services Act. The Group shall run postal and logistic operations on a commercial basis, as well as other activities directly related thereto. All of these conditions are stated in section 3 of Posten’s articles of association. The complete articles of association are available from POSTENNORGE.NO. As well as meeting the service requirements vis-à-vis its social mission, the Group shall also be run profitably on commercial terms, meet its owner’s required rate of return and adapt its activities to the structural changes that take place in the market. This also means that imposed non-profit services that are part of the social responsibility is to be financially compensated by the owner. Within this framework, Posten has developed over the past decades into an industrial group that operates in the mail and logistics business areas with the Nordic region as its local market. The markets in which the Group operates are characterised by fierce competition and major technological and structural changes. These changes present Posten with significant challenges with regard to adapting to new customer requirements, competitiveness, market position and profitability. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 14 The Board establishes goals and strategies, both on a Group-wide level and for each business area, which support the Group’s aims related to mail and logistics operations. Goals and strategies are set based on regular assessments and processes that are intended to ensure that the Group has a well-founded and operational strategy at all times. The following fundamental principles form the basis for the development of the Group: • Posten shall perform its social mission in accordance with the adopted licence requirements. • Posten’s business shall be customer oriented, effectively serve customers’ requirements and be available where the customer is located. • Posten shall have a balanced portfolio of activities that strengthens its capacity serve the customers’ needs. • Posten shall be a trusted third party for its customers • Posten shall ensure a unified culture and shared values, which also provide room for diversity • Posten shall develop strong, profitable and sustainable market positions within the areas in which the Group operates. • Posten shall ensure a satisfactory return on all investments and competitive value development over time. • Posten shall work to extract cost benefits through efficiency measures, coordinating the value chain, industrialisation and continuously improving processes, as well as transparent and integrated business management. • Posten shall be an environmental leader and work actively to reduce the company’s impact on the external environment. • Posten shall develop good, attractive workplaces. Continuous improvement is an important common denominator in the development of the Group. This entails continuously working on product and services portfolios, structures, processes and systems, to increase the overall customer value and reduce the unnecessary use of resources. Section 3 Equity and dividends. Equity The Group’s equity as at 31 December 2015 was NOK [ 5,961] million, which results in a return on equity of [37] per cent of the Group’s total assets. This level is deemed adequate with regard to the solidity the Group requires to implement its goals and strategies within an acceptable risk profile. Dividends Posten’s general meeting is not bound by the Board’s proposal for the distribution of dividends, cf. section 20-4 (4) of the Limited Liability Companies Act, and the company is thus subject to the Norwegian State’s dividend policy in force at any given time. The Norwegian State’s dividend policy for Posten is that 50 per cent of the Group profit after tax can be paid as a dividend. However, before the annual dividend is determined an independent assessment of the Group’s equity and liquidity must be carried out to ensure a prudent level based on the risks associated with the Group’s activities and their scope. Section 4 Equal treatment of shareholders and transactions with close associates Posten has only one share class. All shares are owned by the Norwegian State and managed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Posten and the state as owner have regular ownership meetings. The articles of association also state that Posten is obliged to present all cases deemed to be of major social or fundamental significance to the owner. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 15 Posten deviates from this section of the NUES recommendation. Due to state-ownership, the NUES recommendation on different share classes and issues is not deemed to be relevant for Posten. Information regarding transactions with close associates is provided in the annual report, see note 24. Section 5 Freely negotiable shares All shares are owned by the Norwegian State and managed by the Ministry of transport and communications. In accordance with section 3 of its articles of association, Posten must operate as a limited company wholly-owned by the Norwegian State. Posten deviates from this section of the NUES recommendation. Due to state-ownership, the NUES recommendation on different share classes and issues is not deemed to be relevant for Posten. Section 6 General meetings The Norwegian State, through the Minister of Transport and Communications, is the company’s general meeting. In accordance with the company’s articles of association, the ordinary general meeting is to be held by the end of June each year. Posten deviates from the NUES recommendation on this section because section 20-5 (1) of the Limited Liability Companies Act states that the Ministry of Transport and Communications is responsible for sending notification of both ordinary and extraordinary general meetings and for deciding the method of notification. The Board, chief executive, company auditor and the Office of the Auditor General are invited to the general meeting. The minutes from the ordinary general meeting are available from the company`s website. Section 7 Nomination committee The Norwegian State, via the Ministry of transport and communications, is the sole shareholder and the company therefore has no nomination committee. The Board is appointed by the general meeting in accordance with section 20-4 (1) of the Limited Liability Companies Act. Posten deviates from this section of the NUES recommendation. Four members of the Board are chosen by and from the employees in Norway. A Group-wide scheme was established for the election of employee representatives to the Board of Posten. This means that all employees in the Norwegian part of the Group can be elected and have voting rights. Section 8 Corporate assembly and board of directors, composition and independence Corporate assembly Posten is subject to the main rule of the Limited Liability Companies Act that a corporate assembly must be appointed if a company has more than 200 employees. However, the company does not have a corporate assembly as an agreement has been entered into between the employees and the company that there is to be no corporate assembly in Posten in accordance with section 6-35 of the Limited Liability Companies Act. The same agreement gives the right to an expansion of employee representation on the Board from three to four representatives. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 16 Board composition In accordance with the articles of association, the Board shall consist of between seven to ten members. Up to six of these are nominated by the general meeting. As the sole shareholder, the Norwegian State represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications designates and selects all the shareholder-appointed board members. There are currently six shareholder-appointed board members. There are no deputies for the shareholders’ representatives on the Board. By virtue of the agreement the employees have the right to elect up to four members of the Board. The Board has since September 2015 consisted of five men and five women. Two shareholder-appointed board members and one employee representative board member were replaced in 2015. For both groups, the proportion of women remained 50 per cent. Board members are elected for terms of two years at a time. Continuity in the management of the company is ensured by only half of board members being up for election at the same time. The board members’ backgrounds are described in the annual report and on the Group’s website. Board’s independence The Board continually assesses the independence of its members. As at 31 December 2015, all of the shareholder-appointed representatives were deemed to be independent board members, since they were not considered to have commercial, family or other relationships that could be deemed to affect their evaluations or decisions as board members of Posten. Section 9 The work of the board of directors Board’s duties The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Posten Group and supervises the Group’s activities in general. This overall responsibility is described in detail in the adopted instructions for the Board of Directors and in the Board’s plan for its own work. Both these documents are revised on an annual basis. The guidelines for the chief executive’s work form part of the instructions for the Board of Directors. Together these documents clarify the tasks and responsibilities of the Board and the chief executive, including which matters shall, can and should be handled by the Board. This also includes the limits of the chief executive’s authority. Matters that typically appear on the agenda of the Board on a regular basis are the preparation and implementation of the Group’s strategies, the processing and approval of quarterly and annual reports, monthly performance reports, HSE issues, investments and related follow-up work, evaluation of the Group’s risks and internal control as well as HR and organisational issues. The Board’s responsibility for reviewing and reporting risk management and internal control is described in more detail under section 10. The Board’s work and its meetings are led by the Chairman of the Board and based on presentations by the chief executive. The company expects these presentations to provide a good and satisfactory basis for considering matters. The Board has appointed a Vice-chairman of the Board who functions as the chair if the Chairman of the Board cannot or ought not lead the work of the Board. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 17 The Board held eight board meetings in 2015, of which all were extraordinary board meetings. The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its work and its competence. The Board is also evaluated by the company’s owner. Board’s audit committee The Board has established an audit committee consisting of two board members. The audit committee meets at least five times per year. The audit committee shall operate as a case preparation body for the Board and support the Board in carrying out its responsibility for financial reporting, risk management, internal control and external auditing. The committee’s main duties are: to prepare the Board’s follow-up work on reporting processes for the financial accounts (including ongoing contact with the company’s external auditor regarding the audit of the annual financial statements), to supervise the systems for internal control and risk management and to supervise the work and independence of the external auditor. The external auditor is present for all relevant points on the agenda in meetings of the audit committees. Board’s remuneration committee A remuneration committee has been established which consists of three board members and is led by the Chairman of the Board. The remuneration committee holds regular meetings throughout the year. The committee prepares and recommends proposals to the Board related to remuneration for the chief executive. The committee otherwise contributes to the thorough and independent handling of remuneration issues for leading employees. Section 10 Risk management and internal control The Board emphasises the importance of a good and efficient control environment in addition to good control processes. The Board takes an active role in the work with risk management and internal control. This work is rooted in the company’s articles of association, the board instructions and other internal governing documents, as well as through general laws and clear recommendations based on best practices. The Group’s governing documentation establishes how the management and control of the Group shall be carried out. The documents set out Group-wide requirements with regard to conduct in important areas and processes, including ethical behaviour and how corporate social responsibility is to be practised in the Group. Risk management and internal control depend on people. Managers on all levels are responsible for ensuring that risk management and good internal control systems are established within their own area, that these have the necessary effect and that they are put into operation in an expedient manner. The Board ensures that risk management and internal controls are integrated into the core and support processes of the Group, and follows this up regularly There is each year conducted an overall assessment of the Group’s risk. This risk analysis is based on the Group’ strategy business plans and targets. The process is based on COSO’s framework for risk management. The aim is to evaluate risks affecting strategy, finance, operations and reputation. The results of this process are consolidated to form an assessment of the main risks to which the Group is exposed. Risk is managed in the Group partly through the operational management, partly through preventive measures from central control functions, and partly through independent, external supervision. The annual risk assessment is followed up with actions and recommendations in order to manage and control the individual risk factors and avoid events that can adversely affect the Group’s operations and reputation. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 18 The Group also has a process for internal control that was established to help ensure that there is adequate and effective internal control for specified risk areas. Annual internal control reviews are conducted of priority areas. The reviews result in proposals concerning specific measures aimed at improving internal control. The implementation of proposed measures is the responsibility of line management. Posten’s consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with the applicable IFRS regulations. The Group’s reporting process for the financial accounts is described in the Group’s governing documentation, which includes procedures and rules for monthly, quarterly and annual reporting. The Group’s accounting policies are described in more detail in the Group’s accounting manual. The reporting and consolidation of financial accounting information is carried out in a common reporting system. The Group utilises a common Group account plan and the Group accounts department makes use of both builtin system controls and manual controls to ensure complete and consistent accounting information. The consolidation of accounting information takes place at multiple levels within the Group. Subsidiaries are responsible for their Group/Company accounts being reported in accordance with the Group’s policies and routines. The Group has established an advisory investment committee which handles all cases that entail investment and sales in accordance with specified authorisation limits. A common code of conduct applies to all of the Group’s employees. This is continually being promoted. This standard is a part of the Group’s integrity programme which shall help to ensure a high and precise ethical standard with regard to anti-corruption, competitive practices, social dumping and the handling of information. The Group’s suppliers and business partners are required to comply with the same ethical standard. Openness is one of the Group’s core values and a significant element in the company’s general risk management and internal control. Openness is especially important for the prevention and rectification of non-compliance. All employees and business partners are therefore encouraged to report any censurable and/or illegal conditions as soon as possible. This is a part of the individual’s responsibility. A corporate unit for misconduct has been established to ensure good and safe receipt and follow-up of reports. The corporate unit for misconduct shall ensure that the reports are not met with negative reactions or sanctions. The Board’s audit committee reviews the report from the Group’s corporate unit for misconduct every six months. Section 11 Remuneration of the board of directors The board members’ fees are set at the general meeting each year. Remuneration is not dependent on results and none of the shareholder-appointed board members has a pension scheme or agreement on salary after leaving his/her position from the company. Details of the remuneration for the board members in 2015 are presented in note 2. Section 12 Remuneration of executive personnel The Board has prepared a statement concerning the determination of salaries and other benefits for the chief executive and other senior executives. This statement is prepared in accordance with section 8 of the articles of association and builds upon the principles in the Government’s guidelines for state-ownership on this subject. The statement consists of two parts. Part one concerns the management remuneration policy POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 19 that has been conducted in the preceding fiscal year, while part two contains guidelines for determining management salaries for the coming fiscal year. The statement shall be presented to the ordinary general meeting. The Board considers incentive systems to be an important tool for focusing management on increasing company profitability in line with the owner’s interests. It is against this background that a bonus scheme for individuals in key positions has been established. Payment under these schemes will be covered by the company’s business. Information about total remuneration and the Board’s statement concerning the determination of salaries and other benefits for executives, is included in note 2. Section 13 Information and communications The Group follows an open and proactive communications strategy to support the Group’s business strategies, goals and values. Good communication shall contribute to a good reputation, strong brands, satisfied customers and proud employees. Guidelines for a code of conduct have been established to ensure that Posten acts professionally and uniformly in its communications. Financial information is reported quarterly at stipulated times as set out on the company’s website in accordance with the Oslo Stock Exchange’s information requirements. These reports are made available on POSTENNORGE.NO in both Norwegian and English. The Board also emphasises the importance of good communication with the company’s owner outside the general meeting. Please see section 4 for a more detailed description of this communication. Section 14 Take-overs Posten deviates from this section of the NUES recommendation. Posten’s articles of association state that the company shall operate as a limited company wholly-owned by the Norwegian State, and the Board therefore deems this section of the NUES recommendation not to be relevant for Posten. Section 15 Auditor Posten has an independent external auditor selected by the general meeting on the recommendation of the Board. The auditor takes part in Board meetings that handle the annual financial statements in order to improve the Board’s basis for making decisions. In the same or a separate meeting the auditor presents the audit and gives his view of the Group’s accounting policies, risk areas, internal control procedures and the Group’s bookkeeping. The conclusions are presented in an annual, numbered letter to the board. The Group’s policy allows the use of the auditor in naturally audit-related tasks in addition to the statutory audit. The Board informs the general meeting of the remuneration to the auditor. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 20 Section 16 Requirements pursuant to section 3-3b of the Accounting Act. The Board must also provide information on corporate governance in accordance with section 3-3b of the Accounting Act. Below is an overview of where in the above report this information is described. 1. «details of the recommendations and rules on corporate governance which cover the enterprise or which the enterprise otherwise decides to follow»: see the report’s section 1 Implementation and reporting on corporate governance. 2. «information about where the recommendations and rules mentioned in no. 1 are publicly available»: see the report’s section 1 Implementation and reporting on corporate governance. 3. «reasons for any non-compliance with the recommendations and rules mentioned in no. 1»: There are five instances of non-compliance described in detail in section 4 Equal treatment of shareholders and transactions with close associates, section 5 Freely negotiable shares, section 6 General meetings, section 7 Nomination committee, and section 14 Take-overs. 4. «a description of the main elements in the company’s, as well as the Group’s if consolidated accounts are also prepared, systems for internal control and risk management related to the accounts reporting process»: see the report’s section 10 Risk management and internal control. 5. «provisions of the Articles of Association which fully or partly expand or exclude provisions of chapter 5 of the Public Limited Companies Act»: see the report’s section 6 General meeting. 6. «the composition of the Board of Directors, corporate assembly, representative and control committee; if applicable any working committee for these bodies, as well as a description of the main elements in the applicable instructions and guide-lines for the bodies’ and, if applicable, the committees’ work»: see the report’s section 8 Corporate assembly and board of directors, composition and independence, and section 9 The work of the board of directors. 7. «provisions of the Articles of Association which regulate the appointment and replacement of Board members»: see the report’s section 8 Corporate assembly and board of directors, composition and independence 8. «provisions of the Articles of Association and powers of attorney which give the Board the power to decide that the company shall buy back or issue shares or equity certificates»: see the report’s section 3 Equity and dividends and section 4 Equal treatment of shareholders and transactions with close associates. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 21 History Milestones in Posten’s history 2016: A new Postal Service Act comes into force on 1 January 2016 and the Norwegian mail market is opened up to full competition. Posten Norge ceases Saturday letter deliveries in March 2016. 2015: Posten Norge sells its stake (40 per cent) in Evry ASA. A new Postal Service Act is approved by the Norwegian parliament and Posten Norge is awarded a temporary licence from 1 January 2016. 2014: Posten’s digital mail box, Digipost, is chosen as the supplier of digital mail to the public sector. 2013: Posten opens 150 new ‘Post in Shop’ in-store post offices. 2011: Posten’s digital mailbox, Digipost, is launched. 2010: Posten Norge’s Eastern Norway terminal in Lørenskog is officially opened by King Harald. 2008: The new brand Bring is launched, while the Posten logo is modernised. 2003-2008: Posten Norge carries out a number of acquisitions in heavy goods and express transport. This includes the purchase of Citymail in Sweden. 2002: The Norwegian parliament makes Posten Norge a limited company: Posten Norge AS. 2000: Posten’s plans for transforming traditional post offices to Post in Shops are approved by the Norwegian parliament. 1996: Posten Norge changes from an administrative agency of the government to a state owned company with ‘limited liability’: Posten Norge BA. 1995: P  ostbanken is established as an independent bank following the merger of Postbanken and Postgiro. In the same year Posten buys Statens Datasentral, merges it with Posten’s Datasentral and renames it Posten SDS (now Evry). 1984: Changeover from contents-based classification of letter post to pricing according to time of forwarding (A, B and C-mail). 1976: Oslo postal terminal and the Postgiro building are built. 1968: Postcodes are introduced to improve the management of increasing volumes of mail. 1950: Norway’s Postal Savings Bank is established. 1943: The postgiro is introduced in Norway. 1920: Norway’s first official air route opens with Posten on board. 1872: The postcard is introduced. 1871:  A new Postal Service Act introduces a simplified price system with a domestic postage rate, post boxes at post offices and letter boxes at the addressees’ doors. 1855: The first Norwegian stamp is issued. 1854: P  osten is on board when the first railway is established from Christiania to Eidsvoll. The Railways Act of 1848 states that mail should be carried by train and that post offices should be located in train stations. 1827: The need to improve postal delivery along the coast and abroad turns the postal service into the country’s first steamship company. 1719: The state assumes responsibility. 1647: The Norwegian postal service is established by the Danish governor in Norway, Hannibal Sehested. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l ORGANISATION PAGE 22 RESULTS Despite a difficult market, we continue to grow abroad and are investing increasing resources in delivery of parcels and digital post. Key figures OPERATING REVENUES MNOK 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 24 404 23 557 22 925 22 981 25 074 2010 22 451 2009 22 613 2008 23 940 EARNINGS before non-recurring items MNOK 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 933 1 125 1 116 1 051 686 2010 952 2009 820 2008 275 OPERATING MARGIN (before non-recurring items) in percentage 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 3,8 4,8 4,9 4,6 2,7 2010 4,2 2009 3,6 2008 1,1 EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES (EBIT, MNOK) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 844 641 632 956 239 2010 1 638 2009 296 2008 -14 INCOME BEFORE TAXES MNOK 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 720 619 547 800 151 2010 1 499 2009 70 2008 -139 POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 24 RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL (ROIC)* in percentage 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 13,9 17,5 18,3 18,3 9,9 2010 15,8 2009 12,4 2008 4,8 RETURN ON EQUITY AFTER TAX (ROE) in percentage 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 7,3 8,7 7,1 4,5 -1,0 2010 12,1 2009 0,3 2008 -4,0 EQUITY RATIO in percentage 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 37,9 38,8 37,5 35,9 36,8 2010 34,3 2009 25,8 2008 26,4 DEBT RATIO in percentage 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 0,2 0,2 0,2 0,2 0,0 2010 0,3 2009 0,6 2008 0,8 SHARE OF REVENUE FROM MONOPOLY AREA in percentage 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 13,6 14,3 14,6 14,5 12,7 2010 14,7 2009 15,3 2008 14,8 REVENUE FROM FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES MNOK 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 8 122 7 189 6 434 6 646 8 845 2010 5 959 2009 5 855 2008 5 872 *) Calculated based on the operating profit before non-recurring items POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 25 Important Events in 2015 January • The first mailing of secure digital post is sent to recipients in Norway. The Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration (NAV) leads the way and sends no fewer than 52,000 payment notices via Digipost on the first day. • Sports clubs around Norway are invited to participate in a digital team effort, the first of its kind in the country. • 25 parcel machines are in operation around the country. The feedback from customers and employees is good. February • Posten Norge is going to build new logistics centres in Sandnes and Mo i Rana, which will be completed in 2017 and 2016, respectively. • Bring becomes a new main partner of the Swedish knowledge organisation Nordic eCommerce Knowledge.Together they will challenge and develop e-commerce in the Nordic region. March • Posten Norge co-locates its operations in Drammen in a joint terminal in Lierstranda. Almost 140 employees work in the terminal. • Posten Norge awards new contracts for 140 in-store post offices, Post in Shop, via an open procurement competition. Of these, 49 in-store post offices change location. April • The government presents a draft new Postal Service Act, which includes a proposal to end Saturday letter deliveries. Posten Norge believes the new Act provides good general conditions for further developing the Group. • Digipost user number 500,000 registers. May • For the third time, Posten and Bring conducts a poll to find the country’s most popular online shop. 72,000 Norwegians vote for their favourite online shop. The winner is the cosmetics shop Blivakker.no. • A survey by Posten Norge shows that the use of mobile phones for online shopping is rising fast. People compare prices, look up product information and call shops on the go. Nonetheless, only a fifth of customers use their mobile phone to make the actual purchase. June • Posten Norge wants to co-locate all mail and logistics operations in Tromsø in a new joint terminal. The plan is to complete it by 2017. • Posten Norge decides to make one of the largest single purchases of electric vehicles. In one year, almost 300 electric vehicles will be introduced into mail distribution services throughout the country. This is part of Posten’s comprehensive focus on reducing CO2 emissions. • Dag Mejdell is named the world’s best head postmaster and receives the prestigious Industry Leadership Award 2015 at the World Mail Awards in Brussels. • A new survey by Posten shows that people in cities shop online more often and spend more money than those who live in rural districts. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 26 July • Sick leave is at a record low: 5.3 per cent. • Occupational injuries fall by more than 18 per cent compared with last year. • The German logistics group Schenker and Posten Norge AS reach a settlement in the compensation case brought by Schenker in 2009. • The new 2,000-square metre terminal in Zwijndrecht in the Netherlands is completed. August • Posten Day is arranged at the Post Museum in Maihaugen. • HSE and diversity days are arranged at Posten’s Eastern Norway Terminal with 52 nationalities represented. • Online shoppers can shop for up to NOK 3,000 from abroad and still use simplified customs clearance. This makes private imports simpler, cheaper and faster. September • The Fretex bag is made free to everyone who wants to help refugees. Clothes from all over the country are delivered by Posten to Fretex free of charge. • OnePiece is named best online shop at the online shopping conference LOAD. • Figures from Posten/Ipsos show online shopping is growing rapidly among active, older online shoppers. The number of over 60s shopping online several times a month has doubled since 2014. October • Posten Norge introduces CO2-free mail delivery in the centre of Bergen and surrounding districts. The future will see the same thing happen in a large number of Norwegian cities. • Posten Norge implements its largest environmental measure so far and replaces fossil fuel with renewable diesel in all heavy goods transport. This entails 900 lorries on Norwegian roads becoming fossil free. • The chief executive, Dag Mejdell, receives the prestigious Modern Transport Award for successfully guiding Posten Norge through a demanding period. • Bring opens a new customs office in Svinesund. November • It is decided that the new logistics centre in Tromsø will be located in the port in Breivika. • The world’s largest convoy of electrical mail vehicles drives from Drammen to Oslo where they will be in service for years to come. • Black Friday sets a new record. 2015 sees 33 per cent more parcels and a 26 per cent increase in orders within Home Delivery compared with the same period in 2014. • Bring launches its tracking app for private customers and online shops. Customers can automatically find parcels on their way to them by registering their mobile number and email address. December • Employees of Posten and Bring have never been as satisfied and proud. On average, employees respond 80 on a scale of 1 to 100 when asked how satisfied they are. • Posten and Bring invest in a modern, new logistics centre in Stokke, which will be completed in 2018. • Building work commences on Posten and Bring’s new logistics centre in Trondheim. The terminal will be completed in 2017. • Bring acquires the Swedish logistics company Svebol Logistics AB and strengthens its food delivery solutions in the Stockholm area and Mälardalen. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 27 The CEO Revolutionary evolutionist Making changes in an organisation as large as Posten Norge Group requires a step-by-step approach to be successful. And a little revolution now and then. CEO Dag Mejdell is not completely satisfied. The figures he reads in the financial statements are not the ones he envisaged at the start of 2015. And his expectations for 2016 are cautious. «The short-term outlook is relatively bleak. We are experiencing a significant decline in volumes, and the economic downturn is worse than predicted. No one expected the low oil prices we are experiencing now,» says Mejdell. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 28 However, the CEO is not the type to be phased by fluctuations; he is more concerned with results over time. Large-scale and effective measures have already been carried out, and a plan is in place to ensure that Posten Norge Group will deliver excellent services and satisfactory returns in the future. Effective measures In the mail segment, the transition to five-day delivery is about to be completed. This will provide significant cost savings for the Group. In addition, Posten Norge is proposing to its owner to replace priority and non-priority mail with one precision product, in a single stream with two-day delivery for letters. The goal is to implement this in 2017. In the logistics divisions, a new terminal structure has been planned for several years that will provide significant cost reductions. We will see the most obvious impact in the coming years, but the results are already evident in Norway and the other Nordic countries. Growing nordic actor A new terminal structure has become necessary, in part to position the Group as a significant player in the Nordic e-commerce market. Volume growth has slowed somewhat due partly to a weaker Norwegian krone and decreasing consumption, but Mejdell believes growth will continue in 2016. «It is a competitive market, and it is important that e-commerce continues to grow and contributes to the bottom line. We are the undisputed specialists regarding Norway. In the other Nordic countries, I’m sure that both customers and competitors see Bring as an up-and-coming contender,» says the CEO. The strategy is to grow outside Norway. Many customers consider the Nordic region to be a single market, and don’t want to deal with companies that only serve one country. A Nordic company is more relevant for more customers, and makes it possible to offer services that cover more than just Norway. In a 10-year perspective, Mejdell believes Posten Norge Group will grow considerably, still have a sizable mail delivery business and be the “Nordic champion” in logistics. «Where will you be in 10 years?» «Definitely not here,» he says with a laugh, before adding: «Then I’ll be 68 years old.» Proud of our employees This year, Mejdell can look back on 10 years as CEO. In 2015 he was named best postal boss in the World Mail Awards. He also received the prestigious Norwegian Modern Transport Award for leading Posten Norge successfully during a challenging period. He stresses that while it is nice to be recognised, he received the award on behalf of an organisation that has performed well over time. He points to, among others, employees he meets who tell him what they are doing to solve customers’ everyday problems. He is proud of the many enthusiastic people who work in Posten Norge, the people for whom the most important job is to deliver, and to find new ways to do it. He believes the award is the result of good teamwork, teamwork that means the Group can look back on the lowest level of sick leave ever, increased employee satisfaction and fewer injuries. «It’s pretty amazing. You would almost not believe it was possible, considering that Posten Norge has reduced its workforce annually by about 1,000 employees in recent years,» says Mejdell. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 29 Involved in restructuring The reductions will continue in 2016, in response to declining volumes, particularly in the mail segment. But Posten Norge is accustomed to transitions, and the CEO is confident that upcoming changes will be implemented with the same thoroughness and quality as in the past. This means that both managers and employees must understand why we make the changes, and be involved in the process. Mejdell believes it is essential to focus on the parameters that create results in the short and long term. He has little faith in a narrow focus on how much money the Group earns. This might give better financial results this year, but not necessarily in the years to come. «In a business like ours, evolution is more important than revolution. That said, we must make major changes from time to time that can feel like a revolution.» The Group can now see clear evidence of many years of dedicated work with HSE. Lower sickness absence levels have had major positive consequences for the individual employees, Posten Norge and society. Among other things, there have been far fewer new disability pensioners over the past 10 years, and expenditure on sickness benefits and insurance has been greatly reduced. Environmentally proactive Posten Norge and Bring have also made a major impression nationally and internationally for their serious commitment to environmental initiatives. 2015 saw the largest-ever purchase of electric vehicles, and over 1,000 lorries in the Nordic countries will switch to renewable diesel during 2016. These are important individual measures, but Mejdell notes that it is also important to look at the long-term commitment. «I’m proud of the decision we made in 2008, when we set a goal to reduce CO2 emissions by 30 per cent. We achieved this a long time ago, and we can set new ambitious goals. It’s about persevering in the face of something which initially seems very difficult, and taking a quantum leap to reverse the trend,» says the CEO. That said, one trend that will never reverse is the digitisation of society. This is the reason why Norwegians now send fewer physical letters. Letter volumes declined rapidly in 2015, partly because the public sector is increasingly switching to digital communication with citizens. This requires a secure digital mailbox. Digipost for life Around 600,000 Norwegians have chosen Posten Norge’s Digipost. This is slightly fewer than expected, but in 2016 a large number of public services will adopt digital mail. This means that many more will use Posten Norge’s Digipost for all important correspondence, a mailbox you can keep for life. «Posten Norge is a Nordic company, but we hold a special place in the lives of Norwegians. We play a prominent role in Norwegian society, and will continue to do so. Nobody knows Norway better,» concludes Dag Mejdell. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 30 The Board of Directors MORTEN SIV ASTRID IDAR TOVE RANDI B. KARLSEN SØRBY RYAN ANDERSEN KREUTZER ANDERSEN SÆTERSHAGEN Born: 1959 Born: 1962 Born: 1962 Born: 1970 Born: 1958 Board member Employee representative Chair (since 2012) Board member (since 2015) Deputy Chair (since 2010) (since 2015) (since 2014) CEO of Finance Norway VP for Supply Chain CEO of M3 Helse AS Executive Vice President Deputy union representative Education: Master of Economics Europe, Yara Education: Master of Telenor for the Mail Division, member and Business Administration Education: Civil engineer Economics and Business of the National Executive and MBA Administration Committee of the Norwegian Positions of trust: Deputy chair Education: Master of Postal and Communications of the corporate assembly Positions of trust: Board Positions of trust: Chair of Economics and Business Workers’ Union (Postkom) of Statoil, member of the member of Cambi AS Arena Terrasse AS, board Administration and CPA corporate assembly of Hydro, member of Elsikkerhet Employee of Posten Norge chair of the Norwegian Refugee Norge AS, Terningen Positions of trust: Chair of since 1987. Digi Malaysia and Telenor Council, board member of Nettverk Broadcast. Board member Aschehoug, board member of Dtac Thailand and of the University of Oslo, Telenor Norway member of Advisory Board NHH, member of the climate council of the Minister of Climate and Environment, member of the government’s expert committee for green competitiveness. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 31 The Board of Directors ODD CHRISTIAN TOM ANN ELISABETH ANNE BRITT TERJE ØVERLAND SØRENSEN WIRGENESS BERENTSEN WOLD Born: 1957 Born: 1956 Born: 1961 Born: 1960 Born: 1963 Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative Board member (since 2014) Board member (since 2010) (since 2000) (since 2015); (since 2012); Self-employed within board CEO of Invenia AS General Secretary of the District leader Deputy union work and consulting. Education: Master of Norwegian Postal and of Postkom Oslo, representative for Education: Bachelor of Science and Master of Communications Workers’ Akershus and Eastern the Logistics Division, Science. Major in marketing Management Union (Postkom) Norway District member of the National Executive Committee of Positions of trust: Board Positions of trust: Member Employee of Posten Employee of Posten member of Granngården of the programme board Norge since 1979. the Norwegian Postal and Norge since 1974 AB, David Eccles School of the user-steered Communications Workers’ Union (Postkom) of Business, NHST innovation forum at the media group AS, Dagens Research Council of Employee of Posten Norge Næringsliv AS Norway. since 1985. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 32 Report of the Board of Directors 2015 Posten Norge had a pre-tax profit of MNOK 151 in 2015. Operating revenues increased by 2.7 per cent to MNOK 25 074 and operating REVENUE profit from underlying operations was MNOK 686. The growth came In MNOK from e-commerce and Nordic operations. The Norwegian market was 25,074 affected by an economic downturn resulting from the fall in oil prices, 26 000 among other factors, which led to weaker Group profits than expected. 25 000 The focused investment in logistics continues. The Logistics segment is investing in new terminals to industrialise and streamline production. 24 000 Meanwhile, a number of improvement measures are being carried out to strengthen customer orientation and profitability. 23 000 22 000 In the Mail segment, operations are being reorganised and streamlined to meet the challenge of digitisation and declining letter volumes. 21 000 Cost-reducing measures are being implemented continuously to allow 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 the Mail segment to maintain its significant contribution to Group profits. Delivery quality was strengthened in 2015. Efforts to promote better health have resulted in the lowest ever sickness absence rate and REVENUE FROM FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES more satisfied employees. in MNOK 8,845 New regulatory framework 2800 2600 Digitisation affects society and changes customer needs and 2400 demands. Most letters and documents will soon be sent electronically, while increased online shopping means that more parcels and freight 2200 must be transported and distributed. Starting in 2016, public 2000 organisations in Norway will send most mail to residents electronically. 1800 1600 The Storting (the Norwegian parliament) passed a new Postal 1400 Services Act in 2015 which came into force on 1 January 2016. The 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Board believes the new Postal Services Act provides a good regulatory framework for further development of the service offering in line with changing user needs, which in turn will help strengthen the Group’s competitiveness. From March 2016 Posten Norge will discontinue mail distribution on Saturdays. Additional measures will be required in the future. MARKET DEVELOPMENT Posten Norge’s business consists of two segments: Mail and Logistics. The Group had operating revenues in 2015 of MNOK 25 074, representing an increase of 2.7 per cent on the previous year. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 33 The largest revenue growth occurred outside Norway, where the Group’s operating revenue increased by 8.9 per cent to MNOK 8 845 TOTAL VOLUME PARCELS in millions of units in 2015. Revenue outside Norway accounted for 35.3 per cent of total Group revenue. 42,400 42 000 Logistics largest segment 40 000 Logistics is the Group’s largest segment, and accounted for 63 per 38 000 cent of revenues in 2015. It had external operating revenues of MNOK 15 943, representing an increase of 5.1 per cent on the previous year. 36 000 The growth came mostly from e-commerce and Nordic operations. 34 000 Lower activity in the oil industry affected the logistics business 32 000 in Norway significantly, both directly within the Offshore & Energy 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 business area and through spill-over effects for other business areas. The growth in private e-commerce continued, and contributed to the Group’s total e-commerce volumes in 2015 increasing by 6 per cent. TOTAL VOLUME LETTERS As part of the focus on e-commerce, the Group expanded its service in millions of units offering for online stores and online shoppers in 2015. New solutions 1,902 and additional delivery options were established, including automated parcel dispensers. In Sweden, Bring’s presence and visibility in the 2800 market has been strengthened and geographical coverage extended 2600 through the use of partners. 2400 In 2015, the company Svebol Logistics AB, which specialises in 2200 refrigerated freight, was acquired and integrated into Bring Frigo. 2000 The acquisition helps to strengthen Bring’s position and expertise in 1800 temperature-controlled transport in the Stockholm area and 1600 Mälardalen. The Group also acquired the logistics company JK 1400 Transport AB. 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Total volume of letters is both addressed and unaddressed An agreement was reached in 2015 to divest the Danish cold storage operation to the Danish refrigerated freight carrier Frode Laursen A/S. Mail volumes fall External revenues in the Mail segment were MNOK 9 277, which is MNOK 94 lower than the previous year. The Mail segment represented 37 per cent of Group revenue. In 2015, 12.7 per cent of Posten Norge’s revenue came from areas in which Posten Norge has a monopoly. The remaining monopoly on sealed addressed letters under 50 grams ended on 1 January 2016. Addressed letter volumes fell in 2015 by 6.4 per cent. The decline accelerated towards the end of the year and into 2016. This trend is driven by digitisation, and the largest decrease occurred within banking and insurance. The number of unaddressed deliveries fell by 5.4 per cent. In Sweden, Bring Citymail had a one per cent growth in volume in 2015. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 34 More Digipost users OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS (EBIT) in MNOK Posten Norge’s secure digital mailbox, Digipost, acquired 205 000 new users during the year, bringing the total number of registered users 239 1800 up to 587 000 at the end of 2015. Meanwhile, the number of businesses 1600 that have agreed to send mail electronically increased by 60 per cent 1400 to 2 500 in 2015. To date, 67 public organisations have started sending 1200 secure electronic mail to Norwegian residents, the largest being NAV 1000 (Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration). 800 600 400 Strong networks 200 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Posten Norge plays a prominent role in Norwegian society, and fulfils an important social responsibility through a nationwide, high-quality distribution network. In 2015, 85.4 per cent of A-class mail was delivered overnight. This was 0.4 per cent higher than the licensing requirement. The other licence requirements for delivery quality were also met by good margins. DELIVERY QUALITY A-MAIL The Ministry of Transport and Communications has granted in percentage Posten Norge an interim license for 2016. 85,4% 89 The Ministry has in 2016 announced a tender process for the 88 distribution of subscription newspapers on Saturdays, in areas where 87 the newspapers do not handle their own distribution. Posten Norge 86 intends to submit a tender. 85 Posten Norge has the delivery network with the best coverage in 84 Norway. At the end of 2015 this network included 1 360 in-store postal 83 services, 35 post offices and about 1 750 rural postal routes. The 82 Group’s Nordic distribution networks cover about 6 000 locations in 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 total, as well as a range of solutions for home delivery and express delivery. PROFITABILITY Weak results Operating profit before non-recurring items and write-downs (EBITE) was MNOK 686, which is 26.5 per cent lower than the previous year. Despite extensive cost-saving measures, the lower economic activity after the fall in oil prices resulted in a substantial reduction in profit for the Logistics segment. Several of the businesses acquired by the Group in the period 2005-2008 have also failed to regain the margins achieved before the financial crisis. Profit after non-recurring items and write-downs (EBIT) was MNOK 239, which is MNOK 605 lower than in 2014. Net non-recurring items reduced profit by MNOK 692 in 2015. This was mainly attributable to write-down of goodwill, provisions for loss contracts and restructuring. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 35 Posten Norge’s 40 per cent share in EVRY ASA was sold in 2015. The sale price amounted to BNOK 1.7, resulting in a gain of MNOK 219. Profitability challenges in Logistics The Logistics segment in 2015 had an operating profit before nonrecurring items and write-downs (EBITE) of MNOK 71, which is MNOK 336 lower than in 2014. The lower profit is a result of direct and indirect consequences of the downturn in the oil industry and subsequent weaker market conditions in Norway, and a trend towards services with lower margins. In addition, parcel profitability fell during 2015. There were also challenging market conditions in 2015 related to logistics operations in Sweden and Denmark, mainly in the freight business. The new terminal structure and investments in new terminals will help to industrialise the business, streamline operations and improve competitiveness. The establishment of a new logistics centre at Alnabru in Oslo is proceeding as planned and some operations will move in during 2016. Effective cost control in Mail The Mail segment in 2015 had an operating profit before non-recurring items and write-downs (EBITE) of MNOK 816, which is MNOK 31 lower than the previous year. The operating profit points to positive cost developments in the Mail segment. The Mail segment is undergoing continuous improvements, and operations throughout the value chain are adapting to changes in volume. This includes centralising route preparation and optimising the mail routes. From March 2016 mail distribution on Saturdays will be discontinued, leading to a reduction of about 400 full-time equivalents, mostly Saturday mail carriers. At the same time, shifts are being reorganised for nearly 10 000 employees. Distribution of newspapers will continue on Saturdays until a future solution is determined. Additional costs that Posten Norge incurs by providing statutory, commercially unprofitable services are covered by government procurement. In 2015 the Storting granted MNOK 418 for this purpose. In 2014 the amount was MNOK 270. Under this scheme, Posten Norge recalculates the requirements the following year in connection with the product accounts that are submitted to the Norwegian Post and Telecommunications Authority every year. In 2015 Posten Norge refunded MNOK 39 for 2014. In the national budget for 2016, the government has allocated MNOK 363, which is lower than the estimated requirement. Non-recurring items Non-recurring items for 2015 amount to MNOK 692, of which MNOK 360 is attributable to write-down of goodwill. The remaining items relate to restructuring, court settlements and increased provision for loss contracts related to cold storage operations. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 36 Investments RETURN ON EQUITY Investments as a whole in 2015, excluding acquisitions, totalled MNOK AFTER TAX in percentage 1 159 compared to MNOK 1 081 in 2014. The largest investments were related to the new logistics centre at Alnabru in Oslo. -1,0% 12 Cash flow from operating activities in 2015 was MNOK 1 213, while net 10 cash flow from investment activities was MNOK 485. The change from 8 last year was mainly due to the sale of the shares in EVRY ASA, which 6 resulted in receipts of BNOK 1.7. 4 2 0 Financial capacity -2 -4 In 2015 the Group had net financial expenses of MNOK 88 compared 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 with net MNOK 123 the previous year. The Group had long-term liquidity reserves of MNOK 6 394 on 31 December 2015, compared with MNOK 3 540 the previous year. These reserves consisted of invested funds and available credit facilities. The Group places importance on financial flexibility and the ability to take advantage of opportunities in the market. Posten Norge continued to implement measures in 2015 to reduce financial risk and increase its room to manoeuvre. Discipline in the use of capital, targeted acquisitions and a focus on cost-cutting and revenue-increasing measures in 2015 did not prevent a decline in profit due to weaker market developments and hence lower growth. The Group’s equity is MNOK 5 926 and the Group has the capacity to make strategically important investments. Credit and counterparty risk on the placement of surplus liquidity is deemed to be limited as Posten Norge’s counterparties generally have high ratings. Debt covenants Some of Posten Norge’s loan agreements contain debt covenants that limit net interest-bearing liabilities/EBITDA to 3.5 and require a minimum equity ratio of 20-25 per cent. As at 31 December 2015 net interest bearing liabilities/EBITDA was 0.2, down from 0.8 in 2014, and the equity ratio was 36.8 per cent, compared to 37.9 per cent in 2014. Posten Norge uses financial derivatives to manage the risk associated with changes to interest and foreign exchange rates (see notes 18 and 19). Risk Risk management and internal control are integrated into the Group’s business processes and are central elements of Posten Norge’s corporate governance. When developing goals, strategies and business plans, the aim is to create value by balancing growth against profitability targets and risks to Posten Norge’s activities. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 37 As part of its corporate governance, the Board of Directors emphasizes good risk management and internal control. The Board of Directors reviews risk analyses every six months which evaluate the Group’s total risk. The risk analysis is carried out as a comprehensive internal process and is integrated into the Group’s business processes. Emphasis is placed on a quantitative risk approach. Risk-mitigating measures are implemented to ensure that the company achieves its goals, and an evaluation is conducted on a regular basis to ensure that the measures are having the desired effect and to identify any new risk factors. Posten Norge actively follows up on the company’s risk exposure within the areas of strategic, operating, financial and corporate reputation risk. The monitoring of information security and integrity will be strengthened. Risk management and internal control processes are described in more detail in the corporate governance report. Allocation of current year profit In 2015 Posten Norge AS had a post-tax loss of MNOK 247 and the Group had a post-tax loss of MNOK 61. The Norwegian government has a dividend policy whereby 50 per cent of Group post-tax profits can be distributed as dividends. Before the annual dividend is determined, an independent assessment of the Group’s financial situation and future prospects must be carried out. The Board of Directors recommends that no dividend be distributed for 2015 since the Group has posted a loss. This year’s deficit is transferred to other equity. This recommendation is made to ensure that the Group’s equity is reasonable given the risk and scope of the business. The national budget for 2016 anticipates a MNOK 320 dividend from Posten Norge for the 2015 fiscal year. The actual dividend will be determined at the 2016 General Assembly. The annual financial statements have been prepared under the assumption that the business is a going concern. The Board of Directors confirms that this assumption applies. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Posten Norge is committed to long-term value creation through the sustainable and responsible management of the company’s most important resources while meeting the owner’s requirements and expectations. The Board of Directors is satisfied with the efforts made in corporate social responsibility and considers the sustainability report and materiality analysis to be exemplary in that they are linked to the strategy and highlight specific challenges. These efforts are yielding good results POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 38 and are being carried out in a systematic and long-term manner with clear plans for the future. The Board believes Posten Norge stands EMPLOYEE out as a model organisation in the priority areas of: health, safety and SATISFACTION environment (HSE), diversity and the wider environment. in scale from 1 to 100, where 100 is best 80 In the sustainability report for 2015, the Board of Directors has 82 adopted a broader definition of the concept of sustainability that 80 addresses the Group’s long-term viability. The Group’s most important 78 76 resources to create value and thus ensure this viability are our 74 employees, our relationships and partnerships, our networks and 72 expertise, our adaptability and our financial capital. The sustainability 70 report shows what value we have created in recent years and what 68 footprint we have left in society. The report evaluates our work and 66 provides direction for the future. (LINK) 64 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Good working environment One of the Group’s principal goals is to have attractive workplaces and EMPLOYEES WITH AN a good working environment. Employees represent our most important IMMIGRANT BACKGROUND resource. Health-promoting activities are therefore a high priority, and in Norway, percentage the Group’s vision is that no one should incur injury or sickness as a 14,7% result of their work in Posten Norge. 15 The organisation survey in 2015 showed that employee satisfaction is 14 at record levels and has risen to 80 (on a scale of 1-100) from 79 the year before. The factors that score highest are a focus on customers 13 and results, and an attractive workplace. 12 In 2015 the Group registered the lowest ever rate of sickness absence at 6.0 per cent, down 0.3 percentage points from the previous year. 11 11 12 13 14 15 If we look back ten years, sickness absence has fallen by 35 per cent during that period. The effect of this is that around 550 more employees were at their jobs every day in 2015 than in 2006. The annual financial savings for Posten Norge represents about MNOK 200 and SICK LEAVE for society MNOK 315. Group in percentage 6,0% The number of occupational injuries decreased by 16.8 per cent in 2015. The injury frequency rate, expressed as the H2-value or the number of 8,4 injuries per million hours worked, was 10.6 at the end of 2015, compared 8,0 to 12.8 the year before. 7,6 The Board of Directors is satisfied with the efforts to promote 7,2 better health and see this as a result of management’s prioritisation 6,8 of HSE and the good cooperation between management and union representatives. 6,4 6,0 The Group’s workforce increased by 85 full-time equivalents from 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2014 to 2015. In the Mail segment, there was a reduction of 177 full-time equivalents as a result of increased operational efficiencies. The workforce in the Logistics segment increased by 272 full-time equivalents as a result of increased activity and acquisitions. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 39 Diversity The Group wishes to reflect developments in society and is working actively to promote integration in the organisation and increase the proportion of employees with immigrant backgrounds in staff and i management positions. The Group has employees with backgrounds For accounts from more than 70 nationalities. Language training is a vital part of this and notes, see work. A development and internship programme is offered to selected postennorge.com/ employees. annual-report-2015 Pay and equality The Group subscribes to the main principle that management pay should be competitive but not amongst the highest when compared to similar companies. Posten Norge AS is well within government guidelines for salary policies in state-owned enterprises. The Board of Directors has decided that there will be no new agreements entered into regarding pension rights for the portion of salaries in excess of 12G when changes are made in corporate management in the future. Salaries, other remuneration and accrued pensions for executive management totalled MNOK 31.5 in 2015, compared with MNOK 29.7 the previous year. There are no significant pay differences between men and women that can be attributed to gender. Posten Norge is concerned about equality at all levels. Posten Norge’s recruitment policy requires moderate gender quotas to increase the number of female managers and employees in male-dominated job categories. Posten Group’s management is 50 per cent female. The proportion of women among employees in the Group is 35 per cent, and among managers 29 per cent. Employee and management development Skills development is a major focus area through internal and external course offerings and workplace-based training. The Group has made a major investment in e-learning combined with other types of teaching forms, including an introduction to HSE, the Group’s vision and value platform, and environmental efforts. As a supplement to other internal training opportunities, courses are offered in Norwegian reading, writing and oral skills, as well as online apprentice courses to increase the number of employees with a certificate of apprenticeship. Through the Group’s scholarship programme, employees receive support to upgrade their formal qualifications. The Group works systematically on manager development in order to strengthen its implementation ability and goal achievement. Using employee reviews and management evaluations as a basis, managers are objectively evaluated on their performance and potential. In parallel, work is carried out on succession planning and talent development which the Board reviews annually. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 40 Integrity ELECTRIC VEHICLES number The Group sets strict standards of integrity for its own managers and employees, and provides relevant training. The same requirements 1,115 apply to subcontractors and partners. The Integrity Programme, which 1200 was established in 2011, is based on the Group’s ethical guidelines. In 2015 the Board conducted a review of these efforts in relation to best 1000 practice, status of the measures and compliance. 800 600 Prevention of criminal activity 400 200 The risk of criminal activity directed against Posten Norge is considered to be moderate. The Group has a zero-tolerance policy 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 0 for internal fraud. In 2015 the focus has been on measures to prevent labour market crime. The Group cooperates well with the police services and other authorities, and has carried out checks of the courier industry. Another area of focus has been identity theft. The Group works actively to prevent all types of crime and to solve cases. The level of security and contingency plans are viewed in the context of, among other things, the government’s threat assessments and international efforts and prioritisations, for example under the auspices of the Universal Postal Union (UPU) and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Operational emergency preparedness and general crisis management capability have been strengthened over the past year through, among other things, the Ministry of Transport and Communication’s SOROS project. Information security Cyber-attacks and fraud through social manipulation of employees constitute an increasing risk for businesses. As a part of risk management, the Group has established a management system for information security with the aim of securing information against unauthorised modification, destruction, disclosure and loss. This process places as much focus on the people who administer information as on the technology used to rationalise its administration. Training and raising awareness regarding information security are key activities. Security reviews and tests of essential services that are exposed on the Internet are conducted regularly with the assistance of external experts. Environmentally effective operation As one of the Nordic region’s biggest transport operators, the Group takes particular responsibility for reducing its environmental impact and increasing its internal energy efficiency. Some of the most POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 41 important measures to reduce climate impact include the use of environmentally friendly vehicles and fuel, transport optimisation, E-COMMERCE growth, in percentage VOLUME shifting freight from air to ground and from road to rail, efficient use of floor space and building expertise among managers and employees. 6,3% The Group has in 2015 reduced CO2 emissions by 28 658 tonnes, or 8 6 per cent from 2014. In 2016, the Group will continue to replace fossil 6 fuels with electric vehicles and renewable diesel (HVO) for all heavy transport in Norway. This will make a significant contribution to 4 achieving the goal of a 40 per cent CO2 reduction by 2020. 2 The work of the Board of Directors 0 -2 The Board places importance on following Norwegian standards and 12 13 14 15 best practices for corporate governance, based on Norwegian law and the government’s state ownership policy in force at any given time. Each year the Board presents a corporate governance report which REPUTATION forms part of the annual and sustainability report. The Board of Percentage with positive impression of Posten Norge Directors also conducts an annual update of the content of the 65% rules of procedure for the Board. 70 In addition to being a decision-making and control body, the Board wishes to contribute to the development of the Group by being a 66 valuable discussion partner for the company’s management and owner, 62 based on good insight into Posten Norge’s strategies, business models and value chain. 58 The Board carries out an annual evaluation of its work, expertise and 54 working methods, as well as discussing current issues for special attention and building the Board’s own expertise. 50 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Source: Ipsos MMI's annual reputation survey At the General Assembly in 2015, Tove Andersen and Morten Karlsen Sørby were elected to the Board, succeeding Gøril Hannås and Jørgen Randers. Tom Sorensen became a permanent Board member in the autumn of 2015 as employee representative after Paul Magnus Gamlemshaug left the company. The Group’s head office is located in Oslo and the majority of its operations are conducted in Norway, but the operations outside of Norway are constantly developing, particularly in Sweden. Outlook The Board of Directors expects that the downturn in the Norwegian economy will continue. Prospects for growth in the Nordic region are more positive. Meanwhile, the effect of digitisation will accelerate the decline in mail volumes. The logistics market is characterised by strong competition. These factors will affect the Group’s profit performance negatively in 2016. The Group is dealing with developments in the Logistics segment POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 42 through industrialising and optimising the business system, exploiting economies of scale and customising solutions to customer needs. The Group is investing nearly BNOK 5 in new joint terminals in Norway to integrate and industrialise operations, improve productivity and increase competitiveness. In the same way, networks and production are being coordinated in Sweden. E-commerce is growing by around 15 per cent annually, and it is the Group’s most important area of growth. The goal is to take part in the strong growth by developing new solutions and concepts so that the Group becomes the preferred supplier for both recipients and senders. The Mail segment will continue to experience a decline in letter volumes, and this will accelerate. The need to restructure will therefore continue in the future. Posten has succeeded in adapting operations to developments and changing customer needs by restructuring in good time and working closely with union representatives. The Board of Directors wishes to remain in the forefront of developments in order to avoid falling behind and risking a pent-up need for restructuring. From March 2016 Posten Norge discontinued mail distribution on Saturdays. Furthermore, the Board has recommended, in the business plan for 2016 (Section 10), combining Aand B-class mail into a single addressed letter stream beginning in 2017. Digipost expects to attract more users and increased volumes in 2016 when public agencies and organisations switch to sending mail electronically. However, these volumes will not offset the economic impact of the decline in physical mail. The Group has initiated a comprehensive corporate programme that will strengthen competitiveness and improve customer experience in the years ahead. Investments of BNOK 1 are being made to increase productivity and deliver a simpler customer interface and service offering through more standardised IT systems and solutions throughout the Group. Posten Norge enjoys a high level of confidence in the market and a good reputation. By restructuring in good time and devoting the time required to do so, necessary and demanding changes have been implemented in a positive way. The Group will continue the long-term and systematic work on sustainability with a particular focus on health, safety and the environment (HSE), diversity and the wider environment. The Board thanks all of the employees of the Group for cooperating in and sharing responsibility for the development of Posten Norge and Bring. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 43 Statement of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors confirms that, to the best of our knowledge, the annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with approved accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the Group and the parent company’s consolidated assets, liabilities, financial position and performance as a whole. The Board also confirms that the Report of the Board of Directors provides a true and fair view of the development, performance and position of the Group and the parent company, together with a description of the key risks and uncertainties facing the company. 17 th March 2016 POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 44 Mail Division Ahead of the curve Posten has successfully restructured its operations and adapted to new customer needs. An ever more digitised society is changing people’s habits and impacting the demand for traditional postal services. The Mail Division has tackled this trend head on by staying ahead of the curve and restructuring in a timely fashion, which has had positive results. 2015 was the year in which the Norwegian parliament, the Storting, approved a new Postal Service Act and opened up the Norwegian postal market to full competition. With this, Posten’s remaining monopoly on addressed letters weighing up to 50 g disappeared on 1 January 2016. The Mail Division is well-placed to meet this increased competition, but the changes are adding to the burden of the already demanding restructuring process. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 45 Continuous changes The division has implemented a series of measures since the start of MAIL DIVISION the millennium to keep pace with increasing digitisation. The switch from •The private market is served by traditional post offices to in-store post offices, Post in Shops, was a the Posten brand in Norway and great success. Customers are satisfied with the service and appreciate the business market by the Bring the good accessibility and long opening hours. The Mail Division has also brand in Norway and the Nordic changed how letters and parcels are produced and distributed such that region. the network is now more streamlined and cost-effective. This meant • Responsible for traditional mail that the Mail Division could continue to offer customers and mail services in Norway (including licensed services) and Sweden recipients good services in 2015 that have been tailored to current and (via Bring Citymail). future needs, while successfully restructuring in a manner that safe• Drives the Group’s focus on guards employees. The division’s employees have met the changes with digital services and dialogue understanding and good teamwork. services. • Develops new physical and digital Proud, satisfied employees services and infrastructure. Employee numbers have fallen and many of those still with us have new duties. Nonetheless, the employees are more satisfied and proud than ever before. Customer satisfaction has also steadily improved. Sick leave has dropped by 30 per cent since 2006 and the number of occupational injuries has decreased, while employee satisfaction has steadily risen. Our employees want to ensure the Group’s customers and mail recipients receive good services in all parts of the value chain. Adapting services Saturday letter deliveries ceased from 1 March 2016. This is a necessary restructuring measure. The new Postal Service Act permitted this change. In recent years, there have been far fewer letters on a Saturday than on the other five business days. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has announced a competition for the delivery of newspapers on Saturdays. Until this has been decided, Posten will continue to deliver newspapers on Saturdays. Going forward, the Mail Division will continue to adapt its services to falling volumes and changed framework conditions. A proposal involving the merger of A-mail and B-mail into a common letter stream with two-day delivery has been submitted to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The proposal will entail major changes in infrastructure and produce significant savings. At the same time, letter distribution tailored to the customers’ future needs will continue, which ensures that physical letters will arrive quickly throughout the country. 85.4 per cent of A-mail was delivered overnight in 2015. Well-established, future-oriented Digipost While the number of physical letters is falling, digital mailings are increasing. Posten’s digital mailbox, Digipost, has surpassed 600,000 users and has more than 2,000 customers who use it to send mail. It is important that Digipost has positioned itself well in the market, not least because of the public authorities’ switch to digital communication. The list of public agencies that became customers of Digipost in 2015 includes POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 46 the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration (NAV), the Norwegian State Housing Bank, the Norwegian National Collection Agency, and many municipalities. From and including 2016, all public agencies are required primarily to use a digital mailbox in their communications with citizens. Digipost is well positioned to handle the growth in users and volumes, and new services and functions will be developed over time. One new strategic area is e-signature services, in relation to which Digipost won a government contract in 2015. Aggressive focus on the environment The division’s environmental work continues unabated. In June, a decision was made to purchase 241 electric vehicles, which represents one of the world’s largest single purchases of electric vehicles. The Mail Division now has a total of around 1,100 vehicles that do not use fossil fuels. New terminals and technological solutions In 2015, Posten took a number of important steps towards putting in place a new terminal structure, which is an important element of its strategy for coordinating services across the Group and business areas. In 2015, it decided to build new terminals in Stavanger, Tromsø and Mo i Rana. The digital route book launched in 2014 was developed into a tool with which delivery staff became very familiar in 2015. The route book simplifies the employees’ working day while ensuring faster and simpler updating and thus better address quality. At a time when mail recipients are becoming increasingly mobile, it is important to achieve the desired quality. In 2015, Posten’s tracking app was expanded with a wider range of services that enabled customers to do things such as report address changes via their mobile phones and obtain information about their main or nearest post office. The Mail Division will continue to develop new technological solutions in order to provide customers with the services they want. The ability to offer good services in a constantly changing market requires innovative, smart thinking. No one knows Norway better With 1,400 sales outlets and 1,700 rural delivery staff across the country it is easy to prove that no one knows Norway better than Posten. Posten is still important to the people of Norway and will remain so for the foreseeable future. BUSINESS AREAS: The regions: Develop and operate Posten’s physical network. This network includes the production and distribution of letters and admail, as well as serving all private and business postal addresses in Norway. Operate a total of nine mail distribution terminals and are responsible for the nationwide network of traditional post offices and in-store post offices, Post in Shops. Digipost: Posten’s digital postal service via which all Norwegian organisations and private individuals can send and receive digital letters. Bring Citymail: Offers postal services to the business market in Sweden with the delivery of mail, newspapers, magazines/journals, admail and freight to letter boxes in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, Mälardalen and Gotland. This represents 54 per cent of all Swedish households and organisations. Bring Dialogue: Helps companies develop and manage their customer relationships through customer dialogue. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 47 Logistics Norway Division Affected by the downturn in oil Bad times in the offshore sector affect the Norwegian economy and thus also Logistics Norway Division’s business. After a strong 2014, 2015 was a demanding year for the division. This was primarily due to lower levels of activity, major restructuring processes and cuts in investments in the offshore industry. In addition to this, a weaker Norwegian kroner exchange rate is making exports cheaper, but imports dearer. Parcel revenue has not developed as expected either. Although volumes are increasing, a large proportion of big customers at low unit prices is dragging total revenues down. Meanwhile, crossborder volumes made a positive contribution, even though there was a small drop in the volume of domestic business parcels. Groupage and part-load volumes developed well and there was a good inflow of new customers during the year. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 48 Changes to services LOGISTICS NORWAY As far as parcels and freight are concerned, customers pay according DIVISION: to various zone tariffs depending on how far the shipment is going. Bring introduced a new price model for freight on 1 July. The number of price • Bring is Norway’s leading logistics zones in Norway has been halved from 40 to 20 and 5,000 customers operator. have started using the new model. Bring has also established a service • Delivers integrated, industrialised that offers early delivery before 07:00 to selected customer groups. and efficient logistics solutions to the Norwegian market. Bedriftspakke Ekspress (BPX) parcels for companies will continue to be delivered almost as before after Saturday deliveries of letters ceased on • Develops and delivers the Group’s overall portfolio for the logistics 5 March 2016. segment in Norway. • Operates all of the Group’s New terminal network domestic parcel and freight terminals and transports mail, Posten and Bring are investing NOK 4 billion in eighteen shared parcels and freight. production facilities for parcels and freight. The new terminal network • Responsible for air freight and is halfway finished and will be completed in 2019. This will enable them to main postal service network. produce parcels and freight in the same stream. The goal is full vehicles such that as much cargo as possible is shipped as few kilometres as possible. This means lower CO₂ emissions. New business areas Offshore & Energy saw a reduction in traffic between the oil bases along the coast. Project activity levels have been sustained due to the ongoing development of the processing facilities in Nyhamna in Møre og Romsdal. On 1 November, Offshore & Energy and Bring International were merged into Bring Cargo AS. At the same time, Bring Transport Solutions became a new business area with responsibility for special customer solutions and vehicle operation. It consists of Bring Cargo Østfold, Bring Trucking AS (Slovakia), Bring Gudbrandsdalen AS and Bring Linehaul AS. All lorries have now been fitted with driving computers that assist with driving and rest period control, eco-driving and fuel oversight. Bring Express in Norway, which offers courier services for same day collection and delivery, as well as Home Delivery, became part of the Logistics Norway Division in March 2015. The courier services are being continued via a dedicated subsidiary, while Home Delivery is part of the regional structure for parcels and freight. High level of international activity Despite the offshore related downturn, Bring International’s turnover was higher in 2015 than in 2014. This was due to a rise in sales to other customer groups. Bring Trucking was named Company of the Year in Slovakia in October in competition with 315 other companies. In July, a 2,000-square metre terminal opened in Zwijndrecht in the Netherlands. Bring Frigo Norway is taking part in the strong growth in exports of salmon and trout, although the competition situation is challenging. The business will move into the new logistics centre in Alnabru in April 2016. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 49 Focusing on rail The amount of container traffic sent by rail fell in Norway in 2015. From March 2016, the Norwegian National Rail Administration will introduce a pilot scheme involving compensation for cancelled freight trains. Posten and Bring purchase train services worth around NOK 400 million a year in Scandinavia and are the largest purchasers of freight transport by rail in Norway. Rail revenue has increased by around 15 per cent in the last two years. Bring Linehaul has established a Bring train between Jönköping and Stockholm, which supplies five IKEA department stores and five Home Delivery hubs for Bring Express. New customs office On 1 January 2015, the limit for duty free private imports was raised from NOK 200 to NOK 350, and in September the limit for simplified customs clearance for private imports was raised from NOK 1,000 to NOK 3,000 kroner, which has reduced the number of customs clearance jobs. In October, Bring opened a customs forwarding office in Svinesund that is staffed around the clock. One of the aims of this was to save Bring’s drivers time through fast forwarding and preparation of customs documents. The office in Svinesund will provide services around the clock, every day of the year. BUSINESS AREAS The regions: Four regions operate parcel and freight terminals in Norway. Transport mail, parcels and freight both nationally and locally. Responsible for the main postal service and line haul traffic in Norway by road, rail and air. Bring International and Offshore: Forwarding activities within offshore and project logistics, international freight activities and the Air & Sea service area. Bring Transport Solutions: Special customer solutions and vehicle operation outside the Norwegian network in the parent company. Responsible for international line haul traffic and corridors. Bring Frigo Norway: Offers logistics solutions for foodstuffs. A leader in temperature-controlled logistics. Bring Warehousing: Offers third-party logistics and warehousing solutions for all types of products. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 50 Logistics Nordic Division Expanded services for Nordic customers The logistics business outside Norway, Logistics Nordic Division, is growing. In 2015, the division helped ensure the Group an even better foothold in the Nordic region. E-commerce is a priority area for Bring. During the course of 2015, Bring enhanced its online shopping services in all of the Nordic countries. It launched a series of new innovative services for e-commerce customers. Bring achieved a clearer presence in the market in 2015, not least through Bring branded collection points in parts of Sweden and messages to customers via text, email and mail. Bring’s increased presence in POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 51 social media is enabling a closer dialogue with customers and provides an opportunity to spot trends in the industry. In autumn 2015, Bring REVENUE FROM launched a tracking app for private customers, which enables them FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES in MNOK to track parcels and home deliveries. 8,845 2800 Ever more goods delivered to people’s doors 2600 Bring is one of the leading actors in home delivery. This is an important 2400 service for customers who want simple solutions designed for the 2200 consumer. Ever more goods are now being delivered to people’s doors 2000 at a time that suits them. During the year, Logistics Nordic Division also 1800 saw an increase in additional services such as installing white goods and delivering PCs with on-site installation. 1600 1400 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Aggressive focus on temperature-controlled logistics Bring’s comprehensive range of services within temperaturecontrolled transport and warehousing was developed further in 2015. In a changing market, Bring has taken steps such as converting its cold storage facilities into multiple facilities with different temperature zones, which enables it to offer services to a larger segment of customers. It has developed new, innovative services such as a concept for medicines. It also acquired Svebol Logistics AB in 2015 to strengthen its logistics solutions for the retail trade and commercial kitchens. Focus on freight business A number of measures were implemented during the year to strengthen Bring’s freight business in Sweden. For example, cooperation agreements were signed with three companies, Närkefrakt, LBC Frakt i Värmland and Skellefteå Lastbilstationen, to give Bring even better geographical coverage in Sweden. In 2015, Bring successfully continued to offer international freight services by road, rail, air and sea. Different means of transport are also combined to get freight to its destination. Efficient operations Bring in Sweden is systematically improving its operations in order to increase efficiency and profitability within the individual business areas and to ensure efficient terminal operations, line haul traffic and distribution. The work involves putting in place a more efficient structure POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 52 and coordinating products where this makes sense from the perspective of processes and customer requirements. This work produced positive results in 2015 and will be continued in the coming LOGISTICS years. In addition to improving production and transport, Bring NORDIC DIVISION: simplified its organisational structure, which has resulted in • Consists of Posten Norge’s more efficient administration. logistics operations in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities •The division’s services include transporting parcels, goods Bring is an environmental leader in the industry. The strides Bring and temperature-controlled goods, as well as storage and made within corporate social responsibility during 2015 included: temperature-controlled storage, • Major conversion to HVO fuel with the resulting significant reduction courier services and fourth-party in CO2 emissions from and including 2015 logistics, within the Nordic region • Partnership with the 2030 Secretariat, a group of enterprises and internationally. that want to ensure Sweden achieves a climate neutral transport sector by 2030 • Environmental training for all employees BUSINESS AREAS • Participation in the Food Mission, the Nordic region’s first social supermarket that gives financially vulnerable people the Parcels and express: The entire chance to buy food at very low prices and at the same time range of services within parcel reduces food waste shipping, courier services and home delivery. The road ahead Frigo: Logistics solutions for freight that requires temperaturecontrolled logistics. In 2015, Bring continued its aggressive development in the Nordic region with a clear goal of profitable growth. The focus on a wide range Groupage and part loads: The entire range of services within of strong services that are the most attractive in the Nordic market shipping of groupage and part continues. Some priority areas in 2016: loads nationally and internationally. • Developing services within e-commerce logistics Warehousing: Third-party logistics • Investing in consolidating Bring’s position within foodstuff logistics and warehousing solutions. • Maintaining efficient terminal operations, line haul traffic and Supply Services: Fourth-party distribution logistics. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 53 E-commerce Division Solutions designed for consumers The E-commerce Division consolidated its position in the Nordic region in 2015 by expanding its range of services, increasing the number of collection points and improving its understanding of online shopping, consumer behaviour and trends. The division’s goal is to strengthen and protect its market position in all of the Nordic countries by offering services that appeal to the new ways of shopping online and meeting the higher expectations of consumers. Placing parcel machines in central locations, more collection points, and a wider range of home delivery and express delivery services have contributed to this. At the same time, the division has focused heavily on profitability and systematically adjusted costs per parcel to current market prices during 2015. Adapting to trends and consumers’ needs Online shopping is an important priority area for Posten and Bring. The E-commerce Division systematically monitors changing consumer behaviour so it can develop new online shopping concepts with the recipient in mind. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 54 Taking this as its starting point, the division established eLabs in 2015, which aims to identify, develop, test and launch solutions designed to E-COMMERCE DIVISION: meet consumers’ needs. The forum comprises employees with various areas of expertise within online shopping. They also participate in innova• Specialises in e-commerce tion processes in the Group. An advisory board consisting of customers, • Will be the Group’s spearhead in suppliers and experts within e-commerce was also established in 2015. the e-commerce market Its members test ideas and hypotheses, and provide input on relevant • Will ensure that Posten and customer needs. Bring’s customers succeed in their e-commerce Insight and digitisation • Will help Posten achieve its goal of being the leading Nordic supplier of services and solutions for Posten and Bring want to be the preferred providers of logistics services companies offering goods online and the preferred advisers within online shopping. The division conduct• Will ensure it launches innovative ed numerous consumer surveys and trend analyses in 2015 to map the services in line with changing status and future of online shopping in the Nordic region. The results of consumer behaviour this work were shared with customers, through both digital and analogue means, which helps to build confidence and credibility. E-COMMERCE E-HANDELSVOLUM VOLUME vekst, i prosent growth (in per cent): The division’s development of digital channels is in line with the Group’s 6,3 % 6,3% goal of increased digitisation and allows for dialogue with everyone with an interest in online shopping. 8 Future-oriented logistics and services 6 4 The ever changing needs of industries and consumers mean that the E-commerce Division is constantly developing new services and solutions. 2 These includes services designed for new and growing branches online 0 such as grocery shopping, chemists and building materials. -2 12 13 14 15 E-COMMERCE SERVICES The E-commerce Division is responsible for Posten and Bring’s services within online shopping. The services give recipients the choice between various express services via collection points or having goods delivered to their door. Collection: Recipients can collect parcels from one of our 6,000 collection points throughout the Nordic Region. The recipient is notified in advance and can track a parcel’s movements via an app. Evening home delivery: Recipients can ask for parcels to be delivered to their door between 17:00 and 21:00 in most towns and larger conurbations. Text/email notification when a parcel is en route and a call service before delivery. The recipient can choose the delivery date. Saturday delivery is also offered in major Nordic cities, currently Oslo, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Bag on door: The sender and recipient can agree that a parcel should be hung in a neutral bag on the recipient’s door. In the letter box: Many consumers want to receive their online shopping parcels directly in their letter boxes. Posten and Bring offer several letter box services: ‘Small Parcels’ is specifically designed for online shops that send small, light parcels with a relatively low value that fit in a letter box. Parcel machines: Posten and Bring offer online shopping customers the ability to pick up their parcels from parcel machines: Free-standing machines in Denmark and Norway: Placed in central locations. It should be possible for the user to select this option from among the online store’s delivery alternatives. At existing collection points: Placed in or close to an existing collection point in order to increase capacity and reduce queues at the collection point. Express and courier services: Offers customers a range of express services and in major cities goods can be delivered to consumers within an hour of ordering them. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 55 Market report Posten Norge in transition A drop in demand from the oil sector and low international growth contributed to the continued downturn in the Norwegian economy that started in the summer of 2014. Sweden saw strong economic expansion in 2015, a trend that is expected to continue in 2016. In general, global economic growth has been weak, but the picture is complex. Growth in the Eurozone slowed in the last quarters and in the third quarter it also weakened in the US. Meanwhile, the upturn has been strong for some time, which means we are approaching the first rise in interest rates. Emerging economies such as Russia and Brazil have been hit hard by low commodity prices, while India and China have enjoyed relatively strong expansion. Although the past year did not bring radical technology shifts in the mail and logistics industry, recognised trends have gained a footing and are increasingly colouring the market situation. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 56 Postal services in transition The digitisation of society is reducing the demand for traditional postal services. The expansion of digital solutions and a reduction in letter volumes of just under 10 per cent a year are generating a constant need for change. The major customers who send out administrative mail, in both the public and private sectors, are all continuing to develop their digital solutions. Public agencies must start using digital mailboxes for communication with the general public in the first quarter of 2016. Public administration represents a significant portion of the total turnover of addressed mail (approx. 15-20 per cent). The volume of addressed mail will more than halve before 2020 compared with the level in 2011 and be a third of the volume it was at the start of the millennium. Saturday letter deliveries ceased on 5 March 2016 in order to meet this development. Meanwhile, Saturday newspapers that are delivered regionally and local will continue to be distributed by Posten for the time being. A proposal involving the merger of A-mail and B-mail into a common letter stream with two-day delivery has been submitted to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The proposal will entail major changes in infrastructure and produce significant savings. The letter monopoly (the monopoly on delivering addressed mail under 50 g) ended on 1 January 2016. The entire letter market is facing ever increasing competition from digital services and Posten is wellprepared for the greater competition that will push prices downwards. Nonetheless, the fact that Posten’s room for manoeuvre is limited, because of the requirements relating to its statutory postal services, is a challenge. If competitors provide services better tailored to the market, the result for Posten could be a wider gap between the costs associated with its statutory postal services and the market’s willingness to pay. For many, particularly those involved in marketing, written communication is still important. Customer newsletters, brochures and marketing letters still work best on paper. Letter boxes are also an attractive option for online shopping. The quantity of small parcels being delivered to letter boxes is increasing, compensating to some extent for declining letter volumes. E-commerce is growing Online shopping has grown by between 13-20 per cent a year in Norway and Sweden. Posten saw growth of 6.3 per cent in 2015. E-commerce is one of the areas demonstrating the strongest growth in the logistics market in the Nordic region, with high levels of cross-border trade. Online shopping will continue to grow and increase demand for reliable and predictable logistics solutions and related services in the value chain. The retail trade is facing major changes because of digitisation. Product delivery is a key aspect of online shopping, and delivery alternatives are playing a decisive role in the choice of online shops. Making the delivery process simple and smooth for consumers, and adapting it to differing needs and wants, requires close cooperation between everyone involved in the e-commerce value chain, including logistics operators. As an increasing number of shops have both a physical and an online shop, more shops will choose to link the two sales channels. For example, some shops allow consumers to order goods online in the physical shop if the desired good is not in stock. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 57 Online shopping will continue to develop in the future and important digitisation trends could impact Norwegian retail companies: • We will see a greater degree of the ‘mobile phone first’ mindset. More and more web shops are designing their websites and payment solutions for mobile phone and many Nordic web shops are introducing ‘oneclick shopping’. Customers expect to be able to shop from and with their mobile phone, while web shops are being punished for not having mobile phone friendly sites. • New branches are focusing on online shopping and in the year ahead a lot will happen within the grocery, chemists and building materials branches. The combination of centrally located collection points and home deliveries is making life easier for those who buy food, prescription medicines and planks online. The range and quality of products are the same as those found in physical shops, which is why growth is accelerating. • Web shops are increasingly using data and customer insights to personalise and tailor the customer pathway. If a web shop is not relevant for a customer in terms of price, payment options and delivery methods, a competitor is just a click away. • Technology is enabling disruptive actors to challenge established ones within various branches, which we will see even more of in 2016. Open solutions that challenge existing branches will be launched in, for example, logistics and transport services, payment services and other services involving two parties, one with a need and one with a solution. • More and more web shops will create filters for product information. This will make it simpler for customers to choose the products that are most relevant for them, while also saving them time. The more relevant this categorisation is for the customer, the greater the chance the customer will actually complete the purchase. • A number of online shops in the Nordic countries plan to open online shops in additional countries in the coming years. Swedish online shops are the most eager to expand geographically, first and foremost to their neighbouring Nordic countries, which will mean increased competition for national online shops. Stronger competition There is a clear correlation between economic growth in the Nordic region and the logistics market. Major Nordic actors and large international networks are making the competition tougher in the Nordic region. As a result, prices will come under increasing pressure, which in turn will contribute to the development of more cost-effective logistics networks. More customers want their total logistics solutions coordinated and simplified through fewer providers and centralised warehouses, especially in Southern Sweden and, to a somewhat lesser degree, in central Eastern Norway. The ongoing globalisation process is leading to ever larger international product streams, which is resulting in stronger competition from low price actors. Retail companies from Central Europe see opportunities for growth in the Nordic region and structural changes are occurring in both the logistics industry and commerce. The traditional limits on what individual actors will take responsibility for are evolving. For this reason it is becoming increasingly important to capture volumes heading for the Nordic region that originate from outside it. This is especially true with regard to the parcel and freight segment. The competition situation in the Nordic market is also characterised by ongoing consolidation in which three international actors are now market leaders with a total of 30 per cent of the market, while the ten largest actors account for around half of market revenue. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 58 Acquisition trend Acquisitions have played an important role in strengthening the positions of Nordic mail and logistics companies. However, the zeal to acquire has lessened in recent years and the acquisitions have been of smaller companies and aimed at supplementing value chains or acquiring a position regionally/locally. Infrastructure and the environment in focus The Nordic countries are experiencing population growth with relatively high birth rates compared with the rest of Europe, combined with high net immigration rates. Urbanisation is also continuing and an ever increasing proportion of the population is concentrated around the major cities and regional hubs. Despite huge public investment around cities, the infrastructure is failing to keep pace with the increase in vehicle traffic. Traffic is also creating ever increasing environmental and noise problems. There is therefore a heavy focus on expanding railways. Passenger transport is being prioritised, meaning that the transfer of freight from road to rail is moving slower than desired. Norway is working on revitalising maritime transport solutions in order to exploit this environmentally friendly means of transport. In Norway, Sweden and Finland, longer, heavier articulated vehicles (25 metres/60 metric tons) are being used, which reduces the number of heavy goods vehicles on the roads as well as costs, fuel consumption and exhaust emissions. Throughout Europe, innovative vehicle solutions for local distribution in cities are being tested and researched. It is important for logistics companies to work closely with customers, the authorities and expert environments in order to identify good, future-oriented solutions. Challenges in Western economies Seven years after the financial crisis, the Eurozone has yet to recover fully. The growth in economic activity is modest and inflation is absent. With rising optimism, gradual debt reduction and an expansive monetary policy, there is reason to assume that the Eurozone will see increased growth in GDP going forward. The high level of idle capacity, low growth trend and tight budgets suggest that the growth will remain relatively weak, albeit with differences between countries. The US economy has enjoyed a long period of expansion. The upturn has lasted six years and will continue going forward. The most important driver is private consumption which is being boosted by strong jobs growth and higher real wages. The British economic upturn was sustained in 2015, but slowed during the autumn. The major Asian countries continue to enjoy high levels of growth, albeit lower than in previous years. Growth in the Norwegian economy almost halved last year. The fall in oil prices has reinforced the drop in petroleum investments, reduced costs growth in supply industries and dampened business and household optimism. These developments have had an uneven impact on the economy, both regionally and for different industries. An expansive economic policy and weaker Norwegian exchange rate have contributed to continued growth in the Norwegian economy. The Swedish economy experienced a significant upturn in 2015. Private consumption and investments in housing are driving up growth, which will continue going forward. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 59 The future 2016-2020 • The letter monopoly on addressed letters weighing up to 50 g ended on 1 January 2016. • Saturday letter deliveries ended on 5 March 2016, although local and regional newspapers will be delivered as before. • A proposal involving the merger of A-mail and B-mail into a common letter stream with two-day delivery has been submitted to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The proposal will entail major changes in infrastructure and produce significant savings. • In 2016, public agencies will start using secure digital mail to communicate with the general public. • Posten Norge is, with its digital mailbox, Digipost, well positioned to win the competition for digital mail users in the future. An ever increasing number of private and public users are connecting to the solution. • Posten and Bring will reduce their CO2 emissions by 40 per cent by 2020. • The Group continues to work on systematic, long-term improvements to sustainability, especially within HSE, the climate, and diversity. • Bring will open a new logistics centre for parcels, freight and temperature-controlled transport at Alnabru in Oslo in 2017. • Bring is planning new integrated terminals for parcels and freight in Trondheim, Helgeland, Stavanger, Narvik/Harstad, Tromsø, Stokke and Bergen • Work on joint terminals for mail, parcels and freight continues. The objective is to provide customers with better service and strengthen the Group’s competitiveness. • Posten introduces improved tracking of small parcels delivered to letter boxes via radio-frequency identification (RFID). • Activities outside Norway are restructured in order to match market growth and offer the best possible solutions to customers. There is also continued focus on expanding the parcel network in Sweden and Denmark, for among other reasons to exploit the strong growth in e-commerce. • Posten and Bring simplify and coordinate their service portfolio while also renovating their IT systems. • Bring takes over all of Danske Fragtmænd in order to significantly strengthen its competitiveness in Denmark. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l RESULTS PAGE 60 SUSTAINABILITY Our employees are healthier than ever before and are delivering mail and parcels in an increasingly more environmentally friendly way. For Posten and Bring, sustainability involves the Group’s long-term viability. The Group’s most important resources when it comes to creating value and thus ensuring its viability are our employees, relationships and partnerships, our network and expertise, our ability to adapt and our financial capital.This sustainability report shows the values we have created in the last few years via our business model, and our social footprint. The report also evaluates our work and provides us with a direction for the future – where we are headed and how we shall get there. OUR CAPITAL AREAS Our employees Our relationships Our networks Our ability to Our financial and partnerships and expertise change capital Our most important resources for value creation The Group works continuously on initiatives to improve the measurement and reporting of sustainability (long-term viability). The Group’s stakeholders place increasing requirements on a systematic approach to sustainability, and expect Posten Norge, as a major Norwegian public-sector player, to work methodically on this. The Group updated its Materiality Analysis in 2015. The analysis provides the basis for reports in 2015 and was performed after interviews with 12 key persons in the Group, as well as a working meeting with the Group’s sustainability council. The sustainability council is a continuation of the steering group for sustainability reporting in the Group. The council shall contribute to the further development of sustainability reporting, and consists of experts from within the Group who can contribute with input and agree on the road ahead (G4-25) POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 63 Key stakeholders Defining our key stakeholders has been a central element of the materiality analysis, since these stakeholders are involved in establishing the framework for our work on sustainability. The stakeholders each have their own requirements on and expectations of Posten Norge (G4-18). Our most important key stakeholders were identified as the owner and public authorities, corporate customers, and current and future employees. In addition, private customers and local communities, the capital market, suppliers and interest organisations are groups that play a central role in the Group’s corporate social responsibility and sustainability (G4-24). Figure 1.1: Displays Posten Norge’s most important stakeholders.The three most important on the left. Private customers and local communities High expectations regarding availability, quality and customer service Employees Suppliers Want a safe and Want predictability in competition attractive workplace and bidding processes Business customers Capital market Requirements regarding supplier Want environmental plans as well control, integrity and the environment as savings and lower risk premiums as a result of good HSE work Owner and authorities Requirements regarding value creation Stakeholders in society, high quality service delivery, A fragmented group that makes reducing environmental footprint and demands within areas such as the employee well-being environment and universal design The Group also pursues a dialogue with other stakeholders such as trade unions, business and employer associations, political parties, supervisory authorities, competitors and the media. We are in dialogue with our stakeholders in various formal and informal arenas. The frequency of these meetings varies according to the needs and requirements of the stakeholders (G4-26). POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 64 A wider definition of sustainability The updated Materiality Analysis is based on a wider definition of sustainability (long-term viability) and is more closely linked to the Group’s strategy and governance system. From discussing environmental and social considerations, the analysis now addresses the Group’s long-term viability and ability to create value. This change was introduced due to the fact that important stakeholders, such as owners, corporate customers and capital managers, are increasingly asking for more non-financial information. A materiality analysis that takes on the entire spectrum of prioritised areas is also useful internally; it can be used to understand and communicate the relationship between critical success factors and ensures that both strategy and governance are all-inclusive. The materiality analysis resulted in thirteen priority areas defined as having the highest importance for our value creation and for our most important stakeholders. We have also decided to issue reports on supplier management, as this element is of increasing importance for the Group. Figure 1.2 Posten and Bring’s materiality analysis. The area on the right shows the thirteen areas of most importance for the company’s ability to create value in the long term, and of most importance for the stakeholders. Open and effective Health, working Customercommunication environment and safety oriented Attractive workplace Return on equity Integrity Information security Solidity and liquidity Environmentally friendly Competitive framework transport and logistics conditions IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS’ ASSESSMENT Innovation and Integrated and service development industrialised Corporate governance networks Diversity and Good managers integration Supplier control Purchasing Threat monitoring and preparedness Noise Local air quality IMPORTANCE FOR POSTEN’S CAPACITY FOR LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION. ACHIEVEMENT OF VISION AND MAIN STRATEGIC GOALS POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 65 The updated materiality analysis will contribute to a complete understanding of the Group’s business model and the resources that Posten and Bring are dependent on to create value. This is described in more detail in the Group’s five capital areas representing Posten Norge’s five most important resources for value creation. Figure 1.3 Posten and Bring's five most important resources (capital areas): Our employees, our relationships and partnerships, our network and expertise, our ability to adapt and financial capital. OUR CAPITAL AREAS Our Our relationships Our networks Our ability Our financial employees and partnerships and expertise to change capital These resources (capital areas) have provided the basis for defining which critical success factors (aspects) should be included in the materiality analysis. Both opportunities and risk within the most significant success factors have been charted and categorised within each of the capital areas. These form the basis for the reports in 2015. We have also linked the recommended and recognised reporting template, Global Reporting Initiative or GRI, to these success factors, and carried out an analysis in order to define which of the GRI indicators are most important for our reports. The GRI template is an international standard that has not been individually adapted to Posten Norge. We have therefore also included indicators defined by the Group and that are of high importance, but which are not currently part of the GRI template. This enables us to take a large step toward a more integrated report. Figure 1.4 Posten and Bring’s five most important resources (capital areas) categorised according to critical success factors (aspects) and which indicators we report within each success factor. Our employees • Health, working environment and safety: Own indicator: Sick leave, GRI indicator: LA5, LA6, HR3  • Attractive workplace: GRI indicators: LA1, LA2, LA12, and EC • Good managers: Own indicator: employee satisfaction Our relationships and partnerships • Customer-oriented: Own indicator: Delivery quality, PR5 • Open and effective communication: Own indicator: reputation • Integrity: GRI indicators: SO3, SO4, SO5, SO7 • Supplier management: GRI indicators: SO9, SO10, LA14, LA15, HR10, HR11, EN32, EN33 Our networks and expertise • Environmentally friendly transport and logistics: GRI indicators: EN, EN16, EN17, EN18 • Integrated and industrialised networks: Own reporting • Information security: GRI indicators: PR8 Our ability to change • Competitive framework conditions: Own reporting • Innovation and service development: GRI indicators: LA10, Own indicator: innovation capacity Our financial capital • Return on equity: Own reporting: notes and financial statements • Solidity and liquidity: Own reporting: notes and financial statements POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 66 Value creation via our business model Posten’s capital areas are also based on the business model. The resources invested in the business model and the results this provides in the form of value creation for our most important stakeholders (employees, corporate customers, owner and authorities). Figure 1.5 Model showing the value creation cycle.Posten and Bring take the most important resources (capital) from society and incorporate the resources in the business model. The output is the value we manage to create for our stakeholders and the footprint we leave behind in the society. SOCIETY Environmentally efficient operations Our employees Attractive workplace and good working environment Our resources and partnerships Customer-oriented Our networks and expertise Nordic, integrated, industrialised Our ability to change Satisfied customers Our financial capital Leading market position Competitive value development Profitable growth INPUT OUTPUT Our resources Value for our (capitals) stakeholders Posten and Bring's BUSINESS MODEL POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 67 Our employees OUR The Group’s most important resource is its employees. The efforts and expertise of the CAPITAL AREAS Group’s employees and managers is a key factor for success in achieving the financial results required by our owners. One central part of the Group’s strategy is therefore to create a positive culture at work by ensuring a good and safe working environment on a daily basis. Our employees This capital area covers three critical success factors that are essential to report in order to allow proper «management» of this resource. We report according to the following in-house indicators and GRI indicators per critical success factor (aspect): Our relationships and partnerships Our networks and expertise 1 Health, working environment and safety In-house indicators: Sick leave: GRI indicators: LA5, LA6, HR3. Our ability to change 2 Attractive workplace Own indicator: Reputation. GRI indicators: LA1, LA2, LA12, EC5 Our financial capital 3 Good managers Own indicator: Employee satisfaction POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 68 1 Health, working environment and safety In-house indicators: Sick leave: GRI indicators: LA5, LA6, HR3. One of Posten’s goals is to create and sustain a working environment that promotes health and in which nobody is injured or becomes sick as a result of their work. As an IA company (IA is a Norwegian abbreviation for inclusive workplace), Posten is obliged to follow a systematic strategy for improving the working environment by preventing sick leave and increasing awareness of job attendance and preventing exclusion from working life. Posten was awarded the Working Environment Prize in 2014 for its long-term and systematic work on HSE over time. The Group’s investments in systematic HSE work have yielded positive results in the form of lower sick leave, a lower level of disability and a significant reduction in injuries and accidents measured as an H value (number of injuries per million hours worked). These positive results have been achieved partly via a good tripartite cooperation between management, employee representatives and the safety service. Systematic work on HSE provides substantial savings for the Group. Posten is a personnel-intensive organisation – a high level of sick leave would therefore cause significant costs and operating difficulties. Undesirable incidents and poor working conditions may also damage Posten’s reputation and make us less attractive as an employer. In addition, road users and suppliers are affected by the quality of Posten’s HSE work. Stakeholders: • Corporate customers: Stipulate requirements on systematic HSE management and often have an entitlement to audit HSE work in contracts. • Owner and public authorities: Statutory requirements. Expect systematic HSE work. • Employees: It is of decisive importance to ensure we are an attractive employer and have high job attendance in a work-intensive organisation with a high rate of change. • Investors and banks: Concerned with cost savings and lower risk premiums resulting from good HSE work. How we work: Development work and the long-term strategic work on HSE are centralised under Corporate Staff HR/HSE. The Divisions order services from Corporate Staff HR/HSE, which also functions as a coordination centre for the line managers in the Divisions. Out in the regions and business areas, there is also a local support apparatus in this area. HSE is the first point on the agenda at all management and Board meetings. As such, HSE remains on the agenda throughout the company. There is also a good tripartite cooperation between the management, employee representatives and the safety service. HSE results are reported systematically in the Group. Every month, key performance indicators (KPI) are reported to executive management. These include key figures for sick leave/attendance, LTI ratios (H1 and H2), employees incapacitated for work and near accidents/ undesirable incidents. The Group’s Board of Directors receives reports and analyses on HSE results at all Board meetings. All guidelines, policies, and action plans for HR are revised once a year and are made available via a common HSE system. In order to solve the problems faced by the Group, coordination between relevant parties and authorities is also key (G4-16 and G4-27). In 2015, initiatives have been taken to reinforce cooperation with the most important parties in order to improve sick leave figures. Posten has organised two gatherings with participants from nationwide NAV centres, the company health service, employee representatives and HR consultants. The aim of these gatherings has been to create a common understanding of the challenges faced by Posten with repetitive sick leave and to find solutions to these problems. Efforts have continued on constant improvements to the service provided by the company health service. The service is evaluated in monthly reports, status meetings and half-yearly cooperation meetings. The Divisions are monitored monthly to ensure they make use of the financial support schemes included in the IA agreement (inclusive workplace) for utilisation of the company health service and facilitation grants. The close cooperation with the safety service and employee representatives is essential if we are to achieve our goals within this area of the working environment. Regular tripartite meetings are held at all levels of the organisation. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 69 Historically low sick leave Own indicators: Sick leave: Percentage of the total workforce that at any given time is sick and thus absent from work. The Group has increased its workforce by 559 persons since the start of 2006. The reduction in sick leave does not only imply more people at work, but also significant financial savings for the Group. Since 2006, the Group has achieved savings in excess of NOK 1 billion due to reduced sick leave and fewer injuries at work. Among the benefits provided by this reduction, we can mention lower costs for sick leave and injuries and lower costs for pension and insurance agreements. In total, the above represented annual savings of NOK 223 million in 2015. Figure 2.1 Annual savings created by reduced sick leave and fewer injuries. ANNUAL SAVINGS RESULTING FROM REDUCED SICK LEAVE AND FEWER INJURIES. 124 95 124 MNOK 95 95 MNOK MNOK MNOK MNOK 95 MNOK 42 35 31 45 70 76 86 84 99 MNOK MNOK MNOK MNOK MNOK MNOK MNOK MNOK MNOK 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sick leave Reduced sick leave costs Insurance and pension savings The positive trend for lower sick leave was sustained in 2015. The rolling 12-month trend started at 6.3% at the beginning of the year. The goal of 6.2% sick leave for the year in total was achieved and bettered by 0.2 percentage points, ending at 6.0%. This is 0.3 percentage points lower than the previous year. The Group has worked systematically for many years to bring employees with absences of 24 days or more during the past three years back to work. The number of employees with this absence frequency was reduced by 50% at the end of 2015 compared to 2010. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 70 Throughout 2015, the Group has maintained a focus on finding solutions regarding repetitive sick leave for employees who have a long history of being unwell then better then unwell again, resulting in a high level of sick leave in total. During the year, the Group established a close collaboration with NAV in several regions to solve these problems. There has also been a focus on charting ability for work via extensive use of the doctors within the company health service, who have made important contributions to this process. Figure 2.2 Illustrates the development in sick leave from 2010 to 2015, via a 12-month trend in the Posten Group from 2010 to 2015. SICK LEAVE IN THE GROUP 12-month trend as a percentage % Sick leave in the Group 9.0 8.5 8.0 7.5 7.0 6.5 6.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The Group can now report record low sick leave. Sick leave analyses indicate a correlation between implementation of improvement measures and the development in sick leave. The most important measures utilised by Posten are systematic follow-up of persons on long-term sick leave, active utilisation of the company health service, graded medical certificates, preventive work and the use of support systems for follow-up. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 71 Long-term safety work is effective GRI-indicators G4 LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. Posten registers and measures the development in injuries and accidents. The measurements are utilised to implement action to reduce the number of accidents that result in absence. The number of registered lost-time injuries has shown a positive decline since measurements were implemented in 2006. The Group registers lost-time injuries based on the Federation of Norwegian Industries’ standard. Lost-time injuries requiring medical treatment are now included in the H1 value, while all other personal injuries are registered as H2 injuries. In 2015, a total of 323 personal injuries (H2) were registered in the Group compared to 388 last year, and there were 119 H1 injuries compared to 149 in 2014. This improvement of 20.1% compared to 2014 contributed to a H1 value of 3.9 for the Group. This means that the result was better by 0.8 than the target of 4.7. Figure 2.4: The number of near-accidents versus the number of injuries in the period from 2012 to the end of 2015. INJURIES Number of near-accidents in numbers Number of injuries 323 481 450 45 000 43,691 400 40 000 388 350 35 000 323 12 13 14 15 A total of 43,691 near-accidents/undesirable incidents were reported in 2015. Posten aims for the lowest rate possible of accidents/injuries, but the highest number possible of reports of near-accidents/undesirable incidents in order to allow the Group to implement targeted action. These reports provide important information as a basis on which to prevent new and more serious accidents, and as good support for local action. The work involved in registering and preventing occupational injuries and absence due to occupational injuries will also have high priority in the Group. In order to reach the goal of further reductions to the H value, the following target areas have been established in the Group’s HSE plans: • Continue with audits according to the Group’s safety standard for HSE. • Carry out targeted action to combat the most frequent types of injuries and to achieve improvements in those units with the highest frequency of injuries. • Ensure education (change of conduct) subsequent to near-accidents/undesirable incidents. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 72 One of the most important actions within safety work is the execution of safety audits within operating units. Other important actions include accident investigations, reporting near-accidents/undesirable incidents and safety meetings between managers and employees. Posten’s safety standard for HSE has been further developed and currently comprises 103 control items. During 2015, 32 central audits were performed. In addition, 494 local in-house evaluations were carried out by managers in Posten and Bring. Over the three years in which we have made use of the safety standard for HSE, the results of both in-house evaluations and central audits have shown that an increasing number of units have achieved approval. We will therefore continue to make use of this method. In 2015, the Group carried out 113 investigations of incidents where workers injured themselves or where an injury may have occurred. The investigation reports are analysed on an ongoing basis to identify improvement points that could prevent new accidents. The analyses are performed by Corporate Staff HR/HSE. The reports are anonymous and made available on the Intranet. Table 2.5: Illustrates a total overview of injuries, fatalities and sick leave, for the Group in total and by Division. H1-value H2-value Fatalities Sick leave percentage Posten Group 4.0 10.9 1 6.0% Posten Norge AS 3.6 8.3 0 6.7% Mail Division 3.1 10.1 0 6.6% Logistics Norway Division 6.0 11.6 0 6.0% Logistics Nordic Division 3.6 15.4 1 4.7% Table 2.6: Illustrates a total overview of injuries, fatalities and sick leave in Posten Norge by gender. POSTEN NORGE AS H1-value H2 -value Fatalities Sick leave percentage Women 4.1 8.6 0 8.4% Men 3.4 8.3 1 5.8% A further important safety measure is the work on providing information and knowledge of how to handle hazardous goods. This process will be continued in 2016. Customer information about hazardous goods and prohibited contents is audited and supplemented. Internal and external reference material for Norway is audited and distributed throughout the organisation. The Norwegian Directorate for Civil Protection (DSB) took the initiative to establish cooperation on Norwegian guidelines for biological material. Moreover, meetings are held to exchange experience between the Group’s safety advisors for hazardous goods. The Group’s in-house training concepts for hazardous goods for special operational target group have also been revised. «Safety Standard HSE» contains a separate chapter on hazardous goods. Compliance with the requirements is monitored via central audits and during annual in-house evaluations by the operating units. (Columns G1 to G6 in the standard). POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 73 Posten and Bring do not tolerate racism at work GRI-indicators G4 HR3: Incidents of discrimination and corrective action taken. In collaboration with Norwegian People’s Aid, Posten Norge has been a racism-free zone since 2001. In 2011, the agreement was expanded to apply to the whole Group. The agreement entails that all units must demonstrate and mark that the business is racism-free and there is zero tolerance for discrimination. The Group’s Warning Institute did not handle any incidents of discrimination in 2015. The Group’s annual organisational survey has included the statement ’In my unit there is no discrimination’ since 2005. On a scale of 1-7, with 7 being the best, the answers to this statement were on average 6.2 in 2015, the same result as in 2014. (G4-HR 3). The voices of the employees concerning work on HSE GRI-indicators G4 LA5: Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. It is important for Posten Norge to ensure that the working situation of all employees is taken seriously. As such, we rely on feedback from employees. Of the Group’s permanent employees, 98.5% are employed in operating areas that have formal health and safety committees (working environment committee, tripartite cooperation etc.). The committees help with advice in addition to monitoring organisation-wide measures which promote health and safety. A large share of the Group’s employees are operating personnel who carry out work that is partly defined as «Heavy and/or repetitive work». A course has therefore been developed, entitled «In control of health», the main subjects of which are ergonomics and control, where the participants receive basic information about the body, with a focus on muscles, back, shoulders and neck, and the use of aids. Posten Norge AS also follows a long-term strategy to contribute towards a working environment free of narcotics by providing for efforts to prevent misuse of narcotics and measures to improve expertise. A programme is planned to increase the expertise among managers so that they are able to take early action in relation to hazardous misuse of narcotics and gambling. AKAN, the workplace advisory centre for issues relating to alcohol, drugs and addictive gambling and gaming, has developed an online programme (Balance) that can help raise awareness of how much alcohol we drink. The Group has offered access to Balance to employees to help them adjust their habits involving alcohol. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 74 2 Attractive workplace Own indicator: Reputation. GRI indicators: LA1, LA2, LA12, EC5 One of Posten’s four principal goals is to offer attractive workplaces and a good working environment. An attractive workplace will attract the most highly skilled and committed employees. Posten and Bring rely upon their employees to succeed in achieving their goals and strategies. The Group depends upon having employees who produce and deliver a top class service, in addition to technical personnel with expertise on digital technology, user experiences and new customer interfaces. As a personnel-intensive operation, a lack of suitable workforce represents a significant risk. Stakeholders • Employees : Important to attract and retain suitable employees. Has an impact on efficiency. • Corporate customers : May have an impact on the quality of services. How we work The process to create attractive workplaces is not centralised within one specific unit, but something every employee and manager in Posten and Bring jointly perform ever day. Companies seen to have a common front are attractive employers. This impression is triggered when our customers meet our employees, via our digital interface with customers, how we are portrayed in the media, marketing campaigns and, not least, our job advertisements. The marketing department and information department in Corporate Staff Communication are responsible for strategic brand attraction, and carry out measures via their marketing and information channels to portray Posten and Bring as a modern, forward-looking business that keeps both its customers and employees close to its heart. An active PR team answers questions from the media and promotes positive reports of the company. Employee composition GRI-indicator G4 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. At the end of 2015, the Posten Group had 18,590 permanent employees. The Group also has temporary employees and other employees who work for certain periods of time and as required. The Group has employees in 16 different countries, and the ratio of employees in Norway to the total number of employees is 80.2% Sweden is the second largest nation for the Group measured by total number of employees, with 14.3%. Denmark has 2.5% of employees and Slovakia 1.8%. In total, the Group has seen a 2.7% fall in the number of employees since 2014, with the highest rate of decline in Norway. In 2015, 35.1% of all the Group’s permanent employees are women, while 29.2% of the Group’s managers are women. The ratio of women in corporate management is 50%. The ratio of women in the parent company is 38.6%, and 31% of all managers are women. In 2015, the ratio of Group employees aged 50 or more was 42.9%. Moreover, 39.5% were aged 30-50 and 17.6% were younger than 30 (ref. table 5). This age composition provides the Group with a stable workforce. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 75 Table 5: Distribution of age among the Group employees AGE INTERVAL MANAGER EMPLOYEE TOTAL Younger than 3.4% 18.6% 17.6% 30 to 50 years 49.0% 38.8% 39.5% Older than 50 47.6% 42.6% 42.9% Total 100% 100% 100% Through a number of measures Posten Norge is increasing the percentage of employees with an immigrant background. The Group almost reached its goal to ensure that 15% of employees in Norway have an immigrant background by the end of 2015. Based on an internal survey in 2015 of all employees in the Norwegian part of the Group, we estimate that 14.7% have an immigrant back-ground. This is a slight increase of roughly 0.1% compared to last year’s survey. The number of managers increased from 3.7% to 4.4%. No members of Posten Norge’s Board of Directors have an immigrant background (ref. table 6). Table 6: The Board of Directors of Posten Norge by background, gender and age AGE INTERVAL WOMEN WOMEN as % MEN MEN as% TOTAL TOTAL as% Non-minority back5 100% 5 100% 10 100% ground 30 to 50 years 1 20% 0 0% 1 20% Older than 50 4 80% 5 100% 9 90% Minority background 0 0% 0% 0% 0 0% Total 5 50% 5 66.9% 10 100.0% New goals have been stipulated for staff, management and administration for the period from 2016 to 2020. Equal salary and equal opportunities GRI-indicator G4 EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. GRI-indicator G4 EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. The Nordic countries do not make use of a minimum wage. Wage levels and starting wages are governed jointly by employee representatives and the employer. The majority of Posten and Bring’s employees are employed in Nordic countries. GRI-indicator G4 LA 13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Within the parent company, female employees earned on average 0.1% more than men, while the average salary for female managers was 99% of the salary paid to male managers. GRI-indicator LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. 96.8% of all Group employees work in a company where the same benefits are offered to both permanent employees and temporary employees. This is controlled by the agreements or settlements within the individual companies. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 76 Healthy turnover GRI-indicator G4 LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. The Group has adopted rules of action that govern central aspects of local recruitment, in relation to recruitment processes, equal opportunities, non-discrimination and mobility within the Group. The Group recruited 1,364 new permanent employees in 2015, 72% of whom were recruited in Norway. Table 1: Showing new employee hires in Norway in 2015 by age and gender. Norway AGE INTERVAL WOMEN WOMEN as% MEN MEN as% TOTAL TOTAL as % Younger than 30 107 10.9% 269 27.4% 376 38.3% 30 to 50 years 113 11.5% 243 24.8% 356 36.3% Older than 50 105 10.7% 144 14.7% 249 25.4% Total in% 325 33.1% 656 66.9% 981 100.0% Table 2: Showing new employee hires outside of Norway in 2015 by age and gender. Outside Norway AGE INTERVAL WOMEN WOMEN as % MEN MEN as % TOTAL TOTALas % Younger than 30 26 6.8% 66 25.8% 125 32.6% 30 to 50 years 55 14.4% 125 32.6% 180 47.0% Older than 50 13 3.4% 65 17.0% 78 20.4% Total 94 24.5% 289 75.5% 383 100.0% In total, the Group had a turnover of 10.7% in 2015, with only marginal differences in turnover between women and men. Turnover among part-time employees in the Group was 9 percentage points higher than turnover for full-time employees. Total turnover in the parent company was 9.4%, with turnover among women 1.5 percentage points higher than turnover among men. The Group constantly makes adjustments, and turnover at this level provides the opportunity to control developments in workforce according to needs POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 77 Table 3: Showing employee turnover in Norway by age and gender. Norway AGE INTERVAL WOMEN WOMEN as % MEN MEN as % TOTAL TOTAL as % Younger than 30 188 24.7% 393 24.6% 581 24.6% 30 to 50 years 116 6.6% 286 8.1% 402 7.6% Older than 50 293 9.9% 308 7.2% 601 8.3% Total 597 10.9% 987 10.5% 1584 10.6% Table 4: Showing employee turnover outside Norway by age and gender. Outside Norway AGE INTERVAL WOMEN WOMEN as % MEN MEN as % TOTAL TOTAL as % Younger than 30 40 12.8% 101 16.9% 141 15.5% 30 to 50 years 40 6.9% 154 10.6% 194 9.6% Older than 50 12 9.0% 49 7.9% 61 8.1% Total 92 9.0% 304 11.4% 396 10.7% *Turnover figures include natural turnover and compulsory redundancies, as well as retirees. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 78 3 Good managers Own indicator: Employee satisfaction Good managers are a prerequisite for employees to be happy and to do their best. Poor management and poor managerial expertise may result in a lack of in-house communication that in turn may cause problems during reorganisations, lower efficiency and in realising synergy effects. The 1,400 managers in Posten and Bring make significant contributions to the impact and quality of in-house communications and building a positive company culture. They also make important contributions to achieving strategic goals. It is therefore extremely important to develop managers and managerial expertise, in order to allow Posten and Bring to achieve their strategic goals. Stakeholders • Owner and public authorities : Of relevance for Posten’s ability to achieve its goals. • Corporate customers : Good management may impact the quality of services provided to customers. • Private customers and local communities:: Good management may impact the quality of services provided to customers. • Employees:: Decisive for motivation and performance at work. Important to attract and retain suitable employees. How we work Development work and the long-term strategic work on organisational development are centralised under Corporate Staff HR/OD. Corporate Staff HR/OD develop, implement and improve Group structures to be applied for both central and local work on organisational development. Organisational development comprises managerial development, performance management, management of competencies and organisational surveys. The principal goal for managerial development is to develop managers who comply with our code of conduct and who have the capacity to balance conduct and results so that the Group can achieve its four main goals. The principal goal of performance management is to develop, implement and improve Group structures that measure, evaluate and remunerate individual performance. The principal goal of management of competencies is to develop, implement and improve Group structures that manifest development opportunities for Group employees. The Group management is regularly updated on organisational developments, during which the progress made with central measures is presented. The Group management receive annual reports on management capacity and capabilities in the Group. The quality and utilisation of KPIs and goals for managers are reported to the Group’s management groups on an annual basis. The Divisions order services from Corporate Staff HR/OD, which also functions as a coordination centre for the line managers in the Divisions. The Group’s managers shall practise value-based leadership that balances involvement and control. Managers shall be role models in terms of how they conduct themselves and must bring the Group’s values to life. Our managers shall embody the following characteristics: visible, clear, willing to take and delegate responsibility, able to develop and inspire employees. These characteristics are measured during the organisational survey, under the section entitled «immediate superior». This is where employees can provide anonymous feedback on their superiors by answering questions related to how managers perform management. Requirements are made on all managers in the Group to follow up on the results of the annual organisational survey. Managers must set up initiatives for their units in a specific «Smart Plan» (G4-27). The Smart Plans and the progress made in executing the initiatives are followed up. The development in the results of the organisational survey from year to year can also be measured (if more than five persons have responded). Systematic performance appraisals between managers and employees are carried out at least once a year and are known as «PLUSS appraisals». Managers are responsible for dialogue with employees on central initiatives and topics which affect working processes and the working day out in the units. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 79 Record-high job satisfaction Own indicators: Job satisfaction The annual organisational survey indicated a high level of job satisfaction in the Group. In 2015, 82% of those working in the Group responded to this survey. The total index in the survey has gradually risen, with a significant increase from 61 at start-up in 2011 to the record high of 80 in 2015.These are the best results ever achieved by the Group, and a figure with which few other major comparable businesses can compete. Figure 3.2 Development in job satisfaction from 2001 to 2015 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION in scale from 1 to 100, where 100 is best 80 76 75 77 78 78 79 80 72 73 75 80 71 67 67 68 61 40 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 80 Our relationships and partnerships OUR It is strategically crucial to Posten and Bring to maintain, create and strengthen relationships CAPITAL AREAS with key stakeholders. Good relationships and communication with owners, customers, partners and suppliers are key to generating the desired results. The Group has a high standard of integrity, which helps ensure that the Group operates in Our employees a responsible and fair manner and in accordance with applicable laws. We also require our suppliers and partners to comply with this standard of integrity. In this capital area, there are four aspects that we consider crucial for reporting on in Our relationships order to ensure good management of the capital area. We report on the following and partnerships GRI indicators for each aspect: Our networks and expertise 1 Customer-oriented Own indicator: Delivery quality, GRI indicator: PR 5 Our ability to change 2 Open and effective communication Own indicator: reputation 3 Integrity GRI indicators: SO3, SO4, SO5, SO7 4 Our financial capital Supplier management GRI indicators: SO9, SO10, LA14, LA15, HR10, HR11, EN32, EN33 POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 81 1 Customer-oriented Own indicator: Delivery quality, GRI indicator: PR 5 Having a good relationship with customers is about how they perceive the solutions and services we offer, customer service and, crucially, whether we deliver as promised. Our corporate customers are increasingly looking for development partners who can provide customised solutions. Access to a unique network in Norway (and the wider Nordic region) is a differentiator. A perceived decline in reliability, customer service and quality (availability, options and simplicity) could result in diminished customer satisfaction and reputation. This could have a negative impact on Posten’s competitiveness and customer loyalty. Stakeholders • Owner and public authorities: Quality indicator. Concerned with Posten’s value-creating function in districts. Legislative requirements concerning coverage levels and availability • Business customers: Posten increasingly contributes to delivering on customer promises to customers (interview). Key differentiator when selecting Posten as a partner • Private customers and local communities: Affected by Posten’s everyday service, reliability and reputation. • Employees: Linked to pride, efficiency and satisfaction How we work In 2014, the Group commenced the continuous measurement of customers’ experience of the service or information provided. The measurements are based on the Net Promoter Score (NPS) method, and include questions relating to loyalty and satisfaction concerning both the brand and the actual point of contact for the customer. The Net Promoter Score allows both business customers and private customers to give feedback to the Group on their overall perception of the company. Results and feedback from the customer are followed up in the line organisation, as the basis for customer-oriented continuous improvement within the organisation. Good delivery quality is crucial for Posten and Bring, in order to satisfy the owner’s license requirements and also in respect of customer trust. We therefore measure letters and parcels on an ongoing basis to monitor the delivery quality in Posten’s distribution network. The measurements contribute to ensuring a robust nationwide distribution system. Measurement of letter quality is carried out in accordance with a European standard using test mailings implemented by an external company. Posten Norge does not undertake its own customer surveys that specifically include social and environmental issues. For the Posten and Bring sales team, corporate social responsibility is a topic that is considered as necessary, when requested by customers (G4-26). Health, the environment, safety and quality are on the agenda at all operational meetings, both internally and externally at customers and suppliers. The focus on corporate social responsibility among Bring’s customers is increasing, particularly in the Offshore segment. Posten Norge AS and Divisjon Logistikk Norge/ Bring Cargo AS are ISO 9001:2008 certified within the following business areas: International and national shipping and logistics, parcels, freight and warehousing, Aircraft and Marine and Offshore & Energy. Bring International & Offshore is also certified in accordance with Achilles and follows NorSok S006N and the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association’s guidelines 116 and 091. The certifications clarifies the requirements set down for Bring International & Offshore within the areas of health, the working environment, safety, the external environment and quality. International & Offshore is represented on the boards of directors of several business associations and plays an active role in the development of its immediate environment. International & Offshore is also represented on committees for conferences within the oil and gas industry and contributes presentations on contemporary issues. Bring Cargo International & Offshore has members in the Norwegian Petroleum Society, and is a member of NCE Subsea and Subsea Valley. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 82 Increased customer satistaction for Posten and Bring GRI indicator PR 5: Results from customer satisfaction surveys. In 2015, 28 per cent of those who received an NPS invitation provided feedback about their experience after contacting customer services, using self-service (MyBring) or receiving a delivery. The feedback shows a positive trend for every point of contact. Customer service had the best quarterly results since the measurements started in February 2014. MyBring showed good results in September and is continuing on the same track, whereas Collect/ Deliver has had positive developments and general improvement for both delivery vans and Home Delivery. Customers are becoming increasingly satisfied by it being easy to get in touch with customer services, that customer advisers are friendly, drivers professional and that the self-service in MyBring is both quick and simple. No overall goals have been determined for NPS yet, as Posten Norge is in the midst of an implementation phase at several of the points of contact. Feedback on what works well and what does not work well is taken into account and forms the basis for customeroriented improvement throughout the organisation. Overall NPS goals will be considered during 2016. Good delivery quality Own indicator: Delivery quality. Delivery quality for A-mail (delivered overnight) was 85.4 per cent for 2015. This is 0.4 percentage points above the owner’s license requirement and 0.1 percentage points weaker than the previous year. Other license requirements linked to domestic quality goals were also met. Delivery quality for B-mail was 96.2 per cent compared to a license requirement of 85 per cent. Delivery quality for parcels was 88.8 per cent, which was also better than the license requirement of 85 per cent. 2 Open and efficient communication Own indicator: reputation Open and effective communication is crucial to developing a good reputation, creating understanding of the choices that the Group makes and contributes to developing solid relationships with key stakeholder groups. Reputation and ability to adapt could be negatively affected if the stakeholders’ information needs are not met. Employees, customers, investors, partners, suppliers and stakeholder organisations want an overview of how Posten and Bring operate. Inadequate internal communication could lead to challenges in restructuring processes, lower efficiency and challenges linked to the realisation of synergies. Stakeholders • Owner and public authorities: Want information on whether Posten meets its required rate of return and fulfils its social mission. • Business customers: Dialogue is a prerequisite for customer information and business customers look for simplicity when communicating with Posten and Bring. • Private customers and local communities: Want simplicity when communicating with Posten. • Employees: Linked to company pride and potential restructuring processes. • Suppliers: Predictability in tender competitions. • Investors and banks: Clear information is crucial for analyses and decisions linked to lending as well as insurance and pension premiums. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 83 How we work Group Communication will support the Group’s business strategies and goals, contribute to a good reputation, strong brands, satisfied customers and proud employees. The information department is responsible for Group-wide internal and external communication channels and the Group’s annual and sustainability report. The Group has an active press team that acts as the point of contact with the media. The Group’s marketing department is responsible for the Group’s communication with potential and existing customers. The Group endeavours to adhere to the Norwegian Marketing Act in all market communication with the Group’s customers. The Group’s annual market plan is quality assured against this legislation. The Group has a procedure to ensure that all external communication is quality-assured by Group Communication. The Group uses Ipsos MMI’s annual profiling survey on major Norwegian companies as its measurement parameter for the perceived reputation of Posten and Bring. (G4-26). In 2015, 116 companies were evaluated with regard to overall impression, environmental awareness, corporate social responsibility, finances and ethics. The survey is based on a nationally representative selection. Good reputation for environmental awareness Own indicator: Reputation Posten has a good reputation. In 2015, Posten experienced a regression from being ranked 11 in the previous year to being ranked 22 on overall impression in the Ipsos MMI annual profiling survey. In this survey, corporate social responsibility and ethical code are defined as a company’s ability and willingness to adhere to laws and regulations, and to act fairly and responsibly towards employees, customers, consumers and the authorities. In 2015, 53 per cent stated that they had a good impression and 22 per cent that they had a bad impression of Posten within this area. Posten has therefore dropped from being ranked fifth in 2014 to being ranked eighth in this area this year. Environmental awareness is defined as a company’s image with regard to protection of the environment in the broadest sense, both in terms of production and the use of products in general. In 2015, Posten maintained its fifth place in this ranking. Posten was beaten only by environmental profiles such as Flytoget, NSB, Tine and Nordic Choice Hotels within the area of environmental awareness (G4-27). Considering internal measuring next year We currently do not have an indicator measuring open and efficient internal communication. This will be considered next year. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 84 3 Integrity GRI indicators: SO3, SO4, SO5, SO7 Posten and Bring systematically work to maintain a high standard of integrity. We also require our subcontractors and partners to comply with this standard of integrity. High requirements concerning internal and external integrity help raise the standard across the entire industry. This contributes to good relationships with key partners. Inadequate compliance with the integrity standard, for example in relation to anti-corruption and fair competition, could result in significant negative reputation and financial consequences. Investments in internal training and knowledge are therefore crucial to ensure compliance. External follow-up is also crucial as the integrity standard is also important in terms of governing subcontractors and others acting on behalf of Posten. Stakeholders • Owner and public authorities: Requirements set down in legislation as well as expectations • Business customers: Set down clear requirements concerning follow-up on integrity in their invitations to tender. Especially clear requirements among major customers and within sectors such as oil and gas. Business customers expect fair and competitive prices and tenders. • Suppliers: Concerned with fairness during the processing of tenders and collaborative relationships. How we work Group attorneys have an overall responsibility for ensuring that the integrity standard has the proper content and is known within the Group. This involves creating and maintaining Group-wide instruments, such as guidelines and manuals, e-learning programmes and training courses. The instruments will contribute to understanding of and compliance with the standard. Group management is updated on the status, risk profile and ongoing initiatives in the work related to compliance with the integrity standard within the Group every six months. A network of local resources in each division and subsidiary shall ensure that there is adequate information about Group-wide tools and that these tools are implemented locally. The overall principles for the work with integrity are outlined in the Group’s ethical guidelines, integrity handbook and in the Group policy for corporate social responsibility. These principles are then put into operation via regulations and Group-wide tools. Managers and other key personnel undergo regular training to ensure a high level of competence internally within the organisation. Group attorneys are also responsible for the management and operation of the Group’s Warning Institute. If employees experience, discover or suspect unacceptable conditions, they are encouraged to notify their immediate superior. Where this is not possible or feels too difficult, everyone employed by the Group can contact the Group’s Warning Institute. This programme was established in 2006 and is available to all Group employees regardless of their country or company with which they are associated. The Institute is easily accessible and can be reached by email, telephone and mail. The Group’s Warning Institute ensures that warnings are handled appropriately, both in regard to the person reporting the warning and the person or entity whose actions have initiated the warning. Procedures for the follow-up of all reports have been prepared particularly to ensure that the person reporting the warning is not subject to repercussions after the fact. The Group’s Warning Institute reports to the audit committee of Posten Norge AS once every six months. The report details the number and type of cases, the results of each case and the measures and activities taken into effect and implemented. In 2015, the Warning Institute received seven warnings that were investigated and assessed. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 85 Identification of integrity risks GRI indicator G4 SO 3: Total number and percentage of operations assessed for corruption and significant risks that have been identified. As a part of the process to assess the risk of violation of the integrity standard, including the risk of violation of the corruption rules, a survey has been carried out across all divisions within the Group. The basis for the overall risk assessment linked to compliance with integrity topics also includes the experiences and observations made by the Group through general and specific training of and contact with Group entities and suppliers as part of the Group’s integrity programme. The risk assessment indicates that cross-border transport and collaboration with competitors are the most obvious integrity risks within the Group. A key focus area for 2016 is to further develop this risk assessment. A new method for the implementation of risk assessments is scheduled for development in 2016 and will provide a better basis for the implementation of various risk-reducing measures. Communication and training GRI indicator G4 SO 4: Communication about and training in policies and procedures for anti-corruption. The Group has an integrity programme to help strengthen the Group’s standard for ethics and topics related to integrity. So far, the integrity programme has emphasised the following topics: anti-corruption, legal competitive practices, social dumping and information security. Using these themes as a basis, various tools have been developed for employees and select partners. These tools help managers and employees in the Group actively take ownership and live up to the Group’s integrity standard. The integrity programme was adopted by the Board of Directors of Posten Norge AS in October 2011. In May 2015, the Board of Directors reviewed the Group’s work on corporate social responsibility. As part of this review, the Board of Directors was also presented with an update on the status of the work on the integrity topics, including a list of measures for complying with best practice within this area. The integrity programme is based on the Group’s ethical guidelines adopted in 2006 and includes guidelines, an integrity handbook and an e-learning programme, etc. The guidelines and integrity handbook were distributed to all Group employees in 2011 and 2012. All new employees receive the ethical guidelines and an integrity handbook when they start work at the Group. The target group for the e-learning module consists of the employees in the Group deemed to be most vulnerable to typical risk situations discussed in the integrity programme (primary target group). 248 employees (including external employees from in-store post offices) completed the e-learning programme in 2015. This corresponds to around 1.1 per cent of the total number of employees in the Group and around 2 per cent of the primary target group. Per Group division the breakdown is as follows: 91 from the Post division, 35 from the Logistics Norway Division, 78 from the E-commerce Division, 40 from the Logistics Nordic Division, 4 others. As shown by the overview, relatively few people completed the e-learning programme in 2015. The reason for this is that the majority of employees within the target group have already completed the training, as well as follow-up on the e-learning programme being given less attention in 2015 due to other activities within the integrity programme being prioritised, such as the analysis of which integrity measures to implement to ensure compliance and best practice. One of the focus areas for 2016 will be to prepare improved procedures for the implementation of the e-learning programme (for new employees, etc.) and to consider further development of the e-learning programme. Managers, support staff, sales and marketing resources and other resource persons with regard to integrity-related issues must undergo more training in addition to the e-learning module. Therefore, a course in a classroom setting was developed for this specific target group. These courses are based on the e-learning module, but go into more detail and prioritise discussions about relevant problems that arise. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 86 In 2015, approximately 43 people attended the customised training (G4-S04). This corresponds to around 0.3 per cent of the total number of employees in the Group and around 0.5 per cent of the primary target group. Per Group division the breakdown is as follows: Post Division 0 (completed in 2012) Logistics Norway Division: 0 (completed in 2012) E-commerce Division: 0 (completed in 2012) Logistics Nordic Division: 49. As mentioned, one of the subjects of the integrity programme is legal competitive practices. To ensure that all employees and others working on behalf of the Group have sufficient knowledge of and comply with the competition rules, this topic was developed further in 2013 in the form of a separate topic handbook: Posten og Brings 10 konkurranserettsbud («ten commandments of competition»). It is now also available on the Group’s intranet. No reported corruption incidents GRI indicator G4 SO 5: Confirmed corruption incidents and implemented measures. In 2015, the Group’s Warning Institute received seven warnings that were investigated and assessed. None of these cases referred to an alleged breach of corruption rules (G4SO5). In addition to the cases that were processed by the Group’s Warning Institute, the Warning Institute also received certain other reports that were not investigated further. The background to this was that the Warning Institute did not consider further investigation of the matter to be justified following initial investigation. Information about contact details for the Warning Institute is available on the Group intranet. The Warning Institute was also presented to employees through training on the integrity standard and it is clearly mentioned in guidelines and handbooks. GRI indicator G4 SO 7: The monetary value of significant fines and the total number of non-monetary sanctions for inadequate compliance with laws and regulations. The Group did not receive any complaints for inadequate compliance with laws and regulations in 2015. The logistics company Schenker made a claim for compensation against Posten Norge in 2010 connection with the ESA case regarding former exclusivity clauses in the in-store post office agreements for the period 2000-2006. A settlement was reached between the parties in 2015. GRI indicator G4 PR 8: Total number of confirmed complaints concerning violation of customer privacy and loss of customer data. Handling of information about individuals and companies is an important part of Posten and Bring’s operations. The Group is therefore very focused on compliance with privacy policies to ensure that we process information in accordance with applicable legislation. In 2015, the Group has continued to work on the further development of procedures to ensure efficient compliance with the privacy policy. The Group did not receive any complaints from public authorities in 2015 about breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data. Compliance with the privacy policy formed part of the risk assessment in 2015. The Group has also not received any such complaints from private individuals. Future integrity work In 2013 and 2014, the main focus was on the implementation of the integrity programme instruments. The main focus in 2015 was to continue this work while also establishing a strategy for the further work on the programme. In connection with this we prepared an overview of the implemented measures as well as the measures that should be implemented to satisfy the requirements and expectations set out in an integrity/compliance programme. These measures were adopted by the Group management and presented to the Board of Directors during spring 2015. The implementation of the adopted measures will be the main focus of the work on the integrity programme for 2016. As mentioned above, a key element to this work will be the creation of a new methodology for the implementation of risk assessments. Posten and Bring experience reputational risk related to suppliers and subcontractors increasingly representing Posten and POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 87 4 Supplier management GRI indicators: SO9, SO10, LA14, LA15, HR10, HR11, EN32, EN33 Bring (for example: in-store post offices and transport subcontractors). Posten and Bring’s suppliers therefore influence the company’s ability to deliver on customer promises and other strategic goals. As a major player, the Group has the opportunity to influence industry standards and conditions in a positive manner through good supplier governance. Stakeholders • Business customers: Major companies set out requirements concerning systematic follow-up for Posten and Bring. Business customers expect partners acting on behalf of Posten and Bring to comply with their standards. • Owner and public authorities: Expect acceptable behaviour and zero social dumping. This is important as suppliers that represent Posten and Bring indirectly also represent the owner. • Suppliers: Require predictability and control. Focus on cabotage. How we work Group HR/HSE, HSE and Social Corporate Responsibility ensure systematic, Group-wide solutions and coordinate the work on supplier governance within the Group. Suppliers with Group-wide agreements are followed up by Group Procurement. Transport suppliers are followed up by the relevant divisions and business areas. Divisional coordinators manage local coordinators in any business contact with transport suppliers and ensure local support. Group management is regularly updated on the status, risk profile and ongoing initiatives in the work related to compliance with the Group’s requirements for suppliers. All suppliers that have signed an agreement with the Group must sign the «Ethical standard for suppliers», which states the minimum requirements placed by the Group on its suppliers, as well as HSE and environmental declarations. The largest road transport suppliers must also sign a transport environmental declaration. The dialogue with both existing and potential suppliers is central to Posten Norge’s procurement procedures. As part of its standard procurement process (G4-26), Posten Norge engages in both written and verbal dialogue, based on workshops. In dialogue with the supplier market, the Group generally emphasises good business practices and compliance with the Group’s ethical principles and values. Confidence in the supplier market is a prerequisite for achieving good terms and conditions and covering the Group’s procurement requirements on a satisfactory basis. This applies both before a contract is established and during the contract’s term (G4-27). More checks and collaboration to combat labour crime GRI indicators G4: SO10, LA15, EN33, HR11: Substantial actual and potential negative consequences to society (SO10) in the supply chain, environmental criteria (EN 33), labour practice criteria (LA15) and human rights criteria (HR11) in the supply chain and implemented measures. A total of 241 suppliers have submitted self-reporting and have been assessed on compliance with the Group’s ethical standard for suppliers, including HSE, employee rights, human rights, business practice and the environment. 12 road transport suppliers have been audited in relation to compliance with the Group’s ethical standard for suppliers. Five of the audits identified inadequate procedures and inspections linked to the safeguarding of e.g. employee rights and anti-corruption. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 88 Improvement plans were agreed with nine of the audited suppliers in respect of safeguarding of employee rights and/ or business practice (including anti-corruption). None of the audited suppliers were terminated based on the Group’s ethical standard for suppliers and/or environmental requirements. Additionally, two unannounced inspections were conducted in connection with compliance with the Group’s ethical standard for suppliers in Oslo and Trondheim. The Group has also entered into collaborations with different authorities in the work to combat labour market crime within the transport industry, with particular focus on the courier and express transport segment. Road transport the greatest environmental challenge GRI indicator G4 LA33: Significant actual and potential negative environmental impact from labour practices in the supply chain and implemented measures. A total of 241 suppliers have submitted self-reporting and have been assessed on environmental impact and compliance with the Group’s ethical standard for suppliers. 138 road transport suppliers have been identified as potentially having negative environmental impact. The most substantial negative environmental impact identified among the Group’s transport suppliers originates from road transport. Road transport amounted to 63 per cent of total emissions at transport supplier level in 2015, air transport amounted to 18 per cent, ferry transport amounted to 17 per cent and train transport amounted to 2 per cent. The emissions relate to: Emission of greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming, predominantly carbon dioxide, methane and nitrogen oxide, emission of air pollutants that contribute to a poorer local environment, such as nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons and finally, traffic noise. There were no terminated agreements with any suppliers due to environmental impact. New procedure for the management of people smuggling in international road transport GRI indicator G4 HR11: Significant actual and potential negative consequences on human rights in the supply chain and implemented measures. No suppliers have been identified as having significant actual and potential negative consequences on human rights. A new procedure has been implemented for the management of refugees and people smuggling in international road transport at supplier level («New group policy for suppliers and partners regarding the refugee situation in Europe»). This is a necessary consequence of the increasing challenges linked to people smuggling across country borders, and also internally within Europe. Criteria for supplier selection GRI indicators G4 S09, HR10, LA14: Percentage of new suppliers selected based on criteria for social consequences (S09), human rights criteria (HR10), labour practices (LA14) and environmental criteria (EN32). For all 60 acquisitions implemented by Group Procurement in 2015, a requirement in the pre-qualification phase was that all suppliers had to accept the Group’s ethical standard for suppliers and complete declarations concerning the environment and HSE. Risk management a central topic in 2016 The work on risk management of suppliers will be continued with full force in 2016, including inspections and supplier audits. 2016 focus areas will include expertise development among managers and buyers of transport services internally in the Group with the aim of further reducing the risk at supplier level. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 89 Our networks and expertise OUR Our networks are Posten and Bring’s arteries. Knowing how we can make the best use of CAPITAL AREAS our networks is vital if our strategy of becoming Nordic, customer-oriented, integrated and industrialised is to succeed. The Group is wholly dependent on good operating models in order to optimise our terminal Our employees and logistics networks, and, not least, reduce our environmental impact on society. At the same time, Posten and Bring are becoming ever more dependent on technology. This technology is a critical factor that keeps a large proportion of our networks and value chains going. Our relationships There are three critical success factors (aspects) it is important we report on in this and partnerships capital area in order to ensure it is properly managed. We report on the following GRI indicators per aspect: Our networks and expertise 1 Environmentally friendly transport and logistics GRI indicators: EN 15, EN 16, EN 17, EN 18 Our ability to change 2 Integrated and industrialised networks Own text reporting Our financial capital 3 Information security GRI indicator: PR 8 POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 90 1 Environmentally friendly transport and logistics GRI indicators: EN 15, EN 16, EN 17, EN 18, EN 32, EN 33 As one of the Nordic region’s biggest transport operators, the impact from our CO2 emissions is significant. The Group’s emissions account for around 1 per cent of Norway’s climate emissions of 53.8 million tCo2e. The environment is, therefore, one of the Group’s most important focus areas within corporate social responsibility. The Group’s two largest climate challenges are reducing CO2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles and minimising local pollution. Optimising networks by, for example, modifying the terminal structure and using alternative vehicles also makes it possible to cut costs. Climate efficient transport and logistics can also be a differentiator for customers when they choose their service provider. Stakeholders • Owner and authorities: Our ownership statement obliges us to make our operations more environmentally friendly. • Business customers: Major customers (ASKO, IKEA, oil and gas) are interested in the environment and make demands of us. For example, Statoil is encouraging us to make greater use of maritime transport. • Private customers and local communities: Customers notice the environmental efforts you make. In 2013, Posten was ranked fifth in IPSOS MMI’s reputation survey under the point concerning environmental awareness. In our experience, customers in Sweden are interested in the environment. How we work The Group is actively working to reduce the extent of its impact on the environment. Posten’s environmental vision is «to work in a goal-oriented manner to achieve environmentally efficient operations and sustainable development that help us become the world’s most future-oriented mail and logistics group.» Posten Norge is aiming to reduce its CO2 emissions by 40 per cent before 2020 through a series of measures. Cuts in emissions of 30 per cent were achieved from 2008 to 2013, based on the original companies’ levels in 2008, and the target for the entire Group is a 10 per cent cut in emissions by 2020. The HSE and Corporate Social Responsibility Department in the Corporate Staff HR/HSE unit ensures the systematic, group-wide reuse of good solutions and a comprehensive approach. A group-wide environmental network consisting of environmental resource persons from all business areas also ensures that the Group shares lessons we have learned and best practice throughout the organisation. The expertise we need in specific areas is secured via partners and suppliers. A climate reporting system that covers the entire Group is used to register the Group’s total climate impact. The Board and executive management team are regularly updated on status, the risk picture and ongoing initiatives within our environmental work. This environmental work is also defined in a separate environmental policy and strategy, which is supported by action plans in the business areas. The Group works according to annual environmental action plans in the business areas and the work is followed up in quarterly reports, business reviews, the executive management team’s CPI maps and PLUSS conversations. Goals are set for the Group and business areas per year and up to 2020. The goal is that part of the executive management team’s CPI map will be followed up in relation to goal achievement. Interaction between companies, organisations and authorities is key in order to solve the major environmental challenges facing the Group (G4-16 and G4-27). In 2015, the Group continued its collaboration with ZERO in several areas and is an active participant in ZERO’s Klimalab and the 0/2030 project. A partnership has been entered into with the 2030 secretariat in Sweden. The Group also took part in the ’Grønnkystfrakt’ (’Green Coastal Transport’) project in cooperation with DNV. In October 2015, Posten, as one of several companies, submitted a report on how the business sector can contribute to achieving Norway’s goal of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent by 2030: ’Norway 203040’. The Group is affiliated with the International Post Corporation, which administers an international industry collaboration, and is also a member of the ’Swan Purchaser Club’ and ’Green Dot Norway’. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 91 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and polluting less EN 15: Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2e). In 2015, the Group decided to replace fossil fuels with renewable diesel for its heavy goods vehicles. The green shift means that around 1,000 lorries on Norwegian and Swedish roads will instead use fossil-free fuel. This will result in reduced greenhouse gas emissions and less pollution. Posten and Bring are the first actors in Norway to switch to the new type of second-generation renewable diesel. Initially it will be the lorries that will be switching to using the new fuel called hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO). This fuel consists of vegetable oils and waste certified in accordance with the EU’s sustainability criteria. The arguments against the original biodiesel, such that using raw materials like oil seed rape and sugar cane took up valuable land and pushed up food prices in poor countries, do not apply to HVO. The Group started the environmental initiative with 82 lorries which used 1,030,000 litres of this renewable fuel in 2015. The initiative is also being implemented in Sweden where 219 vehicles are using renewable fuel. In addition to this, the Group has 133 biogas vehicles, including the world’s first Euro 6 biogas lorry and three lorries that run on liquefied gas. Vehicles that run on bioethanol are being tested in Bergen. Bring in Sweden has used more than 4.1 million litres of second-generation biofuel. Bring in Sweden has also well under way with its RME and HVO project, which is a fuel that reduces CO2 emissions by 90-93 per cent. It has 240 vehicles running on these types of fuel. The Group now has Norway’s largest electric vehicle fleet with more than 1,100 electric vehicles consisting of 580 electric mopeds, 368 electric vehicles and 167 electric trolleys. In 2015, the Group decided to make one of the world’s largest individual purchases of 241 electric vehicles. The focus on zero emission solutions and the co-location of these has resulted in 21 city and town centre areas across Norway with completely CO2-free mail distribution. This improves air quality and results in less noise and greenhouse gas emissions. The effort will be expanded to 20 new cities/towns in 2016. The Group also updates its vehicle fleet regularly, which helps reduce local emissions. The average age of the vehicles in the parent company is 2.6 years. For heavy goods vehicles in excess of 7,500 kg, 95 per cent are Euro 5 and Euro 6. The Group has introduced speed reductions for 550 lorries, which has advantages in terms of both the environment and safety. The Group reviewed the emission factors used in greenhouse gas reporting in 2015 and has switched from reporting on CO2 to reporting on CO2 equivalents. CO2e gases are CO2 (carbon dioxide), N20 (nitrous oxide) and CH4 (methane). This covers all emissions from sources defined in the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, except for refrigeration gases, which are not part of CO2e. Other greenhouse gases that are not part of the GHG protocol are not reported. All emissions that are presented in the Group’s greenhouse gas accounts in 2015 are in tonnes CO2 equivalents. Emission calculations are based on a mix of consumption figures, data from various transport systems related to subcontractors, and estimates in which the data is not particularly precise. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 92 Table 1 (scope 1): Shows a reduction in direct emissions of 8 per cent (7,490 tonnes CO2e) from 2014 to 2015. Together, the most important environmental measures contribute to the fact that the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 3.6 per cent (4,900 tonnes CO2e) in 2015 compared with 2014. Scope 1 [tonne CO2e] 2013 2014 2015 2015 Group 136,812 136,115 128,625 128,625 Road 135,952 135,444 128,012 128,012 Buildings 860 670 613 613 Logistics Norway Division 76,325 88,814 91,308 91,308 Road 76,216 88,717 91,189 91,189 Buildings 109 97 119 119 Logistics Nordic Division 39,638 27,459 19,406 19,406 Road 39,075 27,042 19,027 19,027 Buildings 563 417 379 379 Mail Division 20,849 19,842 17,911 17,911 Road 20,661 19,685 17,796 17,796 Buildings 187 157 115 115 Outside of scopes n/a 24,469 24,058 24,058 POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 93 Reduced emissions from electricity consumption EN 16: Energy indirect emissions of greenhouse gases. The Group increased its electricity consumption from buildings by 3.5 per cent in 2015. This includes the electricity consumption from the Group’s 1,133 electric vehicles. The EU stipulated requirements concerning two new reporting methods for electricity in 2015: location-based and market-based. The requirements must correspond with the GHG Protocol. Using the location-based method the Group has reduced its indirect emissions by 28 per cent. The reduction is due to updated emission factors for electricity consumption in the Nordic region. Using the market-based method the Group has reduced its indirect emissions by 71 per cent. This large reduction is due to the fact that the Group bought electricity with origin guarantees for 83 per cent of the Group’s electricity consumption in 2015, compared with 31 per cent in 2014. Electricity with origin guarantees is power that is produced from renewable energy sources; the Group has bought origin guarantees for hydroelectricity. Table 2 (scope 2): Shows indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (metric tonnes of CO2e) through electricity consumption. 2013 2014 2015 2015 GROUP (location-based) 26,330 21,723 15,622 15,622 GROUP (market-based) n/a 48,446 14,057 14,057 Electricity (location-based) 23,414 19,297 13,079 13,079 Electricity (market-based) n/a 46,019 11,515 11,515 District heating 2,916 2,427 2,543 2,543 Stable emissions from subcontractors EN 17 Other indirect emission of greenhouse gases. Since 2014, emissions from the Group's subcontractors have reduced by 3 per cent. There has been a decline in air transport but some increase within other areas. The reduction in the Logistics Norway Division is predominantly attributable to reduced air transport. Within the areas of Road and Train, emissions have increased slightly due to more transport on roads and trains. Updates to the emission factor have resulted in a lower than anticipated increase. Emissions from marine transport have been reduced due to lower volumes being transported. The increase in the Logistics Nordic Division has been within air and marine transport. Amongst other things, the increase is a result of improved reporting and increased international marine transport. Emissions from road transport have increased and are caused by growth, slightly offset by the restructuring of an office and updated factors. The Mail division has increased by 242 tonnes CO2e since 2014. The increase was caused by increased emissions from business travel. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 94 Table 3: Shows that other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases in metric tons of CO2e via our subcontractors have fallen by 3 per cent (11,307 metric tonnes of CO2e) from 2014 to 2015. Scope 3 [tonnes CO2e] 2013 2014 2015 2015 Group 366,407 356,427 345,120 345,120 Road 240,346 223,182 214,735 214,735 Rail 4,135 4,331 5,492 5,492 Air 66,080 68,793 62,630 62,630 Water 51,084 56,072 56,760 56,760 Business travel 4,761 4,049 5,503 5,503 Logistics Norway Division 220,777 223,996 215,217 215,217 Road 113,360 108,846 112,665 112,665 Rail 4,012 4,207 5,371 5,371 Air 65,535 68,196 57,859 57,859 Water 36,532 41,628 38,211 38,211 Business travel 1,338 1,119 1,111 1,111 Logistics Nordic Division 143,165 130,000 127,208 127,208 Road 126,505 113,319 101,245 101,245 Rail 123 124 121 121 Air 544 597 4,771 4,771 Water 14,553 14,445 18,549 18,549 Business travel 1,440 1,515 2,523 2,523 Mail division 1,827 1,947 2,189 2,189 Road 482 1,017 825 825 Rail n/a n/a n/a n/a Air n/a n/a n/a n/a Water n/a n/a n/a n/a Business travel 1,345 930 1,364 1,364 E-Commerce division n/a n/a 41 41 Road 41 38 41 41 Rail 0 0 0 0 Air n/a n/a n/a n/a Water n/a n/a n/a n/a Business travel n/a n/a n/a n/a Staff group 598 448 465 465 Road 0 0 0 0 Rail n/a n/a n/a n/a Air n/a n/a n/a n/a Water n/a n/a n/a n/a Business travel 598 448 465 465 Outside of scopes n/a 20,691 21,524 21,524 POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 95 Towards a more greenhouse gas emissions efficient organisation GRI indicator EN 18: Emission intensity for greenhouse gases. The Group’s turnover is rising while emissions per NOK 1 earned are falling. This indicates a more greenhouse gas emissions efficient organisation. Table 4: Shows the Group’s emission intensity for greenhouse gases in the last three years. All emissions are included (Scope 1-3) in the calculation of emission intensity Relative target 2013 2014 2015 CO2e emission (gram) per NOK 1 earned 22.5 21.1 19.5 The overall greenhouse gas accounts show major progress The Group reduced its emissions by 5 per cent from 2014 to 2015 (26,454 tonnes CO2e). The reduction was achieved due to implemented greenhouse gas measures, more efficient means of transport, and upgraded emission factors. Table 4: Shows the total climate accounts for the Group in tonnes CO2e from 2013 to 2015. Scope 1 is GRI indicator EN 15, scope 2 is GRI EN 16 and scope 3 is GRI EN 17. [tonnes CO2e]* 2013 2014 2015 2015 Scope 1 136,812 136,115 124,625 128,625 Road 135,952 135,444 128,012 128,012 Buildings 860 670 613 613 Scope 2 (location-based) 26,330 21,723 15,684 15,684 Scope 2 (market-based) n/a 48,446 14,066 14,066 Electricity (location-based) 23,414 19,297 13,132 13,132 Electricity (market-based) n/a 46,019 11,515 11,515 District heating 2,916 2,427 2,552 2,552 Scope 3 366,407 356,427 345,120 345,120 Road 240,346 223,182 214,735 214,735 Rail 4,135 4,331 5,492 5,492 Air 66,080 68,793 62,630 62,630 Water 51,084 56,072 56,760 56,760 Business travel 4,761 4,049 5,503 5,503 Sum (location-based) 529,548 514,265 485,608 489,429 Sum (market-based) n/a 540,988 483,990 487,811 2013 2014 2015 2015 Outside of Scopes** n/a 45,161 45,583 45,583 *) The sources for emission factors were obtained from fuel suppliers. ’Defra’ for km/tonne-km and ’location based electricity’, which were the Norwegian product mix in 2012, have been used as a baseline since this is the most complete following restructuring and acquisitions. The consolidation method pursuant to the GHG Protocol is ’organisational control’ **). ’Outside of scopes’ is the direct CO2 effect from the combustion of biofuel. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 96 Our environmental work is gaining international attention The Group won the Environmental Achievement of the Year award for 2015. This international award is presented by Postal Technology. The Group was also ranked the fifth most environmentally aware organisation in Norway in IPSOS MMI’s reputation survey for the third year in a row. 2 Integrated and industrialised networks Own reporting One of Posten and Bring’s strategic goals is to ensure that mail, parcels and freight are distributed quickly and efficiently, and at a reasonable price, with a high degree of precision and good solutions for recipient-steered delivery. Integrated and industrialised networks are the key to achieving this. The Group depends on good operating models and knowledge to optimise our networks. Poor utilisation of the networks can result in reduced efficiency and profitability, and make the Group less competitive. At the same time, inadequate interaction between the networks and poor integration could result in a silo mentality and sub-optimal solutions at a group level. Integration through good interaction and a coordinated customer interface can result in the better utilisation of synergies and increased cross sales. Stakeholders • Owner and authorities: Have an implicit interest through required rate of return. • Business customers: Have an implicit interest if optimisation of the networks affects prices, customer service or quality. They expect their interaction with Posten to be simple. • Employees: Linked to own working day and workplaces. • Suppliers: Can affect the working day and expectations. • Investors and banks: Can implicitly be relevant in relation to credit risk. How we work Posten is restructuring operations in line with the reduction in volumes of letters and a growing parcel and freight market. Both direct cost synergies and indirect sales synergies are being realised in this development. We are systematically working to realise direct cost synergies between mail, parcel and freight operations in Norway and thus contribute to the efficient execution of our social mission. Furthermore, we are working on taking positions outside Norway that will ensure sufficient volumes enter Posten’s networks inside Norway. In order to provide Nordic/international customers with a competitive offer for distribution in the Nordic countries, Posten is also establishing separate business areas and distribution networks outside Norway. Posten and Bring are currently investing in joint parcel and freight terminals in order to achieve cost synergies in production. The logistics centre in Alnabru in Oslo is by far the largest single project and will become a new hub in Norwegian operations. Nine joint parcel and freights terminals have been established so far, with the newest in Drammen. A new joint terminal will be built in Trondheim in 2016. In country that is as stretched out as Norway is, with a dispersed settlement structure, there are also significant synergy effects in the co-distribution of various types of freight between terminals, Post in Shops, and distribution units. The combined terminals thus facilitate larger synergies on the transport side between freight and the traditional parcel and mail services. Posten is also in the process of implementing the ‘New Posten and Bring’ programme in which standardised IT systems will help industrialise the Group’s operations, internal processes and customer interface. Time will tell if we are successful We do not have a specific performance indicator for integrated and industrialised networks. The indicator is whether our investment in the future enables us to achieve the financial targets we have set for things such as the terminal structure projects and for the ‘New Posten and Bring’ change programme. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 97 3 Information security GRI indicator: PR 8 Our work on information security is becoming ever more important for Posten and Bring. The digitisation and globalisation of society have radically changed the way we work in Posten and Bring. Digital tools for mail deliveries, tracking parcels and communicating sensitive personal data via Posten’s secure digital mailbox, Digipost, are examples of these. Information security breaches can have major consequences for our operations in the form of reputational damage, lost income and increased costs. Therefore, the goal of information security is to ensure that information is available at all times to those who need it and prevent the unauthorised alteration, destruction, publication and loss of data. Stakeholders • Owner and authorities: Expect a focus on information security when handling information from public agencies and Digipost. • Business customers: Hygiene factor. Expect secure and efficient information flow, predictability and absence of downtime. • Private customers and local communities: Hygiene factor. Are interested in safeguarding personal privacy. Expect predictability and absence of downtime. How we work Posten and Bring’s strategy for information security is based on active risk management. The goal is to establish and maintain a level of security that protects information, products and services, and also takes reasonable account of risk, costs and operational matters. The work is continuous and is just as focused on the employees’ knowledge and attitudes as on information security as a technology that is used to increase the efficiency of information processing. The Corporate Staff IT unit, Information Security Department, bears technical responsibility for information security in the Group. This responsibility involves setting standards and the framework, as well as be an active adviser and driving force behind establishing adequate information security for all information processing the Group. By information security we mean all measures aimed at preventing breaches of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information being processed. This applies both in relation to the processing that takes place in the organisation and the systems/ applications and networks. The standards are set through governing documentation for information security, security requirements for suppliers, awareness campaigns for employees, and taking part in decision-making process that affect information security. Day-to-day responsibility for information security lies with the line management and individual mangers. Managers are responsible for the services and routines their department develops and administers. No complaints of lost customer data GRI indicator PR8: Total number of confirmed complaints concerning breaches of customers’ personal privacy and loss of customer data. No complaints were received concerning breaches of customers’ personal privacy and loss of customer data in 2015. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 98 Our ability to change OUR Posten and Bring have to be able to adapt to rapid changes in both framework conditions CAPITAL AREAS and customers’ needs in order to achieve long-term value creation. The markets Posten and Bring operate in are, and have been for a long time, undergoing dramatic change driven by factors such as globalisation and big technological changes. The results are changed customer behaviour and greater competition, which, among other things, are creating Our employees a need for rapid innovation. In this capital area we have chosen two aspects which it is important to report on in order to ensure our employees are more than capable of adapting and, not least, a healthy pace of Our relationships and partnerships innovation. We report on innovation and service development in accordance with a GRI indicator: 1 Our networks and expertise Competitive framework conditions Own reporting 2 Our ability to change Innovation and service development Own reporting, GRI indicator: LA 10 Our financial capital POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 99 1 Competitive framework conditions Own reporting In order to ensure good general operating conditions, it is important that Posten works proactively and in a long-term perspective in relation to key authorities. It is especially important to create an understanding of the need for restructuring and adapting service provision within the mail segment. Changing relevant framework conditions can often take a long time. One example of this is the process involving the new Postal Service Act that took many years. There are financial and strategic risks associated with the framework conditions that are not suited to the competition situation and changed customer needs. Stakeholders • Owner and authorities: Expect good, constructive input in relevant processes. • Suppliers: Posten’s framework conditions influence the suppliers’ framework conditions. • Private customers and local communities: Framework conditions can have consequences in relation to developing services (especially mail). • Employees: Can affect their working day. How we work Posten’s social mission is to ensure the provision of high quality, cost-effective, nationwide postal services. This is stipulated by the company’s articles of association. The Ministry of Transport and Communications manages the State’s ownership of Posten Norge AS. The Group is therefore subject to the ministry’s corporate governance of the company. The executive management team holds quarterly meetings with the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Corporate social responsibility was one of the main topics at the year’s last quarterly meeting. The Norwegian Communications Authority supervises that Posten fulfils its statutory obligations pursuant to the Postal Service Act, regulations and licence. The Group must also deal with other relevant authorities that are of significance to our operations, including our corporate social responsibility activities. The function responsible for liaising with the authorities in the Corporate Staff Finance unit is responsible for Posten’s work on its framework conditions, national and international. This includes: • Preparing a plan for Posten’s activities that, pursuant to article 10 of the company’s articles of association, the Board must present to the Minister of Transport and Communications every second year. • Quarterly meetings with the ministry. • Reporting to the Norwegian Communications Authority, including the annual licence report and product accounts. • Dialogue with the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Norwegian Communications Authority on specific matters. • Active participation in the Universal Postal Union and in industry organisations on an EU level. • Membership and participation in the Employers Association Spekter and the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO), Logistics and Transport. • Consultation input and other participation in political matters of significance to the Group. Posten must express its opinion in a credible and constructive manner on all matters to do with regulatory and other factors that directly affect our activities so we can fulfil our role as a socially responsible company and statutory provider of postal services in the Norwegian mail market. Implemented a number of structural changes Posten has implemented a number of structural changes and measures in the last few years that have helped to maintain revenue in mail activities despite a significant drop in the volume of letters. Political acceptance and amendments in regulatory requirements have to a large extent been necessary conditions for this restructuring. If regulatory requirements are not tailored to the restructuring Posten believes is necessary to ensure the satisfactory development of profitability, the extra costs must be financed through the government procurement of unprofitable business services. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 100 2 Innovation and service development Own reporting, GRI indicator: LA 10 The pace of change in Posten and Bring is fast. The change from post offices operated by us to Post in Shop (in-store post offices), changes to our terminal structure, increased automation in production, new distribution structure and, not least, simplified service structure are some examples that have produced significant effects in recent years. Saturday letter deliveries also ceased in March 2016, which will have a positive effect on the result as early as 2016. These measures have been necessary but are not nearly sufficient to compensate for digital substitution, changes in customer needs and greater competition. The mail and logistics industry is constantly being challenged by new disruptive models. This means that existing positions are also being challenged. Yesterday’s market leaders could quickly be pushed to the sidelines if they are unable to change. Innovation is not an alternative; it is a necessity that provides opportunities for new sources of income. The absence of innovation will affect our right to exist and competitiveness. For example, Posten must achieve efficiency gains equivalent to NOK 300-400 million a year to compensate for a 7 per cent drop in letter volumes per year due to digital substitution and business models. The ability of Posten and Bring’s 20,000 employees to change and adapt is also absolutely key to achieving innovation and renewal. Good processes for switching employees to new careers inside and outside Posten will have an important effect on employees and their families. The fact that our employees are highly adaptable results in better rationalisation and restructuring processes and thus a better pace of change for the whole Group. Stakeholders • Owner and authorities: Are interested in return on equity (maintaining it requires adaptability) and at the same time are interested in good restructuring processes. • Business customers: Are interested in ensuring that Posten satisfies current customer needs at any given time. Are increasingly demanding new, preferably bespoke, services. • Private customers and local communities: Are interested in ensuring that Posten satisfies current customer needs at any given time. Are increasingly demanding new services and business models. • Employees: Are interested in good restructuring processes that involve, for example, requirements and expectations concerning internal and external mobility. Innovation can affect job numbers. How we work One of Posten’s strategic responses to developments within our mail business is to develop logistics as a profitable growth area for the Group. We are systemically working to realise synergies between our original mail and parcel activities and the business we have acquired within transport and logistics services. In addition to all of the innovation work taking place in the line, the Strategy and M&A Department bears a special responsibility for initiating, being a driving force behind, and following up innovation projects. A number of key projects are also being initiated and run via eLabs. This is a group comprised of cutting edge expertise from many areas in the Group where the task is to research and implement projects. This is being done in close cooperation with the line management and partners from several different expert communities. As far as the employees’ ability to change and adapt is concerned, the Organisational Development Department in the Corporate Staff HR/HSE unit bears responsibility for the personal development of employees and managers. It is also responsible for ensuring good restructuring processes in the Group in close cooperation with the rest of the organisation and the trade unions. See the earlier introduction to the Organisational Development Department under the ’Good Managers’ aspect. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 101 Innovation on the agenda In the Group’s experience these changes mean that we will have to think innovatively in multiple dimensions to an even greater extent than in previous years. It is no longer enough to just think of productivity improvements or working smarter with existing services and processes. In order to ensure we succeed tomorrow we have to challenge, refine and change what we know now. Some things will also have to be radically changed. Many industries have gained new competitors who have changed the market’s dynamics almost overnight. This has been seen within, for example, passenger transport, accommodation and banking/finance. The threat inherent in reactivity is clearer than ever. In our opinion, many of the changes we are experiencing are permanent. This means that innovation is therefore no longer an alternative; rather it is an absolute necessity. In 2015, we continued our good partnership with the Centre for Service Innovation at the Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) (see csi.nhh.no) and also worked actively with many partners on the Customer Care 2015 project. This cooperation will also continue in 2016. Measuring our future capacity for innovation An innovation index that bases its results on customers’ perceptions of the companies’ innovation capacity was developed via the Centre for Service Innovation in 2015. The index is based on the notion that it is not nations that are innovative, but companies. Furthermore, it is not the managers and companies that should determine the degree to which they are innovative or not, but customers. We will consider using this innovation index as a specific indicator of our capacity for innovation in our annual and sustainability reporting for next year. Future challenges Examples of areas that will affect our industry in the future include the network and platform economy, the opportunities inherent in the growth of the online grocery market, the consequences of 3D printing for supply chains, how drones can supplement our existing delivery portfolio, and what the explosive growth of the ’internet of everything’ means for our activities. We continuously challenge ourselves with the ambition of being able to deliver even better services to our customers based on the business models of the future. Going forward, the Group will therefore continue to work on developing the mail and logistics ecosystem of which we are a part. Both alone and together with our customers and partners. Working to ensure employees have a high capacity for change GRI indicator G4 LA10: Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued of employability and assist them in managing career endings. Development opportunities for employees help make the Group a more attractive employer. At the same time, they help to better equip employees to cope with changes in their working day and getting to grips with new duties. In addition to the upgrading of skills that takes place on the job, courses are offered via the Group’s own learning portal, the Posten and Bring Academy. 4,664 individual e-learning courses were completed via the academy in 2015. The Group aims to have the largest possible number of employees in Norway with certificates of apprenticeship. Young people with relevant skills training within transport and logistics are recruited via the apprenticeship scheme. At the last count in 2015 there were 1,023 full-time employees with certificates of apprenticeship and around 80 apprentices in training. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 102 For employees in replacement programmes, the Group can offer re-training based on an individual assessment. The Group also offers scholarships. The scholarships are intended to help motivate employees to upgrade their formal qualifications. 36 scholarships were awarded in 2015. The Group systematically works to develop groups of managers and individual managers on different levels as needed. In 2015, 131 employees participated in the Group’s various management development measures: 21 in the middle management programme and 77 in the front line management programme, ’The Confident Manager’. The operational management programme is a team development programme. In 2015, two groups of managers involving a total of 17 participants completed the programme. The Group has also developed its own concept for statutory basic training in the working environment. The training consists of three compulsory parts: two e-learning courses and one two-day seminar. The training is intended to provide the participants with an understanding of our HSE work in Posten and Bring and improve cooperation between the various actors in the HSE work. 153 managers, employee representatives, safety deputies and HR/HSE employees completed the new training in 2015. Managers have had to undergo a three-hour HSE training programme for many years. A simplified version of the basic training was used for HSE management training in 2015. 16 participants from the Mail Division and Logistics Norway Division completed the ’Manager Talent’ programme in 2015. The goal of the programme is to develop front line managers who have the potential to take on greater management responsibilities at a higher level or across regions/businesses in the Group. The ’Aspiring Managers’ programme is also intended to recruit more front line managers from among our own employees. 21 participants completed two programmes in 2015. The Group’s two-year trainee programme was conducted for the sixteenth time. The trainee programme is part of Posten’s long-term focus on management development and the recruitment of critical expertise, and seven group trainees started in 2015. Four Summer Internships and four University/University College Internships were completed in autumn 2015. In 2015, the Group also continued its focus on a course to enhance basic skills levels. Seven courses were carried out in 2015 with a total of more than 40 participants. The courses are an initiative that upgrades the skills of employees who are not sufficiently fluent in Norwegian and are carried out in Bergen, Kristiansand, Vestby and Stavanger. The measure, which receives public funding, is an important tool for promoting life-long learning and the integration of employees with immigrant backgrounds. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 103 Our financial capital OUR Our financial capital provides the foundation for our ability to develop Posten and Bring and CAPITAL AREAS create long-term value for our owner. Satisfactory financial performance, solidity and liquidity are vital in order to gain access to new capital. There are two critical success factors (aspects) it is important we report on in this capital Our employees area in order to ensure we have solid financial capital. We do not report on these aspects in accordance with any GRI indicators. Our relationships and partnerships Our networks and expertise 1 Return on equity Own reporting. Our ability to change 2 Solidity and liquidity Own reporting. Our financial capital POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 104 1 Return on equity Own reporting. A good return on equity is relevant with respect to satisfying the owner’s requirements, the expectations of banks and investors, and for our operational execution capacity. The return on equity is important when it comes to raising capital and ensuring financial freedom of action. Stakeholders • Owner and authorities: Set requirements concerning the return on equity after tax. • Investors and banks: Relevant when it comes to raising capital. • Employees: Relevant when it comes to job security. How we work The Corporate Staff Finance unit addresses the key financial functions for the entire Group. The department is responsible for ensuring that the Group has financial freedom of action, which provides divisions and staff units with the opportunity to operationalise strategies and achieve their goals. The Corporate Staff Finance unit is, via the Group’s investment committee, responsible for quality assuring all important investments in the Group. All investments (business cases) above a specified threshold are considered by the investment committee. All business cases must be based on thorough analyses and fulfil given criteria to ensure the required return on the investment. Posten and Bring are planning a significant investment programme in the coming years in order to achieve our strategies. Investors and banks are therefore important stakeholders because of the Group’s need for long-term financing. These groups of stakeholders are interested in factors such as historical financial key figures, strategies and the Group’s plans for environmental measures, since the focus on the environment is becoming an ever more important requirement. Banks and investors are also interested in cost savings due to good HSE initiatives. The Corporate Staff Finance unit and the Group’s lenders regularly meet to discuss topics such as investment plans and financing needs. An annual joint meeting is also held with the most important lenders in which both results and future prospects are reviewed. Besides this, lenders regularly produce credit analyses that are distributed to the investors. Investors and banks are also invited to the Group’s presentation of our annual and half-yearly results. All managers in Posten and Bring are responsible for ensuring a good return on capital by helping to continuously improve operations. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 105 Low return on equity in 2015 but future prospects are good Posten and Bring need to be in a good financial position in order to carry out the necessary investments and measures in a demanding market. As of 31 December 2015, Posten’s equity was around NOK 6 billion and we had an equity ratio of 37 per cent. The return on equity was negative in 2015, primarily because of write-downs and provisions. Heavy pressure on prices in the industry reduced the operating result in relation to 2014. The Group’s strategy is ambitious and it is planning an aggressive approach going forward by investing more than NOK 4 billion in new terminals and an improvement programme that are intended to produce a better customer experience, more integrated and standardised solutions, and more profitable operations. In addition to these investments, the Group is implementing a cost-efficiency programme in the Group aimed at reducing our cost base. Together these investments and efficiency programmes will result in a higher return on equity for the Group going forward. Achieving a satisfactory return on equity in the next two years will be demanding, but the ambition is for the investments to help achieve a return on equity in line with the owner’s requirements (9 per cent) from 2018 onwards. 2 Solidity and liquidity Own reporting. Solidity and liquidity are important with respect to satisfying the requirements of the owner, banks and investors, and for our operational execution capacity. Stakeholders • Owner and authorities: Expect good solidity and liquidity. • Investors and banks: Relevant when it comes to raising capital. • Employees: Relevant when it comes to job security. How we work The Corporate Staff Finance unit closely monitors current liquidity and solidity to ensure that the Group’s investments do not conflict with the goal of a satisfactory liquidity reserve. The Group has focused on capital discipline for years and this has resulted in both solidity and liquidity being very good and providing considerable financial freedom of action. Robust solidity and liquidity Posten and Bring have exercised good capital discipline for years and can therefore boast good solidity and liquidity. This has increased both the liquidity reserve and the Group’s investment capacity in the last few years. This means we in a position to implement the Group’s strategies and further develop Posten and Bring in a tough market. For a complete overview of our financial capital – see financial statements and notes READ MORE For a complete overview of our financial capital, please refer to the financial statements and notes POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY PAGE 106 GRI CONTENT INDEX for In accordance – Core In total, we report on 30 indicators, 26 of which are GRI indicators and four that are our own indicators. The confirmation statement will be digitally published at postennorge.no/aarsrapport on 17 March. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2015: Our sustainability areas (critical GRI: DMA and performance indicators Number of GRI indicaVerified by aspects) tors EY Health, working environment and Own indicator: Sick leave. 3 + 1 own Yes safety GRI indicators: LA 5, LA6, HR3 Attractive workplace GRI indicators: LA1, LA2, LA 12, EC5 4 Yes Good managers Own indicator: 1 own Yes Employee satisfaction Customer-oriented Own indicator: Delivery quality 1 + 1 own Yes GRI indicator: PR5 Open and effective communiOwn indicator: reputation 1 own Yes cation Supplier management GRI indicators: SO9, SO10, LA14, LA15, 8 Yes HR10, HR11, EN32, EN33 Integrity GRI indicators: SO3, SO4, SO5, SO7 4 Yes Environmentally friendly transGRI indicators: EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18 4 Yes port and logistics Integrated and industrialised Own text reporting Text Yes networks Information security GRI indicator: PR8 1 Yes Competitive framework condiOwn text reporting Text Yes tions Innovation and service developGRI indicator: LA10 1 Yes ment Return on equity Own text reporting + linked to notes and Notes + financial stateYes financial statements ments Solidity and liquidity Own text reporting + linked to notes and Notes + financial stateYes financial statements ments TOTAL 26 + 4 own The table above looks at the indicators we report on within our 13 most critical sustainability areas (we have also included supplier management) based on the new updated materiality analysis implemented in 2015. The GRI G4 template includes two levels at which we can report: Core or Comprehensive. For 2015 we met the requirePOSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY ments for Core. In total we report on 30 indicators, 26 of which are GRI indicators and four that are own indicators. Comprehensive is very extensive and requires us to report on 42 GRI indicators as well as extended profile information. The auditor verifies all indicators in all texts included in the sustainability part of the annual report (in which the performance indicators have been reported). We also report profile information. This includes general information about the Group and our operations. The majority of such profile information can be found in other parts of the annual report, such as corporate governance and segment reports. In the auditor's report, the auditor confirms that the profile information has been reported. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY An extra effort for society Posten Norge has a long tradition of reporting the results the Group achieves through our work on, and commitment to, corporate social responsibility. Posten Norge views corporate social responsibility to be about how its operations affect people, the environment and society. The environment, integration and diversity are areas of priority for the Group. This means that the Group will take responsibility in particular for reducing the impact of its operations on the external environment. A healthy work environment is a strategic area of focus for the Group and all organisational and commercial development should emphasise the importance of a good working environment. The Group should take a particularly active role in its work with integration and diversity, and it should work to promote a racism-free working environment. This work is important for securing Posten Norge's strong position in society and strengthening its reputation. A good reputation will help attract and motivate employees, strengthen competitiveness and provide increased freedom to further develop the Group's business. The Group's corporate culture should be characterised by an active attitude to taking social responsibility. Group Policy Corporate Social Responsibility In 2011, the Group introduced a separate Group policy for corporate social respons-ibility. This policy is a part of the Group's governance documents and describes on a general level how the different technical areas are to be governed and controlled in the Group. The purpose of the policy is to ensure that the Group complies with applicable legal requirements and expectations from the Group's stakeholders with regard to protecting people and the part of society and the environment that is affected by the operations. The Group Policy Corporate Social Responsibility is based on Ethical guidelines for the Posten Norge Group . POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability on the agenda for the Board The Board is very satisfied with the corporate social responsibility work that is being done and regards the work on sustainability as exemplary in that it is linked to the strategy and highlights specific challenges. The Board believes Posten Norge stands out as a pioneering company within the priority areas of HSE, diversity and the environment. The Board closely monitors the work and development, among other things through the approval of the annual sustainability report. Figure 1.1 Posten and Bring's sustainability pyramid. MAKING AN EXTRA EFFORT (VOLUNTARY) The Group has chosen three priority areas: HSE The environment/climate Integration/diversity ENSURING LONG-TERM VALUCREATION AND SUSTAINABILITY Posten works for long-term value creation by ensuring the sustainable and responsible management of our most important resources and meeting its owner’s other requirements and expectations. CARRYING OUT OUR SOCIAL MISSION (STATUTORY) Posten fulfils the requirements of its operating licence and the Postal Services Act set by society and its owner. POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY Global Compact participant Posten Norge is a participant in the UN's Global Compact. Global Compact is the UN's initiative for sustainable development in business. As a participant in the Global Compact, Posten Norge promises to integrate ten basic principles into its strategy and daily operations and to report on activities and improvements related to these principles. The principles are divided into four areas: human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. The Group is a participant in the Global Compact Nordic Network, which consists of 180 participating companies from Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Greenland. The network arranges meetings at which participating companies can gain inspiration and new knowledge as well as exchange experiences. As a participant in the Global Compact, Posten Norge is committed to providing social responsibility reports once a year. These reports are presented through an integrated annual and sustainability report. GLOBAL COMPACT'S TEN PRINCIPLES Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Employee rights • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and spread of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery POSTEN NORGE l ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 l SUSTAINABILITY Accounts Income statement AMOUNTS IN MNOK Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 Note 2015 2014 2013 12 826 12 580 13 394 Operating revenues 1 25 074 24 404 23 557 1 713 1 782 2 707 Cost of goods and services 9 927 9 174 8 212 7 023 7 020 7 098 Payroll expenses 2 9 859 9 600 9 631 437 451 445 Depreciation and amortisation 8,9 788 790 750 105 3 3 Write­downs 8,9 385 282 245 2 689 2 645 2 554 Other operating expenses 4 3 814 3 907 3 840 11 967 11 902 12 807 Operating expenses 24 773 23 753 22 678 (283) (125) (574) Other income and (expenses) 5 (307) 66 (218) Share of profit or loss from investments in associates 10 245 126 (22) and joint ventures 575 553 13 Earnings before interest and taxes 239 844 641 462 546 525 Financial income 6 551 354 450 568 603 678 Financial expenses 6 639 477 472 (106) (57) (153) Net financial (expenses) (88) (123) (22) 469 496 (140) Income before taxes 151 720 619 32 163 107 Tax expense 7 212 271 108 438 333 (247) Net income for the year (61) 449 512 Net income attributable to controlling interests (62) 447 510 Net income attributable to non­controlling interests 1 2 2 Proposed transfers and allocations (256) (225) Dividends Group contributions POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 112 Comprehensive income AMOUNTS IN MNOK Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 Note 2015 2014 2013 438 333 (247) Net income for the year (61) 449 512 Items which will not be reclassified through profit and loss Pension (22) 3 27 Change in actuarial gains and losses 3 87 (56) (2) 6 (1) (7) Tax 7 (21) 13 2 (16) 2 19 Total items which will not be reclassified through profit (66) (43) and loss Items which will be reclassified through profit and loss Translation differences: Result from hedging of investments in foreign entities 19 (140) (9) (142) Tax 7 38 3 38 Translation differences from investments in foreign entities 141 43 190 Cash­flow hedging: (28) (17) (6) Changes in value 19 (6) (17) (28) 34 20 26 Transferred to income 19 26 20 34 (2) (1) (5) Tax 7 (5) (1) (2) 4 2 14 Total items which will not be reclassified through profit 53 38 91 and loss Share of other comprehensive income/(expenses) of investments 10 (41) (57) 43 associated companies (20) (5) Change in tax rate 7 1 (20) (32) 4 29 Other comprehensive income/(expenses) 79 (62) 114 407 336 (219) Comprehensive income 18 387 625 Comprehensive income is distributed as follows: Controlling interests 17 386 623 Non­controlling interests 1 1 2 18 387 625 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 113 Balance sheet AMOUNTS IN MNOK Posten Norge AS Group 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 Note 31.12.15 31.12.14 31.12.13 ASSETS 586 528 852 Intangible assets 8 2 339 2 720 2 973 395 323 265 Deferred tax asset 7 379 420 477 985 1 172 941 Tangible fixed assets 9 5 574 4 914 4 615 3 749 3 633 3 759 Investments in subsidiaries 10 1 780 317 317 Investments in associated companies and 10 380 369 1 851 joint ventures 1 835 1 523 2 077 Interest­bearing non­current receivables 12 ,13 7 7 7 18 101 219 Other financial assets 12 ,19 232 105 45 9 348 7 598 8 430 Non­current assets 8 910 8 536 9 969 16 10 10 Inventories 24 24 28 1 541 1 552 1 678 Interest­free current receivables 12 ,14 ,19 4 278 4 058 3 657 1 179 1 710 1 886 Interest­bearing current receivables 12 ,13 113 175 224 1 690 1 948 2 667 Liquid assets 12 ,15 2 773 2 073 1 791 4 426 5 221 6 240 Current assets 7 188 6 330 5 699 1 462 Assets held for sale 10 1 512 6 13 773 14 281 14 671 Assets 16 097 16 377 15 674 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3 120 3 120 3 120 Share capital 3 120 3 120 3 120 992 992 992 Share premium 992 992 922 1 359 1 438 904 Other equity 1 833 2 124 2 004 (33) (31) (17) Other reserves (17) (31) (33) Non­controlling interests (2) (1) (1) 5 438 5 519 5 000 Equity 20 5 926 6 205 6 081 1 031 941 860 Provisions for liabilities 11 1 450 1 439 1 450 1 926 1 864 2 045 Interest­bearing non­current liabilities 12 ,16 ,19 2 111 1 904 1 973 61 63 36 Interest­free non­current liabilities 12 ,17 ,19 36 63 61 1 987 1 927 2 081 Non­current liabilities 2 147 1 967 2 034 2 202 2 664 2 518 Interest­bearing current liabilities 12 ,16 ,19 896 1 626 1 232 2 920 3 137 4 147 Interest­free current liabilities 11 ,12 ,17 ,19 5 520 4 951 4 627 194 93 65 Tax payable 7 158 189 249 5 316 5 895 6 730 Current liabilities 6 574 6 766 6 108 13 773 14 281 14 671 Equity and liabilities 16 097 16 377 15 674 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 114 Cash-ﬂow statement Amounts in MNOK Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 Note 2015 2014 2013 469 496 (140) Income/(loss) before taxes 151 720 619 (166) (194) (94) Tax paid in period 7 (190) (260) (216) 4 (79) (248) (Gain)/loss from sales of non­current assets, (8) (73) subsidiaries and associated company 804 671 1 153 Depreciation and write­downs 8 ,9 ,10 1 173 1 072 995 Share of net income from associated companies and 10 (245) (126) 22 joint venture 27 8 34 Other operating and finance items without cash 159 170 75 effect1) (861) (425) 484 Changes in other accruals 241 (282) (129) 140 121 72 Interests received 21 56 74 (111) (122) (106) Interests paid (89) (102) (116) 307 475 1 155 Cash flow from/(used in) operating 1 213 1 175 1 324 activities (428) (568) (759) Investments in tangible non­current assets and 8 ,9 (1 159) (1 081) (1 092) intangible assets (338) (252) (228) Investments in shares 23 (123) (92) (320) 9 18 2 Proceeds from sales of tangible non­current assets 67 44 10 and intangible assets 8 162 1 711 Proceed from sale of shares 23 1 711 162 38 43 Dividend received from associated companies 10 46 39 367 273 (164) Changes in other financial non­current assets (11) 25 (24) (345) (325) 561 Cash flow from/(used in) investing 485 (897) (1 387) activities 535 550 1 000 Proceeds from non­current and current debt raised 16 1 000 550 589 (451) (186) (1 698) Repayment of non­current and current debt 16 (1 698) (153) (570) Decrease/increase bank overdraft (136) (279) (256) (300) Group contributions/dividends paid 20 (300) (256) (254) (195) 108 (998) Cash flow from/(used in) financing (998) 4 (298) activities (233) 258 719 Total change in cash and cash equivalents 700 282 (298) during the year 1 923 1 690 1 948 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the period 2 073 1 791 2 089 1 690 1 948 2 667 Cash and cash equivalents at end of 2 773 2 073 1 791 period 1) For the Group, this mainly concerns provisions for restructuring and loss contracts, set­off by the effect from the Group's financial instruments. This applies for Posten Norge AS correspondingly. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 115 Changes in equity Group Controlling interests NonTotal controlling equity interests ShareShare Hedging Translation Other Total capital premium reserve difference equity equity Equity 01.01.2013 3 120 992 (37) 34 1 598 5 706 (3) 5 703 Net income 510 510 2 512 Change in actuarial gains/losses Translation differences 87 87 87 Cash­flow hedging 4 4 4 Change in tax rate (20) (20) (20) Other comprehensive income from associated 43 43 43 companies and joint ventures Other comprehensive 4 87 23 114 114 income/(expenses) Total comprehensive income/(expences) 4 87 533 623 2 625 Dividend paid (254) (254) (254) Other changes in equity 7 7 7 Equity 31.12.2013 3 120 992 (33) 121 1 884 6 082 (1) 6 081 Equity 01.01.2014 3 120 992 (33) 121 1 884 6 082 (1) 6 081 Net income 447 447 2 449 Changes in actuarial gains/losses (43) (43) (43) Translation differences 36 36 36 Cash­flow hedging 2 2 2 Other comprehensive income from associated (57) (57) (57) companies and joint ventures Other comprehensive 2 36 (100) (62) (62) income/(expenses) Total comprehensive income/(expences) 2 36 348 386 1 387 Dividend paid (256) (256) (1) (257) Other changes in equity (7) (7) (7) Equity 31.12.2014 3 120 992 (31) 156 1 968 6206 (1) 6 205 Equity 01.01.2015 3 120 992 (31) 156 1 968 6 206 (1) 6 205 Net income (62) (62) 1 (61) Changes in actuarial gains/losses 66 66 66 Translation differences 39 39 39 Cash­flow hedging 14 14 14 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 116 Change in tax rate 1 1 1 Other comprehensive income from associated (41) (41) (41) companies and joint ventures Other comprehensive 14 39 26 79 79 income/(expenses) Total comprehensive income/(expences) 14 39 (36) 17 1 18 Dividend paid (300) (300) (2) (302) Other changes in equity 5 5 5 Equity 31.12.2015 3 120 992 (17) 195 1 637 5 927 (2) 5 926 Posten Norge AS ShareShare Hedging Translation Total capital premium reserve difference equity Equity 01.01.2013 3 120 992 (37) 1 211 5 286 Net income 438 438 Changes in actuarial gains/losses (16) (16) Cash­flow hedging 4 4 Change in tax rate (20) (20) Other comprehensive income/(expenses) 4 (36) (32) Total comprehensive income/(expences) 4 402 406 Dividend paid (254) (254) Equity 31.12.2013 3 120 992 (33) 1 359 5 438 Equity 01.01.2014 3 120 992 (33) 1 359 5 438 Net income 333 333 Changes in actuarial gains/losses 2 2 Cash­flow hedging 2 2 Other comprehensive income/(expenses) 2 2 4 Total comprehensive income/(expences) 2 334 336 Dividend paid (256) (256) Equity 31.12.2014 3 120 992 (31) 1 438 5 519 Equity 01.01.2015 3 120 992 (31) 1 438 5 519 Net income (247) (247) Changes in actuarial gains/losses 19 19 Cash­flow hedging 14 14 Change in tax rate (5) (5) Other comprehensive income/(expenses) 14 15 29 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 117 Total comprehensive income/(expences) 14 (233) (219) Dividend paid (300) (300) Equity 31.12.2015 3 120 992 (17) 904 5 000 See note 20 for information about shareholderes and dividends. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 118 Statement of the Board of Directors Statement of the Board of Directors regarding the annual report We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with approved accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the Group and the parent company’s consolidated assets, liabilities, financial position and results of operations. We also confirm that the Report of the Board of Directors provides a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the parent company together with a description of the key risks and uncertainties that the company is facing. March 26 2015 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 119 Auditor's report AUDITOR’S REPORT Report on the financial statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Posten Norge AS, comprising the financial statements for the Parent Company and the Group. The financial statements of the Parent Company and the Group comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2014, the income statements, comprehensive income, cash flow statements and changes in equity for the year then ended as well as a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The Board of Directors' and Group President and Chief Executive Officer's responsibility for the financial statements The Board of Directors and Group President and Chief Executive Officer are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and Group President and Chief Executive Officer determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements for the Parent Company and the Group. Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements of Posten Norge AS have been prepared in accordance POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 120 with laws and regulations and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Parent Company and the Group as at 31 December 2014 and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and on the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Directors’ report and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility concerning the financial statements, the going concern assumption and the proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Opinion on registration and documentation Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, «Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information», it is our opinion that the Board of Directors and Group President and Chief Executive Officer have fulfilled their duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is properly recorded and documented as required by law and generally accepted bookkeeping practice in Norway. Oslo, 26 March 2015 ERNST & YOUNG AS Eirik Tandrevold State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 121 Notes Accounting principles Posten Norge AS was established as a company on 1 December 1996 and is now a limited company with the Norwegian Government (represented by the Ministry of Transport) as the only shareholder. Posten Norge's address is Biskop Gunnerus gt. 14, 0001 Oslo. The consolidated financial statements and financial statements of Posten Norge AS have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations by IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), set by the International Accounting Standards Board and approved by the EU. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for available­ for­sale financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through profit or loss that have been measured at fair value. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of accounting estimates. Applying the Group's accounting principles also requires management to exercise judgment. Areas involving a high degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are described under item 3 below. The financial statements are presented in NOK, rounded to the nearest million, if not otherwise stated. As a result of rounding adjustments, the figures in one or more rows or columns included in the financial statements and notes may not add up to the total of that row or column. The table below gives an overview of relevant accounting principles for the Group, with references to the applicable notes and accounting standards. Accounting principle Associated note(s) IFRS-standard 1. Changes in accounting principles and IAS 8 disclosures 2. Adopted standards that are not yet effective IAS 8 or lacked approval by the EU 3. Accounting estimates Note 3 Pensions IAS 12, IAS 19, IAS 36, IAS 37 Note 5 Other income and expenses Note 7 Taxes Note 8 Intangible assets Note 11 Provisions for liabilities 4. Foreign currency translation IAS 21 5. Consolidation principles Note 23 Changes to the group structure IFRS 3, IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27, IAS 28 6. Segment reporting Note 1 Segments IFRS 8 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 122 7. Revenues Note 1 Segments IAS 18 8. Pensions Note 3 Pensions IAS 19 9. Taxes Note 7 Taxes IAS 12 10. Intangible assets Note 8 Intangible assets IAS 38 11. Tangible fixed assets Note 9 Tangible fixed assets IAS 16 12. Investments in subsidiaries, associates and Note 10 Investments in subsidiaries, IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS joint ventures associates and joint ventures 27, IAS 28 13. Impairments of non­financial assets Note 8 Intangible assets IAS 36 Note 9 Tangible fixed assets Note 10 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 14. Provisions Note 5 Other income and expenses IAS 18, IAS 19, IAS 37 Note 11 Provisions for liabilities 15. Contingent liabilities and assets Note 11 Provisions for liabilities IAS 37 Note 25 Other matters 16. Financial instruments Note 6 Financial income and financial IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 32, IAS expenses 39 Note 12 Overview of financial instruments Note 13 Interest­bearing non­current and current receivables Note 14 Interest­free current receivables Note 15 Liquid assets Note 16 Interest­bearing non­current and current liabilities Note 17 Interest­free non­current and current liabilities Note 18 Financial risk and Capital management Note 19 Derivatives and hedging 17. Accounts receivable Note 14 Interest­free current receivables IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 18, IAS 32, IAS 39 18. Cash and cash equivalents Note 15 Liquid assets IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 32, IAS 39 19. Loans Note 16 Interest­bearing non­current and IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 32, IAS current liabilities 39 Note 17 Interest­free non­current and current liabilities 20. Equity Changes in equity IAS 1 Note 20 Equity 21. Leasing Note 22 Leases IAS 17 22. Events occurring after the balance sheet Note 25 Other matters IAS 10 date 23. Cash flow statement Cash flow statement IAS 7 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 123 1. Changes in accounting principles and notes The accounting policies applied are consistent with previous years. In addition, the Group implemented the following relevant, new and revised accounting standards and interpretations published by the IASB and approved by the EU, effective from 1 January 2015. 1.1 IFRIC 21 Levies IFRIC 21 Levies addresses the accounting of an obligation to pay a levy if the liability is within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. The interpretation addresses what the obligating event is that gives rise to pay a levy, and when a liability should be recognised. The interpretation did not imply any significant changes in the timing of recognising levies for the Group. 2. Approved standards that are not yet effective or lacked approval by the EU The following standards and statements that are relevant for Posten Norge have been issued, but have yet to take effect or lacked approval by the EU for the financial year 2015. 2.1. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. The future classification depends on the entity's business model for managing its financial instruments and the characteristics of the cash flows of each individual instrument. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge accounting by bringing the hedge effectiveness closer to management's risk control and gives more room for judgment. Hedge documentation is still required. The standard is effective from 2018, but has still not been approved by the EU. The Group is not expecting any effects on the financial statements of the new classification, recognition and measurement requirements. In the course of the next 12 months, the Group will give more detailed considerations of the effects on financial obligations at fair value through profit or loss and the changes within hedge arrangements and write­downs, respectively. The preliminary assessment is that this will not have any significant impact for the Group. 2.2 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and associated interpretations. The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to measuring and recognising revenue. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thereby has the opportunity to decide the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard is effective from 2018, but has not yet been approved by the EU. The Group does not expect any significant impact from implementing IFRS 15 in the consolidated financial statements. The Group will perform more detailed evaluations of the effect during the next 12 months. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 124 2.3 IFRS 16 Leases IASB has published the new standard, IFRS 16 Leases. The new standard changes the requirements for recognising lease agreements with the lessee. All lease agreements (with some minor exceptions) shall be recognised as a right to use asset in the lessee's balance sheet with the corresponding obligation, and the payments shall be recorded as amortisations/down payments and interest expenses. The right to use asset shall be depreciated over its expected economic life. Accounting requirements for the lessor are unchanged. Disclosure requirements for the lesses and lessor are changed. The new standard is effective from 2019, but has not yet been approved by the EU. The standard implies a significant change in the lessees' accounting for lease agreements, that in accordance with IAS 17 are defined as operating leases. The change will effect both the balance sheet and the income statement. The Group is in an early phase in evaluating the effects of IFRS 16 and has not fully considered the impact of the new standard. The Groups initial assessment is that the new standard will change the accounting for lease contracts to a large extent, most significantly concerning lease contracts related to buildings and terminals, together with the Group's car fleet. The Group has not yet determined method for implementation. 2.4 IAS 19 Employee Benefits The amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits simplify the accounting of contributions from the employees or third parties to pension plans where the contribution is independent of the number of service years, for example when the employees' contribution is calculated as a fixed percentage of the salary. The change is effective in the EU for accounting period beggining on or after 1 February 2015, but early adoption is allowed. The amendment does not imply any significant changes for the Group. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on the Group. 3. Accounting estimates The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, the accompanying notes and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Sources of estimation uncertainty and assumptions concerning the future representing a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are described below: 3.1 Estimated impairment of assets Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Calculations of recoverable amounts require the use of estimates. There is uncertainty related to assumptions and parameters in connection with the estimation of future cash flows when evaluating write­down amounts and the choice of discount rate in the calculation of the present value of the cash flows. These estimates are particularly relevant POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 125 when assessing goodwill and other intangible assets. Details on the key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount of a cash generating unit, including sensitivity analyses, are provided in note 8. 3.2 Pensions There is also uncertainty related to the estimation of pension obligations. The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors determined by actuarial assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations. The assumptions used in the calculation of net pension cost (income) include the discount rate. The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high­quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation. Details are given in note 3. 3.3 Provisions In determining the fair value of provisions for restructuring expenses and other provisions, assumptions and estimates are made in relation to discount rates, the expected settlement value and settlement date. Additional information is disclosed in note 11. 3.4 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that the Group will have sufficient profits to utilise the tax benefit. Management judgment is required to determine the size of the tax benefit to be utilised, based on when future taxable profits can be expected and their value, together with tax planning strategies. Note 7 has more details. 4. Foreign currency translation 4.1 Functional currency and presentation currency The financial statements of the individual entities in the Group are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates ( the functional currency ). The Group’s presentation currency is Norwegian kroner, which is also the parent company’s functional currency. 4.2 Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate on the transaction date. On the balance sheet date, monetary balances in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate applicable on the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement and translation of monetary items are recognised as finance income and finance costs, respectively. If the currency position is considered to constitute cash POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 126 flow hedges or the hedging of a net investment in a foreign business, the gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income. Non­monetary items in a foreign currency measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non­monetary items in a foreign currency measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. 4.3 Group companies For consolidation purposes, balance sheet figures for subsidiaries that use a different functional currency than the Group’s presentation currency, are translated at the rate applicable on the balance sheet date, and subsidiaries’ income statements are translated at the average monthly exchange rate. Exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and specified separately in the statement of equity (cf. the statement of changes in equity). If a foreign subsidiary is sold, the accumulated translation differences related to the subsidiary are recognised in the income statement. 5. Consolidation principles The consolidated financial statements present the total financial result and position for the parent company Posten Norge AS and the companies over which Posten Norge AS has control. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using uniform accounting principles for similar transactions and other events, provided that the circumstances otherwise are the same. The classification of items in the income statement and balance sheet has been carried out according to uniform definitions. All significant intercompany transactions and balances, including internal profit and unrealised gains and losses, have been eliminated. 5.1. Consolidation principles: Subsidiaries Companies where the Group has control (subsidiaries) are fully consolidated line by line in the consolidated financial statements. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration is measured at fair value of assets transferred, liabilities incurred and equity interests issued. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at fair value. The excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non­controlling interests and any previous interest held, and net identifiable assets and liabilities, is classified as goodwill in the balance sheet. Should negative goodwill arise from a business combination, the identification and measurement of identifiable assets and liabilities is reassessed. Any negative goodwill that arises following this reassessment is recognised in the income statement immediately. When agreements are made for additional consideration (contingent consideration) in connection with the acquisition of companies, the additional consideration is measured at fair value and included in the acquisition costs at the time of acquisition. The change in value of POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 127 the additional consideration is only recognised as goodwill if the change is within a 12 months window and is a result of new or changed facts and circumstances existing at the time of acquisition. Other changes in value of the additional consideration are recognised in the income statement. The adjustments are measured at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date or at the rate when the adjustment occurred, if this differs from the balance sheet date. The Group recognises any non­controlling interest in the acquired company for each purchase, either at fair value or at its share of acquired company's net assets. The proportion of equity related to non­controlling interests is shown on a separate line in the Group’s equity. The proportion of net income after taxes and total comprehensive income from non­controlling interests is shown in the income statement. Transactions with non­controlling interests that do not result in any loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. In the event of loss of control and consequent deconsolidation of the subsidiary, gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Any retained investment is measured at fair value at the time of the transaction. 5.2. Consolidation principles: Investments in associates and joint ventures An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence normally exists when the Group owns 20 to 50% of the voting capital. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The investment is initially recognised at cost, and the Group's share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition is recognised in the income statement. The Group’s share of the result is classified as operating income or expense. 5.3. Held for sale Assets are classified as held for sale when they have been designated for sale, are expected to be sold within a period of twelve months and an active sales process has begun. If the Group has committed to a plan for sale which entails the loss of control over a subsidiary, all assets and liabilities of the subsidiary are classified as held for sale regardless of whether or not the company will maintain a non­controlling interest in its former subsidiary following the sale. Assets satisfying the criteria to be classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Such assets are no longer amortised. Assets meeting the criteria to be classified as held for sale are presented separately in the balance sheet, and the results of discontinued operations are presented separately in the statement of total comprehensive income. 6. Segment reporting Reporting segments are aggregated from underlying operating segments on the basis of an assessment of the risks and yields relating to the types of products or services, production processes, customer groups, distribution channels and statutory or other requirements, as well as management reporting. The division of reporting segments has been prepared in accordance with areas whose operating results are reviewed regularly by Posten Norge's Board to enable the Board to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 128 and assess its performance. The Group defines Posten Norge's Board as the chief operating decision maker. The segments’ accounting principles are the same as those used to prepare and present the consolidated financial statements. 7. Revenue Revenue is recognised when it can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities, as described below. Sales revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received net of value added tax and discounts. In all segments, revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised at the time when the products or services are delivered to the customer, and when significant risks have been transferred to the customer. 7.1. Revenue: Mail segment The segment's revenues are generated from the sale of letter products, postage stamps, banking services, sales of goods and dialogue services. The sale of stamps is considered to be advance payments for the sale of postal services, and recognised when the delivery of the service takes place. Franking machines (pre­paid franking) are recognised on the basis of the customer's postage consumption. Other postage sales are billed and recognised when letter products are delivered. Fees for banking services are recognised on the basis of performed banking services. International mail within ordinary terminal charge agreements is recognised on the basis of the calculation of volumes and preliminary prices, and adjusted the following year when final prices are received from the International Post Cooperation. Dialogue services, including precise target groups, addresses, outsourcing services within sales, customer service and customer­oriented marketing, are recognised at the time of the delivery of the service and significant risks are transferred to the customer. Sales of goods are recognised when the goods are delivered and significant risks are transferred to the customer. According to Posten Norge's license, additional expenses incurred as a result of the licensing requirements shall be covered by monopoly profits, if available, and/or government procurements of commercially unprofitable services. Government payments for unprofitable operations are recognised when the allocated funds are received, limited to an amount equaling the current year's estimated additional expenses regarding licensing requirements reduced by income from exclusive rights' profits. 7.2. Revenue: Logistics segment The segment's revenue is generated by transportation and warehouse services: Transport services cover courier and express services and the transportation of letters, parcels, freight and temperature­controlled deliveries, and are recognised at the time of delivery of the service and when significant risks are transferred to the customer. Warehouse services comprise storage, handling and picking­up services in addition to the unloading of vehicles, sealing of pallets, installation/repair of equipment and construction of sales pallets, and are recognised at the time of delivery of the service and when significant risks are transferred to the customer. 8. Pensions The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. The net pension expenses for the defined benefit pension plans comprise the pension contributions of the period, including future salary increases and the interest expense on the estimated pension liability, less the contributions from employees and estimated yield on the pension assets. For defined contribution plans, the premium less the employees' contribution is recognised as expenses when incurred. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 129 The liability recognised in the balance sheet for the defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period, less the fair value of plan assets. The gross obligation is calculated by independent actuaries applying the projected unit credit method. When pension assets exceed pension liabilities, prepaid pensions are classified as a long­term asset in the balance sheet if it is likely that the excess value can be utilised or repaid. The recognition of pension funds is limited to the present value of all financial benefits that materialise in terms of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. Net pension expenses are classified as salary costs in the income statement, except the interest element, which is classified as finance income/finance expenses. The effect on previously earned rights resulting from changes in the schemes' yields is recognised immediately in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur, and will not be recognised through profit and loss in future periods. In transitions to new pension schemes, effects from settlements of former pension plans are presented on a separate line in the income statement. If the transition is caused by changed legislation, the effect is measured at the time of the adoption of the amended law. 9. Tax expense The tax expense comprises tax payable for the period and changes in deferred tax liabilities/assets. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Tax payable is calculated on the basis of the taxable income for the year. The net deferred tax liability/asset is computed on the basis of temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax values of assets and liabilities and tax losses carried forward at the end of the financial year, with the exception of: deferred tax liabilities arising from initial recognition of taxable non­depreciable goodwill temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and where Group management itself decides when the temporary differences will be reversed, and it is probable that this will not take place in the foreseeable future. Tax increasing and tax reducing temporary differences that are reversed or can be reversed are offset against each other. Taxes are not counterbalanced across national borders. A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is probable that the company will have sufficient taxable profits to utilise the tax asset. Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets that can be recognised in the balance sheet are stated at their nominal value and netted. If the authorities are notifying a change in previous year’s tax return, the expense will normally be recognised as part of the current year's taxes. 10. Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised in the balance sheet if probable future economic benefits can be proven and attributed to the asset, and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Intangible assets are recognised in the balance sheet at their acquisition cost net of any accumulated amortisation and write­downs. If the recognition criteria are met, aquuisitions cost POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 130 also includes salary expenses. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but assessed for impairment annually (note 13 Impairment of assets has a more detailed description). Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised linearly over their estimated useful economic life. Amortisations start from the date when the intangible asset is available for its intended use. Intangible assets not yet available for use are also tested for impairment annually. 10.1. Intangible assets: Development costs The Group’s development costs mainly relate to the development of IT systems intended for internal use. Development costs are recognised in the balance sheet if all of the following criteria are met: The product or process is clearly defined and cost elements can be identified and measured reliably. The product’s technical solution has been demonstrated. The product or process will be sold or used in the business. The asset will generate future economic benefits. Adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete the project. Only when all the criteria are met, the expenses relating to development work will be recognised in the balance sheet. Otherwise, the costs will be expensed as incurred. 10.2. Intangible assets: Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, non­controlling interests and any previous interest held, over net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value at the date of an acquisition. For investments in associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the acquisition cost of the investment. 11. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recognised in the balance sheet at their acquisition cost net of accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The acquisition cost of fixed assets includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or installation of the assets. For larger investments involving a long manufacturing period, interest is capitalised as part of the acquisition cost. The acquisition cost of fixed assets is decomposed when the fixed asset consists of components that have different useful economic lives. Costs relating to normal maintenance and repairs are charged to expenses when incurred. Costs relating to replacements and renewals which significantly increase the useful economic life of the fixed assets are recognised in the balance sheet. Tangible fixed assets are depreciated linearly to allocate costs to the residual values over their estimated useful economic life. Depreciation starts from the date when the tangible fixed asset is available for its intended use. Land is not depreciated. The assets residual values, if any, depreciation method and useful lives are reviewed annually. 12. Investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures Subsidiaries are consolidated into Posten Norge's consolidated financial statements. Investments in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 131 method (details are given under section 5 Consolidation principles above). In Posten Norge AS' financial statements, investments in subsidiaries, associated company and joint venture are accounted for at historical cost. 13. Impairment of assets An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of a valuation unit exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less sales costs and value in use, where value in use is the present value of estimated cash flows relating to future use. If cash flows relating to an individual asset are independent of cash flows relating to other assets, the individual asset constitutes a valuation unit. If not, a valuation unit is identified at a higher level and is called a cash­generating unit. A cash­generating unit shall be defined consistently over time. The Group calculates future cash flows based on estimated results (forecasts and long­term plans) over a period of three years, adjusted for depreciation, investments and changes in working capital. The extrapolation period contains an extrapolation of the cash flows after the forecast period, using a constant growth rate. The present value of future cash flows is calculated using a weighted required rate of return of total capital and is calculated before tax. With the exception of goodwill, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are reversed if new information indicates that an impairment loss no longer exist or has been reduced. However, an impairment loss is not reversed if it implies that the carrying amount exceeds the value that had been determined if no impairment loss been recognised. 13.1. Impairments: Goodwill and other assets with indefinite useful lives Goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets being developed are subject to an impairment test annually, irrespective of whether or not there are any indications of impairment. 13.2. Impairments: Other assets with finite useful lives An assessment of impairment losses of other assets with finite useful lives is made when there are indications of impairment. 14. Provisions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present obligation (legal or actual) as a result of a past event, it is probable (more probable than not) that the liability will result in a financial settlement and the amount can be measured reliably. Provisions are reviewed on each balance sheet date, and their level reflects the best estimate of the liability. When the effect of the time value of money is material, the liability is recognised at the present value of future cash flows. 14.1. Provisions: Restructuring Restructuring expenses are costs incurred by the company based on a decision that entails a significant change in the company's defined business areas, either concerning the scope of the activities or the manner in which the company is operated. Provisions for restructuring are POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 132 expensed when the program has been determined and announced, and the costs are identifiable, quantifiable and not covered by corresponding revenues. The restructuring expenses include costs relating to both personnel measures and vacated premises. 14.2. Provisions: Onerous contracts Expenses related to onerous contracts concern contracts where the costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received over the contract period. 15. Contingent liabilities and assets Contingent liabilities include: possible liabilities resulting from past events whose existence depends on future events liabilities that have not been recognised because it is not probable that they will result in payments liabilities that cannot be measured with sufficient reliability Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements unless they have been acquired in a business combination. Such liabilities are provided for. Significant contingent liabilities are disclosed, unless it is unlikely that the liability will result in payments. Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but disclosed if it is probable that the Group will benefit from them. 16. Financial instruments Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the settlement date, normally at the transaction price. Financial assets are categorised as fair value through profit or loss, available for sale or loans/receivables. Financial liabilities are categorised as fair value through profit or loss or other liabilities. Financial assets and liabilities that are held with the intention of profiting on short­term fluctuations in prices (held for trading purposes) or are recognised according to the fair value option are classified as fair value through profit or loss. All other financial assets, except loans and receivables originally issued by the company and subsequently measured at amortised cost, are classified as available for sale. All other financial liabilities subsequently recognised at amortised cost are classified as other liabilities. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of financial investments classified as available for sale are recognised in other comprehensive income until the investment is derecognised. The accumulated gain or loss on the financial instrument that was previously recognised in other comprehensive income will then be reversed, and the gain or loss recognised in the income statement. Changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified as fair value through profit or loss (held for trading purposes or fair value option) are recognised and presented as finance income/expenses. Financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has become a party to the instrument's contractual terms. Financial instruments are derecognised when the contractual rights or obligations have been fulfilled, cancelled, expired or transferred. Financial instruments are classified as non­current when their expected realisation date is more than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Other financial instruments are classified as current assets or liabilities. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 133 16.1. Financial instruments: Hedging Before a hedging transaction is carried out, an assessment is made as to whether the derivative shall be used to a) hedge the fair value of an asset or liability, b) hedge future cash flows associated with an asset, liability or a future transaction, or c) hedge a net investment in a foreign entity. The Group’s criteria for classifying a derivative as a hedging instrument are as follows: (1) the hedge is expected to be very effective in that it offsets changes in the fair value of or cash flows from an identified asset or liability, and hedge effectiveness is expected to be within a range of 80­125%, (2) the effectiveness of the hedge can be measured reliably, (3) there is adequate documentation at the time of the hedging that the hedge is highly effective, (4) for cash flow hedges, the future transaction must be very likely, (5) the hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and has been determined to be highly effective during the reporting periods for which the hedge was designated. Hedge accounting ceases when: (a) the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or (b) the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting as described above 16.1.1. Hedging: Fair value Derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are measured at fair value, and changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. Correspondingly, changes in fair value of the hedged item are recognised in the income statement. 16.1.2. Hedging: Cash flows The effective portion of changes in fair value of a hedging instrument in a qualifying cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion of the hedge instrument is recognised directly in the income statement. If the hedged cash flow results in the recognition of an asset or liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified and recognised together with the asset or liability. For other cash flow hedges, gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period as the cash flow constituting the hedged item is recognised. When a hedging instrument ceases to be highly effective, hedge accounting is prospectively discontinued. In this case, the accumulated gain or loss on a hedging instrument in equity will not be reversed until the hedged transaction actually occurs. If it is no longer expected that the hedged transaction will occur, previously accumulated gains or losses on the hedging instrument in equity will be reversed and recognised in the income statement. 16.1.3. Hedging: Net investment in a foreign entity Posten Norge AS uses currency futures to hedge its net investments in foreign entities. Changes in currency futures that are designated as hedging instruments are recognised in other comprehensive income together with translation differences related to the investment POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 134 until any sale of the investment, whereby the accumulated translation differences are recognised in the income statement. The ineffective portion of the hedge instrument is recognised directly in the income statement. 16.2. Financial instruments: Derivatives that are not hedging instruments Derivatives not classified as hedging instruments are classified as held for trading purposes and assessed at fair value. Changes in fair value of such derivatives are recognised in the income statement. 16.3. Impairments: Financial instruments At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence of a financial asset or group of financial assets being impaired. Impairment losses of a financial asset or a group of financial assets are recognised only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a loss event ), and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows that can be reliably measured. Impairment losses of financial assets carried at amortised cost are recognised in the income statement. Prior impairment losses are reversed if the reduced impairment requirement can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised. However, the reversal is only recognised to the extent that it does not exceed the amortised cost that would have been determined, had no impairment loss been recognised. For financial assets classified as available for sale, accumulated gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement for the period providing objective information about impairment. A reversal of a prior impairment loss is recognised when there is new objective information related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. The reversal of a prior impairment loss is recognised in other comprehensive income for shares classified as available for sale, and is recognised in the income statement for other financial assets. 17. Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provisions for losses. Should there be any objective evidence of impairment, the difference between the recognised value and the present value of future cash flows is recorded as a loss. 18. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and bank deposits. Cash and cash equivalents are short­term liquid investments that can be converted into a known amount in cash within three months and are subject to insignificant risk. 19. Loans Loans are recognised initially at fair value when paid, net of transaction costs incurred. In subsequent periods, the loans are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortised cost is the amount at which the financial obligation is measured initially less POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 135 repayments (instalments, interest and service charges etc.), including effective interest. 20. Equity In accordance with IAS 1, Posten Norge presents other comprehensive income and changes in equity for the period in separate statements. 20.1. Equity: Translation differences Translation differences arise in connection with currency differences in the consolidation of foreign entities. Currency differences relating to monetary items (debts or receivables where settlements are neither planned, nor likely to occur within a short period of time), and in reality constitute a part of a company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary, are treated as translation differences. At a sale of a foreign entity, the accumulated translation difference related to the entity is reversed and recognised in the income statement in the same period as the gain or loss of the sale is recognised. 20.2. Equity: Hedging reserve The hedging reserve includes the total net change in fair value of the hedging instrument in cash­flow hedge until the hedged cash flow occurs or is no longer expected to occur. 20.3. Equity: Costs relating to equity transactions Transaction costs directly related to equity transactions are recognised directly in equity net of taxes. Other transaction costs are recognised in the income statement. 21. Leasing Leases are classified as either operating or finance leases, based on a review of the substance in each individual agreement. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset to the Group is classified as a finance lease. The Group presents finance leases in the financial statements as assets and liabilities, at the cost of the asset or, if lower, the present value of cash flows in the lease. When calculating the present value of the lease, the interest rate implicit in the lease is used when this can be determined. Alternatively, the company's marginal borrowing rate is used. The asset is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term. Monthly lease payments are divided into an interest element and a repayment element. Payments concerning operating leases are classified as operating expenses and recognised in the income statement over the term of the lease. 22. Events occurring after the balance sheet date New information about the company’s positions on the balance sheet date is taken into account in the financial statements. Events taking place after the balance sheet date that do not affect the company’s position on the balance sheet date, but will do so in the future, are disclosed if significant. 23. Statement of cash flows POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 136 The statement of cash flows has been prepared according to the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents consist of liquid assets, including liquid assets related to the sales network. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 137 Note 1 Segments The reporting of segments in the Group has been prepared in accordance with areas whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Posten Norge's Board to enable the Board to make decisions about resources to be allocated to each segment and assess its earnings. Revenues, assets and investments are also reported on a geographical basis, split between Norway and abroad depending on where the revenue is generated/localised, cf. sections 6 Segment reporting and 7 Revenue in the Group's accounting principles. The reporting segments contain the following: Mail: letter products, banking services and dialogue services. The segment includes the Mail Division including its subsidiaries Bring Citymail, Bring Mail and Bring Dialog. Logistics: bulk and part load, parcels, warehousing, thermo and express. The segment corresponds to the divisions Logistics Norway, Logistics Norden and E­commerce including the subsidiaries within the areas Bring Cargo, Bring Linehaul, Bring Warehousing, Bring Frigo, Bring Express, Bring Parcels, Bring Cargo International and Bring Supply Services. Other/elimination: Group administration and shared functions, together with eliminations, are allocated to segment Other. Internal revenues are turnover between the Group segments. The pricing of transactions with other segments are based on commercial terms and as if the segments were independent parties. Deferred tax assets are not allocated in allocated assets. Deferred tax liabilities and interest­bearing debt are included in non­allocated liabilities. Result per segment 2015 Mail Logistics Other/eliminations Group External revenues 9 277 15 795 2 25 074 Internal revenues 792 982 (1 774) Total operating revenues 10 069 16 777 (1 772) 25 074 External expenses including depreciation 7 718 15 189 1 481 24 388 Internal expenses 1 535 1 517 (3 052) Operating expenses 9 253 16 706 (1 571) 24 388 Write­downs (3) (382) (385) Restructuring expenses (46) (56) (2) (104) (Gains)/losses on the sale of fixed assets and subsidiaries 9 8 Other non­recurring items (63) (148) (211) Share of profit or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method (7) 13 239 245 Earnings before interest and taxes 698 (495) 36 239 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 138 Net financial items (38) 646 (696) (88) Taxes (212) Net income for the year (61) 2014 Mail Logistics Other/eliminations Group External revenues 9 371 15 028 5 24 404 Internal revenues 773 912 (1 686) Total operating revenues 10 144 15 941 (1 681) 24 404 External expenses including depreciation 7 661 13 946 1 864 23 471 Internal expenses 1 636 1 588 (3 224) Operating expenses 9 297 15 534 (1 360) 23 471 Write­downs (3) (278) (282) Restructuring expenses 11 (14) (1) (4) (Gains)/losses on the sale of fixed assets and subsidiaries 66 4 71 Other non­recurring items (1) (1) Share of profit or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method (1) 9 118 126 Earnings before interest and taxes 921 128 (205) 844 Net financial items (52) 157 (229) (123) Taxes (271) Net income for the year 449 2013 Mail Logistics Other/eliminations Group External revenues 9 613 13 944 23 557 Internal revenues 872 997 (1 869) Total operating revenues 10 485 14 941 (1 869) 23 557 External expenses including depreciation 7 651 13 169 1 612 22 432 Internal expenses 1 692 1 536 (3 228) Operating expenses 9 343 14 705 (1 616) 22 432 Write­downs (2) (242) (245) Restructuring expenses (14) (23) (30) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 139 (Gains)/losses on the sale of fixed assets and subsidiaries (2) 1 (1) Other non­recurring items (188) (187) Share of profit or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method 2 7 (31) (22) Earnings before interest and taxes 1 125 (208) (276) 641 Net financial items (50) 28 (22) Taxes (108) Net income for the year 512 Balance per segment 2015 Mail Logistics Other/eliminations Group Segment assets 4 317 10 996 (2 749) 12 564 Associated company and joint venture 20 361 381 Non­allocated assets 3 152 Total assets 16 097 Segment liabilities 3 205 4 264 (304) 7 164 Non­allocated liabilities 3 007 Total liabilities 10 172 2014 Mail Logistics Other/eliminations Group Segment assets 4 167 9 409 (1 573) 12 003 Associated company and joint venture 21 348 1 512 1 881 Non­allocated assets 2 493 Total assets 16 377 Segment liabilities 3 033 3 640 (31) 6 642 Non­allocated liabilities 3 531 Total liabilities 10 172 2013 Mail Logistics Other/eliminations Group Segment assets 4 550 8 793 (1 792) 11 552 Associated company and joint venture 21 338 1 494 1 853 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 140 Non­allocated assets 2 268 Total assets 15 674 Segment liabilities 3 032 3 509 (111) 6 430 Non­allocated liabilities 3 162 Total liabilities 9 593 Investments per segment 2015 Mail Logistics Other Group Investments in fixed assets 1) 91 965 103 1 159 Depreciation 377 412 (1) 788 Write­downs 3 382 385 2014 Mail Logistics Other Group Investments in fixed assets 1) 161 741 179 1 081 Depreciation 405 388 (3) 790 Write­downs 3 278 282 2013 Mail Logistics Other Group Investments in fixed assets 1) 106 827 159 1 092 Depreciation 435 318 (3) 750 Write­downs 2 242 245 1)Investments in fixed assets include neither the purchase of enterprises nor goodwill. Geographic information 2015 2014 2013 External revenues Norway 15 452 16 209 15 840 Abroad 1) 9 623 8 195 7 717 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 141 Total revenues 25 074 24 404 23 557 Assets Norway 13 223 13 846 13 149 Abroad 1) 2 874 2 531 2 525 Total assets 16 097 16 377 15 674 Investments during the period Norway 929 918 823 Abroad 1) 230 163 269 Total investments 1 159 1 081 1 092 1)Abroad mainly comprises other Nordic countries. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 142 Note 2 Payroll Expenses and other remunerations The note shows the Group's salary expenses for employees and expensed remunerations to the Group's Board, executives and auditors. Information about the Group's bonus and pension schemes for executives and the statement on executives' remunerations is also given in the note. Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 (All amounts in MNOK) 5 710 5 670 5 767 Salaries 7 884 7 673 7 738 752 749 760 National insurance contributions 1 218 1 165 1 173 346 379 359 Pension expenses 518 513 476 215 222 212 Other contributions 239 248 244 7 023 7 020 7 098 Payroll expenses 9 859 9 600 9 631 Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 (All amounts in TNOK) 2 242 2 374 2 471 Board remuneration 2 515 2 399 2 423 1 571 1 524 1 654 Fee for financial audit 8 824 8 630 8 271 720 768 838 Fee for other assurance services 838 946 728 616 260 416 Fee for tax advisory services 692 836 1 892 611 1 431 575 Fee for other non­audit services 1 395 2 242 1 669 5 760 6 357 5 953 Remuneration 14 263 15 054 14 982 12 918 12 572 12 398 Number of full­time equivalent positions 18 189 18 104 19 022 14 348 14 042 13 440 Number of employees 31.12 19 895 19 804 20 676 1) The number of employees is the number of permanent and temporary employed individuals that generated salary expenses in December. Social security tax on pensions is classified as pension expenses (details in note 3). Remunerations and fees POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 143 Auditor fees in 2015 mainly concerned the audit firm EY. NOK 511 000 of Fees for other non­ audit services were fees to the audit firm BDO for services rendered for foreign subsidiaries. The Board of Directors External board members did not have pension schemes or other benefits than board remuneration. Employee representatives only had pension schemes related to their employment in Posten Norge AS. The Annual General Meeting determines the remuneration to the Board of Directors of Posten Norge AS. The board fees for 2015 were approved in the Annual General Meeting on 11 June 2015, and the board members received the following remuneration in 2015: (All amounts in NOK exclusive of social security tax) Board of Directors Remuneration Remuneration Idar Kreutzer, chairman of the board 420 504 Morten Karlsen Sørby (from 12.06.2015) 106 002 Randi B. Sætershagen, vice 310 254 Odd Christian Øverland, employee representative 1) 209 004 chairman of the board Terje Wold 204 000 Paul Gamlemshaug, employee representative (to 169 500 31.10.2015 1) Gøril Hannås (to 11.06.2015) 119 001 Ann Elisabeth Wirgeness, employee representative 1) 204 000 Jørgen Randers (to 11.06.2015) 103 002 Siv Ryan Andersen, employee representative 1) 204 000 Anne Britt Berentsen 223 002 Tom Sørensen (deputy to 31.10.2015, employee 95 500 representative from 01.11.2015) 1) Tove Andersen (from 12.06.2015) 103 500 Sum 2 471 269 1) For employee representatives, the amounts only concern compensation for the board position stated. An audit committee was established in December 2008 for Posten Norge AS. The Vice Chairman of the Board Randi Sætershagen, the board members Gøril Hannås and Anne Britt Berentsen participated in the audit committee in 2015 and received fees amounting to NOK 62 502, NOK 18 501 and NOK 19 002, respectively, for this work. A compensation committee was established in June 2003 for Posten Norge AS. The Chairman of the Board Idar Kreutzer and board members Jørgen Randers, Morten Karlsen Sørby and Odd Christian Øverland were members of the compensation committee in 2015, and received NOK 10 752, NOK 2 502 and NOK 5 004, respectively, in fees. The fee for 2015 is included in the remuneration specified above. Group management – compensation Group management is defined as the persons with the authorisation and responsibility for planning and monitoring the enterprise's operations (Group management). Unless otherwise stated, the amounts below cover the entire year. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 144 (All amounts in NOK exclusive of social security tax) Group management Basic pay 1) Expensed bonus Other benefits 2) Pension cost Period of notice Severance Dag Mejdell 3) 4 087 653 495 102 6 201 3 002 970 6 months 9 months Gro Bakstad 2 684 059 310 070 6 201 1 601 055 6 months No Elisabeth H. Gjølme 2 030 050 157 538 6 201 690 784 6 months 9 months Randi Løvland 1 826 912 207 306 185 961 259 025 6 months 9 months Tore K. Nilsen 3 364 272 339 188 6 201 587 114 6 months 9 months Tone Wille 2 389 070 220 500 6 201 357 677 6 months No Gunnar Henriksen 2 015 032 169 092 126 119 309 760 6 months No Thomaas Tscherning 4) 2 964 298 208 169 242 839 863 6 months 9 months Sum 21 361 345 2 106 965 343 325 7 648 247 1) Basic pay includes wages, car allowance, holiday pay and pension compensation. 2) Include company cars and electronic communication 3) Chief Executive Officer Dag Mejdall has a loan with Posten Norge AS, with an outstanding balance of NOK 642 858 as of 31 December 2015. The interest rate as of 31 December 2015 is 2,7%, and the loan runs until 27 June 2020. 4) Group director Thomas Tscherning has received his salary in Swedish kroner. Translated into Norwegian kroner with an average exchange rate for the year of 0,9571 Bonus schemes Posten Norge AS has a bonus program for the CEO and Group management. The scheme has two parts, one element based on the consolidated Group results and one on individual results. A bonus of up to 25% of the salary can be achieved. The final decision regarding bonuses is made by the board (the CEO for Group management). Bonuses are only paid to persons maintaining their positions as at 31 December. In addition, Posten Norge AS has bonus­based remuneration for division management, regional management, other key personnel and sales staff. Bonus payments are based on defined Group and individual targets. Specific upper limits for bonus payments are defined in the different schemes. The majority of the Group’s subsidiaries have bonus schemes for executives connected to achieving results and/or individual criteria. In certain subsidiaries, sales personnel and other key personnel also have bonus­based pay, while others pay a productivity bonus to all employees. Pension schemes Group management has the same pension schemes and pension terms as other employees in POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 145 the company (cf. item 5 under the Statement on the determination of salaries and other remuneration to executives in Posten Norge AS and Posten Norge AS’ wholly owned subsidiaries). There are exceptions for executives joining Group management before 31 December 2006. They have a defined benefit pension scheme of 66% based on operations with a retirement age of 65 for the CEO and 64 years for other executives. This scheme was closed on 31 December 2006. New members of Group management after 31 December 2006 have a defined contribution scheme based on operations with annual contributions limited to 25% of the salary that exceeds the pensionable income over 12G in Norway. This scheme was closed in February 2015 for employees in Posten Norge AS and in October 2015 for employees in Norwegian subsidiaries. Severance pay For the CEO there is an agreement to reduce severance pay against other income after three months. Severance pay agreements for members of Group management include clauses of curtailment against other income. Statement on the determination of salaries and other remuneration to executives in Posten Norge AS and Posten Norge AS’ wholly owned subsidiaries (Approved by the Board on 18 February 2016) This statement is based on Guidelines for salaries and other remuneration to executives in state enterprises and companies (established by the Ministry of Trade and Fisheries effective from 13 February 2015) and has been prepared by the Board in accordance with the Articles of Association section 8, last paragraph, cf. the Public Limited Company Act section 6­16a. The declaration will be reviewed in Posten Norge's Annual General Meeting. The declaration applies until either the Board repeals it or adopts a new declaration. The declaration applies to the Group CEO and Group Executive Vice Presidents reporting to the Group CEO (Group Management) in Posten Norge AS. The statement correspondingly applies to the CEO and executives reporting to the CEOs in Posten Norge AS' wholly owned subsidiaries. This group is called senior employees . The declaration has two main parts. Part I deals with the executive remuneration policy that has been followed in the preceding financial year, cf. the Public Limited Companies Act section 6­16 a, first, third and fourth paragraphs. Part II contains guidelines for determining management salaries for the coming fiscal year, cf. the Public Limited Companies Act section 6­16 a, second paragraph. The guidelines in Part II apply in full when new agreements are made in the coming financial year, and shall otherwise be followed as far as possible within the framework of the agreements concluded upon earlier. Implementation of new guidelines New guidelines for senior employees in Posten Norge AS and wholly owned subisidiaries became effective on 13 February 2015 as stated in Part II of this statements. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 146 In 2015, the pension scheme of contribution for income over 12G was discontinued in Posten Norge AS and wholly owned Norwegian subsidiaries, and senior employees will not be offered such contribution. For senior employees who were members of the scheme, it will be carried on in their present employment. For 2016, separate guidelines and routines have been established for following up salary levels and variable salaries also for senior employees in wholly owned subsidiaries. Part I (policy for executive remuneration in the previous year) The fees in 2015 have been in accordance with Statement of salaries and other remuneration to executives in Posten Norge AS, adopted on 26 February 2015 (last year's statement). No new employment contracts or severance pay agreements for senior employees have been made in Posten Norge AS in 2015. The Board has not approved any long­term incentive scheme for senior employees in 2015, as the statement allows for. Some agreements concluded before 31 March 2011 deviate from last year's statement about severance pay and last year's statement on retirement. Notes 2 and 3 to the 2015 financial statements for Posten Norge AS include complete overviews of the remunerations. Last year's statement did not comprise Posten Norge AS' wholly owned subsidiaries. Part II (policy for executive remuneration in the coming year) The guidelines in this Part II apply to Posten Norge AS. If not specifically stated in the text, the guidelines apply correspondingly for Posten Norge AS' wholly owned subsidiaries. 1. The main principles for the executive remuneration policy The total remuneration, in the following is referred to as executive pay, shall be competitive, but not leading, compared to similar companies. The Board in each company shall have an overview of the total compensation for each executive. Posten Norge AS shall be adequately informed and ensure that the statement of salaries are adhered to in all companies for which the statement applies. 2. Elements of executive pay 2.1 Base salary The main element of executive pay shall be the fixed salary. The objective is to have competitive salaries without being a wage leader for the same type of positions. To support the ongoing reviews of salary levels, market information about executive compensation shall be collected annually from a recognised international company with satisfactory statistics from Norway, Sweden and Denmark. 2.2 Variable pay POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 147 Individual agreements on variable pay with senior management can be made on the basis of performance, with an economic framework of up to six months' salary. A system of variable pay (bonus) must be transparent and clearly understandable. The individual goals are set for one year at a time and should always be described and based on objective, definable and measurable criteria on which the manager can have an influence. The basis for calculating the bonus shall comprise both common Group goals and individual goals for each manager. The objectives shall be linked to the results achieved within the following main categories: economic / financial goals, HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), the external environment, customers, strategy and the individual's professional responsibility. The category economic /financial targets is calculated after achieving the established budget, and can be a common Group goal as well as an individual goal for each manager. Bonus targets shall always include the Group's return on invested capital (ROIC) and at least one HSE target. The corporate goals in Posten Norge AS shall constitute between 60 and 100% of the bonus potential, and the individual targets between 0 and 40%. In wholly owned subsidiaries, the corporate goals shall constitute a minimum of 20% of the bonus potential. Within the economic framework of six months, the Board in Posten Norge AS can, in addition, establish a long­term incentive plan that measures the added value over time. 2.3 Other benefits Senior employees may receive benefits in kind customary for comparable positions. 2.4 Insurance Senior employees shall have the same level of insurance coverage as other employees. 2.5 Severance pay Advance agreements can be made about a reasonable amount of severance pay for senior employees in Posten Norge AS, taking effect if the employee does not contest the notice. Total severance compensation on retirement shall not exceed 12 months' salary. Severance pay should be reduced proportionately with new annual income (calculated from the period of notice). Severance pay is not applicable for voluntary resignations. Severance is not used if there are valid reasons for dismissal or if irregularities or omissions that may lead to liability or prosecution for offenses for the individual are discovered in the period. 3. Share options and programs Senior employees shall not receive compensation in the form of share options or shares in the parent company or subsidiaries, or a cash bonus linked to an assessed value growth of the share. 4. Board remuneration POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 148 Senior employees shall not receive special compensation for board positions in other Group companies. 5. Pension benefits Senior employees shall be members of the same pension scheme and have the same pension terms as other employees in the company. Posten Norge AS and the Norwegian wholly owned subsidiaries shall have defined contribution schemes, where the pension basis shall not exceed 12G. For foreign wholly owned subsidiaries, the individual national rules and practice shall be followed The employer's payments to the contribution scheme shall be made only in the period of employment, preventing costs to incur after a senior employee has resigned from his/her position in the company. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 149 Note 3 Pensions The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit plans. The defined benefit schemes are predictable for the employee and characterised by the fact that the payments have been agreed in advance. The premium payments depend on factors like the members' service time, age and salary level. In the contribution schemes, the payments are determined as a percentage of the emloyee's salary. The size of the pension assets determines how much pension the employee is entitled to, and as a consequence, the employees have the return risk on what has been paid into the scheme. The majority of the Group's pension schemes are based on contribution More information is available in section 3 «Accounting estimates» and section 8 «Pensions» in the Group's accounting principles. Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 Pension costs: 119 131 66 Present value of the pensions earned for 74 171 145 the year Administration costs 1 29 34 19 Net interest expense on net liabilities 27 40 36 Plan changes recognised in the income (5) (5) statement 149 164 84 Gross pension cost incl. social 101 206 176 security tax (benefit based) (2) (2) (1) Employees’ 2% contribution (1) (2) (2) (26) (29) (16) Interest element reclassified to finance item (24) (37) (33) 121 132 67 Net pension cost incl. social 75 167 142 security tax (benefit based) 330 352 400 Defined contribution pension schemes 556 456 445 (105) (105) (108) Employee contributions to defined (113) (110) (110) contribution pension schemes 346 379 359 Total pension expenses included 518 513 476 in operating profit for the year Net pension liabilities: (26) (27) (25) Estimated accrued secured liabilities (481) (502) (420) 21 22 22 Estimated value of the pension assets 264 246 227 (5) (5) (4) Net estimated secured pension (216) (256) (192) (liabilities)/assets (861) (874) (782) Estimated accrued unsecured pension (802) (895) (881) liabilities (866) (880) (786) Net estimated pension (1 017) (1 150) (1 073) (liabilities)/assets in the balance POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 150 sheet Pension funds recognised as financial non­ 2 2 current assets (866) (880) (786) Pension liabilities recognised as provisions (1 019) (1 152) (1 073) for liabilities Changes in liabilities: (828) (866) (880) Net (liabilities) assets at 01.01. (1 150) (1 073) (1 038) (149) (164) (84) Gross pension expenses (101) (206) (167) 132 144 150 Premium payments and benefits paid 161 189 150 2 3 1 Contributions from sheme members 1 3 2 Adjustment of previous period’s pension 6 (2) 1 liabilities (22) 3 27 Changes in pension estimates recognised 87 (56) (1) in total comprehensive income Translation differences (21) (5) (19) (866) (880) (786) Net pension (liabilities)/assets at (1 017) (1 150) (1 073) 31.12. The main categories of pension assets at fair value: 2 2 1 Equity instruments (shares, bonds) 124 109 90 16 16 17 Debt instruments 108 104 108 2 2 3 Property 22 19 20 1 1 1 Other assets 11 14 10 21 22 22 Total pension assets 264 246 227 398 Losses/(gains) on pension 494 estimates at 31.12. 16 Changes in discount rate, pension liabilitiest 29 30 Changes in other financial assumptions, 56 pension liabilities (14) Changes in demographic assumptions, (10) pension liabilities (6) Changes in other factors, pension liabilities 14 1 Changes in other factors, pension assets 27 Total 87 425 Losses/(gains) on pension total in 582 other comprehensive income at 31.12. Defined contribution pension schemes POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 151 18 125 17 671 17 728 Number of members 22 474 22 487 23 818 5−8% 5−13% 5−20% Share of salary 1−30% 1−30% 1−30% Defined benefit pension schemes Actuarial assumptions: 4,0% 2,3% 2,5% Discount rate 2,5% 2,3% 4,0% 3,75% 2,75% 2,5% Expected salary regulation 2,5−3,2% 2−3,2% 3,75% 3,5% 2,5% 2,25% Expected G regulation 2,25% 2,5−2,75% 3,5% 2,5−3,25% 1,75−2,5% 1,5−2,25% Expected pension regulation 1,5−2,25% 1,5−5,0% 0,6−4,0% 4,4% 2,3% 2,5% Expected yield 2,5% 2,3% 4,0−5,0% 8% 4,7% 3,5% Expected voluntary retirement (below 50 2−3,5% 2−12,6% 2−12,6% years) 2,5% 1,8% 1,5% Expected voluntary retirement (over 50 1,5­2% 1,5−2,58% 1,5−2,58% years) 50% 35−50% 35−50% Expected use of AFP 35−50% 35−50% 50% K2013 K2013 K2013 Demographic assumptions on mortality rate K2013 K2013 K2013 Defined contribution schemes Group The Group has defined contribution schemes for most of the employees in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, and the premium is expensed when incurred. Some companies in the Group's Swedish operations had defined benefit schemes, ITP2, which, pursuant to IAS 19, do not qualify for recognition in the balance sheet. In accordance with Swedish rules, the pension liability is covered by a capital insurance and accounted for as a contribution scheme in the consolidated financial statements. The defined contribution pension plans in Sweden and Denmark had variable contribution rates based on different calculation bases and rate ranges. In Sweden, as an example, the calculation basis for some employees is a so­called income base amount (IBB). In 2015, this constituted 58 100 Swedish kroner. The contribution amounts were calculated in three intervals with a low rate from an annual salary of 0­7,5 IBB, the next interval 7,5­20 and a high rate of 20­30 IBB. This shall result in yields of 10%, 65% and 32,5%, respectively, of the annual salary. Posten Norge AS The bulk of the parent company's pension costs concern contribution pension and disability pension, annually expensed in the income statement by the amount paid to the pension supplier. The contribution rates in 2013 and the first half­year of 2014 were 5.0% for salaries between 1 ­ 6G (the national insurance basic amount) and 8% for salaries between 6 ­ 12 G. From 1 July POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 152 2014, the contribution rates were 5% for salaries between 0 to 7,1G and 13% for salaries in the range 7 ­ 12G, and from 1 July 2015, the rates were increased from 13% to 20% for salaries between 7,1G and 12G. Employees contribute to the pension scheme though salary deductions. The AFP (early retirement) scheme Group On 1 November 2011, the parent company and most of the Norwegian subsidiaries transferred to a new AFP scheme (the joint scheme for AFP in the private sector). The new AFP scheme is a multiple company plan considered to be a defined benefit plan. For the time being, however, there is not adequate information available to measure the pension obligation in a reliable manner, and the scheme is therefore accounted for as a contribution plan. Some provisions related to AFP have been reversed in 2015 and thereby reduced the pension cost for the year. Employees still being members of the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund (SPK) have kept their rights in accordance with the AFP scheme in the public sector. Defined benefit schemes Group The parent company and a few subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans. Some of these schemes are nevertheless presented as contribution plans and expensed on a current basis. Pension funds in the Group basically relate to benefit schemes for companies in the Bring Cargo Group and Bring Frigo AB. Posten Norge AS The bulk of the parent company's benefit schemes is related to the fact that Posten withdrew from the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund, and those employed at the date of the transition have become entitled to various compensation and guarantee schemes. A disability pension has been introduced which provides benefits corresponding to 66% of the employee's pay without a paid­up policy accrual, and Posten Norge also has significant obligations concerning salaries in excess of 12G. Pension obligations related to salaries in excess of 12G and early retirement pension are financed by the company's operations. Posten Norge's defined benefit pension schemes are in accordance with the legislation on company pensions, and the pension funds are managed by life insurance companies. Posten Norge's benefit pension schemes were closed on 31 December 2005, with the exception of plans for senor employees that were closed on 31 December 2006. Consequently, the liabilities connected with most of the schemes will be terminated over time. Assumptions From 2015, changes have been made to the financial assumptions, basically in accordance with recommendations from the Norwegian Accounting Standards Board (NRS). Posten Norge POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 153 uses covered bonds (OMF) as its basis for the discount rate, and set the rate to 2,5% in 2015 against 2,3% in 2014. This interest was 0,2 percentage points lower than the recommendation from NRS, as it was considered to give a better estimate of the obligation, in view of the relatively short horizon for payments that exist for the schemes. A new mortality rate table (K2013) was used when estimating the liability as of 31 December 2013. For Posten Norge, the change in the table increased the actuarial loss of MNOK 50 recognised in other comprehensive income, constituting 76% of the net actuarial loss in 2013. For the Group, the estimated reduction in equity as a consequence of the change in mortality table was estimated to MNOK 54. The subsidiaries have principally applied the same long­term economic assumptions for benefit schemes as the parent company, but they are adjusted for country­specific macro­economic circumstances. The general retirement age for the Norwegian employees is 67 years. Sensitivity The table below shows estimates for possible effect of changes in some assumptions for defined benefit pension schemes. The estimates are based on facts and circumstances as at 31 December 2015 with the assumption that all other premises are unchanged. The actual figures can deviate significantly from these estimates. Discount rate Pension regulation Voluntary retirement Change (percentage points) +1% ­1% +1% ­1% +1% ­1% Change in pension obligation ­14% 17% 5% ­4% ­4% 4% POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 154 Note 4 Other operating expenses Other operating expenses are cost not directly related to the sale of goods and services, salaries and personnel costs or depreciation/write­downs. Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 936 880 870 Cost of premises 1 161 1 165 1 247 295 264 283 Other rental expenses 365 372 399 717 753 587 IT services 627 828 843 196 193 200 Other external services 439 382 361 95 92 106 Tools, fixures, operating materials 138 123 130 70 72 84 Repair and maintenance of equiment 118 112 102 81 79 82 Travel expenses 188 177 169 37 36 39 Telephone 187 176 92 111 103 100 Marketing 117 124 134 36 34 51 Insurance, guarantee and compensation expenses 113 85 86 41 37 38 Accounting and payroll services 44 46 48 74 102 115 Other expenses 317 317 229 2 689 2 645 2 554 Totalt operating expenses 3 814 3 907 3 840 Group In addition to costs related to premises and other rental expenses, the most significant part of the Group's other operating expenses concerns IT services. The decrease in IT services is due to lower project activities and new contracts (operations and administration). The reason for the increased other external services is to a large degree more use of temporary staff and consultants in the Group. The increase in insurance, guarantee and compensation expenses is a result of increased volumes and that the production is now taking place in the Group's own network. Posten Norge AS Posten Norge AS has significant costs related to premises and leases. The reduction in these costs is mainly a consequence of the closure of post offices. The parent company has substantial IT costs in line with the changes in the Group, as described above. The domestic groupage and part loads activities in Bring Cargo AS were transferred to Posten Norge AS in 2015, and this has generally increased costs in the parent company, with the exception of IT costs. The increase in other expenses mainly constitutes losses on receivables. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 155 Note 5 Other income and expenses Other income and expenses comprise significant income and costs that are non­recurring, and includes restructuring costs and gain and loss at the sale of fixed assets (details in section 3 Accounting estimates and section 14 Provisions in the Groups accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 (16) 12 (55) Restructuring expenses (104) (4) (30) (5) 80 249 Gain/(loss) on sale of fixed assets 8 71 (1) (262) (217) (767) Other income/(expense) (211) (1) (187) (283) (125) (574) Total other income and (expenses) (307) 66 (218) Restructuring expenses The restructuring expenses include restructuring costs and severance pay. Group In 2015, the Group made a provision of MNOK 109 for restructuring costs and reversed the previous years' provision of MNOK 5. The corresponding provision in 2014 amounted to MNOK 41 MNOK 55 in 2013. MNOK 95 of the provision of MNOK 119 concerned personnel initiatives and MNOK 13 premises. The provisions were basically made in Posten Norge AS, Cargo Inrikes AB, Bring Cargo International AB and Bring Frigo Sverige AB. Total provisions for restructuring are shown in note 11. Posten Norge AS In 2015, Posten Norge AS had a provision for restructuring costs of MNOK 60, and reversed provisions from the previous year of MNOK 5. The corresponding provision in 2014 amounted to MNOK 25 and in 2013 MNOK 41. The provision of MNOK 60 concerned personnel initiatives. Gain/loss on the sale of fixed assets Group The sale of fixed assets concerned disposals. Posten Norge AS Posten Norge AS sold their shares in EVRY ASA in 2015, with a gain of MNOK 249 for the parent company and MNOK 219 for the Group. In the Group, the gain was classified as income from associated company (note 10). Other income and expenses POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 156 Group Other income and expenses in 2015 and 2013 mainly concerned onerous contracts in connection with a market regulation of rental contracts in the Logistics segment. On 31 December 2015, an agreement on the sale of the thermo warehousing business in Denmark was made, where the terms demonstrate that the market rent level in Denmark is lower than expected. There was a need for providing for additional losses in 2015, as the sale did not include the transfer of the lease contracts. I 2015, Other expenses also included costs related to a settlement with the logistics company DB Schenker. In 2010, DB Schenker made a claim for compensation against Posten Norge in connection with the ESA case about former exclusivity clauses in the Post in Store agreements from 2000 until 2006. The settlement was signed in July 2015 Posten Norge AS In 2015, Other income and expenses mainly concerned write­downs of shares in subsidiaries, of which the most significant amounts were MNOK 282 in Bring Cargo International AB, MNOK 202 in Bring Frigo AB and MNOK 200 in Bring Cargo Inrikes AB. Note 10 has more details. Other income and expenses in 2014 and 2013 also concerned write­downs of shares in subsidiaries. In addition to write­downs of shares, Other expenses in 2015 included costs related to a settlement with the logistics company DB Schenker as mentioned above. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 157 Note 6 Financial income and ﬁnancial expenses The note gives an overview of the Group's finance income and expenses, including income and costs related to the Group's financing, currency effects from receivables and debt in foreign currencies, in addition to gain and loss from financial derivatives (cf. also section 16 Financial instruments in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 69 74 65 Interest income from group companies 110 60 44 Other interest income 50 67 128 161 117 235 Currency gains 321 175 199 120 293 181 Gains on derivatives 180 108 120 2 2 1 Other financial income 2 3 3 462 546 525 Financial income 551 354 450 21 25 19 Interest expenses to group companies 1 Interest expenses on financial leases 3 3 4 136 124 97 Other interest expenses 98 132 145 117 102 173 Currency losses 265 158 162 153 272 208 Losses on derivatives 66 78 12 120 61 158 Losses on loans at fair value through profit 1) 158 61 120 21 20 23 Other financial expenses 50 45 29 568 603 678 Financial expenses 639 477 472 1) Value change on loan in Japanese yen, where a fair value option has been applied, corresponds to value changes in combined interest and currency swaps recognised as gain on derivatives . Details are given in note 19. Group Other interest income in 2015 included MNOK 12 in net value increase on current market investments. Other interest expenses in 2015 included interest costs on net pension obligations constituting MNOK 25 for the Group. Other finance expenses in the Group were primarily interest costs related to long­term financing. Note 18 has details on the Group's financial risk and capital management. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 158 Posten Norge AS The comments for the Group concerning other interest income are considered adequate also for Posten Norge AS. Other interest expenses for 2015 included interest costs on net pension obligations constituting MNOK16 for Posten Norge AS. Other interest expenses in Posten Norge AS primarily concerned interest costs related to long term financing. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 159 Note 7 Taxes The note accounts for the authorities' taxation of the profit in the Group companies. The tax expense is calculated on the basis of the accounting result and is split into the period's tax payable and change in deferred tax/deferred tax assets. Deferred tax liabilities/assets arise when the accounting and taxable accruals differ (cf. also section 3 Accounting estimates and section 9 Tax expense in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 INCOME TAXES 45 105 67 Tax payable 159 203 107 (13) 59 41 Changes in deferred tax (deferred tax asset) 53 68 1 32 163 107 Tax expense 212 271 108 194 93 67 Tax payable for the year 160 189 249 2 Adjustments previous years (1) 7 (2) (151) 12 Other 7 (140) 45 105 67 Tax payable 159 203 107 7% 33% ­76% Effective tax rate 140% 38% 17% Reconciliation of the effective tax rate with the Norwegian tax rate: 469 496 (140) Earnings before tax 151 720 619 131 134 (38) 27% tax 41 194 173 Write­downs of goodwill 97 66 32 78 63 196 Other non­deductible expenses 15 10 44 (11) (33) (68) Non­taxable income (75) (46) (6) Effect from tax rates in other contries 18 12 11 (5) 16 Effect of changes in tax rate 24 2 (4) Adjustments previous years (4) 4 (4) Not­recognised deferred tax asset 103 42 (2) (162) Other (7) (13) (136) 32 163 107 Tax expense 212 271 108 Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 Changes in deferred tax recorded directly in other POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 160 comprehensive income (6) 1 7 Actuarial gains and losses 21 (13) (2) Translation differences from hedging of investments in foreign entities (38) (3) (38) 2 1 5 Cash flow hedging 5 1 2 20 5 Effect of change in tax rate (1) 20 16 2 17 Total (12) (15) (19) Group The increase in effective tax rate compared to last year, from 38% to 140% for the Group, is mainly due to a write­down of goodwill and increase in deferred tax assets not recognised in the balance sheet in Swedish subsidiaries. The effect is to some extent offset of tax­free income, mostly related to the sale of shares. In addition, the tax expense has increased as a consequence of a reduced tax rate, principally in Norway. The effect of the changed tax rate recognised in the Group result is MNOK 24 Posten Norge AS The effective tax rate was negative by 76%. This is due to permanent differences related to the write­down of shares and other financial non­current assets, in addition to tax­free gain at the sale of shares. The tax expense has also increased as a consequence of the reduced tax rate to 25% in Norway. This is effective from 2016 and taken into consideration in the calculation of deferred tax assets. The effect of the changed tax rate recognised in the income statement amounts to MNOK 16. Changes in deferred tax/tax asset Group 01.01.2015 Additions Recognised Recognised in Other Translation Effect of 31.12.2015 subsidiaries in equity income statement differences change in tax rate Tangible fixed assets 27 1 1 (2) 2 1 29 Retained gains and losses 1 (27) 2 (24) Receivables (4) (3) Inventories (1) Currency 12 20 (2) 30 Pensions (283) 22 20 (4) 16 (229) Contribution fund 39 (14) (2) 23 Provisions (59) (67) (1) 9 (120) Financial instruments (50) (33) 42 3 (43) Other (14) 18 1 7 Tax losses carried forward (348) (1) 10 (62) (26) 2 (425) Total deferred (682) 1 1 (73) (28) 29 (754) tax/(tax asset) Total not­recognised in 262 (3) 103 19 (5) 375 balance sheet Total deferred (420) 1 (2) 29 (9) 23 (379) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 161 tax/(tax asset) Posten Norge AS 01.01.2015 Recognised in Recognised in income Other Effect of change in tax 31.12.2015 equity statement rate Tangible fixed assets (34) 20 1 (13) Retained gains and losses 3 (1) 2 Receivables (2) (8) 1 (8) Inventories (1) Currency 12 20 (2) 30 Pensions (238) 7 18 16 (196) Contribution fund 39 (14) (2) 23 Provisions (31) (31) 5 (58) Financial instruments (51) 5 (1) 4 (43) Other (20) 20 Total deferred tax/(tax (323) 12 24 21 (265) asset) Group The ordinary corporate tax for companies domiciled in Norway was reduced from 27% to 25% with effect from 2016. The tax rate of 25% is the basis in the calculation of the value of deferred tax assets for the Group's Norwegian companies. This resulted in a reduction in deferred tax assets of MNOK 23. The effect of the changed tax rate is related to the underlying assets recognised partly in the income statement and partly in other comprehensive income. The tax effect has been recognised correspondingly. The effect of the changed tax rate recognised in other comprehensive income of – 1 MNOK mainly concerns changes in pension estimates, offset by hedges in foreign subsidiaries. Denmark has reduced its tax rate from 23,5% to 22% with effect from 2016. The Group's Danish companies have not recognised any deferred tax assets in their balance sheets, and the effect recognised in the income statement is insignificant. Deferred tax assets not recognised mainly concerned losses to carry forward in Sweden and Denmark. The Group had a total of MNOK 425 in deferred tax assets related to losses carried forward as at 31 December 2015. There is no time limit connected with the losses. The losses to carry forward included in the basis for the deferred tax assets recognised in the balance sheet are based on expected future profits and opportunities for group contributions. Posten Norge AS Deferred tax assets in Posten Norge AS have been reduced by MNOK 21 as a consequence of the reduced tax rate. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 162 The effect of the changed tax rate is related to the underlying assets recognised partly in the income statement and partly in other comprehensive income. The tax effect has been recognised correspondingly. The effect of the changed tax rate recognised in other comprehensive income of 5 MNOK mainly concerns changes in pension estimates. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 163 Note 8 Intangible assets Intangible assets are non­physical assets and mainly concern capitalised IT development, including specially adapted software and goodwill in connection with acquisitions of businesses. Intangible assets and goodwill are subject to significant estimation uncertainty (cf. also section 3 Accounting estimates and section 10 Intangible assets in the Group's accounting principles). Group In-house developed intangible Purchased intangible assets assets ITProjects in ITProjects in Goodwill Total development progress development progress etc. etc. Acquisition cost 01.01.2015 5 2 072 227 3 020 5 324 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (4) (1 733) (867) (2 604) 01.01.2015 Carrying amount 01.01.2015 1 339 227 2 153 2 720 Additions 1 1 93 23 118 Additions through company acquisitions (Note 13 13 23 ) Amortisation for the year (1) (242) (243) Write­downs for the year (360) (360) Adjustment of cost price/scrapping (2) (2) Translation differences 2 92 93 Transfers from projects in progress 183 (183) Carrying amount 31.12.2015 1 1 372 66 1 898 2 339 Acquisition cost 31.12.2015 7 1 2 345 66 3 372 5 790 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (5) (1 972) (1 474) (3 451) 31.12.2015 Carrying amount 31.12.2015 1 1 372 66 1 898 2 339 Acquisition cost 01.01.2014 7 1 892 310 2 935 5 145 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (6) (1 356) (206) (604) (2 172) 01.01.2014 Carrying amount 01.01.2014 2 537 103 2 331 2 973 Additions 34 156 190 Disposals (1) (1) Additions through company acquisitions (Note 52 52 23 ) Amortisation for the year (1) (263) (264) Write­downs for the year (253) (253) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 164 Adjustment of cost price/scrapping (10) 10 Translation differences 24 24 Transfers from projects in progress 43 (43) Carrying amount 31.12.2014 1 339 227 2 153 2 720 Acquisition cost 31.12.2014 5 2 072 227 3 020 5 324 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (4) (1 733) (867) (2 604) 31.12.2014 Carrying amount 31.12.2014 1 339 227 2 153 2 720 Amortisation method Straight line Straight line Useful life 3­10 years 3­10 years Posten Norge AS In-house developed intangible Purchased intangible assets assets ITProjects in ITProjects in Goodwill Total development progress development progress etc. etc. Acquisition cost 01.01.2015 1 799 227 2 026 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (1 498) (1 498) 01.01.2015 Carrying amount 01.01.2015 302 227 528 Additions 87 22 109 Amortisation for the year (224) (224) Adjustment of cost price/scrapping (2) (2) Intercompany transfers 441 441 Transfers from projects in progress 183 (183) Carrying amount 31.12.2015 346 66 441 853 Acquisition cost 31.12.2015 2 060 66 441 2 567 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (1 714) (1 714) 31.12.2015 Carrying amount 31.12.2015 346 66 441 853 Acquisition cost 01.01.2014 1 607 287 1 894 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (1 121) (187) (1 308) 01.01.2014 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 165 Carrying amount 01.01.2014 486 100 586 Additions 31 156 186 Amortisation for the year (244) (244) Adjustment of cost price/scrapping (10) 10 Transfers from projects in progress 40 (40) Carrying amount 31.12.2014 302 227 528 Acquisition cost 31.12.2014 1 799 227 2 026 Accumulated amortisation and write­downs (1 498) (1 498) 31.12.2014 Carrying amount 31.12.2014 302 227 528 Amortisation method Straight line Straight line Useful life 3­10 years 3­10 years IT development etc. Group Total intangible assets related to IT development etc. recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 constituted MNOK 373, of which MNOK 346 concerned Posten Norge AS. A group­shared IT platform was capitalised by MNOK 84. MNOK 48 concerned Oracle E­ business Suite, comprising solutions for a shared address register, response sending system, accounting and salary systems, as well as an HR and order system. The program also includes a new route register which, together with the shared address register, will provide more automated and detailed route planning. The solution gives the Group an improved basis for managing and planning staffing levels and the distribution of mail and advertising in an efficient manner. A development platform and shared client software for the use of handheld terminals amounting to MNOK 46 were recognised in the balance sheet, as well as a production support system for tracking and tracing parcels totalling MNOK 19. Also included in the balance sheet are several projects concerning web solutions aiming to make the mail handling and tracing of parcels and home deliveries more effective. As part of Posten Norge's adaptation of services to new user needs, a solution for a secure digital postal system, Digipost, has been developed. At year end, it had 587 000 users and was capitalised at MNOK 36. For intangible assets that have a finite useful economic life, the amortisation period for the Group was 3­10 years in 2015 (3­10 years in 2014 and 2013), depending on the useful economic life of each individual component based on an individual assessment. In the income statement, the amortisation for the year is presented on the line for depreciation and amortisation. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 166 Posten Norge AS The information for the Group primarily concerns Posten Norge AS. Projects in progress Group Projects in progress at 31 December 2015 amounted to MNOK 67, of which approximately MNOK 52 concerned a project for a group­shared transformation program to support line management in their efforts to achieve the Group's strategic and operating goals. The program comprises several IT investments that in total shall contribute to give the Group an improved basis for its operations. Posten Norge AS The information for the Group primarily concerns Posten Norge AS. Impairment of IT development etc. and projects in progress Impairment costs are presented on the line for write­downs in the income statement. No impairment was recognised in 2015 or 2014 for IT development etc. or projects in progress. The write­downs in 2013 of MNOK 123 mainly concerned a system for the planning and managing of transport activities that will be replaced by other transportation systems in the future. Goodwill Group Goodwill is allocated to cash­generating units based on an assessment of cash flows related to the business or business group (operating segment) to which the goodwill pertains. If the cash flows are independent of cash flows related to other entities, the individual entity comprises the cash­generating unit, and if not, goodwill is allocated to a valuation unit at a higher level. Goodwill in the Group is summarised below. Group Carrying amount Additions Intercompany Write-downs Translation Carrying amount 01.01.15 transfers differences 31.12.15 Bring Dialog Norge 45 45 Bring Mail Nordic 25 2 28 Total Mail Segment 71 2 73 Posten Norge AS − Logistics 441 441 division Bring Express Norge 60 122 182 Bring Express Norden 217 (122) (9) 9 94 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 167 Bring Warehousing 64 64 Bring Cargo 729 (435) 4 298 Bring Frigo Sverige 466 12 (120) 40 398 Bring Frigo Norge 60 60 Bring Linehaul 8 1 10 Bring Cargo Inrikes 39 4 42 Bring Cargo International 428 (231) 34 230 Bring Gudbrandsdalen 13 (6) 6 Total Logistics Segment 2 082 13 (360) 89 1 825 Total Group 2 153 13 (360) 92 1 898 Additions goodwill The addition of MNOK 441 in Posten Norge AS concerned intercompany transfers from Bring Cargo and Bring Gudbrandsdalen. Details on acquisitions and disposals of companies, together with other changes in the Group structure, are given in note 23. Impairment of goodwill Impairment costs are presented on the line for write­downs in the income statement. Goodwill is subject to annual impairment tests. If there are any indications of impairment during the year, goodwill is tested when these indications occurs. The Group uses the value in use as the recoverable amount for goodwill. Forecasts Future cash flows are calculated on the basis of estimated results (forecasts and long­term plans) over a period of three years, adjusted for depreciation, investments and changes in working capital. Forecasts and long­term plans for group entities are prepared by local management based on the most recent available general economic indicators and market expectations, considered against strategic goals, historical results and other factors. Final forecasts are approved by Group management. The Mail segment is characterised by a decline in volume of letters, some increased price pressure and efficiency efforts in production and distribution. Significant cost elements are salaries and external service and operating expenses that are affected by price negotiations and inflation. In the Logistics segment, profit margins are characterised by strong competition and inflation. Significant cost elements are external service costs that are affected by price negotiations and inflation. The Group is sensitive to fluctuations in market trends in Norway and the Nordic countries, especially related to the Logistics segment. This is reflected in the growth rates of the Group entities. Other assumptions (growth and discount rate) The extrapolation period contains a projection of cash flows after the forecast period, using a constant growth rate. The growth rate per segment is stated in the table below. Growth rates POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 168 do not exceed the long­term average rate in the areas where the Group operates. The present value of future cash flows is calculated using a weighted average cost of capital for each segment before tax. The required rate of return for equity is calculated by using the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The required rate of return for debt is estimated on the basis of a long­term risk­free interest with the addition of a credit margin derived from the Group's marginal long­term interest rate on loans. The Group's required rate of return per segment is assessed each year for significant changes in factors that affect the requirement. The Group mainly operates in the Norwegian and Swedish markets with cash flows in Norwegian and Swedish Kroner. The required rate of return per segment is stated in the table below. Overview of goodwill and key assumptions per segment Discount rate before tax (WACC): Long-term growth rate: Segment Goodwill 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Mail 73 8,5% 8,2% 8,7% 0 ­ 2% 0 ­ 2% 0 ­ 2% Logistics 1 825 9,1% 8,7% 9,2% 2% 2% 0 ­ 2% Total Group 1 898 Results from impairment tests in 2015 Based on the criteria described above, a total impairment loss of MNOK 360 concerning goodwill in the Logistics segment was recognised in 2015 (MNOK 253 in 2014 and MNOK 117 in 2013). The growth in volume in the Swedish market has not been as expected, after the finance crisis in 2008/2009, when the Group acquired the businesses presently being part of Bring Frigo Sverige and Bring Cargo International. In addition, the competitive situation is considered to be more demanding. As a consequence of a weaker market development and a more demanding competition implying challenges to win profitable market shares, a write­down of goodwill related to Bring Frigo Sverige totalling MSEK 117 was recognised. An impairment loss of MSEK 226 concerning goodwill in Bring Cargo International was recognised, also a consequence of the weak market development and competitive situation in the market for international transports. In addition, Bring Cargo International is exposed to the market in Europe in general and in Greece especially. This implies that the future expected growth and profitability development is weaker than previously assumed. In addition, an impairment loss of MDKK 7 related to goodwill in Bring Express Danmark was recognised as a consequence of profitability challenges the last years. No additional impairment losses have been identified and recognised for other goodwill items as of 31 December 2015. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 169 Sensitivity analyses Sensitivity analyses have been performed for those cash generating units where the difference between the carrying amount and value in use is low. This concerns Bring Frigo Sverige, Bring Cargo International and Bring Express Danmark, and for these adjustments in key assumptions like growth, required rate of return and margins have been analysed. The result are summarised below. Sensitivity in growth rates: Changed assumtions Additional write-downs Long term growth rate Bring Frigo Sweden Bring Cargo International Bring Express Danmark 1,0% (97) (33) (4) 0,0% (173) (59) (7) Sensitivity in discount rates: Changed assumtions Additional write-downs Discount rate Logistics segment Bring Frigo Sweden Bring Cargo International Bring Express Danmark 9,6% (46) (22) (3) 10,1% (85) (41) (5) Sensitivity in margins: Changed assumtions Additional write-downs Forcasted EBIT Bring Frigo Sweden Bring Cargo International Bring Express Danmark Decrease of 5% (41) (17) (2) Decrease of 10% (83) (34) (4) Decrease of 15% (124) (51) (6) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 170 Note 9 Tangible ﬁxed assets Tangible fixed assets comprise various types of property and operating equipment needed for the type of business conducted by the Group. The largest values are represented by mail and logistics terminals (cf. also section 11 Tangible fixed assets in the Group's accounting principles). Group Machinery Vehicles, fixtures Buildings, Machinery and Buildings Total and fittings property facilities under under constr constr Acquisition cost 01.01.2015 1 359 2 693 4 291 90 259 8 692 Accumulated depreciation and write­ (953) (1 419) (1 406) (3 778) downs 01.01.2015 Carrying amount 01.01.2015 406 1 274 2 884 90 259 4 914 Additions 24 287 107 100 523 1 041 Disposals (50) (8) (59) Additions through company 57 100 35 192 acquisitions (Note 23) Depreciation for the year (100) (305) (140) (545) Write­downs for the year (19) (6) (25) Adjustment of cost price/scrapping (10) (10) Intercompany transfers, 12 (12) additions/(disposals) Translation differences 4 33 27 2 66 Transfers from assets under 59 34 61 (94) (60) construction Carrying amount 31.12.2015 405 1 290 3 025 96 757 5 574 Acquisition cost 31.12.2015 1 441 2 890 4 585 96 757 9 769 Accumulated depreciation and write­ (1 036) (1 600) (1 560) (4 195) downs 31.12.2015 Carrying amount 31.12.2015 405 1 290 3 025 96 757 5 574 Acquisition cost 01.01.2014 1 432 2 483 4 403 21 27 8 366 Accumulated depreciation and write­ (963) (1 462) (1 327) (1) (3 753) downs 01.01.2014 Carrying amount 01.01.2014 469 1 022 3 076 21 27 4 615 Additions 41 424 15 139 272 891 Disposals (34) (35) Additions through company 3 84 87 acquisitions (Note 23) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 171 Disposals through company sales (2) (96) (98) (Note 23) Depreciation for the year (93) (291) (143) (527) Write­downs for the year (11) (16) (27) Adjustment of cost price/scrapping (14) 1 (13) Intercompany transfers, (16) 16 additions/(disposals) Translation differences 1 15 7 24 Transfers from assets under 1 68 40 (69) (40) construction Carrying amount 31.12.2014 406 1 274 2 885 90 259 4 914 Acquisition cost 31.12.2014 1 359 2 693 4 291 90 259 8 692 Accumulated depreciation and write­ (953) (1 419) (1 406) (3 778) downs 31.12.2014 Carrying amount 31.12.2014 406 1 274 2 885 90 259 4 914 Depreciation method Straight line Straight line Straight line Useful life 4­20 years 1­15 years 5­50 years Posten Norge AS Machinery Vehicles, fixtures Buildings, Machinery and Buildings under Total and fittings property facilities under construction constr Acquisition cost 01.01.2015 1 158 1 159 527 87 16 2 946 Accumulated depreciation and (827) (677) (271) (1 775) write­downs 01.01.2015 Carrying amount 01.01.2015 331 482 256 87 16 1 172 Additions 7 81 7 98 16 209 Disposals (1) (1) Depreciation for the year (85) (123) (13) (221) Write­downs for the year (2) (1) (3) Adjustment of cost price/scrapping (1) Intercompany transfers (215) (214) Transfers from assets under 57 34 27 (91) (27) construction Carrying amount 31.12.2015 310 471 61 94 6 941 Acquisition cost 31.12.2015 1 194 1 210 172 94 6 2 676 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 172 Accumulated depreciation and (885) (739) (112) (1 736) write­downs 31.12.2015 Carrying amount 31.12.2015 310 471 61 94 6 941 Acquisition cost 01.01.2014 1 231 1 046 525 17 12 2 832 Accumulated depreciation and (837) (715) (295) (1 847) write­downs 01.01.2014 Carrying amount 01.01.2014 393 331 230 17 12 985 Additions 18 180 136 48 381 Disposals (1) (1) Depreciation for the year (81) (108) (18) (207) Write­downs for the year (2) (1) (3) Intercompany transfers 16 16 Transfers from assets under 1 66 44 (67) (44) construction Carrying amount 31.12.2014 331 482 256 87 16 1 172 Acquisition cost 31.12.2014 1 158 1 159 527 87 16 2 946 Accumulated depreciation and (827) (677) (271) (1 775) write­downs 31.12.2014 Carrying amount 31.12.2014 331 482 256 87 16 1 172 Depreciation method Straight line Straight line Straight line Useful life 5­15 years 4­15 years 10­40 years Additions of tangible fixed assets Group Total additions of MNOK 1 041 in 2015 mainly concerned investments in buildings and property. The largest project was the building of a new logistics center at Alnabru in Oslo, amounting to appr. MNOK 500. The Alnabru project is a co­location of the services parcels and freight and refrigerated and frozen transport at Alnabru. This involves the construction of a new production building for parcels, purchase of production equipment for parcels and freight as well as a new building and production facilities for thermos activities. In addition, the freight center (Postens Godssenter) shall be rebuilt and united with the new logistics center at Alnabru. Total investments including land are estimated to MNOK 1 740. A contract has been signed with Vedal AS for the construction of the logistics center at Alnabru. The remaining obligation at 31 December 2015 amounted to MNOK 212. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 173 In purchasing Posten Eiendom Trondheim AS (prev. Kvenild Eiendom IV AS) in October 2015, the Group acquired a site to be used for developing Posten and Bring's logistics center in Trondheim. The estimated cost for the project is MNOK 450. A contract has been made with Veidekke Entreprenør AS. The remaining liabilities as of 31 December 2015 amount to MNOK 259. Information on additions/sales of businesses is provided in note 23. Posten Norge AS Out of total additions of MNOK 209 in 2015, approximately MNOK 50 concerned a new sorting plant connected with the new logistics center at Alnabru in Oslo. Intercompany transfers (disposals) of MNOK 214 concerned a demerger of properties from Posten Norge AS to separate property companies. Other matters Group Interest on building loans Tangible fixed assets in the Group includes capitalised interest related to building loan, totalling MNOK 74 as of 31 December 2015 (MNOK 64 as of 31 December 2014 and MNOK 64 as of 31 December 2013). The balance as of 31 December 2015 was mainly related to the terminal at Robsrud and the new logistics center at Alnabru in Oslo. Insurance The Group has secured significant parts of the business and property by traditional insurance coverage. For cars, the Group has only statutory liability coverage. The Group is self­insured for the part concerning hull insurance. Finance leasing Information on finance leases is provided in note 22. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 174 Note 10 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Investments in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted for according to the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. In the company accounts of Posten Norge AS, investments in subsidiaries, associated company and joint venture are recognised at historical cost (cf. also section 12 Investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures in the Group's accounting principles). Investments in associated companies and joint venture Group Entity Country/City Ownership Book value Share of Dividend Other Book value share 01.01.2015 earnings 2015 2015 adjustments 31.12.2015 Danske Fragtmænd A/S Denmark 34% 332 12 345 Svensk Adressändring AB Sweden 15% 8 2 (2) (1) 6 AdressPoint AB Sweden 15% 12 (9) (1) 10 12 Bring Citymail Stockholm KB Sweden 50% 1 1 Materiallageret AS Spitsbergen 34% 8 1 8 Euroterminal ­ Blue Denmark 50% 5 5 Water/Frigoscandia ApS Other 1 1 Associated companies and 369 6 (3) 9 380 joint venture EVRY ASA 239 Total Group 369 245 (3) 9 380 EVRY ASA EVRY ASA was sold on 17 March 2015, and on the basis of this, the investment was reclassified to assets held for sale as of 31 December 2014. The sale gave a gain of MNOK 219 for the Group and MNOK 249 for Posten Norge AS. The profit share for 2015 including the gain on the sale constituted MNOK 239 in the Group. Posten Norge AS' ownership share in EVRY ASA of 40% was recognised in the Group's balance sheet at the following values: Year Book value 01.01 Share of earnings 2014 Dividend Other adjustments Book value 31.12 2015 1 512 239 (1 751) 2014 1 494 118 (43) (57) 1 512 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 175 2013 1 520 (3) (37) 43 1 494 Danske Fragtmænd A/S Danske Fragtmænd AS is the largest logistics company for domestic transport of goods in Denmark. The ownership in Danske Fragtmænd is part of the Group's strategy to develop a leading position in the Nordic logistics market. Posten Norge AS's ownership in Danske Fragtmænd AS of 34% was acquired in July 2013. The remaining shares in Danske Fragtmænd AS are owned by Fragtmænd Holding A/S, which in turn are owned by individuals operating as transport subcontractors for Danske Fragtmænd A/S. Posten Norge AS' ownership in Danske Fragtmænd A/Swas recognised in the Group's balance sheet at the following values: Year Book value 01.01 Share of earnings 2014 Dividend Other adjustments Book value 31.12 2015 332 12 345 2014 324 8 332 2013 7 317 324 Investments in associated companies and joint adventures Posten Norge AS Subsidiaries Acquired/ Address Primary activity Ownership share Voting share Book established 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 value 31.12.2015 Bring Cargo AS 10.06.2004 Oslo Transport 100% 100% 1 105 Bring Frigo AB 20.01.2006 Sweden Transport 100% 100% 508 Bring Express AS 29.10.1997 Oslo Exspress 100% 100% 257 Bring Express Norge AS 12.11.1997 Oslo Exspress 100% 100% 400 Bring Warehousing AS 12.04.2000 Oslo 3P logistics 100% 100% 114 Bring Cargo Inrikes AB 30.11.2012 Sweden Transport 100% 100% 24 Bring Frigo Norge AS 10.06.2004 Lørenskog Transport 100% 100% 91 Bring Parcels AB 1999/2008 Sweden Transport 100% 100% 91 Bring Linehaul AS 2000/2009 Jaren Transport 100% 100% 37 Bring Denmark A/S 18.11.2010 Denmark Transport 100% 100% 1 Bring Cargo International AB 23.03.2011 Sweden Transport 100% 100% 259 Kirkestuen Transport AS 11.06.2014 Lom Transport 100% 100% 19 Bring Citymail AB 01.05.2002 Sweden Holding 100% 100% 16 Bring Citymail Sweden AB 01.05.2002 Sweden Mail 100% 100% 19 Bring Mail Nordic AB 01.09.2005 Sweden Mail 100% 100% 86 Bring Dialog Norge AS 01.11.2006 Oslo Customer 100% 100% 58 Relations Posten Eiendom Svanholmen AS 11.04.2014 Oslo Property 100% 100% 14 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 176 Posten Eiendom Kanalvegen AS 21.03.2006 Oslo Property 100% 100% 121 Posten Eiendom Robsrud AS 08.06.2006 Oslo Property 100% 100% 480 Posten Eiendom Alnabru AS 01.01.2008 Oslo Property 100% 100% 57 Posten Eiendom AS 08.06.2006 Oslo Property 100% 100% Posten Eiendom Skien AS 18.05.2011 Skien Property 100% 100% Posten Eiendom Bodø AS 04.05.2015 Bodø Property 100% 100% Posten Eiendom Molde AS 04.05.2015 Molde Property 100% 100% Posten Eiendom Trondheim AS 01.11.2015 Trondheim Property 100% 100% Bring AS 08.03.2005 Oslo None 100% 100% Bring Norden AB 07.06.2011 Sweden Logistics 100% 100% 1 Total investments in 3 759 subsidiaries Investment in associated company Acquired/ Address Primary Ownership share Voting share Book established activity 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 value 31.12.2015 Danske 04.07.2013 Denmark Transport 34% 34% 317 Fragtmænd A/S In connection with Posten Norge AS' take­over of the terminals and employees of Bring Cargo AS’ groupage and part loads business, the cost of the shares in Bring Cargo AS increased by MNOK 97 in 2015. As operations in Bring Gudbrandsdalen AS (prev. Kirkestuen Transport AS) were transferred to Posten Norge AS, the cost price of the shares in Bring Gudbrandsdalen AS increased by MNOK 2. In November 2015, all shares in Bring Express Norge AS were sold from Bring Express AS to Posten Norge AS, at MNOK 400. As a consequence of the fact that the value of the shares exceeded the value in use of net assets, the shares in the subsidiary were written down. The table below also shows capital contributions carried out in 2015. Investments in associated companies and joint adventures Company Write-downs in MNOK Capital contribution in MNOK Bring Cargo International AB 282 Bring Frigo AB 202 149 Bring Cargo Inrikes AB 200 149 Bring Norden AB 11 Bring Warehousing AB 7 Bring Danmark A/S 2 Bring CityMail AB 16 Bring CityMail Sweden AB 19 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 177 Condensed financial information of associates companies and joint venture (100% basis): Entity Assets Liabilities Equity Revenues Net income/(loss) Danske Fragtmænd A/S 1 542 959 583 3 600 42 Svensk Adressändring AB 100 86 15 275 14 AdressPoint AB 9 4 5 9 3 Bring Citymail Stockholm KB 134 159 (25) 939 (20) Materiallageret AS 29 12 16 7 3 Euroterminal ­ Blue Water/Frigoscandia ApS 20 8 13 2 Total 1 834 1 228 606 4 833 41 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 178 Note 11 Provisions for liabilities The Group's provisions mainly comprise provisions related to restructuring, pensions and other types of provisions (cf. also section 3 Accounting estimates , section 14 Provisions and section 15 Contingent liabilities and assets in the Group's accounting principles). Group Reorganization Pensions Other Total Balance 01.01.2013 388 1 038 160 1 585 Provisions recorded during the year 55 210 265 Reversal of previous year's provisions (25) (101) (126) Effect from discounting 3 3 Translation differences 18 14 32 Provisions utilised during the year (143) (1) (144) Change in pension liabilities during the year 16 16 Balance 31.12.2013 277 1 073 283 1 632 Provisions recorded during the year 41 8 49 Reversal of previous year's provisions (37) (9) (46) Effect from discounting 5 3 8 Translation differences 5 7 12 Provisions utilised during the year (139) (41) (180) Change in pension liabilities during the year 74 74 Balance 31.12.2014 147 1 152 250 1 549 Provisions recorded during the year 109 146 255 Reversal of previous year's provisions (5) (3) (8) Effect from discounting 2 4 6 Translation differences 3 22 27 51 Provisions utilised during the year (101) (17) (117) Change in pension liabilities during the year (155) (155) Balance 31.12.2015 155 1 019 406 1 579 Current provisions 81 48 129 Non­current provisions 74 1 019 358 1 450 Posten Norge AS Reorganization Pensions Other Total Balance 01.01.2013 385 828 88 1 301 Provisions recorded during the year 41 21 63 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 179 Reversal of previous year's provisions (25) (75) (100) Effect from discounting 3 3 Provisions utilised during the year (127) (127) Change in pension liabilities during the year 38 38 Balance 31.12.2013 277 866 34 1 178 Provisions recorded during the year 25 25 Reversal of previous year's provisions (37) (5) (42) Effect from discounting 5 5 Provisions utilised during the year (133) (29) (163) Change in pension liabilities during the year 14 14 Balance 31.12.2014 136 880 1 016 Provisions recorded during the year 60 60 Reversal of previous year's provisions (5) (5) Effect from discounting 2 2 Provisions utilised during the year (68) (68) Change in pension liabilities during the year (94) (94) Balance 31.12.2015 125 786 911 Current provisions 52 52 Non­current provisions 74 786 860 Restructuring Group The Group classified MNOK 109 as restructuring cost in 2015, of which MNOK 95 concerned personnel related measures and MNOK 13 premises. Posten Norge AS The current year's provision of MNOK 60 in the parent company concerned personnel related measures. The provision for restructuring in 2015 was primarly due to adjustments within the distribution services and terminal function. In addition to restructuring, this balance includes severance pay. Severance pay is payable to employees of the Norwegian state who have been made redundant, and is payable for the period until they obtain new employment. For employees in Posten Norge AS, the scheme applies to redundancies made up to and including 31 December 2014. The liabilities as at 31 December are specified below. Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 179 100 108 Personnel related 136 109 185 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 180 64 17 3 Property 4 19 66 8 Other measures 1 25 19 15 Severance pay 15 19 25 277 136 125 Total reorganization 155 147 277 The disbursement in the Group are expected to be MNOK 81 in 2016 and MNOK 74 in the years to follow. For Posten Norge AS, the expected amounts are MNOK 52 in 2016 and MNOK 74 in the years to follow. Pensions Pensions are described in note 3. Other Other provisions in the Group as of 31 December 2015 mainly relate to onerous contracts concerning thermo warehouses in the Bring Frigo Sverige Group. The provisions are a consequence of reduced levels in the rental market for thermo warehouses in the remaining period for the lease agreements (2024­2026). Future reversals of the provisions will be made with approximately identical annual amounts. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 181 Note 12 Overview of ﬁnancial instruments The note gives an overview of the classification of the Group's financial instruments and their carrying amounts (cf. also section 16 Financial instruments in the Group's accounting principles). Group At fair value At amortised cost 2015 Note MeasurementFVO fair Derivatives at Derivatives at fair Receivables Other 2015 level value fair value value through financial Total through through profit comprehensive liabilities profit or or loss income loss Assets Interest bearing non­current 13 7 7 receivables Other financial assets 19 2 198 32 232 Interest­free current 14,19 2 42 4 236 4 278 receivables Interest­bearing current 13 113 113 receivables Liquid assets 15 2 773 Total financial assets 7 399 Liabilities Interest­bearing non­current 16,19 2 639 1 472 2 111 liabilities Interest­free non­current 17,19 2 30 6 36 liabilities Interest­bearing current 16,19 2 370 526 896 liabilities Interest­free current liabilities 17,19 2 32 110 5 536 5 678 incl. tax payable Total financial liabilities 8 721 Total measurement level 1 Total measurement level 2 (1 010) 178 (116) (948) Total measurement level 3 Group At fair value At amortised cost 2014 Note MeasurementFVO fair Derivatives at Derivatives at fair Receivables Other 2014 level value fair value value through financial Total through through profit comprehensive liabilities profit or or loss income POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 182 loss Assets Interest bearing non­current 13 7 7 receivables Other financial assets 19 2 84 20 105 Interest­free current 14 4 058 4 058 receivables Interest­bearing current 13 175 175 receivables Liquid assets 15 2 073 Total financial assets 6 416 Liabilities Interest­bearing non­current 16,19 2 851 1 053 1 904 liabilities Interest­free non­current 17,19 2 43 20 63 liabilities Interest­bearing current 16 1 626 1 626 liabilities Interest­free current liabilities 17,19 2 18 116 5 006 5 140 incl. tax payable Total financial liabilities 8 734 Total measurement level 1 Total measurement level 2 (851) 24 (136) (964) Total measurement level 3 Group At fair value At amortised cost 2013 Note MeasurementFVO fair Derivatives at Derivatives at fair Receivables Other 2013 level value fair value value through financial Total through through profit comprehensive liabilities profit or or loss income loss Assets Interest bearing non­current 13 7 7 receivables Other financial assets 45 45 Interest­free current 14 3 657 3 657 receivables Interest­bearing current 13 224 224 receivables Liquid assets 15 1 791 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 183 Total financial assets 5 722 Liabilities Interest­bearing non­current 16,19 2 790 15 17 1 151 1 973 liabilities Interest­free non­current 17,19 2 61 61 liabilities Interest­bearing current 16 1 232 1 232 liabilities Interest­free current liabilities 17,19 2 28 4 848 4 876 incl. tax payable Total financial liabilities 8 142 Total measurement level 1 Total measurement level 2 (790) (15) (107) (911) Total measurement level 3 The table above is the basis for further information about financial assets and liabilities with reference to subsequent notes. In addition, the classification in categories pursuant to IAS 39 is shown, and at which level the Group's financial instruments have been assessed to in the valuation hierarchy. Information about fair value Applied methods for determining fair value are defined in three categories reflecting varying levels of valuation uncertainty, based on the measurement method's objectivity: Level 1: Use of listed prices in active markets Level 2: Use of valuation methods with observable market data as input Level 3: Use of valuation methods where input is based on a significant degree of non­ observable market data No financial assets or liabilities have been reclassified in such a way that the valuation method has been changed from amortised cost to fair value, or vice versa. There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 of fair value measurements in 2015, and no registrations of financial assets in or out of level 3. Fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance sheet The fair value of the Group's derivatives and loans in foreign currency (Japanese yen), where the fair value option (FVO) according to IAS 39 has been applied, was measured on the basis of sources described in level 2. See note 19 for further details. Fair value of financial instrument measured at amortised cost in the balance sheet Information about fair value is provided in accordance with the disclosure requirements in IFRS POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 184 7, even though the assets or liabilities are not measured at fair value in the balance sheet. The fair value of receivables and other financial liabilities as of 31 December was approximately the same as book value (amoritised cost). Fair value was calculated as the present value of estimated cash­flows discounted at the interest rate applicable for corresponding assets and liabilities on the balance sheet date. Fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities were valued based on the sources described in level 3. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 185 Note 13 Interest-bearing non-current and current receivables Non­current receivables mainly comprise loans from Posten Norge AS to other group companies, and current loans to employees and prepayments (cf. also section 16 Financial instruments in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 5 6 6 Other non­current receivables 7 7 7 1 830 1 517 2 071 Loans to group companies 1 835 1 523 2 077 Interest­bearing non­current receivables 7 7 7 202 143 91 Other current receivables 113 175 224 977 1 567 1 795 Loans to group companies 1 179 1 710 1 886 Interest­bearing current receivables 113 175 224 Group The Group's other current interest­bearing receivables mainly comprise prepayments to deposit fund and premium fund in DNB Liv for Posten Norge AS, amounting to MNOK 91 in 2015. Posten Norge AS The increase in loans to group companies generally relates to the financing of the Alnabru project, together with the demerger of properties from Posten Norge AS to separate property companies in the Group. Other current interest­bearing receivables are described above. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 186 Note 14 Interest-free current receivables The note gives an overview of the Group's interest­free current receivables, including trade receivables, togehter with receivables by due date and provision for bad debts. (cf. section 17 Accounts receivable in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 851 849 975 Accounts receivables 2 980 2 842 2 626 2 2 2 Receivables from employees 4 12 4 365 306 307 Receivables from group companies 92 87 164 Prepaid expenses 286 220 237 42 Short­term derivatives 42 231 308 188 Other receivables 966 984 790 1 541 1 552 1 678 Interest­free current receivables 4 278 4 058 3 657 Account receivable by due date: 660 728 798 Current 2 429 2 276 1 994 181 100 160 0 ­ 30 days 471 450 531 6 16 8 30 ­ 60 days 51 92 57 4 2 2 60 ­ 90 days 18 11 29 9 11 14 Over 90 days 53 54 62 (9) (7) (7) Provisions for bad debts (41) (40) (47) 851 849 975 Total receivables 2 980 2 842 2 626 Provisions for bad debts: 10 9 7 As at 01 January 40 47 56 9 5 24 Provisions allocated during the year 30 (2) 5 (13) (9) (16) Actual losses recognised against provisions (20) (7) (18) 3 2 (8) Over/underfunded accruals in previous years (11) 2 Translation differences 1 4 9 7 7 As at 31 December 41 40 47 19 9 17 Total actual losses on bad debts 22 14 27 Provisions for bad debts by: Individual receivables 25 23 25 9 7 7 General provisions 16 17 22 9 7 7 Total 41 40 47 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 187 The carrying amount of interest­free short­term receivables was approximately equal to their fair value due to the short period left until maturity. The Group had no significant credit risk related to a individual counterparty, or to counterparties which could have been seen as a group due to similarities in credit risk. The Group has guidelines to ensure that credit sales are made only to customers with adequate payment ability and that outstanding amounts do not exceed defined credit limits. There are no indications that customer receivables not yet due, or already provided for on the balance sheet date, are not collectible. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 188 Note 15 Liquid assets Liquid assets consists of cash, bank deposits and low­risk short­term investments (cf. section Cash and cash equivalents in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 154 369 189 Cash and cash equivalents 296 494 255 1 536 1 579 2 478 Short­term investments 2 478 1 579 1 536 1 690 1 948 2 667 Liquid assets 2 773 2 073 1 791 A considerable portion of cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting liquidity needs in the sales network. Posten Norge is through a cash account agreement with DNB obliged, at any time, to have sufficient cash available to serve the banks customers. Cash holdings as of 31 December 2015 amounted to MNOK 98, and the level is based on a requirement to meet 95% of historical net withdrawals. The remuneration for this service is recognised in operating revenues, and interest from cash holdings is part of finance income. Posten Norge AS has a bank guarantee in Nordea, limited to MNOK 500, to cover the employees witheld tax. A majority of the Group’s subsidiaries also have their own tax withholding guarantees with banks. A corporate cash pool in Nordea is used in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, and according to the agreement, Posten Norge AS is the Group account holder. The banks can settle withdrawals and deposits against each other, and the net position will accordingly represent the balance between the bank and the Group account holder. As of 31 December 2015, Posten Norge had unused credit facilities of MNOK 500 in Nordea and MNOK 50 in DNB. The Group's short­term investments consists of investments in low­risk liquid interest funds. The investments constitute an important part of the Group's liquidity reserve. The increase from 2014 is primarily due to cash settlement received from the sale of shares in EVRY ASA. Information about market­based investments and interest funds is also provided in note 18. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 189 Note 16 Interest-bearing non-current and current liabilities Interest­bearing non­current and current liabilities comprise debt to credit institutions, bond loans, finance leasing, certificate loans and other interest­bearing debt. Non­current liabilities are presented with one part at fixed interest and one at floating interest. The first year's instalment of interest­bearing non­current debt is included in current liabilities (cf. also section 16 Financial instruments and section 19 Loans in the Group's accounting principles). Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 Liabilities with fixed interest 748 211 648 Liabilities to credit institutions 648 211 748 500 500 263 Bond Loans 263 500 500 1 248 711 911 Non­current liabilities with fixed interest 911 711 1 248 Liabilities with floating interest 629 1 141 391 Liabilities to credit institutions 391 1 141 629 738 Bond Loans 738 9 5 Financial lease obligations 54 49 47 49 4 Other non­current liabilities 17 4 49 678 1 154 1 134 Non­current liabilities with floating interest 1 200 1 194 725 1 926 1 864 2 045 Interest­bearing non­current liabilities 2 111 1 904 1 973 Interest-bearing current liabilities Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 100 100 672 First year repayments on non­current liabilities 673 100 100 3 4 First year repayments on financial lease obligations 20 13 15 950 1 500 200 Certificate loans 200 1 500 950 1 056 1 061 1 638 Debts to group companies 95 4 Other current liabilities 4 13 167 2 202 2 664 2 518 Interest­bearing current liabilities 896 1 626 1 232 Group In 2015, Posten Norge issued new bonds totalling MNOK 1 000 with time to maturity from three to seven years. In connection with, Posten Norge repurchased bonds due in March 2016 totalling MNOK 298. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 190 As of December 2015, Posten Norge had fixed interest rate loan agreements of MNOK 1 213 with a weighted average interest rate of 3,3% and maturities from 2016 to 2023. At the same time, Posten Norge had floating interest rate debt amounting to MNOK 1 699 with a weighted average interest rate of 2,0% as of December 2015. As of December 2015, Posten Norge had certificate loans totalling MNOK 200. Certificate loans are classified as current interest­bearing liabilities. During 2015 Posten Norge had a net reduction in outstanding certificate loans of MNOK 1 300. Posten Norge AS The account for the Group wholly applies to Posten Norge AS. In addition, Posten Norge AS has loans to subisidiaries in the Group. Due to changes in the cash pool account, loans to subsidiaries has increased. Note 18 Financial risk and capital management has details on the instalment profiles for debt. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 191 Note 17 Interest-free non-current and current liabilities The Group's interest­free liabilities mainly comprised short­term items such as accounts payable, other provisions concerning salaries, public charges and other accruals for incurred expenses. The Group's non­current interest­free liabilities consist of minor balances (cf. also section 16 Financial instruments in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 61 63 36 Non­current derivatives 36 63 61 61 63 36 Interest­free non­current liabilities 36 63 61 1 574 1 558 1 583 Provisions for payroll expenses and public charges 2 036 1 960 1 982 345 483 431 Provisions for accrued expenses1) 1 031 944 707 282 328 309 Prepaid revenues 329 356 297 154 291 470 Accounts payable 1 418 1 221 981 348 223 896 Debts to group companies 111 75 52 Restructuring and severance pay, current 81 86 117 106 180 406 Other liabilities1) 624 385 516 2 920 3 137 4 147 Interest­free current liabilities 5 520 4 951 4 627 1) As a consequence of an adjustment of the comparable figures for 2014 and 2013, there has been a reclassification between Provision for accrued expenses and Other liabilities . Group The Group's account payable have increased compared to last year, mainly due to new framework agreements with extended terms of payment. The growth in provisions for salary and public charges is mostly a consequence of changes in the number of employees. The Group's accrued expenses have increased because of provisions in connection with the building of terminals. The increase in other liabilities can be explained by a provision for settlements and recorded guarantees related to the CSA agreement (cf. note 19). Posten Norge AS As a consequence of business combinations and new supplier agreements with extended terms of payment, both accounts payable and other liabilities increased in 2015 compared with 2014, cf. the above paragraph. The increase in debt to group companies relates to the purchase of shares in Bring Express Norge AS. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 192 Note 18 Financial risk and Capital managment The note describes the Group's financial risks, including credit risk, market risk (currency and interest rate risk) and liquidity risk. The Group utilises derivatives to manage market risk, and note 19 provides detailed information about derivatives and hedging (cf. also section 16 Financial instruments in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge has a centralised finance function with the principal objective to secure the Group's financial flexibility, as well as monitoring and managing financial risk. Risk categories Financial risk comprises: 1. Credit risk: Risk of loss caused by a counterparty/customer who fails to fulfil his/her payment obligations to the Group. Credit risk comprise all financial assets, mainly trade receivables, interest­bearing securities, granted but not utilised credit/overdraft facilities, as well as counterparty risk from derivatives and currency contracts. 2. Market risk: Risk from the Group's open positions in currency and interestrate instruments. The risk is related to variations in profit or loss due to changes in market prices or exchange rates. 3. Liquidity risk: The risk that the Group cannot fulfil its financial obligations. Use of financial derivatives Financial derivatives are agreements used to determine interest terms, exchange rates and values of equity instruments for specific periods. Posten Norge utilises financial derivatives to manage market risks that arise as a result of the Group's ordinary operations. The following derivatives are used by the Group for hedging purposes: Futures: An agreement to purchase/sell currency at a future date at a pre­determined rate. Posten Norge primarily uses currency futures to hedge investments in and loans to subsidiaries in foreign currencies, in addition to income and costs in foreign currency. Swaps: Transactions where two parties exchange cash flows in an agreed period og time. Posten Norge utilises the following types of swap agreements: Interest­rate swaps: Exchange of interest rate terms related to an agreed principal for a predetermined period. In the agreed period, the parties in the swap exchange fixed and floating interest in the same currency. Currency swaps: An agreement between two parties to exchange one currency with another, with an agreement to exchange these back at an agreed future date to an agreed rate. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 193 Combined interest­rate and currency swaps: The parties exchange both currency and interest rate terms. 1. Credit risk The Group has the following guidelines to reduce credit risk: Trade accounts receivable The Group has policies to ensure that credit sales are only made to customers with an acceptable financial capacity, and that outstanding amounts do not exceed established credit limits. The Group has no significant credit exposure to one single counterparty. Market­based investments The group has invested in fixed income funds to manage its liquidity and excess reserves. As of 31 December 2015, the Group had MNOK 2 476 invested in various funds (MNOK 1 579 in 2014 and MNOK 1 536 in 2013). According to Group investment policies and guidelines, funds shall be liquid and have a minimum rating of BBB­. Bank deposits The Group's principal bank connection has an AA­ rating. Derivatives In order to reduce credit risk, the Group has guidelines to enter into derivative contracts only with counterparties with a rating equal to or better than A­. To further reduce credit risk, the Group entered into a CSA (Credit Support Annex) agreement for one of the derivatives related to a loan in Japanese yen (see note 19 for details). Overdraft facilities The Group has two overdraft facilities, of which none was utilised as of 31 December 2015. One of the facilities, a MEUR 350 revolving credit facility with a syndicate of Nordic Banks (all of which have a rating of A­ or better) was renegotiated in 2015. The facility now runs for 5 years with an option to extend for two additional years. In addition, the Group has a bilateral overdraft facility of MNOK 750 which matures in 2018. The Group did not have any financial assets not disclosed on the balance sheet. Hence, the maximum risk exposure is considered to be represented by the book value of the financial assets on the balance sheet. Note 14 specifies current interest­free receivables including trade receivables by age and provision for bad debts. The Group had not guaranteed for third­party debt at 31 December 2015. 2. Market risk 2.1 Currency risk Market risk is managed by reducing the effects of the exchange rate by using forward contracts. Foreign currency balances in bank accounts are minimized at the subsidiary level POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 194 and are actively managed at Group level in order to avoid large balances. Frequently used exchange rates Exchange rate 01.01.2015 Average exchange rate 2015 Exchange rate 31.12.2015 Swedish kroner 0,9597 0,9633 1,0475 Danish kroner 1,2136 1,2054 1,2891 Euro 9,0365 8,9927 9,6190 British Pound Sterling 11,5710 12,4179 13,0720 US Dollar 7,4332 8,1437 8,8090 As Norwegian krone (NOK) is the Group's presentation currency, Posten Norge is exposed to currency risks from translation of the Group's net investments in foreign entities. In order to reduce the effect of translation differences in the accounts, Posten Norge enters into forward contracts. The parent company finances subsidiaries by providing long­term financing in the subisidiaries' currencies. If the loans are made in foreign currencies the parent company is exposed to currency risk. To manage this exposure, forward contracts are used. The Group has net income from foreign mail companies for distribution of mail in Norway. This results in income in foreign currency, mainly euro, and the Group secures the settlement exchange rate by forward contracts. 2.2 Interest rate risk Posten Norge's interest rate risk is mainly related to the Group's debt portfolio. This type of risk is managed at group level. The Group's goal is to have 20­70% of the long­term loan portfolio at fixed interest rates. As of 31 December 2015, fixed interest agreements totalled to MNOK 1 213 (52%) of the Group's long­term interest­bearing debt. Inflation indexed interest rate swaps In 2006, Posten Norge entered into an inflation indexed interest rate swap of MNOK 1 000 to secure the Group's competitiveness as a consequence of costs that are positively correlated with inflation. According to the agreement, Posten Norge receives the percentage change in the Norwegian consumer price index, together with a fixed margin, annually, in return for paying three months' NIBOR each quarter. The agreement has a duration of 10 years and expires in 2016. In 2009, MNOK 300 of the principal of this swap was cancelled through an agreement with the counterparty. In addition, the remaining principal of MNOK 700 was cancelled by entering new and opposite agreements. 2.3 Sensitivity analyses 2015 Sensitivity analysis market risk Purchase Currency Sales Currency Maturity Effect of changes +/20% (NOK) 1) currency amount currency amount POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 195 Through profit Through and loss comprehensive income Hedging of income in euro NOK 117 EUR 20 2016 39 Hedging of investments in NOK 1 496 SEK 1 502 2016 318 foreign entities Hedging of loans to foreign NOK 679 SEK 670 2016 141 subsidiaries Hedging of loans to foreign NOK 96 EUR 10 2016 19 subsidiaries Hedging of loans from foreign SEK 26 NOK 26 2016 2 subsidiaries Carrying Effect of changes +/100 basis points amount Through profit Through and loss comprehensive income Net interest bearing debt (1 075) (11) (floating interest rate only) 2014 Sensitivity analysis of market risk Purchase Currency Sales Currency Maturity Effect of changes +/20% (NOK) 1) currency amount currency amount Through profit and loss Hedging of income in euro NOK 339 EUR 40 2015/16 68 Hedging of investments in NOK 1 775 SEK 1 927 2015 355 foreign entities Hedging of loans to foreign NOK 519 SEK 539 2015 104 subsidiaries Hedging of loans to foreign NOK 91 EUR 10 2015 18 subsidiaries Carrying Effect of changes +/100 basis points amount Through profit Through and loss comprehensive income Net interest bearing debt (floating 810 8 interest rate only) 2013 Sensitivity analysis market risk Purchase Currency Sales Currency Maturity Effect of changes +/20% (NOK) 1) currency amount currency amount POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 196 Through profit Through and loss comprehensive income Hedging of income in euro NOK 377 EUR 45 2014/15 75 Hedging of investments in NOK 1 825 SEK 1 927 2015 365 foreign entities Carrying Effect of changes +/100 basis points amount Through profit Through and loss comprehensive income Net interest bearing debt (floating 66 1 interest rate only) 1)Exchange rate at 31 Dec. The accounting effect from a change in market risk is classified through profit or loss or in other comprehensive income, depending on where the effect is initially recognised. The table above presents the sensitivity of the Group's currency and interest rate derivatives. The currency sensitivity present the effect in the income statement or other comprehensive income by changing the exchange rate at 31 December 2015 by +/­ 20%. Currency forwards related to hedging euro income and foreign investments are recognised in other comprehensive income, whereas value changes in currency forwards related to loans in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, as this will counter the effect of currency gains/losses recognised in the income statement from the loans. The interest rate sensitivity shows the effect in the income statement by changes in the floating interest rate of +/­ 1%. Where the derivatives are included in hedging relations, it is expected that the effect on the income statement and other comprehensive income is offset by fluctuations in the relevant hedged objects. 3. Liquidity risk Available liquidity and any currency exposure is followed up by the Group's centralised finance function on a daily basis. In addition to the Group's overdraft facilities, certificate loans are utilised to cover short­term funding. The table below shows the maturity structure of the Group's debt. Maturity structure of the Group's loans/financial obligations: Balance 31.12.2015 Year 1 >Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year Year 7 Over 7 Total years Liabilities to credit institutions 633 103 103 103 252 299 1 494 Bond Loans 202 275 375 350 1 202 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 197 Financial derivatives (interest rate swaps) 1) 9 6 6 6 6 35 Financial derivatives (currency futures) 1) 138 138 Financial leases 20 9 9 9 12 7 7 74 Other non interest­bearing liabilities exclusive 5 539 5 539 financial derivatives Total Group 6 542 119 394 119 645 7 357 299 8 482 Future interest payments 2) 54 47 43 36 32 16 14 8 280 Average interest rate 2.66% Balance 31.12.2014 Year Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Over 7 Total years Liabilities to credit institutions 1 612 430 100 100 100 248 299 2 889 Bond Loans 500 500 Financial derivatives (interest rate swaps) 1) 12 12 5 5 5 5 46 Financial derivatives (currency futures) 1) 134 11 145 Financial leases 14 8 8 8 8 8 8 62 Other non interest­bearing liabilities exclusive financial 5 006 5 006 derivatives Total Group 6 779 961 113 113 113 262 8 299 8 649 Future interest payments 2) 73 37 27 25 22 16 9 11 220 Average interest rate 3.16% Balance 31.12.2013 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Over 7 Total years Liabilities to credit institutions 1 050 100 430 100 100 100 248 299 2 427 Bond Loans 500 500 Financial derivatives (interest rate swaps) 1) 20 10 10 4 4 4 4 55 Financial derivatives (currency futures) 1) 79 4 83 Financial leases 15 8 8 8 8 9 9 62 Other non interest­bearing liabilities exclusive financial 5 015 5 015 derivatives Total Group 6 179 121 947 112 112 113 261 299 8 142 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 198 Future interest payments 2) 90 36 33 30 27 25 13 20 274 Average interest rate 3.77% 1) Includes derivatives recognised as assets. 2) Based on interest rate level at 31.12. As of 31 December 2015, none of the Group's overdraft facilities og MEUR 350 and MNOK 750 were utilised. Capital management The Group has a centralised finance function with responsibility for the capital structure and the overall liquidity management. This shall ensure an effecient use of the company's capital. The Group's goal is to achieve accessibility, flexibility and return on the Group's liquid assets and at the same time reduce credit risk. This is achieved by concentrating all available liquidity in the Group's cash pool, and by having a conservative investment profile on excess liquidity, with emphasis on liquidity. In order to secure the Group financial flexibility, targets for the liquidity reserve has been defined. The liquidity reserve comprises market­based investments and unutilised overdraft facilities less any outstanding commercial papers, and shall constitute a minimum of 15% of the Group's revenue for the last 12 months. The Group has long­term credit facilities constituting a satisfactory financing reserve. In addition, the Group has diversified its sources of capital and currently has bonds, credit facilities, private placement loans with international lenders as well as bilateral agreements with Nordic financial institutions. Subsidiaries are not permitted to raise external financing, but receives funding from the Group through long­term intercompany loans or overdraft facilities and short­term credit facilities within the Group's cash pool. The Group measures capital utilisation by using the debt ratio, being net interest­bearing debt divided by equity. Net interest­bearing debt comprises interest­bearing current and non­current liabilities less liquid assets in the forms of cash, bank deposits and short­term investments. In addition, net interest­bearing debt divided by EBITDA is used to measure whether the operating profit is adequate to service the Group's external debt. Net interest­bearing debt shall not exceed 3.5 times EBITDA. There were no changes in the Group's goals, principles or processes related to capital management during 2015, 2014 or 2013. Key figures capital management: Group 2015 2014 2013 Interest­bearing debt 3 007 3 531 3 205 Interest­bearing liquid assets 2 773 2 073 1 791 Net interest­bearing debt 234 1 458 1 415 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 199 Total equity 5 926 6 205 6 081 Debt ratio 0.0 0.2 0.2 Share of equity 36.8% 37.9% 38.6% EBITDA1) 1 474 1 723 1 875 Net debt / EBITDA1) 0.2 0.8 0.8 Covenants The Group has external financing with coventans. Compliance with the covenants is calculated on the basis of the Group's accounting figures. The Group's overdraft facility of MEUR 350 has a clause stating that net interest­bearing debt cannot exceed 3,5 times 12 months' trailing EBITDA. As of 31 December 2015, net interest­ bearing debt was 0,2 times EBITDA (0,8 in 2014 and 0,8 in 2013). Posten Norge has loan agreements with covenants requiring an equity ratio of of 20­25% at a minimum. As of 31 December 2015, the Group had an equity ratio of 37% (38% in 2014 and 39% in 2013). In addition, the following covenants apply to the majority of the loan agreements: • Change of control covenant: a minimum of 51% public ownership • Negative pledge: a prohibition to mortgage assets • Cross default: a default in one agreement implies that all agreements are deemed default. Violating the terms of covenants can result in a demand to repay all interest­bearing debt or to renegotiate the loan agreements. There are no clauses on annual regulations of the levels of debt covenants in the loan agreements. The level of the financial key ratios in the covenants is followed up closely and reported to management on a regular basis. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 200 Note 19 Derivatives and hedging All derivatives are used in hedging of currency and interest rate risk. The value of the derivatives fluctuate in relation to the underlying prices, and the note shows the fair value of open derivative contracts at the balance sheet date (cf. also section 16 Financial instruments in the Group's accounting principles). Posten Norge AS Group 2015 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities a) Cash­flow hedging 6 Interest­rate swaps 6 17 Forward exchange contracts EUR 17 b) Hedging of net investment Hedging of net investment in foreign entities SEK 93 c) Other economic hedges (Hedges not included in hedge accounting according to IFRS) 6 33 Interest­rate swaps 6 33 1 121 Forward exchange contracts SEK 1 28 1 Forward exchange contracts EUR 1 233 Combined interest­rate/currency swaps 233 240 178 Total 240 178 Posten Norge AS Group 2014 2014 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities a) Cash­flow hedging 13 Interest­rate swaps 13 29 Forward exchange contracts EUR 29 b) Hedging of net investment Hedging of net investment in foreign entities SEK 2) 94 c) Other economic hedges (Hedges not included in hedge accounting according to IFRS) 33 Interest­rate swaps 33 111 Forward exchange contracts SEK 17 1 Forward exchange contracts EUR 1 84 10 Combined interest­rate/currency swaps 84 10 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 201 84 197 Total 84 197 Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities a) Cash­flow hedging 27 Interest­rate swaps 27 18 Forward exchange contracts EUR 18 b) Hedging of net investment Hedging of net investment in foreign entities SEK 2) 61 c) Other economic hedges (Hedges not included in hedge accounting according to IFRS) 28 Interest­rate swaps 61 Forward exchange contracts SEK 13 Combined interest­rate/currency swaps 13 147 Total 147 The derivatives in the table above are classified by type of hedge for accounting purposes, and the objective of the derivatives is described below. Information on fair value The fair value of currency forward contracts is determined by applying the forward exchange rate on the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate and currency swaps are primarily determined by discounting future cash flows at discount rates derived from observable market data. For all derivatives, the fair value is confirmed by the finance institutions with which the company has made agreements. a) Cash flow hedging Interest rate swaps As of 31 December 2015 the Group had an outstanding loan with Nordiska Investeringsbanken totalling to MNOK 500. The interest rate is fixed every sixth month and the annual downpayment is MNOK 100. In order to ensure fixed interest rate terms, an interest rate swap for the corresponding amount and maturity was entered into in 2015. Previously, Posten Norge had a fixed interest rate swap which ended in March related to this loan, and MNOK 3 was recycled to the income statement as a finance cost in 2014 (­MNOK 19 in 2013). In 2015, Posten Norge entered into a fixed interest rate swap of MNOK 175 relating to an underlying bond of MNOK 375 with interest rate fixings every third month and a term of 5 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 202 years. In connection with new financing in September 2015, Posten Norge repurchased part of an outstanding bond of MNOK 500 hedged with a fixed interest rate swap. As a consequence of this repurchase, the hedged relation did no longer comply with the requirements for hedge accounting according to IAS 39. As of 31 December 2015, MNOK 9 were recycled to the income statement as a finance expense, and the derivative was classified as other financial hedges. Forward contracts EUR Posten Norge had revenues of approximately MEUR 30 for distributing mail from abroad in 2015 (MNOK 33 in 2014 and MNOK 34 in 2013) and is expecting corresponding revenues in euros in 2016. The exchange rate risk is partly hedged by selling forward contracts in euros. The changes in value of the forward contracts whoich are effective hedging instruments are recognised in other comprehensive income. As of 31 December 2015, Posten Norge had outstanding forward contracts for euro revenues in 2016 totalling MEUR 20 with a negative value of MNOK 17. As a consequence of forward contracts realised in 2015, MNOK 17 were recycled from equity to the income statement as a reduction in operating revenues in the Mail segment (MNOK ­17 in 2014 and MNOK ­13 in 2013). Forward contracts USD/EUR In 2013, Posten Norge AS had costs of MUSD 21 and MEUR 2 in connection with the air freight of mail. A part of this currency risk was hedged by selling US dollars and euros forwards. The hedging was closed in its entirety in August 2013. The Group had no such contracts in 2014 or 2015. Hedging reserve in equity Movements in hedging reserve in equity (cf. the Statement of changes in equity ) divided between interest rate swaps and forward (exchange) contracts: Group Interest-rate swap Forward contracts Total Hedging reserve Balance 1.1.2013 (33) (4) (37) Changes in value (1) (27) (28) Transfers to income statement 1) 19 15 34 Associated deferred taxes (5) 3 (2) Balance 31.12.2013 (20) (13) (33) Changes in value 11 (28) (17) Transfers to income statement 1) 3 17 20 Associated deferred taxes (4) 3 (1) Balance 31.12.2014 (10) (21) (31) Changes in value (2) (4) (6) Transfers to income statement 1) 9 17 26 Associated deferred taxes (2) (3) (5) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 203 Balance 31.12.2015 (5) (12) (17) 1) Positive numbers represent losses. b) Hedging of net investment in foreign entities Posten Norge uses forward contracts for hedging investments in foreign subsidiaries and have entered into revolving exchange contracts totalling MSEK 1 502 in 2015 (MSEK 1 927 in 2014 and MSEK 1 927 in 2013). The changes in the value of the contracts are recognised in other comprehensive income and offset the translation differences from investments until investments are sold. Should hedges become ineffective, change in value is recognised in the income statement. c) Other financial hedges (derivatives not included in hedging relations according to IFRS) Interest rate swaps As of 31 December 2015, Posten Norge had several interest rate swaps not qualifying as hedging relations according to IFRS. In 2015, Posten Norge raised a seven­year bond loan of MNOK 350 at a fixed coupon that in its entirety was swapped to a floating interest rate in the same transaction. Part of the amount, MNOK 88, were then swapped back to a fixed interest rate. Following a partial repurchase of an outstanding bond in 2015, the interest rate swap related to this bond was reclassified to derivatives not included in hedging relations pursuant to IFRS (cf. a) Cash flow hedging above for details). Forward contracts SEK and EUR Posten Norge uses forward contracts in Swedish kroner and euros for hedging loans in currencies from the parent company to foreign subsidiaries. Revolving forward contracts constituted MSEK 670 and MEUR 10 as of 31 December 2015. The changes in value are recognised in the income statement and will offset changes in the loans in the income statement as a consequence of currencies. Combined interest rate and currency swaps In 2004, 2008 and 2014, the Group entered into long­term loan agreements with Japanese life insurance companies of 5, 3 and 5 billion yen, respectively, at fixed interest rate terms. At the same time, combined interest rate and currency swap agreements were made, effectively giving the Group loans in Norwegian kroner with the interest rate fixed every third month. Posten Norge employ the fair value option in IAS 39 for these loans. Changes in interest rates or exchange rates resulting in changes in the value of the Japanese yen denominated loans measured in Norwegian kroner are offset by changes in the value of the combined interest rate and currency swaps. As of 31 December 2015, the loans from the Japanese life insurance companies were POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 204 recognised at a total value of MNOK 1 010 (MNOK 851 in 2014 and MNOK 790 in 2013), where the value changes from the borrowing date constituted MNOK 233 (MNOK 75 in 2014 and MNOK 13 in 2013). This change in value is offset by the interest and currency swap agreements and recognised as an asset. An interest rate swap has also been established related to the loan of 3 billion yen, converting this loan to a fixed interest loan. The interest rate swap has the same maturity date as the loan, but does not qualify for hedge accounting. In the table above, it is included in the line interest rate swaps at a negative fair value of MNOK 29 as at 31 December 2015. Upon entering into the loan agreement for 5 billion yen in 2013 and the combined interest rate and currency agreement, Posten Norge also entered into a CSA (Credit Support Annex) agreement. This agreement defines how two swap counterparties act when the value of a swap changes in favour of one of the parties during the swap period. A deposit shall be paid/received in order to reduce the credit risk if the swap's value exceed the threshold value (MEUR 2). The value of the swap is measured monthly, and if the value in one of the parties' favour is larger than MEUR 2, the excess value shall be paid into the counterparty's account. It has also been determined that the minimum amount for such a payment is MEUR 0,5. As of 31 December 215, Posten Norge had received MEUR 6,8 from the counterparty. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 205 Note 20 Equity The shares in the parent company Posten Norge AS are fully owned by the Norwegian state, represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. In a Norwegian group context, it is the share capital of the parent company that is relevant, and it is Posten Norge AS's equity capital that serves as the basis of calculation and the limit for distribution of dividends from the Group (cf. also section 20 Equity in the Group's accounting principles). As of 31 December 2015, the share capital consisted of 3 120 000 shares at a nominal value of NOK 1 000. No dividend for the accounting year 2015 has been proposed. In accordance with the Annual General Assembly's decision, a dividend of MNOK 225 from the 2014 results were paid in July 2015 together with an extraordinary dividend of MNOK 75, totalling MNOK 300. In July 2014, a dividend of MNOK 256 of the 2013 results were paid. In 2013, a dividend amounting to MNOK 199 of the 2012 results together with an extraordinary dividend of MNOK 55, totalling MNOK 254, were paid. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 206 Note 21 Guarantees/Mortgages Posten Norge has given various guarantees, including rental guarantees, contract guarantees and other payment guarantees, in connection with daily operations, primarily for subsidiaries. The Group has not pledged property of significant value. Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 383 413 513 Guarantees for Group companies' liabilities 539 437 401 Commercial guarantees 2 4 4 161 154 130 Other guarantees 543 488 459 544 567 673 Total guarantees 1 084 929 864 Group Guarantees for group companies’ debt consisted primarily of guarantees provided by Posten Norge AS to its subsidiaries in Sweden related to rents, customs duties and pension liabilities. In addition, Bring Cargo AS issued guarantees for fuel purchases in the subsidiary Bring Trucking, amounting to MNOK 25. The increase of MNOK 102 from 2014 to 2015 was due to guarantees given by Posten Norge AS to subsidiaries. Other guarantees mainly concerned rent provided by Bring Frigo AB and Bring Citymail Sweden to subsidiaries. In addition, Posten Norge AS issued a guarantee for EVRY associated with IT operating agreements. The increase from 2014 to 2015 was primarily due to currency effects. Some of Posten Norge's loan agreements include a negative pledge and requires the Group to comply with defined levels of financial key ratios. At the end of the year, the Group complied with these levels (cf. note 18). Posten Norge AS Information about guarantees provided by Posten Norge AS to group companies and other companies is included in total in the above section. In addition, Posten Norge AS has issued guarantees to cover the Share Capital in Bring Cargo Inrikes AB and Bring Norden AB at 31 December 2015. There is also a letter of support as of 31 December 2015 for continued operations in Bring Cargo International AB and Bring Cargo Denmark A/S. Furthermore, Posten Norge has provided a delivery guarantee to Statoil Petroleum AS for Bring Cargo AS. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 207 Note 22 Leases The note shows the Group's leasing costs and short­term and long­term liabilities for lease agreements, in addition to rental income and future rental income for hiring out operating equipment. Most of the Group's lease agreements are clasified as operating lease (cf. also section 21 Leasing in the Group's accounting principles). 1. Lessee 1.1 Finance leases Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 Carrying amount Buildings 16 18 19 11 8 Machines 8 11 Vehicles, fixtures and fitting 48 49 60 11 8 Net carrying amount 72 77 79 Commitments, buildings 21 22 23 12 9 Commitments, machines 9 12 Commitments, vehicles, fixtures and fitting 44 28 38 12 9 Total commitments 74 62 61 1 3 Annual lease costs 20 22 28 Future minimum leases: 4 Next 12 months 20 6 1­5 years 37 After 5 years 14 10 Total future minimum lease 72 7,8% Interest rate 4,4 % 9 Present value of future lease 67 Of which: 5 ­ long­term debts 49 4 ­ short­term debts 18 Leased assets are classified as tangible fixed assets, and associated liabilities as interest­ bearing non­current liabilities. The first year’s installments are reclassified as interest­bearing current liabilities (cf. note 16) POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 208 Group Posten Eiendom Robsrud AS has a finance lease for a thermal energy facility that runs until 30 June 2024. The Group's other finance leases mainly relate to vehicles of which Svebol AB had the largest fleet of finance leased vehicles (MNOK 29). At the end of the year, Bring Gudbrandsdalen AS has leased vehicles amounting to a net book value of MNOK 11. The longest lease agreement for vehicles expires in December 2020. Posten Norge AS In connection with the transfer of parts of Bring Cargo AS’ operations in 2015, Posten Norge AS aquired agreements for leasing containers, originally from 2011, and classified as finance leases. 1.2 Operating leases Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 799 766 764 Ordinry lease payments for buildings 921 889 977 258 225 225 Ordinry lease payments for cars 353 331 394 2 Ordinry lease payments for computer equipment 2 1 2 31 36 53 Ordinry lease payments ­ other 97 113 111 (7) (11) (10) Subletting revenues (71) (69) (63) 1 081 1 016 1 034 Total lease costs 1 302 1 265 1 421 Future minimum lease payments related to lease agreements that cannot be cancelled, are due as follows: 572 Next 12 months 781 1 163 1­5 years 1 663 1 195 After 5 years 1 056 2 930 Future minimum lease payments due 3 500 Group With approximately. 1 300 lease agreements for various types of property, Posten Norge AS is by far the largest lessee in the Group. The agreements include offices and sorting premises, terminals, post offices, parking facilities etc. The leases expire in the period 2015 ­2036. For most leases, Posten Norge AS is entitled to extend the lease period when the lease expires. The most significant other operating leases in the Group concern premises leased for Bring Frigo AB, Bring Warehousing AS and Bring CityMail Sweden AB. The longest lease expires on 22 December 2029. A provision of MNOK 13 in the Group has been made for restructuring costs in connection with vacating premises 2015 (cf. note 11 Posten Norge AS POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 209 The most significant lease agreements in Posten Norge AS concern Østlandsterminalen at Robsrud, the Posthuset building at Biskop Gunnerusgate 14 A, the freight center at Alnabru and the terminals in Bergen and Trondheim. The lease agreement for Østlandsterminalen expires on 30 November 2016, but has an option for an extension of 5 plus 5 years. The lease period for the “Posthuset” building at Biskop Gunnerusgate 14 A expires on 31 December 2025 without the right to earlier notice, but with the option for a 10 years extension. The costs relating to jointly used areas and energy costs are variable and allocated according to a formula based on the floor space rented. The rent is index­linked on an annual basis. The lease agreements for the terminals in Bergen and Trondheim are current with 6 and 4 months term of notice, respectively, and for Posten Norge's freight center the agreement is running for 12 months. The rent is index­linked on an annual basis. Other lease agreements mainly relate to mail and freight terminals in Norway. In December 2014, an agreement was made with LeasePlan Norge AS for the lease and operation of all types of vehicles. The normal contract period for each vehicle is two to five years. Posten Norge is neither entitled, nor obligated to extend the lease period, or to buy the vehicle when the lease expires. A total of 3 989 vehicles and 118 trailers was leased at the end of 2015. 2. Lessor Operating leases Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 Future rental income due 3 Next 12 months 8 5 1­5 years 15 3 After 5 years 1 11 Operating lease agreements 24 15 12 9 Annual rental income 8 23 23 The Group has some operating leases related to rental of parts of buildings in 2015, mainly in Bring Cargo Inrikes AB. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 210 Note 23 Changes to the Group structure The note provides information about significant changes in the Group structure through acquisition and disposal of companies, as well as other relevant changes (cf. also section 5 Consolidation principles in the Group's accounting principles). The following changes in the Group's structure have taken place since 31 December 2014: Companies founded in 2015 In 2015, the Group founded the companies Posten Eiendom Bodø AS and Posten Eiendom Molde AS. The objective was to transfer properties from Posten Norge AS to separate ownership companies. Companies acquired in 2015 In April 2015, the Group purchased 100% of the logistics company Bring Linehaul AB (prev. JK Transport AB), thereby strengthening its position in the Swedish logistics market. The acquisition was primarily carried out to improve the logistics services in the Stockholm area. The company has 9 employees and a turnover of MSEK 17 in 2014. In October 2015, the Group purchased 100% of Posten Eiendom Trondheim AS (prev. Kvenild Eiendom IV AS) in order to acquire a site where the Group shall build Posten Norge's and Bring's logistics center in Trondheim. The terminal shall be completed in 2017 and become the workplace for approximately 500 employees. The company was not operative at the time of the acquisition. In the beginning of December 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the Swedish logistics company Svebol Logistics AB. With this purchase, Bring is strengthening its position and competence within temperature­controlled transport. The company has 76 employees and a turnover of MSEK 74 in 2014. Overview of preliminary allocation of cost of acquisitions 2015 Bring Linehaul AB Posten Eiendom Svebol Logistics AB Total Trondheim AS Intangible assets 1 1 Fixed assets 3 135 54 192 Financial assets 3 3 Receivables 7 15 22 Totalt assets 10 138 70 218 Deferred tax 1 2 3 Long term debt 39 39 Short term debt 6 36 22 63 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 211 Total debt 6 37 63 106 Net identified assets 4 101 7 112 Goodwill 1 12 13 Final settlement (3) (3) Total acquisition price 6 101 16 123 Cash paid (6) (101) (16) (123) Cash received as part of settlement Net cash effect acquisitions (6) (101) (16) (123) The considerations were determined based on recognised valuation techniques. All acquisitions have been negotiated with vendor when entering into the contract. The considerations were adjusted for results in the period from the date the agreement was made to the date the control was transferred. The fair value of trade receivables and other receivables was MNOK 25, of which trade receivables amounted to MNOK 18. The gross amount of trade receivables was MNOK 18, and no provision was made for losses. Contribution to the Groups results – companies aquired in 2015 Bring Linehaul AB Posten Eiendom Svebol Logistics AB Total Trondheim AS Operating revenue after acquisition 58 8 66 date Profit before tax after acquisition 4 4 date Operating revenue accumulated 67 8 375 2015 Profit before tax accumulated 2015 4 4 Companies sold in 2015 No significant subsidiaries were disposed of in 2015. In 2015, the Group sold its ownership share of 40% in EVRY ASA. The transaction was carried out in March 2015, and the consideration was 1,7 billion kroner, resulting in a profit of MNOK 219 (for Posten Norge AS MNOK 249). Company Share of Time of sale Sales amount Recorded Recorded Cash effect ownership profit/loss profit/loss group Posten Norge AS Evry ASA 40 % March 1 711 219 249 1 711 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 212 2015 Other changes in the Group structure in 2015 A business transfer of terminals and employees within groupage and part loads operations in Bring Cargo AS to Posten Norge AS has been carried out effective from 1 January 2015. Effective from 1 July 2015, customer and supplier agreements in Bring Gudbrandsdalen AS (prev. Kirkestuen AS) were transferred to Posten Norge AS. Posten Norge AS has purchased the shares in Bring Express Norge AS from Bring Express AS as a part of simplifying the business structure. In 2016, the Home Delivery operations will be transferred from Bring Express Norge AS to Posten Norge AS. The Group wishes to have a uniform organisation of its properties. As a part of this, Posten Norge AS has demerged properties to separate property companies (cf. information above). Separate entities will contribute to focus on the development of the properties, both regarding the buildings and the land. There are also plans to sell the shares in the property companies to Posten Eiendom AS. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 213 Note 24 Transactions with related parties Posten Norge AS` related parties are primarily subsidiaries in the Group, and Posten Norge AS purchases from and sells services to these companies. Group The change in purchases and sales from related parties is due to the fact that Posten Norge AS sold its shares in EVRY ASA in March 2015. The transactions with related parties were made as part of ordinary operations and at arms­length prices. Posten Norge AS The increase in the purchase of goods and services from subsidiaries from 2014 to 2015 mainly relates to purchases from Bring Frigoscandia AS and Bring Linehaul AS. The reduction in sales to subsidiaries from 2014 to 2015 concerned reduced sales to Bring Cargo AS. Posten Norge AS Group 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 Purchases of goods and services from 291 297 427 Subsidiaries 837 682 124 Associated companies 147 743 856 Sales of goods and services to 1 561 1 796 1 388 Subsidiaries 114 121 37 Associated companies 55 174 147 Leases of property from 247 261 263 Subsidiaries Associated companies 1 2 2 Leases of property to 19 20 17 Subsidiaries The balance sheet includes the following amounts resulting from transactions with related parties: Group Posten Norge AS 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 2013 299 236 243 Accounts receivable 19 36 26 2 894 3 173 3 937 Other receivables 93 89 48 Accounts payable 48 98 57 POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 214 1 367 1 258 2 176 Other payables 14 3 1 1 733 2 062 1 955 Net (43) (65) (32) Other receivables and other liabilities Other receivables and other liabilities in the parent company basically concerned the corporate account system (cf. also note 15) Remuneration to the board and management Note 2 has details about the remuneration to the board and management. Loans to employees Information about loans to employees is provided in note 13. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 215 Note 25 Other matters Other matters include significant event and relevant issues related to the Group's operations and general terms not discussed in other notes (cf. also section 22 Events occurring after the balance sheet date in the Group's accounting principles). EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE In connection with the restructuring of parts of the logistics operations in Sweden, it has been decided in 2016 to sell three properties. The properties are localised in Malmø, Eskilstuna and Ljungby with carrying amounts of MSEK 75, 37 and 14, respectively. It is expected that the properties will be sold before the end of 2016. REGULATORY ISSUES Posten Norge's licence until 31 December 2015 In accordance with section 4 of the Postal Act, the Ministry of Transport and Communication granted Posten Norge AS a licence from 1 January 2013. The licence gave Posten Norge AS an exclusive right to handle sealed and addressed letter mail below 50 grams domestically and from abroad within a price up to 2,5 times the basic price for domestically prioritised mail. The licence also entails that Posten Norge AS must carry out certain social obligations. These obligations comprised: Requirements for available products (obligation to deliver postal services and basic banking services in the rural postal service) Requirement for the availability of the statutory postal services Delivery time requirements Requirement for cost­based prices and geographically uniform postage charges within the exclusive right Governmental procurements and product accounts In point 4.2 of the licence, it is assumed that Posten Norge AS ' extra costs related to the social obligations are covered by the monopoly profits from the services and government procurements granted through the state budget. The annual pre­allocation of funds for government procurements is adjusted in the following year based on a recalculation of requirements. This is done in connection with preparation of the product accounts Posten Norge is presenting to the Norwegian Post and Telecommunications Authority. This arrangement shall prevent any over­ or undercompensation. In the state budget for 2015, MNOK 418 was allocated in advance for government procurements. The increase from 2014 to 2015 is mainly due to an expected reduction in the monopoly profits as a consequence of declining mail volumes. Adjusted for the recalculation, government procurements amounted to MNOK 231 in 2014 and MNOK 351 in 2013. According to the licence, Posten Norge must document that there are no illegal cross subsidies between the monopoly services and the services that are subject to competition. This documentation shall be submitted to the Norwegian Post and Telecommunications Authority in POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 216 the annual product accounts. The auditor performs control procedures pursuant to the licence. The product accounts for 2015 shall be presented three months after the financial statements for 2015 have been approved, at the latest. New postal regulations from 1 January 2016 On 15 June 2015, the Norwegian Parliament (Stortinget) approved a new act on postal services (the Postal Act). The act and accompanying regulation became effective on 1 January 2016. The new act implements EU's Third Postal Directive and implies a full liberalisation of the Norwegian postal market. Accordingly, Posten Norge's exclusive right to distribute addressed mail below 50 grams was discontinued on 31 December 2015. According to the new Postal Act, the requirement of daily ordinary postal deliveries is reduced from six to five days a week. The new regulations also secure the distribution of newspapers to subscribers in areas where no alternative newspaper distribution is available. The arrangement of government procurements of financially unprofitable services has been carried forward with the new regulations. Pursuant to section 9 of the Postal Act, the authorities shall cover the net costs by public funding if the bidder is inflicted an unreasonable financial charge in offering postal services required to be delivered. Governmental ownership The Ministry's requirement for return on equity from Norway Post is set to 9% after tax. The dividend policy entails an expected dividend of 50% of the Group's consolidated net profit after tax, taking into account an acceptable equity level in the parent company. In the state budget for 2016, dividends to the State amounting to MNOK 320 have been presumed for the profit year 2015. Banking and payment services The statutory banking service requirement for services through Posten Norge AS's distribution network was changed in 2012 to only include the rural postal service, cf. Prop. 100 L to the Norwegian Parliament (2011­2012). Posten Norge's additional costs relating to these services are compensated through the government procurements' scheme. Posten Norge has chosen to continue to offer banking services in other parts of its service network not covered by the statutory banking service (post offices and Post­in­Shops). The current agent agreement for the distribution of financial services through Posten Norge's permanent sales network runs until 31 December 2019. Following a competition for banking and services in the rural postal service, a new agreement with DNB was made with effect from 1 January 2014 and with the same expiration date as the rest of the agent agreement. DISPUTES No disputes that involve any significant risk exposure to the Group have been identified. POSTEN NORGE l ÅRSOG BÆREKRAFTRAPPORT 2015 l RESULTATER SIDE 217
