CTG GLOBAL UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) 5 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) 6 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO 7 UNGC (UAE) LOCAL NETWORK STEERING COMMITTEE 11 UNGC EVENTS AND ADVOCACY WORK 12 COP ‘CORPORATE PATHWAY’ – 2ND ANNUAL REPORT Human Rights Targets 17 Labour Targets 18 Environment Targets 21 Anti-corruption Targets 22 COMPANY OPERATIONS 23 PROJECT CASE STUDIES 26 MAKING GLOBAL GOALS LOCAL BUSINESS THE SDGS 30 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & GENDER EQUALITY 33 BUSINESS 4 PEACE (B4P) 42 CTG GIVING 43 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) 45 CTG GLOBAL UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg ## THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AN IDEAL COMMITMENT FOR WORLDWIDE PROACTIVE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS AND RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZENRY 8,902 166 39,199 Companies Countries Public Reports CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 3 INTRODUCTION The United Nations Global Compact is Office works off of a mandate set out by the a United Nations initiative to encourage UN General Assembly as an organization businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable that promotes responsible business and socially responsible policies, and practices and UN values among the global to report on their implementation. business community and the UN System. The UN Global Compact is a principleThe UN Global Compact based framework for businesses, stating supports companies to: ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti• D  o business responsibly by aligning corruption. Under the Global Compact, their strategies and operations with their companies are brought together with UN Ten Principles on human rights, labour, agencies, labour groups and civil society. environment and anti-corruption; and • T ake strategic actions to advance broader The UN Global Compact is the world's largest societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable corporate sustainability (aka corporate Development Goals, with an emphasis social responsibility) initiative with over on collaboration and innovation. 8,000+ corporate participants and other DELIVERING stakeholders in over 166 countries with two PROGRAMME SOLUTIONS objectives: Mainstream the ten principles First and foremost, CTG Global recognizes and in business activities around the world and acknowledges the following international standards IN FRAGILE & Catalyse actions in support of broader UN that support the UNGC 10 principles, namely: CONFLICT-AFFECTED goals, such as the Millennium Development ENVIRONMENTS Goals (MDGs) and Sustainable Development • T he Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The Goals (SDGs) . Moving forward, The UN International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Global Compact and its signatories are Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The deeply invested and enthusiastic about Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, supporting work towards the SDGs. The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact was announced by The ‘Corporate Pathway’ illustrates CTG Global then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in past outcomes in 2014-2015 and outlines future an address to the World Economic Forum initiatives and targets underway and planned on January 31, 1999, and was officially for 2016-2017. For more information, please www.ctgglobal.com launched at UN Headquarters in New York refer to page 17 COP ‘Corporate Pathway’. on July 26, 2000.The Global Compact CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) CTG Globals’ corporate sustainability starts with our internal value system and a principled approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Responsible businesses enact the same values and principles wherever they have a presence, and know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into our strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, we strive to uphold our basic responsibilities to people and the planet, with the objective to set the stage for long-term success. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption HUMAN RIGHTS: LABOUR: ENVIRONMENT: Principle 1: Principle 3: Businesses Principle 7: Businesses Businesses should uphold the freedom should support should support of association and the a precautionary and respect the effective recognition of the approach to protection of right to collective bargaining; environmental internationally challenges; proclaimed Principle 4: the elimination human rights; and of all forms of forced and Principle 8: undertake compulsory labour; initiatives to promote Principle 2: make greater environmental sure that they Principle 5: the effective responsibility; and are not complicit abolition of child labour; and ANTI-CORRUPTION in human rights Principle 9: encourage Principle 10: Businesses should work abuses. Principle 6: the elimination the development against corruption in all its forms, of discrimination in respect and diffusion of including extortion and bribery. of employment and environmentally occupation. friendly technologies. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 5 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) Following the success of the Millennium At the United Nations Sustainable Development Development Goals (MDGs) — the UN is also Summit on 25 September 2015, world leaders working with governments, civil society and other adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable partners to build on the momentum generated Development, which includes a set of 17 by the MDGs and carry on with an ambitious Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to end post-2015 development agenda with Sustainable poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle Development Goals (SDGs). climate change by 2030. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 6 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO It was hard to decide where to start my statement of support as since we joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2014 it has been an exciting journey covering humanitarian crisis response, business for peace, women’s empowerment and the Sustainable Development Goals. The UNGC brings agenda derived in part from the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) together both fascinating and passionate — namely, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) containing 17 people who all have the same agenda of laudable goals (including outstanding guidance) to be reached by 2030. enhancing the private sectors involvement in humanitarian crises and who instil strong anti-corruption and CTG Global understands the benefits of engaging in the UN Global corporate sustainability practices and structures within their Compact and implementing the principles; as it is no secret people individual organisations operations and strategic plans. want to be associated with and do business with organisations that are responsible corporate citizens — indeed ‘Sustainability Matters’ with: The requirement to publically report on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact has given us the opportunity to reflect on our • 1 78% of CEOs that view sustainability as an sustainability journey, to consider how far we have come and what opportunity for growth and innovation; we can do to help build the sustainable societies of tomorrow and • 1 80% of CEOs that view sustainability as a as we move towards 2030 SDG goals of ending global poverty, competitive advantage in their industry; protecting our planet and ensuring a life of dignity for all. • 1 93% of CEOs that view sustainability as important to the future success of their business. I am delighted to submit CTG Global’s 2nd annual ‘Communication on Progress’ for 2016-2017 and to communicate wider with our stakeholders CTG Global has numerous ongoing and aggressive sustainability to show our commitment to corporate sustainability globally. initiatives for both the forthcoming period of 2016-2017, and future years for targets pertaining to our overall Corporate Social It is our commitment to support the United Nations Global Compact; Responsibility programme — including, but not limited to: embracing the advancement of responsible corporate citizenship and sustainable business to meet the challenges of globalization. •C  arbon Trust Accreditation; • L EED™ / Green Building Certification; Within this ‘Communication on Progress’, we describe the outcomes of our goals and achievements of 2015-2016 and present our initiatives and • T RACE (anti-corruption) Certification; targets for 2016-2017 with regard to aligning our operations, strategies and • E thical Trading Initiative alliances and base code incorporation; culture with the UN global compact’s ten universally accepted principles •U  K Bribery Act workshops & training; in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. • F oreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) workshops & training; •G  lobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines incorporation; We are also committed to support projects to advance the broader •M  odern Slavery Act 2015 workshops & training; development goals of the UN; in particular, the new ambitious post-2015 • L iving Wage Foundation guidelines incorporation. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 7 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO I am proud to say; through our engagement with UNGC over the past this is instilled in the culture across all levels of the organisation. few years CTG has been making rich contribution. CTG continues to We embrace and advance the principals of social and environmental engage with corporate leaders and entrepreneurs, collaborates with sustainability, abide by minimum mandatory social standards, United Nations agencies in over 25 countries, we continue to address strive for continuous improvement and seek and adopt more gender equality and ongoing enhancement to labour standards, and advanced social and environmental requirements as they arise. transparency in our reporting. My personal role as a member of the UAE Local Network Steering Committee has enormous responsibilities Yours sincerely in the region in relation to promoting the SDG’s, the UNGC 10 principles and advocacy on other initiatives of the UNGC including Business for Peace and the Women’s Empowerment Principles. Alice Laugher CTG continues to be active in United Nations Global Compact Chief Executive Officer | CTG Global conferences, locally and globally around both sustainability and world issues with CTG Executive Leadership attending: • Business for Peace, November 2014, Istanbul • T he Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), March 2016, at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, U.S.A. [http://www.weprinciples.org/] • T he World Humanitarian Summit (WHS), May 2016, in Istanbul, Turkey [https://www.worldhumanitariansummit.org/] •G  lobal Leaders Summit, June 2016 at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, U.S.A. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ take-action/events/leaders-summit/leaders-summit-programme •U  N General Assembly and Private Sector Forum, September 2016 at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, U.S.A. [https://www.unglobalcompact.org/take-action/ events/691-united-nations-private-sector-forum-2016 ] •M  aking Global Goals Local Business and Business for Peace Annual Forum, October 2016, Dubai, U.A.E. [https://www.unglobalcompact. org/take-action/events/881-making-global-goals-local-business-dubai •W  orld Humanitarian Forum (WHF), December 2016, Dubai, U.A.E. [https:// www.wam.ae/en/news/emirates-international/1395295870019.html Make your pledge to Business for Peace today and be recognized at our main annual event held on 26 October 2016 in Dubai, UAE. This event will bring together It is paramount to CTG’s global business sustainability for its staff to uphold over 200 representatives of business, Global Compact Local Networks, civil society, the highest level of integrity and ethical standards. Being a woman owned investors and government to focus on why and how business can play an important and run business we are passionate about respect for equal rights of both role in the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 16 and support men and women and have an employee gender balance of 50:50. As the pressing UN issuessuch as the Global Refugee Crisis. CEO, I not only lead by example but am enormously involved in ensuring CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 8 SENIOR MANAGEMENT COMMITMENT “CTG Global has a continuing imperative to support the UNGC 10 universally accepted principles and Sustainable Development Goals as we engage our humanitarian stakeholders in meaningful dialogue. Our projects are in some of the most challenging areas of the world — from Afghanistan to South Sudan — with commercial transactions and activities that are rarely simple and straightforward. We have demonstrated commercial flexibility in our projects and will continue to maintain this agility as we look toward solving our partners concerns. We remain resolute to our stakeholders as we progress with regular innovation given existing humanitarian frameworks and look forward to the many new initiatives in the 2016-2017” Mark Taylor – CTG Global Commercial Director “Numerous UNGC principles cross over into the purview of human resources; in particular: principle 1-6 and principle 10. Due to the nature of our projects located in conflict and post-conflict nations; we experience above average situations involving labour, abuse, discrimination, complicity, and legality compared to developed country project locations. Each situation in the respective country will have unique parameters often requiring sensitive and delicate management. CTG Global company adherence to the UNGC 10 universally accepted principles is a top priority in my remit — bolstering our processes and systems that support our best assets. “ Lisa Flanagan– CTG Global Human Resources Director “CTG Global has established and proven human resource mechanisms that have been continuously improved to best serve the United Nations and advocating Agencies. The CTG Global commitment to the UNGC 10 universally accepted principles provide strong guidance and reinforce our ongoing efforts throughout our organisation assisting humanitarian sector programmes and projects especially in areas deemed higher risk. These principles are not an extension of the CTG Global sustainability programme, they are foundational and imperative to its success” Alexander Bethell – CTG Global Senior Vice President “2016/17 is an exciting time of change for CTG Global particularly in terms of training and development. As CTG works to build a sustainable business which supports the UNGC’s principles, CTG is specifically looking at anti-corruption initiatives, such as TRACE accreditation, and ways to develop CTG’s approach to labour and human rights, such as guidance from the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code.” Louisa Elkington– CTG Global Legal Officer CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 9 INTRODUCTION “CTG Global provides unique support to the humanitarian and development community in fragile and conflict-affected countries. CTG Global specialises in the rapid mobilisation and management of skilled and unskilled personnel ranging from doctors to drivers, engineers to administrators — supporting the humanitarian sector and advocating agencies. Over the last 10 years, CTG Global has established reliable operations and local networks in the world’s most challenging environments.” James Veysey, CTG Global Director of Operations CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg ## UNGC UAE LOCAL NETWORK STEERING COMMITTEE In 2015 CTG Global’s CEO, Alice Laugher, was invited of the Network and Managing Director of the Dubai Real Estate to join the UN Global Compact UAE Local Network Institute, and Walid Nagi, Chief of Local Networks at the UN Global Steering Committee. The UN Global Compacts local Compact, making the UAE the first country network in the Gulf. networks activity is extremely important in advancing corporate sustainability at the grassroots level by The launch culminated with a roundtable discussion facilitated helping companies understand what responsible by the Local Network Steering Committee members engaging business means within a national context. UN Global Compact participants and other stakeholders in a dialogue about the role the local network will play in In May 2015 – in the presence of over 150 representatives shaping and advancing responsible business in the UAE. from business, Government, business associations, academia, civil society and other stakeholders; the UN Global The UNGC UAE Local Network Steering Committee meets formally Compact UAE Local Network was launched in Dubai. every quarter and continues to focus on both increasing the number of participants as well as enhancing the access to information and support At the launch, Sultan Butti Min Mejren, Director General of to organisations in our region. The Steering Committee Taskforces Dubai Land Department gave the keynote speech, expressing meet more frequently to discuss outreach and advocacy outcomes support for the UN Global Compact on a national level. measured against key performance indicators. CTG’s CEO leads both The Secretariat of the Network is hosted at the Dubai Real Estate the Business for Peace and, jointly, the Women Empowerment Principles Institute, the official training arm of the Dubai Land Department, and taskforces. Having been selected to host the Local Networks Annual supported by a multi-stakeholder Steering Committee. The two-hour Forum, Making Global Goals Local Business summit and the Business Local Network launch event included the signing of the Memorandum for Peace Annual conference has required the Steering Committee of Understanding (MoU) by Mahmoud Al Burai, Representative members to provide enormous support to the event planning, sponsorship and provide access to high calibre speakers in the region. UNGC UAE LOCAL NETWORK STEERING COMMITTEE CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 11 UNGC EVENTS AND ADVOCACY WORK CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 12 The CTG Global CEO signing up to the commitment for Business for Peace (B4P) in Nov 2014 with Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chairman of the UN Global Compact Foundation. Business for Peace (B4P) Panelists for UNGC U.A.E. Local Networks’ first Anniversary CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 13 26 OCTOBER 2016 OVERVIEW As the main global convening for the business and peace movement, the 2016 Business for Peace Annual CTG Global will attend the event will bring together representatives from business, civil society, investors, Governments, United event located at Jumeirah Nations and Global Compact Local Networks to move the peace agenda from aspiration to action. Mina A’Salam at Madinat Jumeirah Resort | Madinat OBJECTIVES Jumeirah Rd • Scale-up private sector contributions to peace aligned with SDG16; Dubai, United Arab Emirates • Explore innovative multi-stakeholder partnership opportunities for peace; and, • Inspire and expand the B4P community of practice by providing a space for learning and knowledge sharing. BACKGROUND Violent conflict and instability affect so many people and markets in many parts of the world. With the over 65 million people, including over 21 million refugees displaced by conflict, and a cost of violence at 13.4% of world GDP, never before has it been so urgent for business to step up efforts in support of peace. The global goals adopted in 2015 set a bold ambition for the world and are integral to achieving peace in our time. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon calls on us all to recognize that development and peace are interdependent and mutually reinforcing, and to work together to help promote and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. In fact, the private sector can play an important supporting role in the implementation of the goals. Furthermore, SDG 16 on peace, justice and strong institutions provides an opportunity for companies to align their strategies with a new universal goal on peace. As the main global convening for the business and peace movement, the 2016 Business for Peace Annual event will bring together representatives from business, civil society, investors, Governments, United 23 OCT | Annual Local Nations and Global Compact Local Networks to move the peace agenda from aspiration to action. Network Forum 24 OCT | UN Private Sector Focal PARTNERING FOR HUMANITARIAN ACTION Points Annual Meeting A number of key areas are emerging that represent priority areas of collaboration between the private sector, the UN and civil society to address pressing humanitarian needs stemming from 25 OCT | PRME Business for conflict. This collaborative solutions oriented session be framed around the following pillars: Peace Forum 2016 • Primary, secondary and tertiary education for refugees and migrants (SDG 4); •E  mployment opportunities for people in transit and host communities (directly 26 OCT | Business for Peace by companies and/or through their supply chains) (SDG 8); Annual Event • Provision of basic human needs, shelter, food and clothing to people that are 27 OCT | Pearl Initiative & UNGC the most vulnerable (SDGs 2 and 6, potentially also SDG 3); 2nd Regional Forum Participation of the private sector in advocacy and public policy engagement. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 14 SUPPO RTING THE WHS 5C s ore ti e Responsibili • CTG Global is preventing and ending conflict by… The world is witnessing the highest Supporting food programme agencies with active contracts in Afghanistan, level of human suffering since the Sierra Leone, Somalia, and Sudan. Additional active support with Second World War. This is why, Materials Management Unit (MMU) for humanitarian agencies in Gaza for the first time in the 70-year history of the United Nations, UN • CTG Global is respecting the rules of war by… Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon Extensive Duty of Care responsbilities and security deployment training for convened the World Humanitarian thousands of CTG Global Consultants supporting Summit to generate commitments humanitarian agencies to reduce suffering and deliver better for people around the globe. • CTG Global is leaving no one behind by... Providing 24/7 medical support, evacuation assistance, and legal representation for CTG Global Consultants in high-risk countries • CTG Global is working differently to end need by… Providing 24/7 support with CTG Global Consultant personal tracking devices and other measures for efficient project team allocation in line with changing project dynamics • CTG Global is investing in humanity by… Providing constant innovation with flexible payment mechanisms supporting humanitarian agencies on a wide variety of situations across active contracts in Africa and the Middle East CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 15 “Our evacuation plans, although robust, are dynamic and flexible depending on the security situation at the time. Although rare, security incidents due occur at CTG Global project locations and compounds. We offer extensive pre-deployment training and have systems in place for the evacuation of local and international consultants, amongst numerous other Duty of Care services we provide. My area of responsibility touches on many of the UNGC principles; particularly principles 1, 2, 4, 5, and 10 — creating a unique and challenging experience as 2016-2017 initiatives & targets are planned and outcomes measured.” Greg Davies, CTG Global Account Director and Head of Security CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg ## COMMITMENT ON PROGRESS ‘CORPORATE PATHWAY’ – 2ND ANNUAL REPORT CTG GLOBAL HUMAN RIGHTS TARGETS CODE OF CONDUCT 1. Core Philosophy Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of That directors, employees, contractors, consultants, agents and representatives (hereinafter referred to as “Stakeholders”) engaged by CTG Global (hereinafter referred to as “CTG”) conduct the business of CTG in accordance with this Code of Conduct (hereinafter referred to as “The Code”) that reflects the Values of CTG. 2. Values Our Code of Conduct is underpinned by a set of core social accountability and values that ensure we conduct our business in internationally proclaimed human rights; and compliance with the letter and spirit of the law, and in the best interests of our Clients and Stakeholders. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Objectives Stakeholders are expected to comply, at all times, with all laws governing the jurisdiction where CTG conducts business and to MEASURES AND OUTCOMES 4. conduct themselves in keeping with the highest moral and ethical standards. Scope and Application This Code applies to all CTG Stakeholders. COMPLIANCE & ETHICS In addition, where a Stakeholder retains third-party agents, contractors and/or consultants (“Third Parties”) to represent or perform work on behalf of CTG, the Stakeholder shall make them aware (a) of this Code and (b) the requirement that when acting for or on behalf of CTG Third Parties are required to conduct themselves in accordance with this Code. Stakeholders shall also adhere to the standards of conduct required of United Nations (UN) civil servants; the UN SecretarySUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME •S  upporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and declaring its General’s Bulletin of 9 October 2003 entitled “Special Measures for Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse”; the Secretary-General’s Bulletin of 18 June 2002 entitled “Regulations Governing the Status, Basic Rights and Duties of Officials other than Secretariat Officials, and Experts on Mission”; and the UN’s policy on prevention of harassment, sexual harassment, and abuse of authority. Articles in the corporate Compliance and Ethics Sustainability Programme 5. Statement from the Board ‘Ethics is the discipline relating to right and wrong, moral duty and obligation, The Board of Directors of CTG the Board is committed to ensuring that Stakeholders comply with this Code of Conduct and moral behavior endorses practices and promotes a culture of ethical and accountable principles and values, and encourages and to the reporting moralpractices, of corrupt character.’ breaches of the law and matters potentially detrimental to the Company or its reputation. The Board is directly responsible for the Code of Conduct, and its supplements, and will review it regularly and not less than annually, to ensure its currency and relevance. •C  onducting Compliance and Ethics Sustainability training workshops 2404 Swiss Tower, Jumeirah Lake Towers | PO Box 39074, Dubai, United Arab Emirates T: +971 (4) 438 5200 | F: +971 (4) 438 5201 www.ctgglobal.com in field locations throughout Africa and the Middle East Department: Document Owner: Focus Area: Page 1 Global HQ CEO STAFF COMPLIANCE & ETHICS 24/05/2014 Product or Process: All Employee’s & Consultants of CTG •A  ctions by the CTG Global Good Governance Committee for communication Confidential Compliance & Ethics Sustainability Programme Last printed 7/2/2014 12:01:00 AM of various policies including whistleblower and grievance policies for potential caes of human rights infringements and abuses in project locations HUMAN RIGHTS | 2014-2015 HUMAN RIGHTS | 2016-2017 •C  onsultation with World Monitors Inc. (WMI) to assist CTG TARGETS AND INITIATIVES Global with alignment of its corporate business practices with international human rights and environmental standards •R  eview of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) base code (see http:// www.ethicaltrade.org/resources/eti-base-code) for an outline •S  ignatory to Business for Peace (B4P) Statement study and to incorporate in CTG Global corporate policies and of Support confirming adherence procedures including, but not limited to areas concerning child labour, working conditions, living wages, anti-discrimination, working •C  TG CEO elected to lead the Business for Peace taskforce for hours, freedom of association, employment as a choice, regular the United Nations Global Compact Local Network for the UAE working hours, and the removal of harsh or inhuman treatment and wider region. to UNGC’s Human Rights principles •E  stablish a CSR platform to enable comprehensive measurement •C  reation of project specific Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) indicators and reporting on Human Rights targets and initiatives. and Codes of Conduct for all field and project locations •E  mploy a dedicated CTG Global in-house compliance and legal manager for efficient employee and consultant legal representation •D  eveloped a network of local legal representation throughout Africa and Middle East project locations CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 17 COMMITMENT ON PROGRESS ‘CORPORATE PATHWAY’ – 2ND ANNUAL REPORT CTG GLOBAL LABOUR TARGETS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. MEASURES AND OUTCOMES TARGETS AND INITIATIVES •A  ll CTG Global staff adhering to the corporate Health and Safety, •R  egular coordination and meetings with CTG Global in-house Duty of Care and Security standard operating procedures legal representation and country-specific legal expertise. Recording of meeting minutes and associated actions •R  egular audits of CTG Global recruitment and personnel management policies ensuring compliance with UNGC labour in various developing countries to enhanced consultant principles and other UN guidelines such as: Standards of Conduct representation and local labour law compliance inclusive of required of UN civil servants, Special Measure for Protection freedom of association and right to collective bargaining from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, Regulations Governing the Status, Basic Rights and Duties of Officials other • T o align CTG Global wage standards for all consultants in accordance than Secretariat Officials, and the UNOPS Policy on prevention with the UK Living Wage Foundation and Global Living Wage LABOUR | 2014-2015 LABOUR | 2016-2017 of harassment, sexual harassment, and abuse of authority Coalition (where applicable) see (http://www.isealalliance.org/ our-work/improving-effectiveness/global-living-wage-coalition) •F  emale employment percentages increased to 54% to see improvements in workers’ conditions, including, in the in the CTG Global corporate head office and 38% representation for all project office locations worldwide farms, factories and supply chains under our influence •9  5% of Afghanistan staff are now local nationals, • L aunching a fair and equal learning and development approximately 1,000 staff with other project locations platform measured against key performance indicators also increasing location representation and ensuring equality amongst genders. •R  eached a high of 640 women employed by CTG in Afghanistan. •E  stablish a new recruitment outreach programme to increase our gender balance particularly in the field at the project level. • L aunched our Management Information System “XCD” to enable measured labour standards, gender balance, learning and development and information sharing to staff globally. •E  mpower an internally employed ‘Gender Champion’ to work with the leadership to conduct an indepth study on the Womens •C  TG CEO elected to jointly lead the Womens Empowerment Empowerment Principles and implementation plans and to reviewing Principles taskforce for the United Nations Global CTG’s policies and practices to further support and advance gender Compact Local Network for the UAE and wider region. equality across all offices, projects and in the countries we work. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 18 XCD HR SOFTWARE CTG Global uses XCD HR software a comprehensive, and fully integrated, cloud HR and payroll solution. This provides us detailed employee records, leave management, HR case management, training records, and organisation charts. This cloud based HR software solution includes manager and employee self-service, reports and dashboards, document management, workflow and approvals, and multi-currency — increasing performance toward our UNGC Communication on Progress goals. CTG GLOBAL EMPLOYEE AND CONSULTANT OVERVIEWS WITH RECRUITMENT CTG Global via our DASHBOARDS XCD platform inclusive These are some of the tools CTG of gender statistics; Global uses in its managed services to helping us measure enhance data quality, employee selfprogress to increase service, reports, document management female employment and improving workflow and approvals. representation amongst increasing performance toward our other targets and UNGC Communication on Progress goals. initiatives. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 19 ORIGINS AND HISTORY opportunities, enhance social protection and The ILO was founded in 1919, in the wake strengthen dialogue on work-related issues. of a destructive war, to pursue a vision Today, the ILO’s ‘Decent Work’ agenda helps based on the premise that universal, lasting advance the economic and working conditions peace can be established only if it is based that give all workers, employers and governments on social justice. The ILO became the first a stake in lasting peace, prosperity and progress. The only tripartite U.N. agency, specialized agency of the UN in 1946 since 1919 the ILO brings Four strategic objectives at the heart together governments, employers HOW THEY WORK of the ‘Decent Work’ agenda and workers representatives The unique tripartite structure of the ILO gives of 187 member States , to an equal voice to workers, employers and •S  et and promote standards and fundamental set labour standards, develop governments to ensure that the views of the social principles and rights at work policies and devise programmes partners are closely reflected in labour standards •C  reate greater opportunities for women and promoting decent work for all and in shaping policies and programmes. men to decent employment and income women and men. • Enhance the coverage and effectiveness MISSION AND IMPACT of social protection for all The main aims of the ILO are to promote • Strengthen tripartism and social dialogue rights at work, encourage decent employment CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 20 COMMITMENT ON PROGRESS ‘CORPORATE PATHWAY’ – 2ND ANNUAL REPORT CTG GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TARGETS Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and CTG GLOBAL Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY CTG aims to work proactively with local organizations to conserve the natural environment within key areas that include but are not limited to:  Pollution Prevention from all our activities (including waste).  Waste recycling and reduction (re-use or recycle consumables).  Assist our contractors in protecting the environment.  Make environment friendly choices during the procurement process.  Reduce the risk and impact of environmental accidents.  Minimize and reduce noise pollution.  To make assessments of hazardous waste and reduce its production by use of controls.  To provide the necessary training and support to our staff to ensure they fulfill commitments in our code of conduct. MEASURES AND OUTCOMES TARGETS AND INITIATIVES   To ensure that any operational area we leave is in an acceptable state for re-use or development. To select suppliers who are committed to protecting the environment. These will be achieved both at corporate head office level and at operational level in country of service. Strict monitoring and subsequent analysis of results achieved will enable our objectives to be met. Strict adherence to our Standard Operating Procedures will reduce and eliminate adverse environmental effects that can impact the local landscape. •9  % reduction in fuel due to the expansion and •1  1% reduction in fuel across Afghanistan It is not envisaged that hazardous waste will be generated on our contracts. CTG commits that we will not knowingly generate harmful waste products in the course of our daily operations. The HSE Advisor on behalf of the Country optimization of ‘fuel incentive programmes’ and Sudan and implementation of the Representative will be the person initially responsible for environmental standards and will take advice from any local environmental adviser as required. through fleet projects in Afghanistan and Sudan. ‘fuel incentive programme’ to Sierra Due to the nature of CTG’s work, very little waste is generated. When on CTG premises’, normal accommodation and office waste will be disposed of appropriately with the local authorities. ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS & RISK ASSESSMENT Leone and other project sites General Environment – RISK LOW There are a number of environmental risks which, whilst infrequent, need to be covered. • Implementation of a variety of energy saving General Countermeasures –  Initial risk assessment and continued updates  Follow procedures in the CTG Health & Safety Handbook and Standard Operating Procedures methods at corporate offices including • ‘White paper’ creation with energy saving  Liaison with appropriate local agencies Natural Hazards – RISK LOW temperature control, conscientious printing measures and guidance on the CTG Global Climatic conditions can lead to a high risk of disease, drought and floods. Countermeasures –  Effective liaison with local monitoring agencies initiatives and efficient lighting website and distribution where possible to  Contingency plans and sound briefings ENVIRONMENTAL | 2014-2015 ENVIRONMENTAL | 2016-2017  Regular emergency drills project sites in Africa and the Middle East CTG Global Confidential Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this policy. Page 1 08/02/2012 •R  eduction techniques in corporate and field offices to reduce paper and associated supplies • L eadership in Energy and Environmental Design(LEED)™ (http://www.usgbc.org/leed) or •C  ontinued use of accredited similiar recognized green building baseline study environmentally friendly suppliers where for feasibility of certification of corporate HQ and possible for supplier database field locations in Africa and the Middle East •A  dherence to CTG Global policy for the •C  reation of internal ‘Pool2Work’ reduction of air travel in support of for employee carpooling. teleconferencing technologies where possible •R  esearch into feasibility of Carbon Trust •C  ontinued investigation into energy and water Accreditation (https://www.carbontrust. saving devices to benefit project sites especially in com) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) conflict affected areas in Africa and the Middle East. (https://www.cdp.net) with CTG Global projects in Africa and the Middle East •M  ove of CTG’s office in Dubai next to the metro to reduce the number of staff driving to work. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 21 COMMITMENT ON PROGRESS ‘CORPORATE PATHWAY’ – 2ND ANNUAL REPORT CTG GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION TARGETS Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. MEASURES AND OUTCOMES TARGETS AND INITIATIVES •C  TG Global signed the Anti•C  TG Global will review TRACE Corruption Call to Action confirming certification (https://www. corporate adherence in its first UNGC traceinternational.org/) for HQ Communication on Progress (COP) and field office locations. TRACE certification signifies that a company •C  ontinued vigilance and rigorous has completed an internationally internal audits on financial systems accepted due diligence process to prevent fraudulent activities and demonstrates commitment to commercial transparency ANTI-CORRUPTION | 2014-2015 ANTI-CORRUPTION | 2016-201 •3  rd party external audits on financial systems and processes to the •C  TG Global will undertake training CTG Global Board and governing for staff at HQ and field office bodies for additional scrutiny locations on the UK Bribery Act 2010 some of the strongest anti•R  egular staff training on bribery, corruption legislation to date collusion, fraud, extortion, coercion and other unethical practices as detailed •C  TG Global will undertake training for in our CTG Global Code of Conduct staff at HQ and field office locations on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) •N  umerous training events and workshops on various topics in the •C  ontinued investment in corporate CTG Global Compliance and Ethics workshops and training for staff Sustainability Programme including with topical expansion in areas the non-acceptance of gifts/hospitality including country specific case outside common courtesies, protocols examples and relevant Global on hiring employees, fair competition, Reporting Initiative (GRI), G4 protection of company data, and other Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ‘zero-tolerance’ areas of compliance. e.g. G4-SO1 through to G4-SO11. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 22 COMPANY OPERATIONS CTG Global provides unique support to the humanitarian and development community in fragile and conflict-affected countries, specialising in the rapid mobilisation and management of skilled and unskilled personnel ranging from doctors to drivers, engineers to administrators. They have established reliable operations and strong local networks in the world’s most challenging environments. With a presence in 24 countries – from the Middle East, Africa, Europe, Asia and Central and South America – they offer a holistic fabric of project management, implementation and support. www.ctgglobal.com CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 23 COMPANY OPERATIONS HEADQUARTERS: REGIONAL OFFICES: OPERATIONAL HUBS: CHELSEA GROUP Dubai, UAE Kabul, Afghanistan | Sana’a, Yemen | Damascus, Syria | Benin | Burundi | Ethiopia COMPANIES New York, USA Gaza City, Occupied Palestinian Territories | Tripoli, Libya | Djibouti | Republic of Congo OPERATION London, UK Bamako, Mali | Nairobi,Kenya | Mogadishu, South Central Democratic Republic of HUBS. Limassol, Cyprus Somalia | Galkacyo, Puntland Hargeisa, Somaliland | Congo | Pakistan | Iraq Khartoum, Sudan | Juba, South Sudan | Freetown, Sierra Jordan | Egypt Leone | Monrovia, Liberia CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 24 COMPANY OPERATIONS CTG Global is a reputable humanitarian project support and CTG provides a unique and specialised range of project development agency with proven experience in fragile and conflict implementation support services, underpinned by the affected countries. CTG established it’s operations in Afghanistan quality of our national and international staff. in 2005 and currently serves clients across Africa, the Middle East, Asia, Europe, and Central and South America. Our global CTG experience covers all facets of humanitarian and development headquarters are based in Dubai, New York, London and Cyprus — work in emergency situations including running Ebola Treatment and regional support and field offices ensuring efficient delivery of Clinics, distributing food and managing fleets traveling to otherwise services to our clients. CTG’s clients covers the Humanitarian sector; in-accessible areas, monitoring and evaluating projects, fair and governments; non-governmental organisations and commercial equal election campaigns, to building schools and roads. organisations in challenging environments and emerging markets. We strongly believe our ability to recruit and retain qualified and CTG is one company within a corporate group of companies experienced international and national staff. The strength of our (see Chelsea Group online at the following address http://www. local connections enables us to ensure the duty of care of our staff chelseagroupworldwide.com/the-companies.html) that collectively and mitigate the risks which they face; ensuring they are equipped reach out with operational assets in 43 countries across the globe to perform their required duties. This is CTG’s area of specialisation. with an estimated combined revenue nearing $800 million annually. Achieved through our grassroots networks built over the last 10 years, proven processes, and experienced team members working Our specialist team comprises key staff from a wide range closely with our qualified field staff and local security specialists. of backgrounds, including recruitment, human resources, personnel management, logistics, supply chain management, CTG is confident we have the staff, systems and in-country operations, security, construction, government services, finance, management which is now seen as the industry standard to accounting, administration, plus more, across globally. which others strive to reach and we constantly improve and refine the support provided to our clients and projects. “Our vision is to educate those who live in the hardest to reach locations around the world, where we have projects, on sustainable business practices and anti-corruption standards; whilst creating many job opportunities with a blend of gender diversity. “ Alice Laugher, CTG Chief Executive Officer CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 25 PROJECT CASE STUDIES CTG Global, in support of UNGC Principles, addresses all of the 17 SDGs through impacts, outputs and outcomes engaged by thousands of our deployed consultants, for example: SDG 2.1 | By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round Supporting food programme Supporting Outcomes: CTG Global is contributing to the reduction in emergencies agencies with active contracts in humanitarian agencies areas of operation, through various programmes and in Afghanistan, Sierra Leone, assessments such as: Food for Work (FFW), Food for Assets (FFA), Food for Education Somalia and Sudan (FFE), Food for Training (FFT), and Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) Assessments CTG Global Targets: Continued emphasis on Supporting Impacts: CTG Global is Outputs: The supply reduction of fuel use through the successful supporting the vision of the world in which of millions of meals in CTG Fuel Incentive Program for food supported every man, woman and child has access at Sierra Leone, Sudan, truck movements in project locations from 9% all times to the food needed for an active Afghanistan and to 11%. and healthy life. Somalia CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 26 PROJECT CASE STUDIES CTG, in support of UNGC Principles, addresses all of the 17 SDGs through impacts, outputs and outcomes engaged by thousands of our deployed consultants, for example: SDG 3.3 | By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases SDG 3.d | Strengthen the capacity of all countries, in particular developing countries, for early warning, risk reduction and management of national and global health risks CTG Global active in the international effort Supporting Outcomes: A successful deployment and enabling dozens of roles from physicians and infection control specialists to and provision of manning and support to psychologists and ambulance/burial drivers all contributing to the first USAID lead Ebola Treatment Unit the reduction in death and contagion from a tragic pandemic (ETU) to open in West Africa. turned epidemic CTG Global Targets: The Supporting Impacts: CTG Global Outputs: As experienced responders to expansion of medical and reducing shortages of medicine emergency situations, CTG mobilised an emergency related projects in Africa to include education and in affected countries, increasing distribution of life-saving vaccines and Emergency Medical Team (EMT) Supply of 40 International Specialists and around 500 IMPLEMENTING assessment in Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programmes increasing efficiency of emergency assessments in crisis situations National Staff to an international agency providing humane and orderly migration DISASTER RESPONSE PLANS www.ctgglobal.com CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 27 PROJECT CASE STUDIES CTG Global, in support of UNGC Principles, addresses all of the 17 SDGs through impacts, outputs and outcomes engaged by thousands of our deployed consultants, for example: SDG 9.4 | By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities CTG Global assisting Materials Supporting Outcomes: Ability to import materials through the Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism (GRM), in order to repair damaged Gaza homes and Monitoring Unit (MMU) in Gaza return to a more stable and comfortable environment CTG Global Targets: To support additional roles in Gaza Supporting Impacts: CTG Outputs: The supply assisting the MMU to potentially include financial reporting and Global supplying human of construction budget management, fleet management, procurement and resources, recruitment and materials to rebuild project administration coordination. contact administration. Gaza CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 28 PROJECT CASE STUDIES CTG, in support of UNGC Principles, addresses all of the 17 SDGs through impacts, outputs and outcomes engaged by thousands of our deployed consultants, for example: SDG 10.2 | By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status SDG 10.6 | Ensure enhanced representation and voice for developing countries in decision-making in global international economic and financial institutions in order to deliver more effective, credible, accountable and legitimate institutions Supporting Outcomes: CTG Global active with international CTG Global enhancing the operational capability of: development agencies with national * European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan (EUPOL) Training elections, law & governance and re* Afghan Peace & Reintegration Programme (APRP) integration programmes in Afghanistan * Afghanistan SubNational Governance Programme (ASGP) * Justice & Human Rights in Afghanistan CTG Global Targets: To increase all Outputs: CTG Global supplying 22 sectors of non-discriminatory participation Supporting Impacts: CTG International Specialists and 757 National Global increasing nonwith an emphasis on gender to increase Staff deployed to support the Afghanistan discriminatory participation women and girls representation in Electoral Complaints Commission and other in areas of political discourse Afghanistan governance and law programmes CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 29 MAKING GLOBAL GOALS LOCAL BUSINESS THE SDGS WHAT ARE THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS? productivity and through technological innovation. Promoting policies that encourage entrepreneurship and job creation The Sustainable Development Goals, otherwise known as the are key to this, as are effective measures to eradicate forced Global Goals, build on the Millennium Development Goals labour, slavery and human trafficking. With these targets in (MDGs), eight anti-poverty targets that the world committed to mind, the goal is to achieve full and productive employment, achieving by 2015. The MDGs, adopted in 2000, aimed at an and decent work, for all women and men by 2030. array of issues that included slashing poverty, hunger, disease, gender inequality, and access to water and sanitation. Enormous progress has been made on the MDGs, showing the value of a unifying agenda underpinned by goals and targets. Despite this success, the indignity of poverty has not been ended for all. The new SDGs, and the broader sustainability agenda, go much further than the MDGs, addressing the root causes of poverty and the universal need for development that works for all people. The Sustainable Development Goals will now finish the job of the MDGs, and ensure that no one is left behind. PROMOTE INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH, EMPLOYMENT AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL Over the past 25 years the number of workers living in extreme poverty has declined dramatically, despite the long-lasting impact of the economic crisis of 2008/2009. In developing countries, the middle class now makes up more than 34 percent of total employment – a number that has almost tripled between 1991 and 2015. CTG GLOBAL NAIROBI OFFICE However, as the global economy continues to recover we are CTG Global is committed to providing customized end-toseeing slower growth, widening inequalities and employment end solutions to allow African businesses and humanitarian that is not expanding fast enough to keep up with the growing organizations alike to make real progress, reduce costs, and labour force. According to the International Labour Organization, improve operational efficiencies. This location provides services more than 204 million people are unemployed in 2015. and strategic support to organizations across Africa facing unique The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aim to encourage challenges. The CTG Global office is conveniently located near The sustained economic growth by achieving higher levels of United Nations Office at Nairobi, the UN headquarters in Africa CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 30 MAKING GLOBAL GOALS LOCAL BUSINESS THE SDGS CTG GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ACTIVITIES The 2030 SDG Agenda provides a global framework for national and international efforts to eradicate poverty and hunger, to ensure inclusive education and empower women and girls, to promote sustainable economic growth and employment, to protect our natural resources, and to strengthen governance and institutions. The target date for the realization of these goals is 2030. As the SDGs are based on a participatory process, responsibility for achieving them will be shared between states, the private sector, the scientific community and civil society. MINIMIZING ADVERSE IMPACTS To achieve long-term success, it is essential for CTG Global to pursue a responsible approach to business. Recognizing that it is an integral part of the economy and society, CTG Global strives to conduct its business responsibly by having policies in place for managing the broader social and environmental impacts of its activities. We also uphold key international agreements that promote responsible business practices such as the UN Global Compact. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 31 MAKING GLOBAL GOALS LOCAL BUSINESS THE SDGS PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS IN SOMALIA CTG Global has active involvement in the peacebuilding, education and advocacy programmes in Somalia CTG GLOBAL IS CTG GLOBAL IS CTG GLOBAL IS BENEFITTING THESE SDG 4 TARGETS ENSURE INCLUSIVE SUPPORTING SUPPORTING AND EQUITABLE QUALITY EDUCATION AND PROMOTE LIFELONG LEARNING THE GLOBAL EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL PARTNERSHIP MANAGEMENT 4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality primary EDUCATION (GPE) AND INFORMATION and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning outcomes PROGRAMME SYSTEMS (EMIS) 4.2 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys have access to quality early childhood development, care and pre-primary education so that they are ready for primary education Our consultants work Our consultants guide 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and towards supporting the and assist the finalization quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university Ministry of Education of data entry process 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults and Higher Education and data analysis who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, of Somaliland, Puntland process for the School for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship and Federal Government Census Statistical Year 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all of Somalia for restoring Book 2015/2016 in all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons the public school the three governments with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations systems. Our consultants (Somaliland, Puntland 4.6 By 2030, ensure that all youth and a substantial proportion of adults, work alongside the and the Federal both men and women, achieve literacy and numeracy Ministry of Education Government of Somalia). 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to and the United Nations Outcomes include promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for to provide solid drafting regional sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, assistances to pave the level leaflets for each promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation way for a successful government using data of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development implementation for collected from School 4.a B  uild and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive the GPE programs Assessment database and provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all and activities. and provide at least 4.b By 2020, substantially expand globally the number of scholarships available to one training/capacity developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small island developing building workshop for States and African countries, for enrollment in higher education, including vocational EMIS staff, management training and information and communications technology, technical, engineering and and operation for scientific programmes, in developed countries and other developing countries all governments. 4.c B  y 2030, substantially increase the supply of qualified teachers, including through international cooperation for teacher training in developing countries, especially least developed countries and small island developing States CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 32 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & GENDER EQUALITY Empowering women to participate fully in economic life across all sectors is essential to build stronger economies, achieve internationally agreed goals for development and sustainability, and improve the quality of life for women, men, families and communities. The private sector is a key partner in efforts to advance gender equality and empower women. Current research demonstrating that gender diversity helps businesses perform better signals that self-interest and common interest can come together. Yet, ensuring the inclusion of women’s talents, skills and energies—from executive offices to the factory floor and the supply chain—requires intentional actions and deliberate policies. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 33 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES The Women’s Empowerment Principles offer practical guidance to business and the private sector on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. Developed through a partnership between UN Women and the United Nations Global Compact, the Principles are designed to support companies in reviewing existing policies and practices—or establishing new ones—to realize women’s empowerment. In brief, the Principles are: 1. ESTABLISH HIGH-LEVEL CORPORATE LEADERSHIP FOR greater – in decision-making and governance at GENDER EQUALITY | LEADERSHIP PROMOTES GENDER EQUALITY all levels and across all business areas A  ffirm high-level support and direct top-level policies •O  ffer flexible work options, leave and re-entry opportunities for gender equality and human rights to positions of equal pay and status [2017 TARGET] Establish company-wide goals and targets for gender equality and include progress as a factor in managers’ performance reviews • Engage internal and external stakeholders in the development CTG Global supports the 30% Club; the 30% of company policies, programmes and implementation launched in the UK in 2010 with a goal plans that advance equality [2017 TARGET] of achieving a minimum of 30% women • Ensure that all policies are gender-sensitive – identifying factors on FTSE-100 boards currently the figure that impact women and men differently – and that corporate stand at 26% up from 12.5%. Accelerated culture advances equality and inclusion [2017 TARGET] progress has been achieved through the leadership of our member Chairs and CEOs. In addition to the critical recognition that better gender balance leads to 2. TREAT ALL WOMEN AND MEN FAIRLY AT WORK RESPECT better results, five factors created a replicable formula for success: AND SUPPORT HUMAN RIGHTS AND NON-DISCRIMINATION | EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, INCLUSION AND NONDISCRIMINATION •a  measurable goal with a defined timetable • Pay equal remuneration, including benefits, for work of equal value •p  olitical consensus that the status quo was unacceptable and strive to pay a living wage to all women and men [2017 TARGET] • c hange driven by those in power •o  penness to collaborate • Ensure that workplace policies and practices are free •a  concerted and consistent series of actions and from gender-based discrimination [2017 TARGET] programmes, from schoolrooms to boardrooms Implement gender-sensitive recruitment and retention practices and proactively recruit and appoint women to managerial and executive positions and to the corporate board of directors Assure sufficient participation of women – 30% or CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 34 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES 3. ENSURE THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELL-BEING •E  nsure equal access to all company-supported education and OF ALL WOMEN AND MEN WORKERS | HEALTH, training programmes, including literacy classes, vocational SAFETY AND FREEDOM FROM VIOLENCE and information technology training [2017 TARGET] • T aking into account differential impacts on women and • Provide equal opportunities for formal and informal men, provide safe working conditions and protection from networking and mentoring [2017 TARGET] exposure to hazardous materials and disclose potential • Articulate the company’s business case for women’s risks, including to reproductive health [2017 TARGET] empowerment and the positive impact of inclusion Establish a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms for men as well as women [2017 TARGET] of violence at work, including verbal and/or physical abuse and prevent sexual harassment 5. IMPLEMENT ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT, SUPPLY Strive to offer health insurance or other needed services including CHAIN AND MARKETING PRACTICES THAT maternity benefits and ensure equal access for all employees EMPOWER WOMEN | ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT, Respect women and men workers rights to time off for medical SUPPLY CHAIN AND MARKETING PRACTICES care and counseling for themselves and their dependents • Expand business relationships with women-owned enterprises, In consultation with employees, identify and address including small businesses, and women entrepreneurs [2017 TARGET] security issues, including the safety of women traveling • Ask business partners and peers to respect the company’s to and from work on company-related business commitment to advancing equality and inclusion [2017 TARGET] • Train security staff and managers to recognize signs of violence • Respect the dignity of women in all marketing and against women and understand laws and company policies on other company materials [2017 TARGET] human trafficking, labour and sexual exploitation [2017 TARGET] Ensure that company products, services and facilities are not used for human trafficking and/or labour or sexual exploitation 4. PROMOTE EDUCATION, TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR WOMEN | EDUCATION AND TRAINING • Invest in workplace policies and programmes that open avenues for advancement of women at all levels and across all business areas, and encourage women to enter nontraditional job fields [2017 TARGET] CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 35 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & GENDER EQUALITY WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES 6. PROMOTE EQUALITY THROUGH COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND 7. MEASURE AND PUBLICLY REPORT ON PROGRESS TO ACHIEVE ADVOCACY | COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP AND ENGAGEMENT GENDER EQUALITY | TRANSPARENCY, MEASURING AND • L ead by example – showcase company commitment to gender REPORTING equality and women’s empowerment [2017 TARGET] • Make public the company policies and implementation • L everage influence, alone or in partnership, to advocate for plan for promoting gender equality [2017 TARGET] gender equality and collaborate with business partners, suppliers • Establish benchmarks that quantify inclusion and community leaders to promote inclusion [2018 TARGET] of women at all levels [2017 TARGET] •W  ork with community stakeholders, officials and others •M  easure and report on progress, both internally and to eliminate discrimination and exploitation and open externally, using data disaggregated by sex [2017 TARGET] opportunities for women and girls [2018 TARGET] • Incorporate gender markers into ongoing •P  romote and recognize women’s leadership in, and contributions reporting obligations [2017 TARGET] to, their communities and ensure sufficient representation of women in any community consultation [2018 TARGET] • Use philanthropy and grants programmes to support company • FEMALE CEO • 2 FEMALE BOARD MEMBERS commitment to inclusion, equality and human rights [2018 TARGET] • 50% WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT POSITIONS CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 36 CTG GLOBAL SUPPORTS THE BITC OPPORTUNITY NOW Information about the program is given below. BITC has defined three priorities that are critical to business, to help achieve the potential of people, teams and organisations. They are to create: 1. A better gender balance for leadership progression 2. Unbiased recognition and reward for all 3. A gile work cultures that are fit for the future WHY: •S uccess in business comes down to having the best people in the right positions. •M ake the most of available talent by ensuring it is being fairly recognised and rewarded. •A gile work cultures provide business ‘Opportunity Now’ — the gender campaign from Business in the Community (BITC). benefits and unleash individual potential. 8 STEPS FOR MOTIVATION ACTION IMPACT ACCELERATING 1. Build the business case 4. Move beyond the myths 8. Measure impacts and use them CHANGE: 2. Know where you are now through 5. Make targeted interventions to inform future activity meaningful measurement 6. Mobilise managers and leaders 3. Define where you want to get to and as agents of change ensure leaders are accountable 7. Create inclusive cultures CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 37 CTG GLOBAL SUPPORTS THE UK GOVERNMENTS THINK, ACT, REPORT INITIATIVE Women earn 20% less on average than men, despite efforts to remove barriers in the workplace. Companies can still do more to make sure their employees are treated fairly. CTG GLOBAL PLANS FOR ACCELERATING GENDER EQUALITY PRACTICE The ‘Think, Act, Report’ campaign shows our commitment to gender equality in the workplace. By signing up, we pledge to: 2017 TARGETS: • Cultivate male middle managers as role models for gender inclusive leadership • THINK: identify any issues around •E  ncourage male middle managers to support and empathise gender equality with people who are different to themselves •A  CT: take action to fix those issues • Nourish self-reflectivity through feedback in male middle •R  EPORT:  on how CTG’s business ensures managers to develop gender inclusive leadership gender equality • Set deliverables and ask male middle managers to report on an annual basis on the changes they have been implementing BEST PRACTICES BASED ON LESSONS LEARNED •A  lot of development training initiatives don’t work as they can cost a lot of money, are vague, and don’t impact change • Men should support gender initiatives – ‘Male Champions of Change’ or ‘Diversity Champions’ • Calling people out: Why did you do that? Approach • Stop what isn’t working and double down on what is working •H  ost conferences or debates on gender equality subjects – i.e. gender equality does more harm than good •H  ave 1-on-1 meetings with individuals to find out: 1) What their goals are 2) What commitments do you have outside of the work 3) What are your priorities – childcare/hobby/etc. and not having to justify them 4) What are the different personalities in play •R  equest staff to take the Project Implicit Social Attitudes as it alerts people to their unconscious biases CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 38 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & GENDER EQUALITY EQUALITY MEANS BUSINESS More than 1291 business leaders around the world have demonstrated leadership on gender equality through the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs). GENDER EQUALITY AND BUSINESS RESOURCE MAPPING A growing body of reports, case studies, tools and guidance on the importance of gender equality to economic progress, to sustainable business and development, is emerging from a wide variety of sources: business, academia, governments, think tanks, publications and blogs. To view an initial mapping of materials and resources relevant to the WEPs compiled by Simpson and Thacher & Bartlett LLP, see http://www.weprinciples.org/files/ attachments/WEPs_Resources_ Mapping_25.07.2013.xls CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 39 CTG GLOBAL SUPPORTS HEFORSHE The HeforShe Mission Statement is: “The world is at a turning point. People everywhere understand and support the idea of gender equality. They know it’s not just a women’s issue, it’s a human rights issue. And when these powerful voices are heard, they will change the Alice Laugher, CTG world. The time for that change is now. Global CEO and Nicole Malik, NRS HeforShe is inviting people around the world to International CSR stand together to create a bold, visible force for Manager gender equality. And it starts by taking action right now to create a gender equal world” Please see http://www.heforshe.org for additional information. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 40 CTG GLOBAL SUPPORTS THE NEW UAE GENDER BALANCE COUNCIL IN LINE WITH UAE VISION 2021 The UAE is introducing initiatives to improve gender balance and help the Emirates become one of the top 25 countries for gender equality. His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, has assigned the UAE Gender Balance Council to set up the Gender Inequality Index, devised by the UN Development Programme, in the emirates. The goal is to help encourage greater participation of women in national development and is in line with UAE Vision 2021, according to the Dubai Media Office. HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum has also instructed the council to develop and enact best practices at federal institutions so that they meet their targets. Her Highness Sheikha Manal bint Mohammed Al Maktoum praised HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum’s support. HH Sheikha Manal bint Mohammed Al Maktoum is president of the UAE Gender Balance Council, president of the Dubai Women Establishment, and wife of His Highness Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs. HH Sheikha Manal bint Mohammed Al Maktoum said the council would enact a framework to consolidate the efforts of various government entities Mona Al Marri, vice president of the UAE Gender Balance Council, said three initiatives would be launched to help individuals and organisations to improve equality between both sexes. They include documenting the efforts of the supporting bodies and the implementation of the initiative; for additional information please see http:// uaecabinet.ae/en/details/news/mohammed-bin-rashid-attends-firstmeeting-for-uae-gender-balance-council-approves-gender-balance-index CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 41 Conflict and instability not only impact people and the environment, but also pose risks to all parts of the business sector. Business for Peace is a platform of over 130 leading companies from 37 countries dedicated November 2014 Mr. Georg Kell Executive Director United Nations Global Compact to catalysing collaborative action to advance peace. New York, NY USA Dear Mr. Kell, I am pleased to confirm that CTG Global Limited has signed the Business for Peace Statement of Support as follows: WE, BUSINESS LEADERS AND GLOBAL COMPACT LOCAL NETWORK REPRESENTATIVES RECOGNIZE THAT: In an interconnected world where the private sector, Governments and society have differentiated responsibilities but a shared By joining Business for Peace, CTG Global is able to: interest in stability and prosperity, peace and development – business can be a powerful agent of change. Conducting responsible business operations in all areas of the world and taking action to advance peace is in everyone’s interest, including business. Conflict and instability not only impact people and the environment; they also pose risk to all parts of the business sector. Responsible behaviour requires proactive action to ensure business not only does no harm, but, where possible, •B etter identify and manage business risks and contributes to development and assists society to overcome challenges to stability. As business leaders, we welcome the recommendations outlined in the Guidance on Responsible Business in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. This voluntary guidance joins a range of tools and initiatives to support companies in developing policies and implementing responsible business practices aligned with the UN Global Compact Ten Principles in conflict affected/high-risk areas opportunities while reducing operational costs – with a view to advancing peace. We recognize that special attention needs to be given when operating in high-risk areas to ensure that the rights of stakeholders and vulnerable groups are respected and supported. Further, we believe that conflict-sensitive supply-chain management, responsible labour practices, combating corruption, responsible water management and caring for the climate all operate as foundational pillars •E ngage in public-private dialogue to establish of peace and stability. We are committed to play a constructive role in fostering peace, stability and development. Companies: We, as business leaders from across the globe, express our willingness to engage in learning, dialogue and collective action, to advance peace in the workplace, marketplace and local communities by: local priorities and implement projects 1. Paying Heightened Attention to UN Global Compact Implementation in Conflict-Affected/High-Risk Areas 2. Taking Action to Advance Peace Individually, and in Collaboration with Others 3. Annually Communicating on Progress Global Compact Local Networks: We, as Global Compact Local Networks, express our willingness to engage in learning, dialogue •A lign business strategies and operations with and collective action to advance peace in the workplace, marketplace and local communities. We will support companies in implementing the Ten Principles when operating in high-risk or conflict-affected areas and, where possible, help to facilitate multistakeholder dialogue to enhance corporate engagement in priority areas. Together with other stakeholders, we are beginning a new stage in an ongoing journey. A journey that aims to uncover the most good practice from across the globe effective ways the private sector can contribute to peace and to scale-up action towards it. We encourage business leaders, Global Compact Local Networks and others from around the world to join us on this journey, helping to achieve the foundational goal of humanity – peace. •S hare best and emerging practices and Sincerely yours Alice Laugher CEO learn from the experiences of peers CTG Global Limited CTG Global Ltd is registered & licensed as a Freezone Company under the Rules & Regulations of DMCCA. Licence No. JLT-66332. 2404 Swiss Tower, Jumeirah Lake Towers, Cluster Y, P.O. Box 39074, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. •D emonstrate leadership and receive recognition T: +971 (4) 438 5200 | F: +971 (4) 438 5201 www.ctgglobal.com for advancing practical solutions By joining Business for Peace CTG commits to: • Paying heightened attention to the implementation of the UN Global Compact Ten Principles in high-risk and conflict-affected areas • Take action to advance peace, either individually or in collaboration with others • Annually communicate on progress Recognizing that local ownership and knowledge are vital to driving change, Business for Peace has adopted a locallydriven approach. Business for Peace works to develop the capacity of Global Compact Local Networks to support participants in their efforts to conduct responsible business practices and advance peace. 18 Local Networks have already joined this growing movement, including: Canada, Colombia, Egypt, Germany, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine and United Kingdom. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 42 CTG BACKGROUND ‘CTG Giving’ inaugurated in June of 2016, is a non-director led fundraising initiative that will support donations to charities and local projects; CTG Giving has a Committee Chair and is undergoing charter finalization. CTG GIVING VISION To transforming conflict-affected and fragile communities into a sustainable and self-reliant ecosystem focusing on education and innovation in basic standards of care. CTG GIVING MISSION To support projects in conflict-affected and fragile areas ranging from creation of educational positions to Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Promotion (WASH) projects with regular internal and external corporate events. CTG GIVING VALUES Integrity: CTG Giving shall operate with honesty and fairness in programmes and projects Community: CTG Giving will have open dialogue and involve cross-sectional community representation Fun: CTG Giving will endeavour to actively promote and create projects involving a sustained or sudden boosts of morale Creativity: CTG Giving will request input from all participants and leverage technology and best practices for project efficiencies Growth: CTG Giving will support a framework of growth and development for onward progression and skills transfer Teamwork: CTG Giving will pioneer mechanisms for local participation Optimism:  CTG Giving will maintain resoluteness and probity in projects containing dynamic and challenging situations CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 43 CTG GIVING – INVESTING IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Photographs from the first CTG Giving function. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 44 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) GRI IS A PIONEER OF GRIS VISION, MISSION AND BELIEFS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GRIs vision is to create a future where GRI has been pioneering sustainability sustainability is integral to every reporting since the late 1990s, transforming organization's decision making process. it from a niche practice to one now adopted GRIs mission is to empower decision makers by a growing majority of organizations. everywhere, through our sustainability standards The Global Reporting Initiative GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Standards are and multi-stakeholder network, to take action is an international independent foundational to this success. With thousands towards a more sustainable economy and world. standards organization that helps of reporters in over 90 countries, GRI provides GRIs beliefs are: businesses, governments and the world’s most widely used standards • In the power of a multi-stakeholder other organizations understand on sustainability reporting and disclosure, process and inclusive network and communicate their impacts enabling businesses, governments, civil • T ransparency is a catalyst for change on issues such as climate change, society and citizens to make better decisions • Our standards empower human rights and corruption. based on information that matters. In fact, informed decision making 92% of the world’s largest 250 corporations • A global perspective is needed report on their sustainability performance. to change the world •P  ublic interest should drive every in 2017 CTG will be looking to decision an organization makes measure our achievements and outcomes against GRI standards. CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 45 CTG GLOBAL LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL ADVOCATES CTG Global Supports the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Background on the guidebook The PublicPrivate Partnership (PPP) Alliance of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) was UNGC Local Networks Reports established in 2001 to Highlights the growth and activities of Global Compact Local Networks improve the awareness, around the world. The report features statistics, activities and capacity and skills of achievements of Local Networks in relation to Global Compact issue the public sector in areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption) and in developing successful support of broader UN goals and issues. https://www.unglobalcompact. PPPs in Europe. org/library/308 CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg 46 The 2nd annual CTG Global Communication on Progress covers the period through to July 2017 and will be available on the United Nations Global Compact and the CTG Global Website. In case of queries, please contact: HELEN REES Good Governance Committee Secretary CTG Global Managed Services DMCC 2401 Fortune Executive Tower Cluster T Jumeriah Lakes Towers P.O. Box 39074 Dubai United Arab Emirates Email: helen.rees@ctgglobal.com Tel: +971 (0) 4 436 0380 CTG GLOBAL | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 | Pg ##
