SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our purpose We bring refreshment and sociability, improve livelihoods and help build local communities. Prosper and the UN Sustainable Development Goals On 25 September 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all were agreed at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit. Through Prosper and its five shared imperatives, we can make a meaningful contribution to delivering the SDGs. A thriving world A sociable world A resilient world Providing markets, jobs and skills Helping consumers make informed, Securing clean water for for improved incomes, livelihoods, responsible choices about their our business, communities, and quality of life. lifestyles and consumption. value chains, and ecosystems. A clean world A productive world Maximising efficiency, minimising Supporting agricultural value chains emissions, and re-imagining waste that improve livelihoods, strengthen in our operations and value chains. food security, and protect ecosystems. Around the world, through Prosper, we are addressing We have developed a framework to track our contribution those sustainable development priorities that are material to the SDGs, particularly highlighting our impact across to our business as well as critical to our stakeholders. different goals, how we adapt to local priorities, and our Therefore, through Prosper, we contribute to the SDGs. collaboration with stakeholders. While philanthropy and community investment continue Throughout this report we use this framework to tell to play a role, our most powerful contribution will be the story of the different initiatives through which our made through our core operations and our value chain – business contributes strategically and operationally to through the jobs we create and sustain, the economic the SDGs. We hope this provides our businesses and growth and investment that we stimulate, the way our stakeholders with a practical approach to support we steward natural resources, and the high standards the collaboration, and to connect delivery of the of responsible behaviour that we set for ourselves SDGs to delivery of business value. right across our business. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition End poverty in all its forms everywhere and promote sustainable agriculture Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages lifelong learning opportunities for all Ensure availability and sustainable management of water Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls and sanitation for all Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern growth, full and productive employment and decent work energy for all for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable Reduce inequality within and among countries industrialization and foster innovation Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns and sustainable Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts resources for sustainable development Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, development, provide access to justice for all and build and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Read more about Prosper and the SDGs at www.sabmiller.com/prosper-and-the-sdgs We are in the beer and soft drinks business. We bring Contents refreshment and sociability to millions of people all over the 2016 performance highlights 2 world who enjoy our drinks. We do business in a way that Joint statement by the chairman 4 improves livelihoods and helps build communities. of CARAC and the Chief Executive Our five shared imperatives 6 We are passionate about brewing and have a long tradition A thriving world 8 of craftsmanship in making superb beer from high quality A sociable world 12 natural ingredients. We are local beer experts. We have more A resilient world 16 than 200 local beers, from which we have carefully selected A clean world 20 and nurtured a range of special regional and global brands. A productive world 24 Valuing and supporting 28 We know that many of the communities where we work face our people big challenges economically, socially and environmentally. Embedding Prosper across 32 our business We also know that when they prosper, so do we. Third party commentary 34 Scope of this report 35 That is why we aim to create long-term mutual benefit PwC assurance statement 36 wherever we operate. And why we have called our Further reports Back sustainable development ambition Prosper. and contacts cover We want: A thriving world where incomes and quality of life are growing. A sociable world where our beers are developed, marketed, sold and consumed responsibly. A resilient world where our business, Further information communities and ecosystems share uninterrupted For more detailed information access to safe, clean water. about SABMiller please refer to our website www.sabmiller.com A clean world where nothing goes to waste Key to further reading: and emissions are dramatically lower. Read more online A productive world where land is used Read more in the referenced report responsibly, food supply is secure, biodiversity protected and crops can be accessed at Read more in this report reasonable prices. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 1 2016 performance highlights Visit our Sustainability Assessment Matrix US$5,810m US$24,149m (SAM) portal for EBITA Group net producer revenue1 further performance (2015: US$6,367m) (2015: US$26,288m) data, including detailed information by country, at www.sabmiller.com/sam US$116m 69% Annual savings through water The proportion of group EBITA and energy efficiency initiatives from developing markets compared with 2010 2 331m 70,000 Hectolitres (hl) employees across beverage volumes3 more than (2015: 324m) 80 countries Regional highlights Latin America Africa –– Since its launch, our 4e Path to –– A region-wide retailer development Progress programme has provided programme was launched in over 20,000 small retailers with 13 African markets, with over training. This was recognised 9,000 retailers trained on improving in the Fortune magazine list of their businesses and livelihoods. top 50 companies under the –– In Zambia, we launched Manja ‘Change the World’ list. Pamodzi (Hands Together). –– The Por un Buen Camino (On the The programme is helping to Right Track) regional road safety clean up waste in eight districts campaign was launched in seven by supporting small-scale waste countries and has been adopted collectors, around three-quarters by four governments as their of whom are women. official road safety campaign. –– We continue to extend our regional –– Five brands in Latin America Go Farming strategy. Building on have integrated a Prosper theme, the success of Eagle in Uganda often focused on supporting local and Impala in Mozambique, communities. In Peru, Cusqueña we launched a new cassava unveiled the first ever woven beer in Zambia. billboard, created by artisan weavers, who the brand has established a programme to support. 2 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 175,000+ 160+ 3.2ˆ small businesses locally tailored hl water/hl lager supported to date programmes to tackle (2015: 3.3hl/hl) across our value chain alcohol-related harm worldwide 8.9ˆ 15.3%ˆ 29.8%ˆ kgCO2e/hl lager of sugar sourced from Female managers (2015: 9.4 sugarcane meeting sustainable and executives kg CO2e/hl) standards (2015: 5.1%) (2015: 29.6%) 1 Group net producer revenue (NPR) includes the attributable shares of associates’ and joint ventures’ net producer revenue of US$9,254 million (2015: US$9,754 million). 2 Reflects cost savings on an annual basis, based on savings actions initiated in 2010, and calculated using 2016 volumes, exchange rates and energy prices. 3 Sales volumes include our equity accounted share of associates’ and joint ventures’ beverage volumes. The lager production volume in the year for the operations included in this report is 186 million hectolitres. ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 36 and 37. Asia Pacific Europe North America –– In India, the results from water –– Europe became the first region –– This year, MillerCoors achieved risk assessments demonstrate within SABMiller to achieve a landfill-free operations at all that water stress has the potential regional water efficiency of 3.0 hl/hl. major breweries. Since 2009, to constrain the future growth –– Our European operations MillerCoors has reduced its of our business. In response, implemented Foetal Alcohol waste across the organisation the business is partnering with Syndrome (FAS) prevention by 89%. organisations such as the interventions in partnership with –– MillerCoors launched the largest Confederation of Indian Industry local institutions and NGOs, solar array installed at any US (CII) to reduce water use in to increase public awareness brewery. This generates enough agriculture and make the surplus on this topic. In Poland, 200,000 energy to brew approximately available to other industries pregnant women were reached 600,000 hl of beer annually. and communities. with educational materials and –– To help reduce drink-driving, –– In Australia, Carlton & United in Romania, 7,000 patients were MillerCoors established a national Breweries (CUB) successfully engaged across 18 clinics. partnership with the taxi app implemented a bottle lightweighting –– In Europe, we have 11 non-alcoholic Uber, which has helped provide programme, which removed beer brands, which offer consumers almost 23,000 discounted rides 14,500 tonnes of glass from an alternative to alcoholic beer to consumers. production, saved US$3.3 million for different occasions. and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 4,000 tonnes. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 3 Joint statement by the chairman of CARAC and the Chief Executive Our progress and performance are overseen by the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee (CARAC) of the SABMiller board. A changing external landscape This year saw two ground-breaking global agreements, which will shape the development agenda for years to come: the United Nations launched 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and world leaders committed to tackle climate change at COP21 in Paris. Expectations of business are high, and we welcome the challenge for companies to Dambisa Moyo Alan Clark step up and collaborate in addressing global Chairman of CARAC Chief Executive challenges. Many of the SDGs align with our sustainable development strategy, Prosper, and present opportunities to strengthen our business We have a proud beer heritage that began as well as to contribute to society. Throughout over 120 years ago in South Africa. Since then, this report you will see how the way we do our brewmasters around the world have made business contributes towards the SDGs. beers people love by understanding local tastes. We also aim to play a positive role in the Sustainable development at the communities where we operate. This means heart of business strategy and brands supporting jobs and stimulating growth, Putting Prosper – our sustainable development promoting responsible alcohol consumption, ambition – at the heart of our business enables and being good stewards of water and other us to drive growth and commercial results, while natural resources. When communities prosper, making a sustained and measurable difference our business prospers too. to the communities and ecosystems in which we operate. On 11 November 2015, the boards of AB InBev and SABMiller announced that they had reached As we travel around the business, we are proud agreement on the terms of a recommended to see how Prosper is being integrated into how acquisition of SABMiller by AB InBev. Both AB InBev we do business, from our sales teams engaging and SABMiller strive to have a positive impact on with small retailers, to our breweries reducing the communities in which they work and live. They their environmental footprint, to brands – several know that long-term business growth and success of which are featured in this report – putting depends on the prosperity and resilience of these sustainable development at the heart of their communities. They have each set global priorities purpose and growth strategy. on sustainable development, but take a local approach to understanding how these issues Partnering with small businesses affect local communities. They have developed in agriculture, retail and beyond strong partnerships to tackle these challenges Small businesses are critical to our whole value in a way that benefits communities and the chain – from sourcing ingredients to selling beer. environment, and grows business value. They are also the lifeblood of local economies and 4 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 communities, stimulating growth and supporting livelihoods. Their future is our future: we will grow profitably if we help farmers, suppliers and the many small retailers selling our beer to build successful, growing businesses. In Latin America, where small retailers account for 40% of our sales, our 4e Path to Progress retailer Mackay Awards development programme is one of the ways we In July 2015, the inaugural Mackay Awards were help to improve their businesses and livelihoods. held to recognise and reward the initiatives by This year our African business launched a similar, SABMiller teams around the world that best region-wide programme. Growth in our African contribute to our shared imperatives and 2020 business has long been fuelled by our Go Farming targets. The awards are named in memory strategy, for example, the development of Eagle of Graham Mackay, SABMiller’s former Chief Lager in Uganda transformed Nile Breweries. Executive, who died in 2013, and was a firm This locally-sourced sorghum beer supports more believer that “business is society”. than 20,000 smallholder farmers, and has inspired similar initiatives right across the continent. Continued focus on safety Promoting moderate and Everyone should be able to return home from work responsible consumption safely and we deeply regret that 27 employees and We are committed to addressing the harmful contractors were killed this year, of whom 10 were effects of irresponsible drinking and encouraging killed in road traffic accidents. Our road safety moderation through our commercial activities, campaigns across Africa and Latin America are and through other campaigns and partnerships. making a difference, but we are committed to We also support and encourage the enforcement of continuing to build on this effort, and health reasonable regulation that targets irresponsible and and safety remains a priority. harmful drinking. This approach is supported by our policies on employee behaviour, product innovation, The future and marketing practices, which we believe are We are proud of what has been achieved through among the most comprehensive in the industry. Prosper and how it is embedded across SABMiller. However, there is much more to do and this Beer, water and climate change report also outlines several challenges for which Reduced water availability is probably the most we do not yet have the solution. These include significant implication of climate change for our pursuing innovative approaches to understanding business. To understand this better, we have and tackling harmful consumption of alcohol, completed systematic and comprehensive water empowering women in our value chain in a way risk assessments at our breweries, and put in that also helps change women’s perceptions of place action plans to tackle water risk. We share beer, and increasing packaging reuse and recycling. these plans with local stakeholders, including These challenges cannot be solved alone, which communities, and we are also extending this is why we need to work in partnerships to find approach into our agricultural supply chains. and to implement solutions. The foundations of Prosper have been well laid. As Our water and energy efficiency the world begins to turn the SDGs from aspiration into programmes generated savings of reality, we are confident that SABMiller’s businesses US$116m compared with 20101. will continue to play their part, and will reap continued success from their ongoing commitment to the prosperity of local communities. 1 Reflects cost savings on an annual basis, based on savings actions initiated in 2010, and calculated using 2016 volumes, exchange rates and energy prices. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 5 Our five shared imperatives Our five shared imperatives tackle the five most material issues that our business shares with society. A thriving world They give us global focus and alignment, while allowing local markets to respond to local needs. These imperatives are ‘shared’ because we can only tackle shared risks in partnership with those who also face them. By working together with local communities, suppliers, governments, A sociable consumers and beyond, we can capture shared opportunities to the benefit of all. world A resilient world Visit our website for more detailed information on our 2020 targets www.sabmiller.com/prosper A clean world A productive world 6 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Shared opportunity Shared imperative Headline 2020 target We want a thriving world We will accelerate growth Directly support more than where incomes and quality and social development half a million small enterprises to enhance their business of life are growing through our value chains growth and family livelihoods Read more on page 8 We want a sociable world We will endeavour to Aim to reach all of our beer where our beers are make beer the natural consumers with effective communication campaigns developed, marketed, choice for the moderate and partnerships to sold and consumed and responsible drinker encourage moderate responsibly and responsible beer consumption Read more on page 12 We want a resilient world We will secure shared water Secure the water supplies where our business, local resources for our business we share with local communities through communities and ecosystems and local communities partnerships to tackle share uninterrupted access shared water risks to safe, clean water Read more on page 16 We want a clean world We will create value Reduce the carbon footprint where nothing goes to through reducing waste per hectolitre across our value chain by 25%1; including waste and emissions are and carbon emissions a reduction by 50% within our dramatically lower breweries, by 25% across our packaging, and by 25% across our refrigeration carbon footprint Read more on page 20 We want a productive We will support responsible, Ensure the sourcing of our world where land is used sustainable use of land for crops measurably improves both food security and responsibly, food supply brewing crops resource productivity is secure, biodiversity is protected and brewing Read more on page 24 crops can be accessed at reasonable prices 1 Against a 2010 base. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 7 A thriving world We want a thriving world Businesses create jobs, develop markets, and stimulate economic growth. Yet too many where incomes and quality people – especially women – are excluded of life are growing. from the positive impact of economic growth. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) seek to tackle poverty, but also broaden the concept of development to encompass the provision of decent work, enterprise development, women’s empowerment, and reduced inequality. One of the most powerful contributions we make to these goals is through direct and indirect employment, and through the value we generate in our operations, our value chain, and local economies. In the year we generated US$21,640 million of economic value through our business activities, most of which was distributed to employees, shareholders, governments, and local communities. We are committed to accelerating growth and social development through our value chain Commentary from CARE to support our business growth, and the International on our approach communities around us. to improving social impact. Read more about the economic See page 34 value of our business activities at www.sabmiller.com/economicvalue 8 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Why it pays to think small During the year, we launched a region-wide Smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) retailer development programme in 13 African account for nearly 70% of global employment1. markets, learning from our experience in The SDGs emphasise the critical role that Latin America, and we piloted programmes these small businesses play in creating jobs in Europe. and economic growth, especially in areas of high unemployment, poverty, and poor Read more about how we are supporting social mobility. retailers in Africa at www.sabmiller.com/africaretailersupport SABMiller buys from or sells directly to approximately 1.5 million small businesses Integrating into worldwide. Our business relies on the ability commercial engagement of suppliers, farmers, distributors, and retailers There is no ‘one size fits all’ solution to support to survive, grow, and prosper with us. That small businesses. We have learned, for example, is why we have committed to support over that financial inclusion is a priority for many 500,000 of these small businesses to enhance retailers and farmers in Africa and Latin America, their growth and livelihoods. So far, we have while small retailers in Europe need more help to reached over 175,000. attract customers. We aim to provide our small business partners with a value proposition that helps to address the biggest constraints to their 175,000+ small businesses supported growth. This includes payment terms: we have amended our supplier payment terms policy to exclude certain small businesses from our to date across our value chain. standard terms when we know these would constrain their ability to operate and grow. Our Go Farming local sourcing strategy in Africa Read more about our supplier payment terms at plays an important part, now reaching over www.sabmiller.com/supplierpaymentterms 43,000 farmers directly. Making programmes more commerciallySince its launch three years ago, our 4e Path integrated enables us to have a more sustained to Progress programme in Latin America has impact. However, it does not make the challenge provided over 20,000 small retailers – “tenderos” of measuring livelihoods impact any easier. – with business and leadership training, in This year, we partnered with CARE International partnership with the Inter-American Development to review how we apply social impact KPIs to Bank (IADB) and FUNDES. Participating tenderos existing initiatives, and how we can integrate have reported a 13% average sales growth in the most useful KPIs into existing measurement the year post-training. This year, building on an systems. We piloted this approach in Colombia, approach pioneered by Backus in Peru, we India and Peru. In Africa, we developed a new broadened the programme to include access technology platform to collect data on impact to micro-finance and technology. In Peru, KPIs for our smallholder farming programmes, providing tenderos with access to finance and to share critical agricultural data with farmers. helped save the business over US$1.4 million in reduced cash-handling expenses. 1 International Trade Centre, 2015. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 9 A thriving world continued Locally grown livelihoods Agriculture is a critical source of income and strengthen local communities and food security. livelihoods in Uganda, where over 33% of the Five of the top ten farmer associations that population live on less than US$1.90 a day. supply sorghum to Nile Breweries are led by In this context, local sourcing is a core part of women, promoting women’s empowerment. our business strategy. Focusing on food security, Eagle does not just benefit farmers: it supports and on sustainable and inclusive agriculture to farmers’ communities through providing access create economic growth and jobs will be vital to water, reforesting land for greater resilience, to the country’s future. and providing HIV/Aids screening. The brand also offers consumers an affordable alternative Eagle is an affordable, locally-produced beer to unhealthy informal or illicit alcohol. brewed from local sorghum, traditionally a subsistence crop. By developing a new value The initiative contributes to a number of the chain for this sorghum-brewed beer, Nile SDGs, while driving sustainable business value. Breweries has created a sustainable income for more than 20,000 farmers. Eagle has grown Nile Breweries’ market share by 24% since 2002 and Eagle brands now As the beer is made using a local crop, Eagle account for 63% of Nile Breweries’ total creates employment in farming, where jobs are sales volumes. needed the most, and provides Nile Breweries with a secure local supply. Read more at www.sabmiller.com/ locallivelihoods Working with local partners, Nile Breweries provides farmer groups with training in modern farming skills to help improve productivity and By developing a new value chain for this sorghum-brewed beer, Nile Breweries has created a sustainable income for more than 20,000 farmers.” Image A female farmer surveys her crop; more than half of the farmer associations that supply sorghum to Nile Breweries are led by women. 10 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Local view S mall enterprises provide 98.7% of Colombia’s jobs. These include more than 380,000 shopkeepers who sell our beer, and the 4,900 small and medium enterprises supplying our goods and services. Each year, 85% of Bavaria’s supplier spend is with Colombian suppliers and 70% with small and medium businesses. Our Small Grant Harries Supplier Improvement Programme helps suppliers improve quality and President service, strengthening our relationships with them. Since launching in Bavaria S.A., Colombia 2008, it has supported over 250 suppliers and 436 local barley farmers. Our Destapa Futuro (Uncover the Future) initiative supports small businesses which have the potential to grow quickly and generate quality jobs that help reduce unemployment and poverty. Since 2006, the programme has trained 4,807 people and provided US$11 million in seed capital to 411 entrepreneurs, stimulating the creation of more than 8,000 jobs. We are also proud to create opportunities in our value chain for unemployed and vulnerable people; particularly for the seven million Colombians displaced by armed conflict in recent decades. As part of our 4e retailer programme, Tiendas de Paz (Peace Shops) works with communities that have recently relocated or returned home following violence. By supporting new shops to open or providing existing ones with business training, the programme generates jobs that help people Bavaria’s business rebuild their lives while increasing outlets for our products. has been built to Bavaria’s business has been built to help others prosper with us. help others prosper These examples show what a thriving world can look like, improving with us.” livelihoods for many Colombians while strengthening our value chain. Our approach to taxation We support moves towards greater tax The total taxes borne and collected this year transparency and are actively working to by the SABMiller group, including our share of share more information with key stakeholders. taxes paid by our US joint venture, amounted to US$9,507 million (2015: US$10,639 million). SABMiller plc These include excise, corporate, and transactional Our Approach to Tax 2016 taxes, and taxes borne by employees. Of this total, 68% was paid in developing countries. The corporate tax charge for the year was US$1,152 million (2015: US$1,273 million), and our effective tax rate was 26.3% (2015: 26.0%). Find out more about our tax payments and principles in Our Approach to Tax report. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 11 A sociable world We want a sociable world Harmful drinking is an issue of significant concern – to governments, society, and SABMiller. It is an where our beers are issue that we are committed to helping tackle. developed, marketed, sold, We support the aim of the World Health and consumed responsibly. Organization (WHO) to reduce harmful alcohol consumption by 10% by 2025. This is also an area of focus for the Sustainable Development Our six core principles about alcohol Goals (SDGs). We recognise too that consumer help to guide every decision we make. They are: preferences and values have been shifting to a greater focus on health. Beer brings people 1. Our beer adds to the enjoyment of life for the together, adding to the enjoyment of life, but overwhelming majority of our consumers. we must work proactively to meet all of these expectations. 2. We care about the harmful effects of irresponsible alcohol consumption. We are committed to addressing harmful drinking 3. We engage stakeholders and work through a mix of commercial and programmatic collectively with them to address interventions, coupled with targeted regulatory irresponsible consumption. interventions that we will support or seek out 4. We believe that alcohol consumption as effective ways to address particular types of is for adults and is a matter of individual irresponsible and harmful drinking. In late 2015, judgement and accountability. we began to systemise this – using data and public health modelling – into a framework that 5. Information provided to consumers about guides how we can best contribute to alcohol alcohol consumption should be accurate and balanced. harm reduction depending on market and societal conditions. Pilots are underway in three markets 6. We expect our own employees to aspire to test the methodology and implement initiatives to high levels of conduct in relation to in response to the findings. alcohol consumption. 12 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Robust governance The SMCC is a unique asset to guide Our publicly available, comprehensive policies SABMiller companies on how to engage help our employees and partners to meet properly with their consumers and have our demanding standards for producing and marketing our products to encourage a positive impact in society. Therefore, responsible consumption. it is necessary that colleagues are made to see and understand the connections Our Policy on Commercial Communication (POCC) between the work of the SMCC, brand governs how and where we market our brands. building and profitability. The training The policy also incorporates the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ Commitments – a set of definitely emphasised the importance 10 commitments adopted by 12 global alcohol of this institution to the sustainability companies to promote responsible practices. of the business.” Dr. Kobby Mensah Read the latest progress report at www.producerscommitments.org SMCC Independent Chair for Accra Brewery Ltd, Ghana The POCC states that we will not direct our Our Market Research Policy establishes global marketing – including on social media – to people standards for ensuring that our market research under the legal drinking age, or feature paid does not involve or target people under the legal models below the age of 25 in any commercial drinking age, and for sharing consumer insights data communication. We are actively addressing gaps across markets with different legal drinking ages. identified in a recent global internal audit which we commissioned in order to drive the highest As at 31 March 2016, 70% of employees worldwide standards of compliance with the POCC. had received alcohol responsibility training within the past three years, and the marketing agencies All our operating companies, with very limited we use had joined training on responsible marketing exceptions in our smallest businesses, have in 91% of local businesses. a Sales and Marketing Compliance Committee (SMCC), which is mandated to ensure that any proposed marketing materials comply with the POCC, and with local laws and national self70% of employees worldwide have regulatory requirements. The SMCC has the power to reject, or demand changes to, any material that received alcohol responsibility fails to comply. As at 31 March 2016, the SMCCs training within the past three years. of almost three quarters of our businesses involved non-industry participation, including independent Our TalkingAlcohol.com website features ingredient chairs or independent audits of their work. A new and nutrition information for our key brands along training programme for SMCC members will be with videos and fact sheets on responsible piloted in the next financial year. consumption, the effects of alcohol on the body and views from alcohol experts. Now available in Our Product Portfolio Policy sets minimum 11 languages, including recently launched sites standards for all our products. It demonstrates our in French and Portuguese, we had more than desire to lead the industry in responsible product 598,000 visits to the site in the year, with over innovation by, for example, forbidding the addition 1.4 million page views. of stimulants, such as caffeine, to our beers. Read more at www.talkingalcohol.com SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 13 A sociable world continued Partnering for safer roads The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates speeding, road infrastructure, vehicle safety, that 1.25 million people die each year as a result and drink-driving. By deliberately highlighting of road traffic accidents1. Fatalities are highest all the most dangerous behaviours behind in developing countries, as more people take the wheel, the programme has tackled these up driving and infrastructure development and issues, as well as reducing the misconception law enforcement struggle to keep pace. This that the majority of road accidents in the country is a significant issue for our business in these are due to drink-driving. In fact, the two top markets; road traffic accidents account for a causes are speeding and the use of mobile significant number of employee and contractor phones while driving, so these are key fatalities, as well as being a major problem behaviours that the programme aims to for society. change, alongside drink-driving. As part of Goal 3 to ensure healthy lives and Since its launch in 2011, the campaign has been promote wellbeing, the UN has set a target credited with making a meaningful contribution to halve global deaths and injuries from road to road safety in Panama. Between 2010 and traffic accidents by 2020. Programmes such 2014 there has been a 15% reduction in traffic as Cervecería Nacional’s Vía Responsable accidents with injuries. The programme is (Responsible Way) programme in Panama are now being replicated across Latin America key to how we contribute to this goal. as Por un Buen Camino (On the Right Track). This programme was created with the Panama Read more at www.sabmiller.com/roadsafety Ministry of Transport, as part of the Ministry of Health and WHO-endorsed Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011–2020. Using social and traditional media, as well as messages on Cervecería Nacional’s vehicle fleet, it deals with topics such as texting while driving, The UN has set a target to halve global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents by 2020.” Image A volunteer completes a breathalyser test at an event to raise awareness of safe driving. 1 World Health Organization, 2015. 14 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Local view T he Czech Republic has the world’s highest per capita beer consumption. However, Czechs are increasingly seeking non-alcoholic drinks for a variety of occasions. We developed Birell as a non-alcoholic alternative to traditional beer for new occasions. Our success lies in Birell’s taste. The brewing process is identical Paolo Lanzarotti to that for lager, but with a yeast which does not produce alcohol, Managing Director which means that the taste appeals to beer lovers. Over recent years Plzeňský Prazdroj a.s., we have also extended the range through introducing real fruit juice Czech Republic mixes, helping to broaden its appeal among non-beer drinkers. Birell is the perfect beverage to support an active lifestyle. The brand has supported a number of major running and cycling events, including Birell Ride, which provides specialist sports equipment – such as modified bikes – for people with a physical handicap who would otherwise not be able to afford them. The Czech police Czechs are increasingly and Ministry of Transport also support Birell as part of their efforts seeking non-alcoholic to promote non-alcoholic beers as a safe alternative for drivers. drinks for a variety of occasions. We developed Sales of Birell have more than quadrupled between 2001 and 2015, and the brand has over 70% market share of the non-alcoholic Birell as a non-alcoholic beer category in the Czech Republic. I am extremely proud of the alternative to 15-year journey we have taken to grow the brand, and to see our traditional beer.” learnings replicated across SABMiller. Partnerships to tackle the harmful consumption of alcohol The root causes of harmful drinking are complex and vary widely between countries and cultures. 160+ locally tailored programmes More than 160 tailored local programmes for reducing harmful alcohol use bring to life our to tackle alcohol-related principles and comprehensive policies. We believe harm worldwide. in a multi-stakeholder approach, and in almost every case we collaborate with local partners, a campaign – El Capitán (The Captain) – that including governments, non-governmental uses football to encourage consumers to be organisations, civil society groups, and public ‘captain material’, for example by nominating bodies such as the police. We believe that by a designated driver. The campaign is promoted working in partnership with other organisations when the national football team plays, drawing our approach and programmes are more robust a parallel between football and a group of friends. and credible, and more likely to achieve change. Read more about SABMiller’s alcohol We also believe that our brands can play a role responsibility programmes around the world at www.sabmiller.com/responsibilityprogrammes in encouraging moderation. For example, this year in Ecuador, our Pilsener brand launched SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 15 A resilient We want a resilient world world Water scarcity is one of the most significant impacts of climate change and already affects where our business, local more than 40% of the global population1. This is communities and ecosystems a serious issue that has major implications for a global brewer: put simply, no water, no beer. At the share uninterrupted access same time, water scarcity is holding back economic to safe, clean water. and social development for hundreds of millions of people around the world. Tackling this successfully will release untapped prosperity for everyone – from the smallest farmers to global manufacturing businesses and entire national economies. Goal 6 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is to ensure access to water and sanitation for all by 2030. Within this sit targets for reducing water use, improving water quality, and managing water resources in an integrated way that involves local communities, business and civil society. Less is more Commentary from WWF The less water we use to run and clean our on the urgency of water risk. breweries, the less energy we use for heating, cooling and treating water, and the smaller our See page 34 impact on local communities. In the prior year, we beat our target to reduce 1 United Nations, 2016. brewery water use by 25% against a 2008 base, ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been achieving an efficiency ratio of 3.3 hectolitres of subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the water per hectolitre of lager produced. We are now independent assurance report on pages 36 and 37. on track to meet our revised target of 3.0 hl/hl 16 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 by 2020, having achieved an average efficiency Why sharing means security ratio of 3.2 hl/hlˆ in the year. At 25 of our breweries, While water scarcity is a risk to our business average annual water efficiency is already below operations, it can also have severe human and 3.0 hl/hl. In absolute terms, we used 597 million hlˆ economic consequences for local communities. of water to produce our lager (2015: 592 million hl). Nearly all of our breweries have now evaluated their exposure to water risk using our bespoke water risk assessment process. Each brewery 3.2 hlˆ has identified and prioritised risks and developed action plans in consultation with local stakeholders. Water to produce 1 hl lager. Water to lager ratio hl water/hl lager 99.3%ˆ 78 breweries across 30 countries 4.0 3.7 have completed intensive water 3.5 3.3 3.2 ˆ risk assessments, covering 99.3% of our lager volumes. Our focus is now on implementing these action plans – with the aim of effectively mitigating the 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 risks water scarcity poses both to our sites and to local communities. Water risks – and the appropriate response – vary by watershed. The four most frequently recurring risks we Our four most common water risks face are shown in the table below. Water risk Description Example of material risk Water Increasing urbanisation and water demand Two of our breweries in Maharashtra, India, have had to availability place availability under pressure and extreme locate alternative water supplies due to the municipal utility weather events, in particular droughts, being unable to provide the quantity required during the impact water supplies to our breweries. current drought. Infrastructure Unreliable water infrastructure can cause Our brewery in Accra, Ghana, has experienced interrupted and regulatory interruptions to supply for our breweries. water supplies due to frequent infrastructure failures in the city. environment This can be compounded by a weak The brewery is currently working with the city utility to review regulatory environment. potential mitigation actions. Declining Treating poor quality water requires In Zambia, our facilities in Lusaka are currently constrained by water quality significant investment both to purchase both water quality and quantity. While short-term solutions can be water treatment equipment and in found, in the longer term, we need sustainable solutions to tackle ongoing operating costs. water quality and quantity at scale so that we avoid this added cost, and local communities do not face the same problem. Reputation With growing water scarcity, there is In El Salvador, our Nejapa soft drinks bottling plant has faced increased competition for this scarce pressure from stakeholders who fear potential over-extraction resource, and companies can be of the local aquifer. In response, we have withdrawn a request perceived as the problem, however for an environmental permit for a water bottling plant located efficient their water use. in the area while more studies about the health of the aquifer are completed, and we are working to facilitate clean water access for the local community. To date, water and sanitation services have been established for over 300 local families. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 17 A resilient world continued Saving water and securing supplies Goal 6 of the SDGs is to ensure clean water and However, to ensure water security, we have to sanitation for all. Specific 2030 targets include go well beyond our brewery gates. Our largest substantially increasing water use efficiency brewery in Peru (and our 10th largest globally) is across all sectors, achieving universal and situated in Lima, which after Cairo is the second equitable access to safe and affordable drinking largest city in the world located in a desert. water for all, and implementing integrated water In response to growing water scarcity, our resources management at all levels. Peruvian operation, Backus, has worked with local partners to develop projects in the local Ensuring future access to water, in the face of water basin to improve water access and quality. climate change, is a business priority. This includes working with local subsistence farmers to reintroduce more environmentallyBy improving water efficiency within our own friendly farming techniques. Along with the operations, we both reduce costs and contribute reforestation of 4,000 indigenous pine trees, to Goal 6. We have made huge strides in this Backus has helped the participating farmers area. We are particularly proud of our European reduce rainwater loss on their land by 45%. business, which this year was the first region to achieve an average water efficiency of 3.0 hl/hl, Read more at www.sabmiller.com/ representing a 29% decrease since 2010. nowaternobeer Over 60% of this saving has been achieved without additional capital investment, but through the relentless focus of our engineers on process optimisation and efficiency gains. We are particularly proud of our European business, which this year was the first region to achieve an average water efficiency of 3.0 hl/hl.” Image A worker in one of our European region’s most water-efficient breweries in Pozna ń, Poland. 18 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Local view I ndia faces significant water stress across the country: not only does demand exceed supply, but water quality is declining. Some of our breweries are already feeling the impact of this, at times through water cut-offs. In-depth water risk assessments have shown that this has the potential to constrain the future growth of our business, so it is critical that we act now. Shalabh Seth Managing Director We have worked hard to reduce water usage in our breweries. Using SABMiller India pioneering practices and the latest technology, SABMiller India has reduced water use year-on-year, from 5.2 hl/hl in 2010 to 3.3 hl/hl in 2016. Looking beyond our breweries, we are working with others to reduce water use in agriculture and make the surplus available to other industries and communities. Partnering with organisations such as the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), our work has touched over Our challenge, as 18,000 farmers with almost 62,000 hectares in 123 villages. Through a country and as a demonstration farms, we have shown that new agricultural practices company, is to build can help farmers reduce water use by a quarter, while also increasing our partnerships to incomes through improved productivity. a scale where they Our challenge, as a country and as a company, is to build our partnerships can change the to a scale where they can change the status quo. We are determined status quo.” to play our part. Partnering to protect Water and agriculture Tackling water scarcity and quality issues SABMiller was one of the first companies requires collaboration between governments, to calculate its supply chain water footprint. affected communities, businesses, and other This showed that 90% of the water needed stakeholders. For example, in South Africa, to make our beer is used to grow brewing we play a leading role in the Strategic Water raw materials such as barley. To develop an Partners Network (SWPN), through which understanding of the water risks facing our government and the private sector are working raw materials, we have mapped the water together to address pressing water challenges. risks in all our major sourcing areas and are carrying out deeper analysis in key regions. This year we formalised our global alliance with our longstanding partner, World Wide Fund for We are responding to key risks in sourcing Nature (WWF). As well as reviewing our water risk regions in countries including India, South assessment process and advising how it can be Africa, and the USA. In the USA, MillerCoors strengthened (see page 34), WWF is working with has partnered with The Nature Conservancy us to structure and resource local action plans, to pilot and share best water management and to shape broader water governance to practices in the barley supply chain. support shared water security. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 19 A clean world We want a clean world Climate change has far-reaching consequences for our business and for the communities where we where nothing goes to operate, from water scarcity and energy constraints, waste and emissions are to reduced food security and increased health risks. The Paris climate talks in December 2015 marked dramatically lower. a turning point, as world leaders agreed the first truly global commitment to act on climate change. In working towards the ambitious new climate goals, society needs to move to a more efficient, circular economy focused on eliminating waste and emissions and creating value from what remains. Brewing, packaging, and cooling our beer all generate greenhouse gas emissions, which we are committed to reducing, while growing our business in a resource-efficient way. Read more about beer and climate change at www.sabmiller.com/climatechange More from less We are on track to halve our on-site greenhouse gas emissions per hectolitre of lager between ‘A list’ performer in the 2008 and 2020. In the year ended 31 March 2016 CDP Carbon Performance fossil fuel emissions per hl of lager produced fell Leaders Index. by 5.4%, with total CO2e emissions of 1.7 million tonnes (2015: 1.7 million tonnes), of which 0.8 million Read our CDP reports at tonnes were generated from our direct use of fuels www.cdp.net such as natural gas, coal and oil (scope one) and 0.9 million tonnes were generated indirectly from the 20 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Total energy consumption PJ production of electricity and steam we purchase 24.4 (scope two). Energy savings have contributed 22.9 21.0 20.1 20.3 the vast majority of on-site emissions reductions, often through operational improvements and changes to routines. However, reducing emissions from our operations is just the first step. In 2014, we committed to 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 reducing our total carbon footprint per hectolitre by 25% by 2020, from 2010 levels. Since 2010 we have reduced our value chain carbon footprint Total CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy by 19% to 54.8 kgCO2e/hl. This includes a used on site million tonnes 21% reduction in packaging emissions, a 15% 2.2 reduction in emissions from trade refrigeration, 2.0 1.8 and a 38% reduction in our on-site emissions 1.7 1.7 ˆ from manufacturing. Reduce, reuse, recycle Brewing is a natural champion of a circular business model that drives business and environmental 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 value. Around 97% of spent grain from our breweries is reused, typically sold as animal feed or as a renewable fuel, and in the year we recycled CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy used 89% of brewery waste (2015: 90%). In addition, on site kgCO2e/hl lager 40 of our breweries now have generators which 12.4 run on biogas captured from waste water 11.1 10.3 treatment plants. During the year, all of MillerCoors’ 9.4 8.9 ˆ major breweries became landfill-free. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 51% of our beer is sold in returnable bottles or kegs. 2016 value chain carbon footprint % CO2e emissions More than half of our beer is sold in returnable bottles or kegs, which are more carbonand Agriculture 8% resource-efficient than cans or plastic bottles. Malting and processing 7% However, in Europe, the percentage of beer Beer and soft drinks 18% production sold in returnable packaging is declining. As a Packaging materials 24% response, our Polish business recently launched Distribution 22% an online commercial on the environmental Trade refrigeration 19% and financial value of returnable bottles. This End of life 1% is a positive step, but we acknowledge there is Other 2% a lot more to do to reverse this decline and rethink the future of packaging for beer. ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 36 and 37. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 21 A clean world continued Innovating to tackle climate change Through both the Sustainable Development Goals that facilitates brewing at a lower temperature. (SDGs) and the Paris climate change agreement, This can reduce a site’s energy use by as much the international community has acknowledged as 10%, saving costs and lowering carbon that urgent action is needed to combat climate emissions with no compromise on quality. The change and its impacts. This requires a change initiative has been rolled-out to other regions, to the status quo, and Goal 9 recognises the including Australia and the USA. need to foster innovation. SABMiller set a value chain carbon target in 2014. To achieve this, Innovation is just as important in our broader we must promote and scale innovation, both value chain. In Peru, this year Backus became inside and outside our breweries. the first business in the country to use recycled PET in packaging for its soft drinks. Globally, we have developed a ‘user pays’ principle to put a true dollar value on the utilities In Australia, CUB has worked with its glass used by each part of the brewery. Water and supplier to remove 14,424 tonnes of glass energy performance also form part of the key from packaging since 2013. This equates to performance indicators for employees responsible a 4,000 tonne reduction in CO2e emissions, for each stage of the brewing process. the equivalent of over 400 homes’ energy use for one year. In Europe, a region-wide water and energy reduction taskforce shares best practice Read more at www.sabmiller.com/ and mentors efficiency champions across cleaninnovation our breweries. In South Africa, SAB (Pty) Ltd challenged conventional brewing wisdom by developing a unique ‘simmer and strip’ technology At SABMiller, we know we will only meet our value chain carbon target through promoting and scaling innovation, both inside and outside our breweries.” Image A worker at our Newlands brewery in Cape Town – which employs ‘simmer and strip’ technology – prepares for the next brew. 22 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Local view L ike many cities around the world, Lusaka’s waste infrastructure has struggled to keep pace with a growing population. This has meant a lot of litter remains uncollected or in drains, which when blocked can become a source of cholera and typhoid during the rainy season. Around 200,000 tonnes of product packaging contribute to the problem each year, and we estimate that Zambian Breweries Annabelle Degroot accounts for 3.5% of this. We sell around 40% of our products in Managing Director returnable bottles or kegs, but the rest are sold in one-way packaging Zambian Breweries Plc such as disposable cartons or plastic bottles, which are often hard to collect and recycle. In response, in 2015 we launched Manja Pamodzi (Hands Together) in partnership with the Lusaka city council. As a community-driven project, it is helping to clean up waste in eight districts by supporting small-scale waste collectors, around three-quarters of whom are women. These collectors gather cartons, plastic bottles, and other Like many cities recyclable materials in their communities, and sell them to aggregators, around the world, who process the waste into bundles to sell on to recycling companies. Lusaka’s waste infrastructure has Since the project began, 146 collectors and three aggregators have registered, and collected 147 tonnes of cartons and plastic struggled to keep bottles in total. This is resulting in cleaner, healthier and more pace with a growing attractive communities, while providing incomes for women and population.” small enterprises and boosting the local economy. Another big challenge is to deal with post-consumer In the year, 20% of the fridges we purchased packaging waste, which is an increasingly visible were HFC-free. Through introducing more problem, particularly in Africa and Latin America. energy-efficient fridges, we estimate an average In Colombia and Honduras, our businesses have annual saving of US$106 per trade fridge for partnered with local stakeholders to develop the retailer. recycling solutions in areas where returnable bottles are not viable. During the year, SABMiller was the first major brewer to join Refrigerants, Naturally!, an initiative Can fridges cool the climate? that promotes the use of natural refrigerants Beer is best served cold. However, the energy in fridges in bars and shops. used to run fridges and the hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) that cool them both contribute to climate In Africa, some of our brands are exploring solar change. Our target is to purchase 100% HFC-free cooling and we consider this to be an exciting fridges by 2020, and last year we introduced a future opportunity. new policy that all new fridges must be equipped with energy management devices (EMDs) and LED lights, where available. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 23 A productive world We want a productive Around 1.3 billion people work in agriculture, producing most of the world’s food but just 3% world where land is used of global GDP1. Agriculture also uses one-third of responsibly, food supply the world’s land and accounts for 70% of all fresh water withdrawals2. As demand for food grows, is secure, biodiversity is there is a pressing need to produce more with protected and brewing less, to reduce crop losses, and to improve agricultural livelihoods. This is especially true in crops can be accessed Africa, where farm yields are among the lowest in at reasonable prices. the world3. Agriculture lies at the heart of delivering the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The crops used to brew beer are an integral part of the food system. Some – like cassava, maize, rice, and sorghum – are also staple foods for many people. Malting barley is grown alongside, or in rotation with, other food crops. We want to help both commercial and smallholder farmers increase yields and profitability while reducing environmental impact, to ensure our brewing crops are profitable for farmers, and measurably improve both food security and resource productivity. Harvesting better barley 1 International Labor Organization, 2016 and World Bank, 2014. Quality malting barley is a key ingredient of beer. 2 United Nations, 2016. 3 World Bank, 2016. Buying locally-grown barley can reduce costs, ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been drive efficiency, and create jobs. However, it is not subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the suitable for all climates, making imports necessary independent assurance report on pages 36 and 37. in some markets. Careful variety selection, crop 24 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 cultivation and malting are all key contributors Sustainable sugarcane to quality malt. We malt about 54% of our Our target is to source 100% of our sugarcane barley ourselves. from sustainable sources by 2020. During the year, 15.3%ˆ of our global sugar supply from In Zambia, we source 100% of our barley locally sugarcane came from sustainable sources and are investing in a malting plant, which we hope (2015: 5.1%). This represents all sugar sourced to commission later this year, so that this barley from our Azunosa sugar mill in Honduras, which can be processed locally. In India, we support local became Bonsucro-certified in 2014. Based on barley sourcing from almost 8,000 small-scale significant progress made towards sustainable farmers. Alongside the support provided to sugarcane by suppliers representing a further improve productivity, in the year SABMiller India 59% of our supply, we are confident that we are provided farmers with increased security by on track to meet our 2020 target. introducing a guaranteed barley purchase price. Yields for participating farmers are 50% higher than the national average. 15.3%ˆ of sugar sourced from In the USA, through its Better Barley, Better Beer programme, MillerCoors has worked with a range sugarcane meeting of commercial and NGO partners to improve sustainable standards. the sustainability of barley production. This has included a Fertiliser Optimisation Plan, developed In South Africa, the sugarcane industry faces jointly with MillerCoors’ largest retail customer, quite different challenges than in Latin America, Walmart. The plan identifies, prioritises and as it comprises a mix of small-scale and larger delivers opportunities to reduce farm inputs and commercial farmers, rather than plantations; resulting greenhouse gas emissions. operates a two-year cropping pattern; and suffers considerable water stress. Influencing and supporting farmers to increase productivity and profitability while reducing Through the SUSFarms initiative, we are working environmental impact is not always straightforward, to improve the sustainability of South African particularly for barley that we do not source sugarcane (which represents approximately 45% directly from the farmer. To effectively support of our total sugarcane sourced globally). We are improvements in barley, we need to look beyond working with leading local farmers, our supplier our own needs to the wider farming system of Illovo Sugar, and experts from WWF and which malting barley forms part. SABMiller has Solidaridad. This initiative is developing a local identified priorities in each of our barley sourcing approach to sugarcane sustainability that meets regions, and is working with farmers and, where equivalent standards to Bonsucro, and can be relevant, malt suppliers to ensure malting barley replicated across Africa. Bonsucro is currently is economically attractive to farmers, climate reviewing and advising on the approach. resilient, and resource efficient. This year progress was also made in other During the year we worked with a small group markets in Latin America and in Australia. In of barley farmers to introduce farm-level indicators Australia, our supplier Sugar Australia achieved to measure yield, water, nitrogen, and energy use. ‘Chain of Custody’ certification from Bonsucro Insights from these will be used to engage with for its Invicta mill. SABMiller will be able to farmers to identify opportunities for improvement. purchase Bonsucro-certified sugar in the country from 2016. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 25 A productive world continued Moving beyond certification Sugar production has a significant employment legal minimum wage, as well as providing impact, especially in developing countries where free training and guidance on sustainable more than 70% of sugar worldwide is produced. farming practices, and guaranteed sale However, it is also associated with a range of prices at harvest time. social and environmental challenges. Agriculture cuts across a number of the different SDGs, We have also played a proactive role in both as a challenge and opportunity. establishing a community of mills in the region to develop and share best practice Azunosa, our sugarcane farming operation in improving worker health and safety. in Honduras, makes us a supplier of sugar, In recognition, this year Azunosa received as well as a customer. Over the last few years the Bonsucro Leadership Award for the business has worked to improve its promoting the development of a sustainable environmental and social practices against sugarcane sector. Their work is driving challenging standards. business value, while contributing to multiple SDGs. Actions have included modifying traditional procedures for washing sugarcane, reducing Read more at www.sabmiller.com/ pesticide use by 27%, cutting the amount beyondcertification of vegetation which is burnt after harvesting, and improving working conditions for cane cutters. In addition, Azunosa is collaborating with small-scale farmers, ensuring they receive a monthly income equivalent to the Producers are increasingly seeking to adopt more sustainable practices that protect ecosystems and provide workers and farmers with a decent living.” Image Two workers inspect their crop at our sugarcane farming operation in Honduras. 26 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Local view W e are proud that in South Africa, one of our top selling beers is Castle Lager, which is brewed using four home-grown ingredients – barley, hops, maize, and water. But local sourcing is not without challenges. South Africa is a water-stressed country ranked as the 30th driest in the world, with annual rainfall of about half the global average. The recent drought has placed agriculture under extreme pressure. Thinus van Schoor A sustainable local barley supply is critical to our business model Head: Agriculture and Maltings and to the livelihoods of thousands of South Africans. Our Better SABMiller Africa Barley Better Beer programme provides farmers with the advice and support needed to implement sustainable farming practices. Along with guidelines for sustainable barley production we developed with WWF-SA, this is helping farmers to increase the resilience, productivity and economic value of their crop while reducing environmental impact. Reducing water use is fundamental in the South African context. By using precision irrigation of barley, the amount of water used to grow malting barley has halved from 117mm to 58mm in two years, while also improving productivity. A sustainable local We are sharing these lessons across Africa, where we are working barley supply is critical to establish and grow local malting barley supply chains. In 2013, to our business model Tanzania Breweries began a yield improvement programme to find ways of improving farmer yields by training and providing farmers and to the livelihoods with the correct equipment. We have been impressed with the of thousands of results. By 2015, participating farmers had increased their yields South Africans.” by 79% and we believe further improvement is well within reach. Working to deliver big impact of cassava, benefiting over 7,500 small-scale for small-scale farmers farmers and their families. This year we Incorporating local crops like cassava, maize, rice, launched the first cassava beer in Zambia. and sorghum into our beers supports local farmers and helps us produce more affordable beer. Read more about our local sourcing of sorghum in Uganda on page 10. Our Africa Go Farming strategy is doing just that. Through Go Farming, and other programmes Across multiple markets we are working to source in India and Latin America, we work with the most affordable crop in the local context smallholder farmers to improve both their yields that can be used for brewing. For example, in and their incomes, which in turn increases food Mozambique, since launching Impala, the world’s security and nutrition for farmers, their families first commercially-brewed cassava beer in 2011, and communities. we have bought more than 40,000 tonnes Read more about how we support small-scale farmers and suppliers on page 9. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 27 Valuing and supporting our people Our success is driven Improving health and safety We strive to reduce or eliminate risks of harm by the thousands of to our employees, contractors, and all others people that we employ, affected by our business. Our global health and safety programme, Safety Around Beverages, and the millions in our sets minimum standards for all businesses. Our value chains. Supporting group-wide health and safety governance system has standardised reporting across the group, people is at the heart and enables us to target improvements and share of our business, of best practice. Prosper and of all five It is therefore with the deepest regret that we shared imperatives. report that 27 employees and contractors lost their lives at work this year (2015: 29). Eight of these fatalities resulted from accidents during on-site maintenance or repairs, 10 from road traffic accidents, and nine were the result of robberies or assaults on employees during sales or trade visits. Our businesses investigated each case and, where applicable, put in place measures to reduce the likelihood of these incidents recurring. During the year we recorded 8,357 days lost through injury (2015: 13,028) and 142 major injuries (2015: 490). Road traffic accidents accounted for a significant proportion of fatalities, and road safety remains a top priority worldwide. 28 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our South African business has launched a new campaign, called ACT10N, to reinforce the 10 global safety standards in the Safety Around Beverages programme in simple and engaging ways. The campaign emphasises personal responsibility, while making line managers accountable for giving their teams the knowledge and skills needed to behave safely. Powerful docu-drama films and other communications are capturing employees’ attention and making Supporting employees through change sure that the safety message resonates. Since the boards of SABMiller and AB InBev reached agreement in principle on the key Promoting wellbeing terms of a recommended offer, looking after We aim to create a healthy and positive work our people has been a priority. We have created environment for all our employees, and recognise a People Plan to keep all employees informed the benefits this brings in terms of productivity. about the proposed transaction, and how they In Africa, our Wellness Development Programme might be affected. The plan is designed to treat focuses on HIV/Aids, malaria, sexually-transmitted and remunerate our people fairly, keep hold of infections, hepatitis B and C, and tuberculosis. our best talent, and support our teams through Our focus is to train employees to educate the potential changes. It also aims to ensure their peers at work, at home and in their wider that our business keeps producing results while communities, by promoting prevention, testing making a smooth transition to a new company and treatment of these diseases. In countries where our people can continue to develop where HIV/Aids has a high prevalence (defined as their careers. greater than 5% of the population), we provided free voluntary counselling and testing for 56% We have kept our people informed through of employees in the last year. In addition, we town-hall meetings, functional meetings, train peer educators – on average one for every individual meetings with managers, and regular 11 employees – who work to reduce the stigma communications. Employees have had their say attached to the disease among their colleagues. through focus groups and surveys conducted worldwide. Most of those participating have said that, despite the potential changes, they feel 56% of employees tested for HIV/Aids empowered to make decisions, understand their goals, feel positive about their line managers, and are learning useful skills for their careers. in countries of high prevalence1. Leadership skills become more critical than ever during periods of change. To support leaders during the period, we developed a toolkit to provide further support and resources that address some of the most common leadership challenges during transition. This includes a combination of quick, easy to access resources such as top tips, along with short articles and videos to help leaders with leading their teams in a period of uncertainty. 1 High prevalence defined as greater than 5% of the population. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 29 Valuing and supporting our people continued Valuing diversity and equality Women also play a central role in our value Women’s empowerment and gender diversity are chains as farmers and retailers. In 2015 we central themes of the Sustainable Development launched the Women in Maize programme in Goals (SDGs) and a business imperative. Women South Africa to support women maize farmers are a vital source of talent in an increasingly with access to finance, technical expertise competitive employment market, play a central and access to markets. role in our value chain, and represent a huge potential market. We believe there is an opportunity for the beer sector to enhance both social impact and commercial growth by taking an integrated 29.8%ˆ Female managers approach to empowering women – as top talent, as entrepreneurs and workers in the value chain, and as positive advocates for the category. The and executives. commercial opportunity from female consumers is significant, but to unlock it the industry needs to offer women a positive experience of the In an industry still seen as male dominated, beer category, as well as attractive product we are determined to improve gender diversity, and brand choices. particularly among our leadership. Women represent 20.4% of our global workforce In South Africa, we continue to support (2015: 20.6%) and 29.8%ˆ of executives and South Africa’s Broad-Based Black Economic managers (2015: 29.6%). Our ten-strong executive Empowerment (BBBEE) initiatives for growing committee includes one woman. 20% of SABMiller’s the economy by including and empowering plc board is female – below the FTSE 100 average of previously disadvantaged citizens. 81% of The 25.9%1, although women hold three of our seven South African Breweries (Pty) Ltd (SAB) workforce independent non-executive director posts (43%). is from previously disadvantaged groups and 63% of its employees are black. SAB achieved 78.54 We have clear policies and processes for (2015: 79.24) in the last annual BBBEE verification, recruiting and treating people fairly and on merit, making it a level 5 contributor under the new regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, BBBEE code of good practice. religion, disability, or ethnic origin. However, we know we can do more to attract female employees. In Africa, we launched Plus One – an initiative that aims to increase the percentage of females across our African businesses at the 81% of The South African management and executive level. In Australia, Breweries (Pty) Ltd we established a local Diversity Forum in the workforce is from previously year, which is chaired by the regional managing disadvantaged groups. director. The forum is examining ways to ensure the business attracts, retains, and develops high-performing women. Respecting human rights SABMiller is committed to respecting internationally recognised human rights as set 1 Professional Boards Forum, BoardWatch, 2016. out in the International Bill of Human Rights. ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been We are a signatory of the UN Global Compact. subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the We have developed an approach which helps independent assurance report on pages 36 and 37. our local businesses to identify and mitigate 30 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Promoting human rights in our supply chain T ackling human rights risks in our supply chain requires transparency about the situation, and collaboration to address the issues. This has been a focus for SABMiller Procurement since it was established in 2010. We welcome the focus the UK’s Modern Slavery Act puts on this area of human rights. Katharina Stenholm To understand the risks in our supply chain we have implemented CEO a supplier accreditation programme including on-site audits of SABMiller Procurement high-risk suppliers. We understand that audits have their limitations, but believe that by helping suppliers to address gaps in their risk management processes, and by accelerating our support for Prosper, we can reduce the risk of human rights violations, including modern slavery, in our supply chains. Our ambition is for 80% of our spend to be with accredited suppliers by 2020. Our ambition is for In Africa, we are working closely with Partner Africa, a leading 80% of our spend to social enterprise and pioneer in ethical and socially responsible be with accredited business practices, to help suppliers in the region to meet our suppliers by 2020.” global standards. human rights risks within their operations and forced labour, and human trafficking. Modern value chains, in line with the UN Guiding Principles slavery can be difficult to identify in supply on Business and Human Rights. During the year, chains due to a shared interest in hiding it we updated our human rights policy to clarify among organisations exploiting workers, and our position on areas such as land rights and also among workers who fear losing their jobs grievance mechanisms. We held workshops in or even deportation. While modern slavery is a London, Bangalore, Johannesburg, and Miami global problem, there is a greater risk that it may to review this and work out how best to address be present in the agriculture and manufacturing human rights risks in different local contexts. sectors. Our Human Rights Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct prohibit all forms of modern We respect the right to union representation slavery. We take a risk-based approach to seek and 44.1% of employees are union members to understand and address the risk of modern or covered by collective bargaining agreements slavery, through robust due diligence and (2015: 42.8%). engagement with suppliers and other key local stakeholders. Modern slavery The UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 came Read SABMiller’s UK Modern Slavery Act statement into force in October 2015. This requires large at www.sabmiller.com/modernslaveryact businesses that supply goods or services in the UK to make a public statement annually about the steps taken during the financial year to ensure that modern slavery is not present in any of the supply chains or in any part of the organisation. Modern slavery includes slavery, servitude, SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 31 Embedding Prosper across our business Prosper calls for the integration Embedding Prosper across our value chain of sustainable development into strategic planning and commercial Our suppliers business delivery. We focus on what matters locally as well as on our global Prosper targets. To ensure that Prosper delivers its full potential as a route to unlocking value for the business and benefits for society, we have focused during the year on further integrating Our suppliers are vitally Prosper into the way we drive business performance. important, both for our success All parts of our business, from Australia to Zambia, and for the development of the communities where we operate. and from procurement to sales, have a role to play in Across each of our shared delivering Prosper as an integrated part of their strategy imperatives, we seek to work and day-to-day activity. in partnership with suppliers who share our values. As part of our business planning process, in the year each region and global function completed a Prosper progress review, to assess the fit of Prosper with core elements of strategy, and to identify key challenges in delivering our Prosper targets. Insights from this process have been used to identify areas requiring additional focus and resource. Prosper in action A recent refresh of procurement Last year we introduced a Prosper Forum. It is chaired by strategy confirmed how critical procurement is to the delivery of SABMiller’s General Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director Prosper, but also how important and is attended by our regional corporate affairs directors Prosper is for procurement. We and senior leaders from each function, such as marketing need to partner with suppliers to and sales, supply chain, human resources, and legal. achieve many of our goals, from Through the forum we ensure resources and capabilities empowering women to reducing the environmental impacts of our are in place to deliver our targets, approve policies, lead packaging, but in doing so we co-ordinated activities, and manage potential trade-offs. can also help suppliers to achieve their own goals and create value. Read more about our sustainability governance at Over 80% of our primary packaging www.sabmiller.com/managingsd suppliers (by spend) now report their carbon emissions into the CDP Supply Chain Program. 1 Where we have a market share of 15% or more. 32 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our employees Our customers Our brands and consumers We aim to bring Prosper to We seek to work in partnership We believe that by engaging life for employees at all levels, with our retail customers to with consumers on shared and link our actions to events tackle shared challenges, drive concerns, our brands can going on in the wider world. profitable growth, and increase help to deliver societal benefits We use a range of channels customer loyalty. Underpinning while driving topline growth. to educate and empower our this are guidelines for responsible Through Prosper we introduced leaders so they can champion retailing, of which we are a target to build sustainable Prosper in their business unit signatories as part of the Beer, development messages or function. Wine and Spirits Producers’ into the activations of three Commitments. brands in each market by 20201. Across SABMiller, 44 brands have now adopted sustainable development activities. Prosper in action Prosper in action Prosper in action In September 2015 we ran a In Africa, we launched a new In Italy, unemployment reached campaign to highlight the connection programme to support retailers 44% among 18 – 24 year between Prosper and the Sustainable in improving their businesses and olds in 2015. Nastro Azzurro’s Development Goals (SDGs). A number livelihoods, which includes focus entrepreneurship programme of markets have used the collaterals on the responsible sale of alcoholic Ti Porta Lontano (Takes You Further) for events and engagement beverages. Other modules helps connect young Italian with government and other local include topics such as personal entrepreneurs with well-known stakeholders. We have worked to money management, basic mentors, creating a network embed sustainability in leadership enterprise management skills, of peers and business people development programmes across and building strong and healthy to share knowledge and advice business functions, including for relationships between the business to bring their ideas to life. The example, the Leading the Business and its community. The programme campaign has also helped to programme attended by business is based on learnings from connect the brand more effectively unit managing directors. One of Latin America, and has a target to with its key consumers, who we the three modules is focused on train 72,000 shopkeepers by 2020. know from our consumer insights understanding and responding care deeply about sustainability. effectively to the external environment. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 33 Third party commentary We work in partnership with a wide range of stakeholders worldwide to drive progress on our shared imperatives. We have asked key partners to provide commentary on work we have undertaken together, and on where there are opportunities for future collaboration. Improving social impact The urgency of water risk Commentary from Commentary from World CARE International Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) “CARE International believes that business can make “Fresh water is a priority for WWF because only a significant contribution to poverty alleviation. As one healthy, functioning ecosystems can provide the of the world’s largest NGOs, we work with companies, water that people and nature depend on. And water like SABMiller, who demonstrate commitment to underpins businesses, economies and, ultimately, supporting our poverty reduction agenda to bring societies. This is why WWF has worked closely with about impactful change to the lives of the world’s SABMiller to promote corporate water stewardship. poorest and most vulnerable people. This is both “We have reviewed SABMiller’s water risk approach, an opportunity and responsibility for companies as well as the wide range of water partnership such as SABMiller. programmes in place. We believe SABMiller’s focus “We have worked with SABMiller to identify the beyond its own operations is a leading example potential livelihood impacts of enterprise development of corporate water stewardship, as this ensures programmes in its agriculture supply chain, its small the company remains committed to the long-term retailer network, and local communities, and to water challenges facing its breweries, rather than develop a framework to measure this impact. We are investing in sporadic or high-profile, short-term also working collaboratively on strengthening women’s projects. The water risk methodology, which has empowerment in value chains, and understanding been rolled out to all its breweries across the globe, gender-based violence. We view gender-based is a sophisticated tool that helps ensure each violence as a key social issue that the alcohol sector operation clearly understands the local water risks. must play a role in addressing. It is a complex issue “SABMiller’s local water partnerships demonstrate but there is a clear social and commercial imperative an inclusive approach to working with a variety of for alcohol companies to help address it in a stakeholders and are generally well focused on the transparent and considered way. key water risks identified. One observation is that “SABMiller’s livelihoods strategy is a leading the scope of investment and commitment is typically approach to addressing challenging sustainability not at the same scale as the water challenge. issues in the business and the communities in which We encourage SABMiller to continue their leadership, they operate. CARE International would like to see but to show even greater urgency in dealing with SABMiller continue to invest in this strategy and water risk to operations, agricultural supply chains, and further integrate their sustainability work with their local communities to reach the scale of investment core business objectives.” and partnership required.” Read CARE International’s full commentary at Read WWF’s full commentary at www.sabmiller.com/carecommentary www.sabmiller.com/wwfcommentary 34 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 Scope of this report PwC Insight Report This report covers the financial year ended 31 March 2016. Operations are included in this report on the basis of management control by SABMiller entities. Our US joint venture, MillerCoors This year we commissioned PwC to apply its LLC, is also included. Our economic interest in ‘Inspiring Trust Through Insight’ concept to MillerCoors is reflected when reporting quantitative provide insight into the maturity of some of our key sustainable development performance indicators. key Prosper metrics. We aim to include new acquisitions or market entries Available online, this analysis enables readers within two years. This year, data has been integrated to understand what lies behind the metrics for the first time for three new businesses: Intafact across a number of dimensions using a visual Beverages (Nigeria), CASA Isenbeck (Argentina), representation, as well as providing a supporting and Miller Brands UK (United Kingdom). narrative of the assessment. A full list of the operations covered in this In publishing the PwC Insight Report, we aim to report is available at be as transparent as possible about our progress www.sabmiller.com/sdreportingscope and ongoing challenges. Where we hold a minority share in an alliance or partnership, we engage with our partners on sustainable development issues. Information on business partners can be found at www.sabmiller.com/sdbusinesspartners This report is structured using our Prosper commitments. To provide a common point of reference we have also used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 4th generation framework, G4, as a secondary index, which is available online. This document also forms our progress report Read more at against the 10 principles of the United Nations www.sabmiller.com/insightreport Global Compact (UNGC) and the UNGC CEO Water Mandate. Further information is available at www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting FTSE4Good SABMiller is a member of the FTSE4Good, as well as other relevant indices used by the investment community. CDP SABMiller participates in the CDP Carbon, Water and Supply Chain Disclosure Programs, which provide insight into the risks companies face in these areas. SABMiller is listed as an ‘A list’ performer in the CDP Carbon Performance Leaders Index. Read our CDP reports at www.cdp.net Read our UK Modern Slavery Act Statement at www.sabmiller.com/modernslaveryact SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 35 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of SABMiller plc The Directors of SABMiller plc engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in SABMiller plc’s Sustainable Development Report 2016 for the year ended 31 March 2016. Our conclusion How the information is assessed Based on the procedures we have performed (“Reporting Criteria”) and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has We assessed the Selected Information come to our attention that causes us to believe using SABMiller’s SD Reporting Principles the Selected Information for the year ended (“Reporting Criteria”) dated June 2016 as set 31 March 2016 has not been prepared in all out at www.sabmiller.com/sdassurance2016a. material respects with the Reporting Criteria. Professional Standards This conclusion is to be read in the context and Independence of what we say in the remainder of our report. We have performed a limited assurance engagementb in accordance with ISAE 3000 What we are assuring (Revised) – ‘Assurance Engagements other (“Selected Information”) than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial The scope of our work was limited to assurance Information’ and, in respect of the CO2e emissions, over the information marked with the symbol ˆ ISAE 3410 – ‘Assurance Engagements on in the Sustainable Development (SD) Report 2016. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statements’ issued The Selected Information and Reporting Criteria by the IAASB and ICAEW Code of Ethicsc. against which it was assessed are summarised below. Our assurance does not extend to Understanding the Criteria information in respect of earlier periods or to any The Selected Information needs to be read other information in the Sustainable Development and understood together with the Reporting Report 2016. Criteria, which SABMiller plc is solely responsible for selecting and applying. The absence of a Selected Information significant body of established practice on which –– total water consumption in lager production to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial (million hl); information allows for different, but acceptable, –– water use to lager ratio (hl/hl lager); measurement techniques and can affect –– total CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy used comparability between entities and over time. on site for the production of lager (million tonnes); –– CO2e emissions from fossil energy used on site Work done for the production of lager ratio (kgCO2e/hl lager); We are required to plan and perform our work in –– percentage of female managers/executives order to consider the risk of material misstatement –– number of production facilities with completed of the Selected Information. In doing so, we: Water Risk Assessments, and percentage –– made enquiries of SABMiller plc’s management, of production volume covered; and including the SD team and those with –– percentage of sugar sourced from sugarcane responsibility for SD management and group meeting sustainable standards. SD reporting; 36 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 –– evaluated the design of the key structures, Our responsibilities systems, processes and controls for managing, We are responsible for: recording and reporting the Selected Information. –– planning and performing the engagement This included visiting 3 operating companies out to obtain limited assurance about whether of 32 to perform walkthroughs on the indicators the Selected Information is free from material and obtaining supporting information. For a misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; further 3 operating companies we performed –– forming an independent conclusion, based desktop/analytical review, selected on the basis on the procedures we have performed of their inherent risk and materiality to the group. and the evidence we have obtained; and Interviews were held and supporting evidence –– reporting our conclusion to the Directors was obtained to understand the key processes of SABMiller plc. and controls for reporting operating company performance data to the group SD team; This report, including our conclusions, has been –– performed analytical review of the aggregated prepared solely for the Directors of SABMiller plc data for all 32 operating companies in scope; as a body in accordance with the agreement –– performed limited substantive testing on a between us, to assist the Directors in reporting selective basis of the Selected Information SABMiller plc’s SD performance and activities. We at corporate head office and at 7 operating permit this report to be disclosed in the Sustainable companies to check that data had been Development Report 2016 for the year ended appropriately measured, recorded, collated 31 March 2016, to assist the Directors and reported; and in responding to their governance responsibilities –– considered the disclosure and presentation by obtaining an independent assurance report in of the Selected Information. connection with the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept SABMiller plc’s responsibilities or assume responsibility to anyone other than the SABMiller plc management is responsible for: Directors as a body and SABMiller plc for our work –– designing, implementing and maintaining or this report except where terms are expressly internal controls over information relevant to agreed between us in writing. the preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material misstatement, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, whether due to fraud or error; Chartered Accountants, London –– establishing objective Reporting Criteria 14 June 2016 for preparing the Selected Information; a The maintenance and integrity of SABMiller plc’s website is the –– measuring and reporting the Selected responsibility of the SABMiller plc management; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, Information based on the Reporting Criteria; and accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes that –– the content of the Sustainable Development may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Report 2016. Reporting Criteria when presented on SABMiller plc’s website. b A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to the The corporate accountability and risk assurance risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response committee of the board (CARAC) has reviewed to the assessed risks. the procedures established by management to c Our work is in accordance with the ICAEW Code of Ethics, which includes independence and other requirements founded prepare the Sustainable Development Report on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional 2016, and the Chairman of the CARAC competence and due care, confidentiality and professional has reviewed that report on behalf of the board behaviour. We apply International Standard on Quality Control (UK & Ireland) 1 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive of directors of SABMiller plc. system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our work was carried out by an independent team with experience in sustainability reporting and assurance. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Report 2016 37 Further reports and contacts The online SABMiller Sustainable Development Registered office Report includes additional information, performance SABMiller House data and case studies for each of our five shared Church Street West imperatives, and reports on specific issues. Woking, Surrey, England GU21 6HS Telephone +44 1483 264000 1 Head office One Stanhope Gate SABMiller plc London, England W1K 1AF Annual Report 2 Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 2016 SABMiller plc Our Approach to Tax Investor relations 2016 3 Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 investor.relations@sabmiller.com Sustainable development Telephone +44 1483 264134 sustainable.development@sabmiller.com SABMiller plc (Registration No. 3528416) 1 Annual Report For an overview of our markets and operations, and a regional perspective on sustainable Please note development issues and performance, This report contains certain forward-looking statements including those that relate to investments please refer to our annual report. in socio-economic programmes, water management, www.sabmiller.com/annualreport2016 the implementation of certain reuse and recycling measures, local sourcing of agricultural raw materials 2 Our Approach to Tax report and expenditure at operational level. Such statements involve a number of uncertainties because they relate For an overview of our approach to tax, to events and depend on circumstances that will or please refer to Our Approach to Tax report. may occur in the future. As a result, actual results may www.sabmiller.com/taxreport2016 differ from those anticipated in this report depending on a wide range of factors, including and not limited to: the outcome of the proposed transaction with 3 Online Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV; crop yields; consumer The Sustainable Development Report, further demand; excise duties and taxation policies; case studies and more information about worldwide as well as local economic conditions; our performance through the Sustainability changes in laws and regulations; and the development of new technology. This report deals with activities Assessment Matrix (SAM) scorecards of group companies around the world. References for our operations can be found online. in this report to ‘SABMiller’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer www.sabmiller.com/sdreport2016 collectively to the group of operating companies. The paper used in the report contains 75% recycled content, all of which is sourced from de-inked post-consumer waste. All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine-free process (ECF). Printed in the UK by CPI Colour, a CarbonNeutral® company. Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) chain-of-custody certified. Designed and produced by
