CSR REPORT 2016 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Continuously contributing to fulfilling lifestyles as a mainstay of information and culture All of us within the Toppan Group will recognize the issues facing society and work with stakeholders to find solutions. United Nations Global Compact CSR Report 2016 The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary The Toppan Group considers stakeholders’ interests and reports its policy initiative through which businesses and corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in line with the seven organizations enlist their participation in the estabcore subjects set under the International Organization for Standardlishment of a globally recognized practical frameization (ISO) 26000 standard, a globally recognized set of guidelines work under which every business and organization on social responsibility. commits to the vision of sustainable development by implementing responsible, creative leadership I Period Covered: This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2015 initiatives and acting as a responsible member of (from April 2015 to March 2016), though information on prior and society. Toppan participates in the United Nations later years is also included in parts. Global Compact, supports its 10 principles in the I Scope and Boundary: Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its Group entities four areas of human rights, labour, environment, consolidated for accounting purposes. The information on personnel and anti-corruption, and implements those principrincipally applies to personnel within Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., the ples in its own corporate activities. parent company. The environmental performance data covers T ­ oppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 15 manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan. Human Rights I Publication Dates (English version) Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationPrevious report: November 2015 ally proclaimed human rights; and Current report: November 2016 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Next report: November 2017 (planned) I Related Information Labour CSR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr.html* Principle 3: B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective *Including CSR Report 2016: Detailed Data recognition of the right to collective bargaining; IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ir.html Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; I Guidelines Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and This report was edited according to the Environmental Reporting Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. The report also presents information in line Environment with General Standard Disclosures required by the Global Reporting Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environInitiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. mental challenges; I Contact Information Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; CSR Promotion Department, Public Relations Division and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Email: csr@toppan.co.jp technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Special Report 1 Creating New Value with a Focus on P. 10 Health CONTENTS Group Business Outline  2 Executive Message  4 Toppan’s Corporate Social Responsibility Activities: Digest 2015  6 Toppan’s CSR  8 Special Report 1  10 Creating New Value with a Focus on Health Special Report 2  14 Special Report 2 Popularizing and Promoting P. 14 Popularizing and Promoting Para-Sports Para-Sports Special Report 3  18 Supporting Education to Improve Literacy Initiatives at Toppan and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000  20 Organizational Governance  21 Human Rights  24 Labor Practices  26 Fair Operating Practices  30 Consumer Issues  34 Community Involvement and Development  38 The Environment  40 Toppan’s Environmental Activities  40 Environmental Management Activities  40 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Environmental Impact  42 Special Report 3 Supporting Education to P. 18 Eco-protection Activities  42 Improve Literacy Eco-creativity Activities  46 Environmental Communication Activities  46 Independent Assurance  48 Independent Assurance Report  49 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 01 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Business Fields Corporate name Information & Communication Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Providing solutions to enhance the value of Head office information and deliver it effectively to cus1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, tomers who require smooth communication. Tokyo 101-0024, Japan Phone +81-3-3835-5111 Established 1900 President & Representative Director Content Business Shingo Kaneko Number of employees (nonconsolidated) 8,993 (as of the end of March 2016) Number of employees (consolidated) 46,705 (as of the end of March 2016) Capital (nonconsolidated) 104.9 billion yen Secure Business Marketing Living & Industry Providing a wide range of Group Profile products and services to create living environments that The Toppan Group (“the Group”) comoffer comfort and peace of prises Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the mind. Company”) and 167 related companies (146 subsidiaries and 21 affiliates) engaged in manifold businesses in three fields: Information & Communication, Living & Industry, and Electronics. Detailed information on related companies can be found in the financial statePackaging ments posted on the Toppan website (http://www.toppan.co.jp/ir/material/ report.html [in Japanese]). Functional Product & Energy Interior Décor Materials Related Electronics Using advanced technology and manufacturing capabilities to develop products related to displays and semiconductors. Display Related Semiconductor Related 02 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Group Business Outline DATA Net Sales Net Sales by Business Field Net Sales by Region 1,474.6 billion yen (billion yen) Information & (billion yen) (billion yen) ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated Electronics Communication Asia, excluding Japan Other regions 152.6 (10%) 925.8 (63%) 156.8 (11%) 56.8 (4%) 2,000 1,510.4 1,502.3 1,532.0 1,526.9 1,474.6 1,500 1,000 849.2 819.9 815.7 781.5 773.6 Living & 500 Industry Japan 396.1 (27%) 1,260.9 (85%) 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) Operating Income Net Income Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) 48.5 billion yen 35.2 billion yen 1,876.5 billion yen / 1.8% (billion yen) ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated (billion yen) ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated (billion yen) (%) 32 35.2 60 2,500 4.0 48.5 45 40.8 24 22.8 1,994.6 1,876.5 20.619.2 2,000 3.0 35.7 18.5 1,712.3 31.5 32.0 15.1 1,586.8 1,633.0 30 16 11.1 1,500 1.8 2.0 6.5 1.2 1.2 15 10.1 8 1,000 1.2 1.0 4.4 7.7 6.8 3.0 0 0 500 0.2 0 –7.1 –3.2 –15 –8 0 –1.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Net Assets & Return on Equity (ROE) Capital Expenditure R&D Expenses 1,066.8 billion yen / 3.8% 63.2 billion yen 17.9 billion yen (billion yen) (%) (billion yen) (billion yen) 1,250 5.0 100 25 1,082.8 1,066.8 21.4 20.6 76.8 76.1 19.8 19.0 1,000 80 72.1 20 866.2 888.4 913.1 3.8 4.0 66.8 63.2 17.9 750 2.7 3.0 60 15 2.5 2.7 500 2.0 40 10 250 1.0 20 5 0.4 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Number of Employees Number of Employees by Business Field (consolidated) 46,705 Company-wide positions 1,243 ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated Electronics Information & 50,000 47,872 48,878 48,751 48,999 46,705 5,292 Communication 40,000 28,809 Living & 30,000 Industry 11,361 20,000 8,508 8,587 8,604 8,900 8,993 10,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 03 Executive Message Contributing to Fulfilling Lifestyles First of all, let me express my condolences and heartfelt information to bring out the boundless expertise of our sympathies to the victims and those who lost friends or employees. With this technology and information we aim loved ones as a result of the Kumamoto Earthquake in to solve the challenges of our client companies with evercentral Kyushu in April of 2016. My thoughts are with everyhigher effectiveness and evolve into a group of companies one who has been affected by the loss of life and property that provides total solutions to help overcome challenges damage in the quake. We are all praying for swift reconfacing our societies and planet. struction and recovery in the affected regions. Being a Company that Grows Steadily with Turning to the economy, the U.S. recovered steadily Society enough in fiscal 2015 to depart from its zero-interest-rate policy. Recovery trends also gradually spread in Europe, We position TOPPAN VISION 21 as the foundation for all but the economies turned downward in Russia, China, of our corporate activities. This vision consists of a Corpoand other emerging countries that had been leading the rate Structure (the Corporate Philosophy, Corporate Creed, global economy. and Conduct Guidelines defining the values and standards The fiscal 2015 outlook in Japan remained uncertain, we should respect) and Business Fields based on the Corclouded by factors such as the diminishing effects of the porate Structure. If we are to truly realize TOPPAN VISION government’s economic policy, downside risks from the 21, I am convinced that we will have to fulfill our social slowdown in Asian emerging countries, collapsing oil responsibility as a corporation committed to solving social prices, and volatile financial and capital markets. issues and driving our growth in step with all of society. While the growth of digital sectors such as online adverAs an invaluable guideline to fulfill our social responsitising and e-books expanded, the shrinking trend of paperbility, Toppan has been participating in the United Nations based printing businesses and the fall in unit sales prices Global Compact and supporting its 10 principles on human continued to constrain markets in the printing industry. rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption since SepNet sales of the Toppan Group fell slightly in fiscal 2015, tember 2006. I will continue espousing the United Nations though operating income, ordinary income, and net income Global Compact and directing our corporate social responall increased year-on-year in spite of the challenging consibility (CSR) activities accordingly. ditions described above. We credit these results to our We incorporated the International Organization for aggressive initiatives to take on Toppan’s three manageStandardization (ISO) 26000 Guidance on Social Responment challenges: advancing our Group-wide structural sibility (international standard for organizations) into our reform, creating new businesses and new markets, and CSR management practices in fiscal 2011. We have been accelerating global business expansion. pushing forward with CSR activities by piecing together a clear picture of the social issues we should help solve and Towards a “New Age for Printing” the social responsibilities we should fulfill. The ISO 26000 standard condenses various social issues to address. Our Three industrial revolutions have transformed manufacturmeasures to tackle these issues correspond directly to the ing industries in the last several hundred years: the invenrequirements of the United Nations Global Compact. tion of the steam engine in the late 18th century, the adoption of electricity in the early 20th century, and the Solving Diverse Social Challenges information revolution from the late 1960s. Now we are poised to enter a fourth industrial revolution driven by I value our employees as precious “human assets” of the Industrie 4.0 and the Industrial Internet using the Internet ­Toppan Group and understand how deeply the Group of Things (IoT). depends on them. The key challenges for me as the top Big opportunities come whenever societies enter phases manager are to safeguard the health of employees and of major change across industries and national borders. their families and enable them to perform at their very best. I am leading the Toppan workforce on an endeavor to The Group Health Management Declaration established in embark on the development of a new era, a “new age for October 2015 has two goals: to further enhance the health printing.” We can use the printing technologies we have of employees and their families and to contribute to society built up since our foundation and equip ourselves with by supporting public health-promotion initiatives through 04 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Executive Message health-related businesses. Working in cooperation primarily with our health insurance union, we have launched a series of measures to enhance the health of employees and their families. We also support local government-led health-promotion activities by leveraging our solutions in customer relationship management (CRM), business process outsourcing (BPO), and so on. We are now accelerating diversity management efforts in the hope of actualizing a growth strategy focused on employee diversity. To disseminate this policy to society at large, we initiated our para-sports support activities in 2015. We launched a website highlighting the virtues of para-sports with a view to popularizing and heightening awareness of para-sports and drawing spectators to the venues. We have also held hands-on events to give employees opportunities to learn more about para-sports and appreciate their value. In September 2015 the United Nations published a set of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a series of targets for social issues for the international community to commit to solving. Literacy inextricably links to the end of poverty and hunger, healthy lives, gender equality, and other SDGs. The Toppan Group has embarked on literacy improvement activities as a fast-track strategy for progressing towards the SDGs. Since fiscal 2007 we have been holding the Toppan Charity Concert series, a fundraising mechanism to support literacy in developing countries in Asia through the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO (ACCU). We have supported classes on literacy and maternal and child health for expectant mothers and mothers raising young children. In fiscal 2015 Toppan discussed the challenges encountered in the literacy classes with the ACCU and a Cambodian NGO working on the initiative. We considered how best to operate and support the literacy classes under the initiative going forward. With Our Stakeholders At Toppan we would like to continue disclosing information through this CSR report, one of our most valuable tools for communicating with our stakeholders. I am eager to hear your candid opinions about this report. August 2016 We will keep up our work towards the creation of fulfilling Shingo Kaneko lifestyles in a sustainable society. We rely on your ongoing President & Representative Director Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. support and guidance. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 05 Toppan’s Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Digest 2015 The Toppan Group engages in corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in line with action points and Human Rights P. 24– targets established based on Action Points for Fiscal 2015 the seven core subjects under ISO 26000. I Heightening awareness of the I Working for equal opportunity in The following two pages enumerate importance of respecting individual career development basic human rights and helping employees pursue the main activities undertaken under their own career paths I Providing an open the core subjects. environment and information I Supporting second careers for for recruitment retired employees I Proactively appointing female I Promoting the employment of employees to higher positions persons with disabilities I Supporting para-sports Main Results in Fiscal 2015 Number of female Average monthly number of managerial and page views of SPORTRAIT, supervisory staff Toppan’s para-sports (nonconsolidated) information website 5,958 pvs 299 *September 2015– Action targets, measures, results, self-evaluation, and other details March 2016 relevant to the seven core subjects are posted on the Toppan website. *As of April 2016 http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/csrreport.html Organizational Governance P. 21– Labour Practices P. 26– Action Points for Fiscal 2015 Action Points for Fiscal 2015 I Developing CSR management based on ISO 26000 I Supporting work-life balance I Reinforcing countermeasures I Facilitating business continuity management (BCM) activities I Creating a better working against disasters environment through I Promoting healthcare and partnerships between labor health enhancement and management I Arranging measures for I Ensuring occupational health mental healthcare and safety and reinforcing I Developing and fostering countermeasures against fires human assets* Main Results in Fiscal 2015 Main Results in Fiscal 2015 Number of management Number of employees who have taken and operation audits childcare leave (nonconsolidated) 31 295 (including 160 male employees) Ratio of regular 20,105 Number of employees who medical check-ups for dependents of participated in Group-wide employees e-learning-based education programs on CSR and the environment 73.7 % *Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets.” 06 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Toppan’s Corporate Social Responsibility Activities: Digest 2015 The Environment P. 40– Consumer Issues P. 34– Action Points for Fiscal 2015 Action Points for Fiscal 2015 I Reduce CO2 emissions I Ensuring consumer safety through the strict prevention of I Reduce final landfill waste disposal quality-related accidents I Reduce VOC emissions into the atmosphere I Evaluating environmental impact (disclosing CFP) I Establishing a management structure towards the complete elimination of information security accidents Achievement rate for the reduction target for final 13 landfill waste disposal Main Results in Fiscal 2015 Achievement rate for 133.3 achieved % Main Results in Fiscal 2015 the reduction target for Disposal Number of products registered CO2 emissions target in the carbon footprint of products (CFP) system Emission target 240 tons 613 kilotons Actual Number of regular training Actual sessions in information disposal emissions 160 security management 340 tons 551 110.2% achieved kilotons Community Involvement Fair Operating Practices P. 30– P. 38– and Development Action Points for Fiscal 2015 Action Points for Fiscal 2015 I Heightening awareness of laws, regulations, and the I Arranging social contribution programs to help Conduct Guidelines solve social issues I Complying with transaction-related laws and regulations I Promoting CSR initiatives in the supply chain Main Results in Fiscal 2015 Main Results in Fiscal 2015 Number of employees who Number of countries where Toppan have worked as Conduct has supported initiatives to provide Guidelines Promotion Leaders literacy education through the 7,581 *Cumulative total from Toppan Charity Concert series I Thailand fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2015 I Bangladesh I Cambodia 2,068 ABC Number of business 3 partners who have participated in briefing *Cumulative total from sessions on the Toppan fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2015 countries Group CSR Procurement *Cumulative total from Guidelines fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2015 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 07 Toppan’s CSR Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” Material Issues TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concepts and direcTo promote CSR activities, the Toppan Group has selected tion for the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group in harmony issues expected to become more important based on the with society and the global environment. The vision consists principles of materiality. By assessing CSR-relevant issues of a “Corporate Structure” and a set of “Business Fields.” according to two criteria, the “influence on stakeholder assessToppan believes that endeavors to realize the Corporate ments and decisions” and “Toppan’s economic, environmenStructure will support the sustainable development of the tal, and social impacts,” the Group has identified the following Group and society as a whole. as issues that will become more material: human rights, human resource development and diversity, the environment, promotCorporate Structure ing social responsibility in the value chain, and privacy (perThe Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: sonal information protection). ­Toppan’s Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and the The Toppan Group will advance measures pertinent to the Conduct Guidelines. material issues identified and review the issues as necessary. The Corporate Philosophy specifies ideals and the most important values and concepts for the Group. The Corporate Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost in mind when performing business operations. The Conduct Guiden Selection Steps lines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees both as businesspeople and as members Classifying detailed issues and of society. identifying relevant issues Toppan classified detailed social issues featured in the ISO CSR Activities 26000 and GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and identified the issues considered relevant to the Group. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities are prominent among Toppan’s many endeavors to realize the ideal Corporate Structure the Group envisions. The United Nations Global Compact is an invaluable guideline for the Group as it undertakes CSR activities. Toppan also keeps close track of ISO Prioritizing issues 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, an international standard for organizations. ISO 26000 encourages organizaToppan prioritized issues after assessing each for its tions to address seven core subjects—organizational govern“influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions” and ance, human rights, labour practices, the environment, fair connections with “Toppan’s economic, environmental, and social impacts.” operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development—and emphasizes stakeholder I Assessment points for the “influence on stakeholder engagement. assessments and decisions” • Issues raised during stakeholder dialogues • Criteria for socially responsible investing (SRI) Dialogues with Stakeholders • Approaches by benchmark companies The Toppan Group has identified categories of stakeholders I Assessment points for “Toppan’s economic, who are either vital for its business operations or potentially environmental, and social impacts” impacted by them: customers (client companies, consumers), • Relevance to the management challenges business partners, communities, shareholders/investors, and • Relevance to the Corporate Structure employees. • Progress of Toppan’s CSR activities Stakeholder opinions learned in the course of daily operations are reflected in the Group’s CSR initiatives. Toppan ­Printing Co., Ltd. takes part in the Global Compact Network Japan. In fiscal 2015 the Company entered dialogues with experts within the network to discuss various topics pertaining Opinions from outside Toppan to human rights, the supply chain, and other areas. Toppan engaged outside experts in dialogues and listened to their opinions on the process the Group uses to select material issues. 08 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Toppan’s CSR n Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” Corporate Philosophy Corporate Creed Conduct Guidelines Each of us shall To build our customers’ trust through Chapter 1: Basic Principles sincerity, enthusiasm, and creativity in 1. Respecting basic human rights reciprocate our customers’ all our corporate endeavors. 2. H  aving high ethical standards and continued trust, acting as a responsible member of society create dedicated products by To strive for total innovation from 3. C  omplying with laws and harnessing our vibrant knowledge a global perspective by conducting company rules and conducting marketing and technological fair business operations and technology, development rich in originality. 4. A  voiding all links with antisocial and contribute to a fulfilling lifestyle as groups 5. S  triving to improve quality a mainstay of information and culture. To conduct fair and open business and providing creations operations while acknowledging our that contribute to customer satisfaction social responsibilities and aspiring for 6. R  ecognizing the importance of Established in June 2000 harmony with our global environment. information related to business and managing it appropriately To create a positive working 7. P  roactively undertaking conservation of the global environment by maximizing our environment individual talents and strengths 8. E  mbracing change and taking on as a team. new challenges 9. B  uilding trust from society TOPPAN VISION 21 through social contribution To enhance our corporate standing activities and appropriate http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/corporateinfo/ vision/corp_image/rinen.html and promote the continual disclosure of information development of the Toppan Group 10. B  ringing together individual through the exploration of new strengths to fully exploit the integrated strength of the group possibilities. Established in June 2000; revised in November 2010 Established in June 2000 See page 33 for Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Guidelines. n Issues Expected to Become More Material Issues Expected to Become More Material I Human rights I Promoting social I Human resource responsibility in the development and value chain diversity I Privacy (personal Influence on I The environment information protection) stakeholder assessments Issues Judged to be Fundamentally and decisions Material for Toppan as a Group of Companies I Labour practices I Community involvement I Fair operating practices and development I Consumer issues Toppan’s economic, environmental, and social impacts TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 09 Special Report 1 Creating New Value with a Focus on Health Health is an important precondition for enjoying an active life and working more productively. The Toppan Group has declared a commitment to practicing thorough health management to implement initiatives towards improved health. Health Management for the Future of Companies and Communities A healthy body and mind allow an employee to fully apply by leveraging wide-ranging knowhow and capabilities his or her individuality and abilities at work. The health of in-house. Both will engage in businesses to develop and employees is vital to a company’s efforts in advancing corimprove innovative solutions for health maintenance and porate activities and offering value to society. enhancement in order to contribute to the creation of a Based on the fundamental concept of respect for peowholesome society that enables peace of mind. ple, the Toppan Group has been active since its foundation in launching various measures for employee health in cooperation with the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union. In October 2015 the Group announced a Health Management Declaration to maintain and enhance the health of Group n Structure for Health Management Promotion employees by visualizing and reorganizing health promotion Collaborating in General affairs plans and actions. The President & Representative Direcimplementing measures departments at tor has been put in charge of health management and Head of health operational sites management undertaken a set of tasks and responsibilities to accelerate (President & Health Management Toppan Printing the Group’s health management efforts. Representative Director) Labour Union Promotion Council The Health Management Declaration states policies for Health promoting the health of employees and their families and Health management insurance union and Safety and promotion supervisor personnel and Health Committee contributing to society through health-related businesses (Director in charge of general affairs that support community health promotion activities. Toppan personnel and general departments affairs departments) at the head office Industrial physicians has also created a Health Management Promotion Council where representatives from the Group and its health Collaborating Collaborating Clinics and insurance union can carry out various measures through medical specialists a collaborative process. Departments Public The Group and the health insurance union work hand involved in healthcare relations Collaborating department Industrial counselors in hand to push forward with health-related businesses businesses 10 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Special Report 1: Creating New Value with a Focus on Health Promoting the Health of Employees and their Families Toppan defines a healthy employee as a person sustained The Group will continue promoting the health of employby a strong motivation to take on new challenges, an ambiees and their families by helping them maintain and improve tion to work vigorously with a healthy body and mind, and their mental and physical condition and by adopting new an earnest commitment to follow through on tasks to mechanisms focused on further health enhancements. ­completion. Measure Health Enhancement Measures Measure Art Salon, a Clinical Art Workshop by the Toppan Group Health 1 Insurance Union 2 Program Toppan has consolidated various health-related services Art Salon is a workshop program to activate participants’ implemented by the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union brains and refresh their minds through art. This program into the Toppan Group GENKI (good health) Program. This has been created in collaboration with a Group company, program encourages operational sites, the labor union, and Institute of the Formative Art Co., Ltd., based on a clinical the health insurance union to work together with employees art approach. and their families to achieve good health. In parallel, clinics Art Salon sessions aimed at promoting employee health operating at 35 Group sites across Japan provide medical are held at Group sites across Japan, including special care and review the results of health check-ups to offer spesessions for employees and their families during summer cialist advice such as guidance and referrals to outside clinholidays. ical care providers for those employees who require it. These services seek to prevent lifestyle-related diseases proactively and support the good health of employees and their families and the vibrancy of the operational sites where they work. The Group’s countermeasures to prevent diabetes and hypertension from worsening are key in its work against lifestyle-related diseases that can potentially affect employees. Based on analyses of health examination data provided by Toppan, the health insurance union provides nutritional instructions and other healthcare guidance and recommends early clinic visits for employees at high risk of serious conditions. Measures for improving the ratio of medical check-ups for the prevention of lifestyle-related diseases among dependents (i.e., employee families) have achieved Measure Toppan Sports Festival Jointly ­significant results. The health insurance union worked with Organized by Labor and the operational sites in fiscal 2015 to encourage depend3 Management ents to come in for check-ups. Invitation postcards were sent out in autumn to attract more applicants. Families yet Toppan regularly holds a Group-wide sporting event to to respond were sent out reminders 45 days before the facilitate communication among employees, build a sense closing date for application. These measures raised the of unity within the Toppan Group, and enhance an undermedical check-up rate among dependents to 73.7% in standing of the Group among employee families. fiscal 2015. Two key features define the festival: Group employees The Group will plan more measures and schemes to and managers of all ages participate; and the event is persuade employees and their families to participate in exclusively planned, prepared, and operated by employees, health enhancement activities. mainly young ones. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 11 Spreading Health Enhancement Knowhow across Society through Toppan’s Businesses The Toppan Group exploits its accumulated printing techenhancement, early prevention, and general nursing supnologies to expand healthcare-related businesses in colport systems for communities. To achieve good health laboration with partner companies. Solutions in customer across society, the Group will provide one-stop support relationship management (CRM) and business process for formulating strategies, executing measures, verifying outsourcing (BPO) will be leveraged in areas such as health benefits, and improving actions. Case Increasing the Medical Check-up Ratio for Early Detection of Lifestyle-related Diseases 1 —Initiative in Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Prefecture Japan’s national healthcare expenditure reached 40 trillion of communication strategies, and facilitating communicayen in fiscal 2013. The figure is expected to continue tion with the elderly. The program also leverages various ­growing as the population ages and medical technology CRM communication approaches focused on individuals advances. Cancer, hypertension, and lifestyle-related diswith a view to increasing the check-up ratio. eases such as diabetes account for a large portion of In fiscal 2015 Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Prefecture healthcare spending, over 30%. Early detection and cure entrusted Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. with a project to supare certain to play more critical roles in the future. port several measures to improve the check-up ratio. SpeJapan is faced with the challenge of improving the ratio cifically, Toppan analyzed demographic data to classify the of the population who receive medical check-ups focused persons yet to receive lifestyle-related disease check-ups on metabolic syndrome. The Ministry of Health, Labour (covered by the national health insurance) into multiple and Welfare has set the goal of raising the rate to 60% segments based on their ages, addresses, and other varamong persons covered by the national health insurance iables. Based on the results, the Company created direct schemes operated by municipalities by fiscal 2017. The mail and other types of notifications tailored to different rate in fiscal 2013 was 34.3%, far below the 2017 target. age segments. One piece of direct mail, for example, The Toppan Group is helping the nation address this described the prospective risks faced by people who challenge by offering a program to improve the ratio of receive no check-ups. Another explained potential risks people receiving medical check-ups for lifestyle-related likely to go undetected even in routine visits to doctors for diseases performed by municipalities. This program serves other health conditions. Toppan also organized multiple as a one-stop solution to provide every function necessary measures such as questionnaire surveys and a handout to raise the rate. The Group created the program with listing medical institutions that perform health check-ups knowledge and knowhow it acquired in analyzing customer for citizens searching for institutions near their homes. information, supporting the planning and implementation n Analysis and Segmentation of Target Examinees Information to be analyzed (example) Examinee profiles Medical Questionnaire (basic data on check-up results responses target examinees) Target examinee segments based on the analysis results Type XX Type XX Type XX Type XX Type XX Developing touchpoints and creative tools by segment Direct mail notifications in Fukuoka City customized to the recipient’s ages 12 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Special Report 1: Creating New Value with a Focus on Health Case Granting Walking Points to Make Healthy Habits Fun 2 —Initiative in Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture Like much of Japan, Yokohama City in Kanagawa PrefecAs the back-office administrator, Toppan is responsible ture is now coping with the problems of a rapidly aging for managing and delivering the pedometers, accepting population. According to forecasts, people over the age applications, responding to inquiries, reviewing and regisof 64 will number about 1 million by 2025, making up tering applications, linking pedometer counts with the point 26.1% of the citizenry. Among the worries and problems system, holding prize draws, delivering gifts, and providing looming ahead, survey respondents have voiced strong other services for the citizens participating. concerns about their own health and lives after retirement, The city government sought to register 50,000 particias well as the health and everyday problems of their pants in the first year of the project, fiscal 2014. The project ­families. drew unexpectedly strong attention, attracting over 80,000 Yokohama City has established a 10-year plan to be citizens by December 2014, only a month after the official implemented from fiscal 2013 to 2022 to extend the healthy project launch. Toppan had to act swiftly and deftly to cope life expectancy of its citizens. This plan encompasses a with the flood of incoming applications. In the years since, host of measures to enable all citizens to lead independent Toppan has continued operating a broad range of adminlives as long as possible. istrative works. The Company solicits stores in local shopThe Yokohama Walking Point project was launched in ping areas to participate and cooperate in events and 2014 as a part of the 10-year plan. The project is jointly regularly monitors the status of the pedometer readers operated by the city government and private companies installed at more than 1,000 locations (as of April 2016). such as Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Adults who live or work Local stores benefit from the incoming traffic the readers in Yokohama City can join in. Project participants earn attract. points according to their accumulated step counts and The latest project goal is to register 300,000 participants redeem their points for entry into prize draws. Points are over the four years up to the end of 2017. Participants saved whenever a participant’s pedometer passes over a totaled about 170,000 as of June 2016. Toppan will use reader installed at a partner store or location in the city. its resources to offer better, higher-quality services to satThis scheme gives citizens a fun incentive to casually walk isfy the changing operational requirements that come with their way to good health. the growing scale of the project. n Flow of the Walking Point Project and Toppan’s Roles Flow of the Project P Reading pedometer Saving points via Winning a gift Registering Receiving data via a reader Walking with a reader installed in Checking the commensurate with an application a pedometer installed in a partner a pedometer a partner store pedometer data points earned! store or location or location Cooperation Contact center in promotion I Accepting applications Services on site I Advertising the I Responding to project and designing I Finding stores that agree to install Cooperation in promotions inquiries and delivering readers (by holding briefings for I Holding prize draws and delivering candidate stores and inviting them Roles of Toppan application tools Tool management gifts to join) and installing and I Planning and and delivery support managing readers organizing various I Managing and events delivering pedometers I Inputting application data I Linking pedometer counts with the point system Development of the operating system I Managing pedometer data Project organizer I Project design I Verification I Co-sponsorship and cooperation TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 13 Special Report 2 Popularizing and Promoting Para-Sports The Toppan Group is helping popularize and heighten awareness of para-sports by disseminating information and organizing events. Photo: Takao Ochi (KanPara Press) The U.S. respondents had the lowest rate of awareness, Supporting Para-Sports More at 71.1%. The country showings were different, however, Widely for the percentages of respondents who had attended para-sports events other than the Paralympic Games as The Toppan Group continues to leverage female talent and spectators. Here, the highest ratio was recorded in Geremploy persons with disabilities through positive action as many, at 18.9%, followed by the U.S., at 17.9%. The rate part of its push for diversity management. Schemes such for Japan was 4.7%. The survey results show that many as an employment system for people specializing in sports Japanese respondents have seen the Paralympic Games have also been introduced to further develop a growth on TV or online, while very few have watched para-sports strategy emphasizing employee diversity. at actual event venues. To extend Toppan’s growth-through-diversity policy outBased on these results, Toppan hypothesized that the side the Group, Toppan Printing Co,. Ltd. became an offilow para-sports participation and viewing levels in Japan cial partner of the Japanese Para-Sports Association are partly due to a failure to draw spectators. The Group (JPSA) in January 2015. Toppan endorses JPSA’s mission therefore considered an information dissemination program to pursue the “creation of a vigorous, coexistent society” designed to draw spectators to the venues. In September and has launched various activities to support para-sports. 2015 Toppan launched SPORTRAIT, a para-sports information website. SPORTRAIT provides three essential types of content Website SPORTRAIT to help spectators understand and enjoy their first experiences watching para-sport events. ATHLETES’ CORE The Nippon Foundation has surveyed the awareness and presents the dedication, commitment, and outstanding interest of the general public in the Paralympics in six countalent of athletes with impressive portraits, photographic tries: the U.S., Germany, France, Australia, South Korea, accounts, and up-close interviews. POINT OF THE GAMES and Japan. According to survey results released in Novemintroduces the sports to first-time spectators by offering ber 2014, 98.2% of Japanese adults, the highest percentclear guidance and commentary on the main points, rules, age in the six countries surveyed, know of the Paralympics. and other aspects of the events with graphics and illustra14 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 QR code http://sportrait-web.com tions. THE SUPPORTERS highlights the games from difPanels installed at the Para-Sports Zone introduced ferent perspectives to shed light on the passion and deter12 para-sports events. Another exhibit displayed the mination of the athletes by focusing on the people, wheelchair, tennis whites, and racket used by wheelchair technologies, organizations, and other elements that make tennis player Yui Kamiji, along with the plate she received para-sports possible. as the 2015 Wimbledon Ladies’ Wheelchair Doubles The Toppan Group will continue providing information champion. Bell balls and eye masks for blind football were to popularize and promote para-sports by linking to official also on display. SNS portals and expanding content. Visitors to the Para-Sports Zone were encouraged to experience four para-sports events: wheelchair tennis, blind football, wheelchair rugby, and wheelchair racing. Highlighting the Appeal of In simulators set up for wheelchair racing, participants tried to keep pace with Toppan Printing’s Suguru Watanabe Para-Sports with Hands-on in a one-minute sprint. The simulation was a vivid demonEvents stration of Watanabe’s ability as an athlete. The Toppan Group will continue holding these hands-on The Toppan Sports Festival has been held annually as a events to enhance the understanding and interest in paralarge-scale labor-management event since fiscal 2012. This sports and attract new fans through communication with event aims to strengthen the bonds linking colleagues and athletes. their families. The 2015 festival, held at Makuhari Messe in Chiba Prefecture, drew a huge turnout. Over 4,000 employees, family members, and others came to vie in a medley of games in September. Event organizers set up a “Para-Sports Zone” at the venue to present para-sports and provide an opportunity to experience them. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 15 Opinion Exchange on Para-Sports Support Toppan held a meeting in March 2016 to exchange opinget companies to understand our philosophy and work ions on strategies to promote para-sports. Participants together with us towards creating a society where the discussed the tasks and challenges corporations were impaired and unimpaired mingle together naturally. expected to address and how Toppan could support paraIda: At JPSA we spent a year developing a vision of the sports. Valuable input and opinions voiced at the meeting “creation of a vigorous, coexistent society” in order to clarare summarized below. Toppan will incorporate them in its ify the ideals we pursue. We hope to synchronize our vision future activities to promote para-sports. with the philosophies and missions of various companies and collaborate with companies poised to change society Purposes and Philosophy of Support together as the JPSA family. Fujita: Corporate sports teams in Japan often have a tough Tsubomatsu: The official JPSA partners share the challenge time staying afloat when the Japanese economy slows of extending the support beyond 2020. down. The Japanese Para-Sports Association (JPSA) has Yamamoto: Sports associations may be unable to expect a vision of continuously supporting and developing parasupport after 2020 if the sole motivation of corporations sports beyond the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Game. Japanese supporting para-sports is to put themselves in the spotlight companies need to agree to this vision. Specifically what in the years leading up to the Tokyo Paralympic Games. In philosophy do you follow as a supporter of para-sports? terms of continuous support, it will be essential for us to Ogawa: The idea of enhancing our support for para-sports share our vision with companies and clarify the value we emerged in the natural course of our company’s growth as aim to offer every company and community. a longtime proponent of social welfare and supporter of persons with disabilities. The timing was also good, as it Types of Support Provided coincided with our company’s 60th anniversary. Fujita: Corporations can support para-sports by employing Tsubomatsu: When considering new CSR initiatives, the para-sports athletes. Do you employ any? para-sports theme clearly matched our corporate philosOgawa: We employ a visually impaired marathon runner. ophy and the “yatte mina hare (give it a try)” spirit, our Supporting his athletic activities enhances the awareness corporate sense of value. We decided to give it a try. and understanding of para-sports in our company. He plays Yamamoto: The most important thing for us, JBFA, is to a great role as an ambassador. Motoaki Fujita, Facilitator Tomohiro Ida Kouta Yamamoto Chairman of the Preparation Committee Director of the Marketing and PR Team Manager of the Faculty of Sports Science, Nihon Fukushi Public Relations Department Business Administration Department University Japanese Para-Sports Association (JPSA) Japan Blind Football Association (JBFA) (When the meeting was held: Professor at Faculty of Health & Sports Science, Doshisha University) Naoko Ogawa Hiroyuki Tsubomatsu Shinichi Okubo Corporate Philanthropy Team Leader Senior General Manager of CSR Department Senior Managing Director (When the meeting was held) Corporate Communications Division Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. CSR & Environmental Affairs Department Suntory Holdings Limited Mitsubishi Corporation 16 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Special Report 2: Popularizing and Promoting Para-Sports Date and place: 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Friday, March 18, 2016; Meeting room, Head Office Building, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Ida: At JPSA we understand that athletes treated well as provide them with as many opportunities to experience employees will be reluctant to migrate when other compathe sports as soon as possible. These factors will lead to nies try to recruit them. How a company treats them as continuity. employees overrides how it treats them as athletes. If a Ogawa: Volunteer activities have added momentum to our company appreciates them mainly for their athletic abilities, support for para-sports throughout the company and para-sports athletes will fear for their contracts when injuhelped foster a sense of unity. ries or other problems keep them from playing. Many seek stable employment for second careers after retiring as Opinions on Toppan’s Efforts athletes. They wish to join a company that is committed Fujita: In closing, could you offer any advice to Toppan? to addressing the employment conditions of the paraIda: Treat your athlete employees as you treat everyone sports athletes. else. You might also consider employing several athletes Fujita: So far it has been challenging for Japan to increase within your company. the number of companies who employ disabled athletes. Yamamoto: If you dispatch your employees to sports assoWould the situation change if Japan had excellent coaches ciations, you can use what they learn there to innovate and instructors? internally and develop human resources. Ida: At JPSA we have about 22,000 people registered in Ogawa: A company acting alone can only do so much. our certified instructor program. Coaching certificates can Let’s work together to create more opportunities to do big be acquired at universities, junior colleges, and vocational things by bringing together the contributions each of us schools. But once these people are employed, many can offer. choose not to use their certificates. Few become estabTsubomatsu: Continuity is the key. Once we start, we canlished as instructors with close ties to support their athletes. not stop halfway. We must be determined to continue such Yamamoto: Do corporate volunteer activities work well at CSR activities as long as needed. athletic meets? Tsubomatsu: Interactions with athletes through volunteer Okubo: We at Toppan should work to make the people activities help create fans. who join us as para-sports athletes feel at home. Our Ida: Some of the volunteers lack opportunities to interact ­persistence will be the true key. Thank you very much for with the athletes, especially the parking lot attendants, your time. receptionists, and lunch servers. That’s my observation as an event organizer. Tsubomatsu: We would like to see organizers build systems for cooperating with volunteers, such as exchange meetings between athletes and volunteers on the eves of events. Effects and Changes Achieved through Efforts as a Para-Sports Supporter Fujita: Has anything changed in your people since you began supporting para-sports? Tsubomatsu: Our employees gained a lot of awareness from watching wheelchair basketball games and taking part in hands-on events. It was extremely important for them to directly feel the power and enjoyment of games and witness the skills of the athletes. It was also key to TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 17 Special Report 3 Supporting Education to Improve Literacy Reading, writing, and calculating with proficiency are essential skills in daily life. Toppan has driven a support project to improve literacy in developing countries since fiscal 2007. Literacy—an Issue Shared Globally Defined generically, literacy is the ability to read, write, and n Examples of Daily Troubles More Likely to calculate well enough to function competently in daily life. Affect Illiterate Persons Obstacles such as poverty, discrimination, and conflict still prevent many people around the world from acquiring literacy. Illiterate adults are estimated to number about 781 million worldwide. A person who remains illiterate has difficulty in gaining Shortchanged when buyUnable to take approelemental information necessary to live a healthy and safe ing vegetables in a market priate medicine when ill life, gain or keep a stable job, or undertake academic study. Without literacy, he or she is unlikely to acquire the knowledge and knowhow necessary to improve his or her own livelihood in the future. Literacy is an essential skill for protecting and improving the life conditions of both oneself and one’s family. In 2015 the United Nations published a set of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for the international community to commit to achieving. A 15-year agenda, the SDGs aim to end poverty and hunger, improve health, ensure education, achieve gender equality, tackle climate change, and address 11 other social issues by the target date of 2030. On education, SDG 4 seeks to “ensure incluLosing one’s way (unaMissing a wedding parsive and equitable quality education” and promote learning ble to read road signs) ty in a village (unable to opportunities to acquire reading, writing, and basic calcuread the invitation) lation skills for all people. 18 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Special Report 3: Supporting Education to Improve Literacy Cambodia. The classes provide opportunities for expectant Toppan Charity Concerts to and nursing mothers to learn about childcare, health and Support Improvement in hygiene, nutrition, and other maternal issues while acquiring literacy in the process. The mothers who attend the Literacy classes become more literate, pursue healthier lives for their families, and take a deeper interest in education for Since its foundation, Toppan has promoted the diffusion their children. and development of the written word and multiple other Class-goers and community members reported positive forms of information and culture. As part of this effort, the outcomes from the classes in a survey performed in fiscal Company launched the Toppan Charity Concert series in 2015. One mother giving feedback said that she had fiscal 2007. This annual concert series serves as a fundlearned calculation and could now put aside a bit of money raising mechanism to support education to improve literacy every month. A local village officer commented that women in developing countries. from the community could now fill in their birth registrations and other notifications. Supporting Efforts in Cambodia Looking Forward Literacy among Cambodian adults is estimated at 74%, a fairly low rate in the global context. While literacy exceeds In fiscal 2015 Toppan invited CWDA staff to Japan when 90% in Cambodia’s cities, researchers estimate that it the concerts were held and discussed how to operate the drops off to nearly 75% in surrounding rural districts. Thereclasses in the future. Mothers attending the classes voiced fore, raising literacy rates in the districts surrounding the their desire to learn knowledge useful for bettering their cities is seen as an issue that needs to be addressed. lives and incomes, in addition to literacy skills and knowlToppan has donated the proceeds from the concert edge on maternal and child health. To respond to their series to the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO wishes, the introduction of programs for improving farming (ACCU) since fiscal 2010. The funds are used for literacy techniques and other skills that contribute to their livelihood education in Cambodia. In conjunction with the ACCU, the is now being considered. Training courses for local resiCambodian Women’s Development Agency (CWDA) holds dents and CWDA staff will also be enriched to enhance classes on literacy and maternal and child health for their capabilities as teachers in the classes. expectant mothers and mothers raising young children in A stilt house where literacy classes are held CWDA staff at the concerts Feedback meeting with the learning mothers to monitor the effects of Discussions between the ACCU, CWDA, and Toppan about the challenges ­literacy classes from here on TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 19 Initiatives at Toppan and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects and Issues For Details Pages I Corporate Governance Organizational governance I CSR Initiatives I Risk Management Structure I Business Continuity Management P. 21– I Respecting Basic Human Human rights Rights Issue 1: Due diligence Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights I Collective Labor Agreement Issue 2: Human rights risk situations Issue 8: F undamental principles and I Working for Equal Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity rights at work Opportunity and Eliminating P. 24– Issue 4: Resolving grievances Discrimination Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights I Basic Approach Regarding Labour practices Human Assets Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships I L abor-Management Partnership Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection IS  upporting Work-Life Balance Issue 3: Social dialogue IO  ccupational Health and Safety P. 26– Issue 4: Health and safety at work I Measures for Mental Issue 5: Human development and training in the workplace Healthcare I Developing and Fostering Human Assets I Disseminating the Conduct Fair operating practices Guidelines Issue 1: Anti-corruption I Toppan Group Helpline Issue 2: Responsible political involvement I Compliance Education Issue 3: Fair competition I Promoting CSR Procurement P. 30– Issue 4: Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Issue 5: Respect for property rights I Assuring Product Safety and Consumer issues Quality Issue 1: F air marketing, factual and unbiased Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy I Protecting Consumers by information and fair contractual practices Issue 6: Access to essential services Safeguarding their Personal Issue 2: Protecting consumers’ health and safety Issue 7: Education and awareness Information P. 34– Issue 3: Sustainable consumption I Universal Design Initiatives Issue 4: Consumer service, support, and I Contributing to Sustainable complaint and dispute resolution Consumption I Community Involvement Community involvement and development and Development Issue 1: Community involvement Issue 6: Health Issue 2: Education and culture Issue 7: Social investment Issue 3: Employment creation and skills P. 38– development Issue 4: Technology development and access Issue 5: Wealth and income creation I T oppan’s Environmental Activities The environment I Environmental Management Issue 1: Prevention of pollution Activities Issue 2: Sustainable resource use I Toppan’s Environmental Burden Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation and Environmental Impact P. 40– Issue 4: Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats I Eco-protection Activities I Eco-creativity Activities I Environmental Communication Activities 20 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Auditors, Board of Corporate Auditors, and Audit Firm Corporate governance provides the foundation for addressing As of the end of March 2016, Toppan has five corporate audiOrganizational Governance the seven core subjects under ISO 26000. tors, including three external auditors, of whom two are indeToppan has strengthened its governance structure through pendent officers. Along with their own board meetings, the the establishment of a Management Audit Office, Compliance corporate auditors attend various meetings, including meetDepartment, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board ings of the Board of Directors and Management Committee of Corporate Auditors* according to the Companies Act of and important meetings on risk management. They systemJapan. Toppan implements governance aimed at maximizing atically carry out audits for operational sites and Group comthe corporate value of the entire Group under the Related panies in close cooperation with the audit firm and internal Company Administration Regulations prescribed for the audit-related departments of the Company. By these means, advancement of fair management for the Group. they audit and advise the Company from a preventive perspective to ensure the legality of the operations of the directors Directors, Board of Directors, and Various Meetings and departments and smooth and appropriate corporate manToppan has 26 directors, including two outside directors, on its agement in line with company policies and regulations. They board (as of the end of March 2016). Board meetings are held also regularly convene a board of corporate auditors from monthly and whenever a pressing matter requires action or related companies to improve the effectiveness of the audits deliberation. Especially important matters are deliberated by corporate auditors across the Group. beforehand by the Management Committee, a body made up Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of of directors selected by the President & Representative Director. the Company’s accounts through audits to enhance the reliaThe goal is to lay weight on managerial efficiency in business bility and transparency of the Company’s financial information. decision-making. Toppan will reinforce its corporate governance *Effective from April 2016, two official names in English have been changed: in fiscal 2016 by introducing an executive officer system and Corporate Auditors ➞ Audit & Supervisory Board Members establishing an advisory committee to deliberate on the appointBoard of Corporate Auditors ➞ Audit & Supervisory Board ment of directors and the remuneration they recieve. n Corporate Governance Structure (as of March 2016) Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Supervising Selecting or Special Committee (for Advising and dismissing defending against takeover bids) counseling Crisis Management Committee Management Committee Responding to emergencies President & Representative Director Considering issues prior to Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors’ meetings Management Investigates and audits the legality and Directors in Charge Observing Audit Office appropriateness of operational activities Auditing and Promotes, monitors, and verifies the strict Auditing Audit Firm Business Divisions guiding Compliance observance of business-related laws and Department regulations and the establishment of Reporting Group Companies ethical business practices Independently check, evaluate, Ecology Center Coordinates, supervises, and verifies Corporate Auditors Office and make improvements under Toppan’s environmental activities the direction of departments responsible for laws and regulations Instructing Guiding Other organizations for control National Conduct Guidelines Assisting Promotion Supervisors Safety and Health Committee Chief Information Security Manager National Eco-protection Committee TPM National Conference Working together The latest information on corporate governance can be found on the Toppan website (http://www.toppan.co.jp/ir/management.html [in Japanese]). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 21 Strengthening Audit Functions Risk Management Structure The Management Audit Office is a body established independently from the business divisions of the Company. WorkToppan manages risk comprehensively to avoid risk and mining from legal and rational viewpoints, the office conducts fair imize loss incurred when an event at risk of occurring actually and objective audits on the administrative and operational occurs. systems and practical status of the Company’s management The Rules on Risk Management have been established to activities. The office provides feedback to the relevant departaddress matters regarding risk avoidance and the minimization ments on problems, proposes measures for improvement, and of loss when a potentially damaging event occurs. In accordreports the audit results to the President & Representative ance with these rules, the Company has set up a risk manageDirector, directors in charge of relevant departments, and corment structure under which the responsibilities for risk manageporate auditors. The office carried out 31 management and ment are allotted to specific divisions in the head office based operation audits in fiscal 2015. It also conducted maintenance on the types of risk involved. Under this structure, the directors and operational evaluations of internal controls over financial in charge of each relevant division are responsible for taking reporting for all business divisions and main subsidiaries. measures to prevent, avoid, and correct each type of risk. The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs Division Toppan reviews various types of risk to be managed once spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure the strict a year and examines countermeasures to be taken in line with observance of laws and regulations and to firmly establish the rules. The Company also holds a regular Risk Management ethical business practices. The department facilitates the comLiaison Meeting for the persons in charge of risk management plete awareness of the Conduct Guidelines, organizes in the head office divisions in order to share information on a employee education on compliance with applicable laws, and continuous basis and respond to risk practically. implements internal audits on information security (➞PP. 30, 34). The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing Management Business Continuity Management Division supervises environmental activities, conducts internal audits at operational sites, and monitors the progress of To prepare for the possible occurrence of a wide-scale disasimprovements (➞P. 40). ter, the Toppan Group institutes business continuity management (BCM) activities under the Basic Plan for CountermeasRemuneration to Directors and Corporate Auditors ures against Earthquake Disasters. These activities aim to In fiscal 2015 the total annual remuneration to directors was minimize damage to the Group and maintain a steady supply 1,096 million yen and the total annual remuneration to corpoof products and services to customers. rate auditors was 115 million yen. Please refer to the section To enhance Group-wide competence for business contion corporate governance, etc. in the securities report (in Japnuity, Toppan repeats various BCM drills, reinforces buildings anese) for details on the method used to determine remunerand structures with seismic strengthening retrofits, installs ations and remuneration-related information. satellite-based mobile phone networks, and takes other proactive measures necessary for BCM. CSR Initiatives In fiscal 2015 Toppan equipped all Japanese sites with IP transmission systems to doubly protect the lines of commuPromotion Mechanism nication in an emergency. In addition to regular BCM assessUnder the President & Representative Director and the Direcments of business partners, the Group held training sessions tor in charge of CSR, the divisions of the head office work in for business partners to secure the stable supply chains collaboration with each other to promote CSR activities. required for more effective BCM. Each division confirms the materiality of action points in Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. received the Grand Prize at the line with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000. The Business Continuity Advancement Organization (BCAO) Award divisions devise action plans and carry out measures based 2015 in recognition of its business continuity efforts over the on shared information about the issues they are addressing past five years. and the progress they are making. The head office divisions The Toppan Group seeks to coexist with communities as also coordinate and share information with Group companies a social benefactor through ongoing BCM activities. to advance Group-wide CSR initiatives. Every year Toppan organizes training sessions on CSR management for new employees (306 participants in fiscal 2015) and e-learning-based basic education programs for employees at the Company and main Group companies (20,105 participants in fiscal 2015). 22 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n CSR Promotion Structure n Types of Risks to be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge President & Representative Director Types of Risks to Be Managed Accidents involving Accidents or complaints related to products (Manufacturing products or product liability Management Div.) Organizational Governance Accidents related to main computer systems (ICT Management Div.) Director in charge of CSR Occupational accidents, traffic accidents, or other accidents involving employees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) CSR promotion departments Accidents or disasters Legal problems with orders received (Legal Affairs Div.) Administration related to company Leakage of personal information, internal confidential information, etc. operations (Legal Affairs Div.) Public Relations Division Accidents or disasters related to fires or explosions (Manufacturing Management Div.) Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, management of Secretary Office dangerous chemicals, etc. (Manufacturing Management Div.) Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber Corporate Planning terrorism, illegal access or use of company information, or leakage of Division Defamation, slander, or personal information, internal information, etc. (ICT Management Div.) other criminal damages Personnel & Labor Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, or robbery) Relations Division (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations or transactions Relationships with conducted between business partners and antisocial organizations Legal Affairs Division antisocial organizations (Legal Affairs Div.) Material losses or personal accidents suffered by customers or the Finance & Accounting Natural disasters company due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. Division (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Manufacturing Risk in business management Shareholder derivative lawsuits or hostile takeovers (Legal Affairs Div.) Management Division Unlawful activities related Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan or illegal transactions with to external contracts business partners (Manufacturing Management Div.) Business Development Infringements of intellectual & Research Division Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights (Legal Affairs Div.) property rights Violations of environmental laws or standards or illegal disposal of Environmental problems industrial waste (Manufacturing Management Div.) Product accidents, environmental problems, fires or natural disasters or Risk in overseas business damage to human or physical resources caused by international activities conflicts, terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) BCM drill (Higashinihon Division) Receiving the Grand Prize at the BCAO Award Comprehensive disaster-preparedness drill ceremony (Akihabara) Countermeasures against Disasters The Toppan Group takes comprehensive disaster-preparedness measures throughout the operational sites across Japan under the Basic Plan for Countermeasures against Earthquake Disasters. The basic plan specifies that Toppan employees are to: 1) take safety-first actions based on the concept of respect for people; 2) fulfill social responsibilities by maintaining steady supplies of products and services that society needs most; and 3) cooperate with governments and communities to minimize damage and provide aid for affected people. All Japanese sites hold disaster drills and employee firefighting training sessions. In their communication drills, for example, they use their own communication systems to confirm their ability to promptly confirm the safety of their employees and employee families in the event of an actual disaster. In February 2016 Toppan tested an inter-operational-site drill to enable sites to confirm the safety of each other’s employees from remote locations by issuing safety confirmation alerts to employees in the Kanto region and the Kinki region on two separate days, one in each region. The head office site in Akihabara and other main Group sites also organize regular comprehensive disaster-preparedness drills to rehearse the actions to be taken during actual wide-scale disasters: the initial damage assessment and safety confirmation, the evacuation procedures, the employees’ journeys back home from the workplace on foot, and the distribution of stockpiled supplies. In conjunction with these drills, the Group sites continue stockpiling water, food, and other emergency supplies to support local communities and commuters who will have no means to return to their homes. The regular repetition of these drills will keep all Toppan employees on alert and provide them with the know-how necessary for dealing with emergency situations quickly and properly. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 23 Human Rights Respecting Basic Human Rights value by engaging diverse human resources and nurturing their competence to its full potential. The Toppan Group operates business under the foundational concept of respect for people. The Conduct Guidelines, which Positive Action set out behavioral norms for Toppan personnel, call for respectToppan promotes positive action to bring out the full potential ing basic human rights (respecting personal qualities and indiof individual employees and assign them to more diverse posividuality; prohibiting discrimination and harassment; prohibiting tions regardless of gender. To uphold the ideals stated in the child labor and forced labor; and so on [➞P. 33]). Based on Act to Advance Women’s Success in their Working Life, a new The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment and Japanese law enforced in April 2016, the Company undertakes the Basic Policy on Biodiversity, the Group promotes environa consistent, well-planned program of actions, including measmental conservation initiatives to avoid negative impacts on ures to appoint more female employees to managerial posithe lives of people living near its operational sites (➞P. 40). tions based on their skills and motivation. Toppan has been carrying out education on human rights through CSR training for new employees and e-learning-based Self-determination on the Career Path / In-house Staff programs on CSR and the environment for all employees of Recruitment / Second Careers the Group. To disseminate initiatives for respecting human Toppan has established the Challenging Job System, a self-dirights throughout the entire supply chain, the Group sets forth rected program to encourage employees to report their work an article on respecting basic human rights in the Toppan experience, official qualifications, medium-to-long-term career Group CSR Procurement Guidelines and asks business partdevelopment plans, and the departments and divisions to ners to comply with this article (➞P. 32). which they would like to be transferred. The combined effects Toppan has also set up dual hotlines through which employof the Challenging Job System and an in-house staff recruitees and business partners can promptly report inappropriate ment system nourish a problem-solving, can-do mindset to actions. facilitate the placement of the right person in the right position across the Company. For retired employees in their second Collective Labor Agreement careers in company life, Toppan offers working options well suited to their knowledge, experience, skills, and motivation. The Toppan Printing Labour Union and the Company’s manEighty-four of 94 employees who retired in fiscal 2015 were agement have concluded a collective labor agreement in order reemployed. to stabilize labor-management relations, maintain and improve working conditions, and secure the corporate concord. The Employment of Persons with Disabilities agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between labor and Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities in colmanagement, the rules governing union activities and laboration with a special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan Govlabor-management negotiations, and employment conditions ernment (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. The Company such as wages and working hours. maintains the hiring and employment of persons with disabilAs a fundamental policy between labor and management, ities by devising procedures and routines adjusted to their Article 1 of the collective labor agreement, the General Princapabilities to empower them to perform wide-ranging jobs in ciples, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute the workplace. to society through business operations and collectively work for the benefit of the Company and long-term stability of the Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment employees’ livelihood. Labor and management both uphold Toppan hires diverse persons of both genders and of many this policy as a common goal. Article 2 of the agreement clearly nationalities, ages, and levels of physical and mental ability states that the union has all the rights established by law, through recruitment channels such as the regular hiring of new specifying that the Company shall respect the union’s rights graduates from universities and high schools and the hiring of to organize and collectively bargain and act. persons with disabilities and experienced personnel in the The Toppan Printing Labour Union is run by members from middle of their careers. Toppan participates in a number of 10 Toppan Group companies. The union and the Company events, such as forums for international students learning in have concluded an agreement to impose a uniform set of Japan, to make contact with human resources suited to liability-related clauses (rules governing union activities and careers in a global business environment. labor-management negotiations) on all 10 Group companies. The Company also holds multiple job-specific screenings in Japan to offer recruits a wider choice of employment opporWorking for Equal Opportunity and tunities in accordance with their own aspirations and vocaEliminating Discrimination tional aptitudes. In the winter of fiscal 2015 the Company ran internship programs with practical training sessions for 106 Toppan pursues diversity management to innovate and create students. 24 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Initiatives for Respecting Basic Human Rights Participating in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan participates in the global policy initiative and respects basic human rights in a proactive manner. Respect for people A universal concept highly valued by Toppan Establishing and disseminating Working for equal opportunity Organizing training the Conduct Guidelines and eliminating discrimination and education ( PP. 30, 33) Toppan specifies respect for basic human Toppan respects personal rights in the Conduct Guidelines—its qualities and individuality, and hires Toppan carries out education on listing of behavioral norms for Human Rights and treats employees without human rights in rank-based training. employees—and disseminates this discrimination of any kind. principle across the Group. Promoting CSR procurement Operating hotlines Contributing to society ( P. 32) ( PP. 30, 32) ( PP. 18, 38) Toppan cites respect for basic Toppan supports people’s livelihood Toppan operates dual hotlines human rights as a guiding principle in mainly through educational cooperation through which both employees and its CSR procurement guidelines and and the donation and supply of money business partners can report asks business partners to comply and goods throughout the world, inappropriate actions. with the guidelines. especially in developing countries. In fiscal 2015 Toppan participated in working groups on due diligence for human rights organized by the Global Compact Network Japan. Toppan gathered information and held opinion exchanges with other members on respect for basic human rights. n Female Managerial and n Number of Recruits Supervisory Staff Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 ■ Female supervisory staff (as of April) Regular recruitSales, Male 69 88 98 ■ Female managerial staff 300 299 ment of new administration, etc. Female 42 50 73 graduates from universities and Male 94 102 102 250 251 Technical 233 graduate schools Female 33 40 35 200 197 Regular recruitment of new graduates Male 1 5 3 226 from high schools and colleges of 150 192 technology Female 11 21 33 181 150 Total number of regular recruits 250 306 344 100 (percent women) (34.4%) (36.3%) (41.0%) 50 Mid-career recruitment of experienced Male 19 27 — 59 73 personnel Female 10 29 — 47 52 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (year) n Employment of Persons with Toppan Becomes One of the Diversity Management Selection 100 Disabilities 2014 2015 2016 In fiscal 2013 Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. became one of the “Diversity Management Selection 100,” 247 247 250 a group of companies selected by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. The minEmployees istry aims to broaden the foundations of human resource Percentage 2.09% 2.10% 2.07% diversity by selecting and recognizing the companies of of total workforce* the Diversity Management Selection 100 for their track records in innovation through the engagement of diverse *The percentage is calculated based on the human resources. Toppan’s efforts to promote diversity total number of regular employees (as of June have been extensive. The ministry gave high marks to the 1) as a denominator. The total number was Company’s initiatives to harness the unique capabilities presented in the Disabled Persons Employand perspectives of women employees, especially in the ment Report in accordance with Article 8 of areas of product and service development. the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled of Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 25 Labor Practices Basic Approach Regarding Human Assets Efforts to Support Employees with Children Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets” and employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so by understands how deeply it depends on them. From this perproviding systems for childcare and nursing care leave, spective, the Company supports the motivated, vigorous, and reduced working hours, higher family allowances for dependearnest work of the Toppan workforce. The Company keenly ents, and employee benefits of other forms. understands the importance of the motivation to take on new From fiscal 2015 Toppan began paying a full salary for the challenges, the drive to work vigorously with a healthy body first five days of childcare leave taken by male employees, in and mind, and an earnest commitment to follow through on order to support employees with children by encouraging the tasks to completion. When employees are vigorous, earnest, use of the childcare leave system. In fiscal 2016 the eligibility and have strong motivation, Toppan is convinced that their period for preferential work shifts such as reduced working true abilities come through in full force. hours for employees with childcare responsibilities was extended to the end of a child’s fourth year of elementary Labor-Management Partnership school (surpassing the age three requirement imposed under the applicable Japanese law). Toppan’s labor union and management respect each other’s Toppan has also been gradually enhancing the “Hagukumi positions as partners with shared ideals. They have been work(nurturing) Program” since fiscal 2012. This program supports ing together on various issues on an equal footing. Business the well being of employee parents by providing therapeutic councils are convened as Company-wide and operational site activities for parents on childcare leave, activities to share the forums to discuss wide-ranging managerial issues. Several know-how necessary for maintaining good balance between special committees are also convened to deliberate pertinent working and raising children, and activities to give employees issues of the day. Standing committees meet to discuss longin various positions opportunities to learn about and consider standing issues such as working hour reductions, wages, and the importance of work-family balance. health and safety. Individual labor-management committees meet when necessary to discuss specially designated subjects Efforts to Support Employees Bearing Nursing Care such as the creation of a working environment amenable to Responsibilities enhanced job satisfaction. In October 2015 Toppan’s labor union and management sigToppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, all nificantly enhanced measures to help employees maintain non-managerial employees belong to the labor union as good balance between work and care at home by reviewing ­members. the results of employee questionnaires on nursing care. These measures respond to employees’ worries about care for famSupporting Work-Life Balance ily members and create an environment where employees can concentrate on work free from anxiety. Efforts to Shorten Working Hours Toppan has relaxed the eligibility requirements for nursSenior management, managers, and employees have been ing-care-related systems by, for example, expanding coverage jointly instituting measures to shorten working hours with a view to include family members deemed to be “in need of support” to achieving better work-life balance and maintaining employee according to the criteria of the Long-term Care Insurance Syshealth. They undertake initiatives from various approaches, tem of Japan. To enable employees to more flexibly adjust including measures to improve operating effectiveness by their working hours for care, Toppan has provided systems reviewing the ways individuals work and the ways management for switching from nursing care leave to shorter working hours administrates; to equalize overtime hours by adjusting operafor care, divvying up periods of leave, extending the available tions within departments; and to introduce new working sysperiods of time, and so on. The Company has also enhanced tems such as flextime and irregular working schedules. financial support during nursing care leave by offering benefits At the ongoing business councils and labor-management of various types, including an increased allowance for nursing committees, labor and management exchange opinions and care leave. In response to strong requests from employees for deliberate measures to further shorten overtime working-hours more information on work-care balance, Toppan has launched and comply with the revised Labor Standards Act of Japan. an in-house website to offer general information on nursing They also analyze the actual overtime practices and review care, contracted consultants outside the Company to provide the use of the newly introduced working systems. Labor and advice free of charge, and opened other similar channels. management at each operational site have been discussing Support eligibility criteria have also been expanded to allow approaches to create more accommodating workplace envicare-giving employees to commute by Shinkansen bullet train ronments that encourage employees to take leave. The measafter a job relocation or transfer, to ensure that they can conures they have devised and implemented are tailored to the tinue caring for their parents. actual working conditions at their sites. 26 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Number of Personnel (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Dispatched Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 26 1,822 1,779 7,395 15.3 42.2 Fiscal 2013 8,604 705 71 Female 0 47 148 1,209 9.9 33.6 Male 26 1,933 1,826 7,586 15.1 42.6 Fiscal 2014 8,900 681 112 Female 0 52 180 1,314 9.8 34.0 Male 26 1,989 1,843 7,576 15.4 42.9 Fiscal 2015 8,993 562 203 Female 0 59 192 1,417 9.8 34.2 n Reasons for Leaving*1 n Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Personal reasons 188 (52) 204 (48) 184 (39)*2 Average paid leave 8.0 8.3 8.6 used (days) Retirement 88 ( 1) 86 ( 5) 94 ( 0) Average ratio*3 41.7% 43.3% 45.1% Requested by the 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) company *3 Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Other 90 ( 3) 83 ( 0) 92 ( 3) Total 366 (56) 373 (53) 370 (42) Turnover rate 4.1% 4.1% 4.0% Labor Practices *1 T he number of female employees who left the Company is shown in ­parentheses. *2 One female and 31 male employees took advantage of the Company’s support system for employees pursuing second careers. n Average Annual Salary n Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Average Annual Employees taking 6,711,582 yen 6,647,468 yen 6,697,391 yen 76 81 85 Salary maternity leave Employees taking 124 (4) 136 (3) 295 (160) childcare leave*4 *4 T  he number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in parentheses. n Main Leave Systems and n Hagukumi (nurturing) Program Family Benefits I To provide therapeutic activities for parents on childcare leave A scheme to support the well I Stock leave I To share the know-how necessary for maintaining good balance between being of employee parents working and raising children I Childcare leave I To give employees in various positions opportunities to learn about and Hagukumi Program I Rehiring of employees who consider the importance of work-family balance leave the Company to deliver and bring up children I Nursing care leave Hagukumi Art Salon Hagukumi Seminar Hagukumi Circle I Leave for child healthcare (from fiscal 2012) (from fiscal 2013) (from fiscal 2014) I Volunteer leave I To strengthen bonds To learn and enhance underTo build a network of working I Staggered work-hours between parents and children standing about good balance parent employees who wish to I Dependent family I To stimulate interaction between work and parenting discuss their concerns about allowance among employees currently throughout the workplace work and parenting and share on childcare leave ideas and tips on work-family I Partial subsidization of I To cope with anxieties about balance babysitter expenses returning to work I Other Detailed information on Toppan’s main leave systems and family benefits is shown in the CSR Report 2016: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website (http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/csrreport.html). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 27 Occupational Health and Safety Developing and Fostering Human Assets Back in 2010, Toppan formulated a Basic Policy on Health Concept of Human Asset Development and Fosterage and Safety based on a “safety first” theme. Since then the Mindful of how deeply it depends on its employees, Toppan Company has upgraded the intrinsic safety of machines and fosters individuals with ambition and integrity who will go on equipment, organized legal and regulatory compliance training to become the driving force towards the realization of TOPPAN mainly for foremen at operational sites, and undertaken various VISION 21. Toppan would like to contribute to society as a initiatives such as safety promotion and risk assessment activcorporation blessed with human assets with excellent comities led by safety promotion leaders. Through these efforts, munication skills and heightened awareness and sensibilities. the number of occupational accidents has been gradually reduced overall. Various Programs to Develop Human Assets Yet older employees are still prone to accidents outside of Toppan has set up a human asset development platform called actual work areas, such as falls, collisions, or false steps on the Toppan University. This in-house virtual university supports staircases. Toppan has taken several steps to ensure safety life-long learning, skill improvement, and career enhancement awareness among employees primarily through safety educawhile striving to foster top leaders. tion and the renovation of workshops to better accommodate In fiscal 2015 the Company organized “Dialogue in the older employees. Company-wide efforts are also underway to Dark,” a training workshop for new employees to provide the comply with an ordinance mandating companies to conduct experience of daily living in the dark with the aid of hearing risk assessments on chemical substances, effective from June and other senses unrelated to vision. 2016 in Japan. The Toppan Business School (group training) and Challenge Rising recognition of the Anzen Dojo, Toppan’s safety trainSchool (correspondence learning courses), meanwhile, offer ing facility, has attracted high commendation from other comself-development training for employees. A cumulative total of panies nationwide. Toppan will continue opening the dojo to 9,407 people trained in these schools in fiscal 2015. Employtrainees from outside the Company. ees also have ready access to basic, Group-wide education via the e-learning system. A cumulative total of 126,558 peoMeasures for Mental Healthcare ple took part in e-learning programs in fiscal 2015. To foster human assets for global business, the Company operLabor and management implement various measures to mainates a trainee system to provide employees with practical training tain the health of employees, a keystone for Toppan’s corpoin day-to-day business activities overseas. Sixty-eight employees rate activities. Rank-based training is offered to prevent menwere deployed as trainees under the system from fiscal 2011 tal illness or to promptly detect and treat it if it develops. The to fiscal 2015. The selective training on globalization launched in Company opens counseling rooms, distributes handbooks to fiscal 2010 supported a cumulative total of 567 candidates for managerial and supervisory staff, concludes advisory agreeoverseas assignments by fiscal 2015. Since fiscal 2012, 13 ments with mental healthcare specialists, and undertakes employees in the advanced-learning course for the selective various other measures in the same vein. Several rules have training have attended short-term open programs at Internabeen included in the employment regulations to enable tional Institute for Management Development (IMD) in Lausanne, employees to more readily return from mental healthcare leave. Switzerland, one of the world’s top-ranked business schools. These rules define a clear set of criteria for deciding when an Toppan organizes specialized training to bolster employee employee should return to work, measures to prevent the commitment to solving social issues in Minamisoma City, Fukrecurrence of leave, and programs to support employees once ushima Prefecture, an area seriously affected by the Great they return to work. East Japan Earthquake of 2011. Toppan employees have also In fiscal 2015 the Company introduced a stress check sysworked as Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers for the tem under the revised Industrial Safety and Health Act of Japan Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to help address and arranged an e-learning program on self-care for all social issues for the international community while developing employees at the Company. These and other related measures themselves as individuals. are designed to prevent mental illness, improve working environments, and enhance job satisfaction among employees. Strengthening the Environment to Develop Human Assets Toppan and a Group company called Institute of the FormToppan has established training centers in Kawaguchi, Saitama ative Art Co., Ltd. jointly operate Art Salon, a workshop to Prefecture and Yugawara, Kanagawa Prefecture to nurture refresh employee minds and bodies through the creative work human assets. These centers are venues for various training of painting. Art Salon sessions are held all around Japan. sessions and interaction between Toppan personnel. The ­Toppan and the institute also hold the Summer Holiday Art Company also operates an education management system Salon for Parents and Children, an art-making meet-up for to help employees enhance their abilities and skills. E-learning employee families. programs are arranged and employees can review the records on their own training online. Training tools and information on learning courses are also provided. 28 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Occupational Health and Safety n Overview of the Mental Healthcare System 2013 2014 2015 Steps to Prevent Primary Secondary Medical Recurrence: Deaths from Prevention: Prevention: Treatment: occupational 0 0 0 Support for returning Proactive measures Early detection Early recovery employees (fresh starts) accidents Frequency rate*1 0.20 0.05 0.05 Regular mental health check-ups, Contracts with mental healthcare specialists including stress checks Severity rate*2 0.002 0.000 0.001 *1 N umber of occupational accidents requirMental health Cooperation with medical and counseling institutions outside Toppan ing employee leave, per million cumulative training Guidance and information about • A clear set of criteria actual working hours (reflects the frequency I In rank-based for deciding when training consultants outside Toppan (contracted with an employee on of occupational accidents) the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union) I Incorporation leave should return *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence • Rules for preventing into optional of occupational accidents, per thousand the recurrence of (group) mental healthcare cumulative actual working hours (reflects the training leave severity of occupational accidents) Programs to support employees returning from mental healthcare leave Counseling rooms Art Salon, an art session for employees Appointment Steps to allay and deployment anxiety after of a person to resignation take charge of Financial Labor Practices mental health assistance from enhancement the Toppan Group at every Fraternal Benefit operational site Society and similar sources for fixed periods after resignation Anzen Dojo n Systematic Human Asset Development Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust of Strengthening business Fulfilling corporate Strengthening Improving customers foundations social responsibility organization corporate value “Abilities and Skills” for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify and Ability to Techniques and Skills in communication information skills formulate tasks accomplish tasks know-how and fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training I New division manager training I New employee Company-wide I Program to strengthen sales I Training for new supervisors in I New department manager training departments technology departments training I Early career planning I Training for new managers in I Individual department-based I New manager training I OJT brother/sister training technology and manufacturing training (purchasing, secretary, I New supervisor training departments personnel & labor relations, I Training for employees in technology & research, etc.) production control departments Basic Company-wide Education (e-learning) Globalization Training Training by Divisions Toppan Business School I Basic education on TOPPAN I MBA abroad training I Training in each division or I Group training VISION 21 I Study abroad program for workplace I e-learning I Basic education on CSR engineers I Dispatching human assets I Basic education on the I IT training in India Selective Training outside the Company environment I Short-term overseas study I Education on profit maximization I Selective training on global I Executive business school Challenge School in business business I Training to nurture I Basic education on globalization I Trainee system industry-leading talent I Program to develop human assets who can create new businesses and markets I Advance—Shaping the Future Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd., an education consultation company within the Group entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Group. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 29 Fair Operating Practices Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines such as unlawful conduct, corporate misdoings, the leakage of personal information, and the unauthorized removal of conIn June of the year 2000, the centennial of Toppan Printing fidential information from the workplace. Co., Ltd., Toppan established the Conduct Guidelines, a set of normal standards of behavior based on the Corporate Toppan Group Helpline ­Philosophy and legal compliance (➞ P. 33). In November 2010, Toppan completely revised the guideWhen an employee discovers a legal violation or improper lines into the Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines, a set of conduct somewhere in the Toppan Group, he or she is to common principles that all Group companies around the world report it to his/her superior for deliberation as a basic rule. If are required to observe for the assurance of strict compliance. the employee’s superior fails to resolve the problem, the These Group-wide guidelines are reviewed every year to adjust employee is encouraged to call the Toppan Group Helpline, to changes in business environments, social conditions, and the Group’s internal reporting system. The helpline is kept other conditions relevant to the Group. open for use by all Group employees, including dispatched staff and part-time workers. No employees used the helpline Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System in fiscal 2015. The Toppan Group operates a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader system. In this system, every Group site assigns a Compliance Education Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor (the “Supervisor”) and Leaders (the “Leaders”) for disseminating the Conduct Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Guidelines and ensuring full guideline compliance. Supervisors As in previous years, Toppan held group training for Conduct and Leaders implement ongoing activities directly connected Guidelines Promotion Leaders in fiscal 2015. The training was with their daily business operations. Seven hundred and fifscheduled in two phases. In the first, 608 Leaders were trained ty-four Leaders were deployed across the Group in fiscal 2015, in 43 sessions across Japan from May to August 2015. In the including 66 women (8.8% of the Leaders). A cumulative total second, 532 Leaders were trained in 41 sessions from Novemof 7,581 employees have worked as Leaders since the system ber 2015 to March 2016. was launched in 2004. Toppan will continue with measures to The Group devises ways to enhance the effectiveness of resolutely foster and assign more female Leaders and deploy training at the sessions through activities such as group dismany more Leaders to enhance compliance awareness among cussions using case methods describing actual incidents and employees. accidents. Dissemination Activities by the Conduct Guidelines Education on Compliance with Transaction-related Promotion Leaders Laws and Regulations The Leaders formulate action plans tailored to the details of Toppan regularly organizes transaction-related training and business operations and conditions, staff compositions, and checks and audits how business transactions are being hanother individual factors at the workplaces where they serve. dled in Japan. Both activities are key to preventing improper They organize Conduct Guideline read-throughs, facilitate export and import transactions and ensuring compliance with discussion using concrete cases, and implement other measthe Subcontract Law. In fiscal 2015, a total of 140 employees ures to activate compliance awareness among their colparticipated in group sessions focused on export controls leagues. The Leaders also report on their activities and discuss under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act; 443 outstanding cases. employees were trained on compliance with the Subcontract Law; and 7,557 employees took a course on export controls Tools to Promote the Conduct Guidelines via the e-learning system. Toppan gives every employee in Japan a Conduct Guidelines Casebook, a Q&A style casebook describing situations that Briefing on Compliance can arise in daily work. The Group uses the casebook for Toppan was not involved in any serious accidents or violations rank-based education and the Leaders use it to disseminate of laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2015. the guidelines at their workplaces. The fiscal 2015 edition of the casebook newly addresses topical themes such as quasi-legal drugs and the handling of individual identification numbers under Japan’s new Social Security and Tax Number System. Toppan also posts regular Conduct Guideline Notifications on themes relevant to the guidelines in order to heighten employee awareness and call attention to compliance-related issues. The notifications posted in fiscal 2015 covered topics 30 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Affairs Division Business divisions Head office divisions Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Senior General Manager Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors of Legal Affairs Division Person in charge of management: Business Strategy Department GM Person in charge of education: General Affairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning in administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Supervisors from Supervisors from Supervisors or educational Supervisors from each department each department leaders from each department each department Employees Employees Fair Operating Practices n Toppan Group Helpline Communicator When the problem Any Group employee remains unresolved Reporting and consultation Reporting on Superior progress and results, follow-up communication Internal reporting (an email or sealed document sent in the name of an employee) Conduct Guidelines Casebook (in Japanese) Receiver Approach to Intellectual Property President & Representative Director Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial issue or Senior Corporate Auditor for Toppan, a group of companies operating in the three fields of InforToppan Printing Co., Ltd. mation & Communication, Living & Industry, and Electronics. The Group devotes strict attention to measures to prevent the infringement of copInstructions Reporting yrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties while obtaining patents for its own technologies and business models. Apart from in-house special training, Toppan holds regular training sessions for employees of the Toppan Group and its business partners. Department responsible for Participants in these sessions acquire basic legal knowledge on intelinvestigation and countermeasures lectual property rights by reviewing case histories in design work and other operations involving intellectual property issues within the Group. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 31 Promoting CSR Procurement Verifying the Legality of Lumber as Paper Material The Toppan Group promotes the sustainable use of forest The Toppan Group implements CSR initiatives in cooperation resources by monitoring paper suppliers (business partners) and collaboration with business partners throughout the entire to ensure that the lumber they use for paper production is supply chain. The Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines legally obtained. The Group surveyed 32 sites of 28 business are a set of principles the Group observes to drive this partners around the world in fiscal 2015 and confirmed that endeavor. These guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement all of the procured lumber was obtained legally. Policy, a conceptual framework to be closely observed by every Toppan employee involved in procurement operations, Promoting Compliance in Procurement Departments and the CSR Procurement Standards, a set of requirements The Toppan Group regularly checks whether its procurement to be satisfied by every business partner. In January 2014 the departments operate properly in accordance with the Basic Group revised them into guidelines stipulating standards of Procurement Policy in their transactions with business partaction pertaining to human rights, labor, the environment, and ners. anti-corruption, the four issues globally emphasized in CSR The Group asked seven business partners to fill out quesinitiatives. By fiscal 2014 Toppan had held briefing sessions tionnaires in fiscal 2015 and used the results to improve comwith questionnaires for 2,047 business partners. The Group pliance in procurement operations. Toppan has also set up briefed 21 business partners on the guidelines in fiscal 2015. the Supplier Hotline*, a portal for receiving reports from busiTurning to the environment, the Toppan Group promotes ness partners, on its website. CSR procurement in line with specific standards such as the *http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/supplier_ Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of hotline.html Raw Materials and the Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest Resources. n Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Basic Procurement Policy I We fairly and impartially offer opportunities to all business partners and I We pursue QCD (Quality, Cost, Delivery) in order to meet the needs of the potential business partners. market. I We comply with domestic and overseas laws and regulations and conduct I We work to foster mutual cooperation and build relationships of trust with fair business transactions based on corporate ethics. business partners. I We strictly control the information obtained through procurement activities. I We promote CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. I We work to conserve the environment and reduce impact on the ­environment. CSR Procurement Standards 2) Labor (1) Prohibition of forced labor 1. Basic Procurement Standards (2) Prohibition of child labor 1) Maintenance and improvement of quality (3) Non-discrimination 2) Appropriate pricing (4) Prohibition of harassment 3) Stable supply (5) Respect for workers’ rights 4) Product safety (6) Ensuring occupational health and safety 5) Management of information (7) The payment of appropriate wages 6) Compliance with laws and social norms (8) Management of appropriate working hours 7) Fair business activities (9) Consideration for job security and fulfillment of the obligations of an 8) Protection of and respect for intellectual property rights employer 9) Protection of people reporting improper conduct 10) Disclosure of information 3) The Environment Business partners should comply with local environment-related laws 2. P  rocurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, the Environand regulations and work to prevent pollution of the atmosphere, water, ment, and Anti-Corruption and soil. They should also continuously measure and assess the use and 1) Human Rights discharge of resources and work to reduce impacts on the environment. Business partners should respect the human rights of all people related to their business activities. They should also ensure that their activities 4) Anti-Corruption do not infringe human rights directly or indirectly. Business partners should prohibit and prevent conduct such as bribery, corruption, inappropriate provision or receipt of profits, extortion, and misappropriation. 32 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Conduct Guidelines, Chapter 2 (see “Chapter 1: Basic Principles of the Conduct Guidelines” on page 9.) Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Guidelines Basic Principle 1: Respecting basic human rights Basic Principle 4: Avoiding all links with antisocial groups 1. Recognizing the diverse values of individuals and respecting personal qual1. Prohibition of any dealings with antisocial groups ities and individuality 2. Prohibition of involvement in antisocial activities 2. Prohibition of discrimination of any kind 3. Prohibition of provision of unjust benefits 3. Prohibition of sexual and power harassment Basic Principle 5: S triving to improve quality and providing creations Basic Principle 2: H aving high ethical standards and acting as that contribute to customer satisfaction a responsible member of society 1. Making our best efforts for the customer and building a relationship of trust In the conduct of business 2. Striving to improve quality in every process 1. Acting with pride as a member of the Toppan Group 3. Fully ensuring the safety and security of products and services 2. Prohibition of tacit approval of illegal conduct and rule violations 4. Prohibition of the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others 3. Respect for foreign cultures and customs In our private lives Basic Principle 6: R  ecognizing the importance of information related to 4. Prohibition of conduct that causes distress to other people business and managing it appropriately 5. Prohibition of drink-driving 1. Protecting information regarding customers 6. Prohibition of the possession and use of illegal drugs 2. Protecting the company’s confidential information 7. Prohibition of gambling 3. Appropriate handling of personal information 4. Striving for the appropriate management of information and records Basic Principle 3: C  omplying with laws and company rules and conducting fair business operations Basic Principle 7: P roactively undertaking conservation of the global Legal compliance environment 1. Prohibition of collusion and cartels 1. Striving to reduce the environmental burden of business activities 2. Prohibition of improper conduct in dealings with business partner companies 2. Promoting businesses with consideration for the environment 3. Prohibition of improper conduct against competitors 4. Prohibition of false transactions Basic Principle 8: Embracing change and taking on new challenges 5. Respecting business partners’ standpoints and building appropriate rela1. Making proposals that embrace change to customers tionships with customers 2. Advancing technical development that meets the needs of customers 6. Prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment practices 3. Having an awareness of problems and striving to improve the status quo 7. Prohibition of illegal political contributions or donations 4. Striving to enhance one’s knowledge, skills and techniques Fair Operating Practices 8. Prohibition of insider trading 5. Securing and using intellectual property 9. Prohibition of illicit import and export transactions 10. Prohibition of child labor and forced labor Basic Principle 9: B  uilding trust from society through social contribution 11. Compliance with international rules and local laws in overseas business activities and appropriate disclosure of information Compliance with company rules 1. Proactively participating in the company’s activities to contribute to society 12. Maintaining discipline and order in the workplace and local communities 13. Prohibition of other work without the company’s permission 2. Contributing to the development and passing on of skills and culture 14. Prohibition of conduct that causes a conflict of interests with the company 3. Disclosing information appropriately and enhancing the transparency of 15. Prohibition of receipt or provision for personal gain or rebate business activities 16. Appropriate management of assets entrusted to the company by customers 17. Appropriate management and use of company assets Basic Principle 10: B  ringing together individual strengths to fully exploit 18. Prohibition of prejudicial treatment of persons that have reported problems the integrated strength of the group via the appropriate procedure 1. Striving to create a lively and vibrant workplace 19. Fulfilling duties with integrity 2. Striving to create a safe and clean workplace 20. Reporting promptly and appropriately 3. Taking pride in the Toppan Brand and striving to cultivate it 4. Group companies working together to maximize integrated strength Established in June 2000 Revised in November 2010 Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security As a group of companies operating in the information communication industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Group-wide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. 1. We manage information necessary for our business appropriately in observance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social order. 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate methods. 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in order to reciprocate our customers’ trust. 4. We are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, such as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems that occur promptly and in an appropriate manner. 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on August 1, 2011 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 33 Consumer Issues Assuring Product Safety and Quality Protecting Consumers by Safeguarding their Personal Information Quality assurance for products at the Toppan Group is a concern for every department, not only the departments directly The Toppan Group protects the rights and interests of conresponsible for production. The departments involved in marsumers by repeating thorough qualification audits based on keting, R&D, planning, design, sales, and shipment all constringent security criteria to prevent the improper internal use tribute to quality. This is why Toppan describes quality assurof personal information in its tightly secured areas. The Group ance as a total activity (“total quality assurance”) and strives works to acquire information security management system to improve product quality and manage product safety (ISMS) certifications in order to propose business plans that throughout the Group. will enable client companies to use personal data in safer and securer ways. Product Safety The Toppan Group has established a Basic Stance on Product Monitoring the Handling of Personal Information Safety Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety The Toppan Group keeps various logs on the handling of files, Management to secure the safety management of the prodread/write operations on storage media, and other operational ucts it manufactures. Every Group site continues improving details in tightly secured areas designated for the handling of its quality management system (ISO 9001) to bolster product personal information. Information leaks caused by internal safety management. Ninety-eight employees took part in trainmisconduct frequently occurred at other companies in fiscal ing sessions for internal auditors in fiscal 2015. 2015. To prevent internal misconduct at Toppan, the Group installed a log analysis system to monitor and confirm operaCertified Approval System for the Production of tions in the tightly secured areas at the head office and every Food Packaging operational site in Japan. The Group also monitors the comFood packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety ings and goings of employees through entryways and exits, and sanitation. The Toppan Group has adopted a certified controls employee access rights and belongings, and manapproval system to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan ages computer interfacing and read/write operations using and partner companies can manufacture containers and packsmartphones and other storage media and devices. ages only after undergoing audits with checklists in conformance with the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food PackagProtecting Personal Information against Cyber ing. Toppan audited packaging operations for 15 sites inside Attacks and outside the Group in fiscal 2015. Two specialized organizations are in place at the Toppan Group to enhance ICT security measures: TOPPAN-CERT (the comReinforcing Food Defense puter emergency response team) and the anti-virus task force. The Toppan Group has worked to ensure food safety by preIn fiscal 2015 they conducted a drill to rehearse the Group’s venting contamination of food during packaging production response to a series of targeted email attacks launched to processes. In recent years the Group has been reinforcing steal important information. food defense to secure safety from hazards that can be deliberately exploited to contaminate food products using toxins Completing Internal Training or other harmful substances. The Group refines incoming Self-justifying excuses—like “No one will know,” “No big deal,” security checks, installs more security cameras to monitor “Just a little,” or “It couldn’t be helped”—can often signal a food processing operations, deepens communication between looming danger of misconduct. Toppan reminds all Group management and employees, strengthens food defense trainemployees to be vigilant whenever they find themselves having, and so on. ing thoughts like these. To heighten awareness on security dangers, Toppan arranges face-to-face group training on interControlling Chemical Substances in Products nal compliance. Employees receiving the training learn about The Toppan Group intensively promotes product safety manemployment regulations at the Group and the unfortunate agement in all production processes from raw material prooutcomes of actual cases of internal misconduct documented curement to product shipment by controlling various chemical in Japanese industry. substances whose use is prohibited or restricted. While adhering to green procurement standards prescribed by client comHandling Individual Numbers panies, the Group has established its own set of Green ProThe Toppan Group undertakes strict measures to minimize curement Standards attuned to the features of products the risk of internal leaks resulting from the exchange of indimanufactured at plants across its business fields. The Group vidual identification numbers under the Social Security and controls chemical substances in products throughout the Tax ­Number S ­ ystem of Japan. entire supply chain. 34 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Basic Stance on Product Safety n Number of Domestic Sites with Tightly Secured Areas Designated Management for the Handling of Personal Information (as of March 31, 2016) We promote product safety management throughout the Group by securing safety and Hokkaido (3 areas) improving the quality of our products based on the Kansai (15 areas) Basic Principles of Conduct Guidelines and the principles of corporate social responsibility as Chugoku & Shikoku (1 area) Tohoku (4 areas) a protector of user safety and health. Kyushu (3 areas) Kanto (39 areas) n Audits for the Food Filling/ Packing Businesses Chubu (2 areas) Audit Points • Agreements with client companies • Quality assurance systems • Management of equipment and inspection devices • Management of safety and sanitation • Steps to prevent the admixture of different products • Steps to safeguard against insect infestations Tightly Secured Areas at Toppan Group Companies with • Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign ISO/IEC 27001 Certification (as of March 31, 2016) substances • Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products I Team 1, IT Service Department, ICT Solution Center, Information & Communication • Steps to prevent contamination Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; TOPICA Creation Team, Engineering Department, • Traceability ICT Infrastructure Technology Center, ICT Management Division, • Food defense Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. • Education and training I Information & Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; ICT Infrastructure • Maintenance of systems and frameworks for Technology Center, ICT Management Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; Toppan C ­ ommunication Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. product safety and quality I Kyushu, Chugoku & Shikoku Team and ISMS Promotion Committee, Information S­ ecurity Management, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Operational Sites Audited I Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Food filling/packing businesses I Takino Plant, Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Takino Manufacturing • 5 sites run by manufacturing subsidiaries ­Department, Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.; Production Technology Team, Technol• 10 sites run by production business partners ogy, Kansai Information & Communication Subdivision, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. n Protecting Personal Information against Cyber Attacks Consumer Issues TOPPAN-CERT Anti-virus Task Force I Investigate and take action when an Information I Expedite the creation of an environment incident occurs exchange that is both virus-resistant and rigorously I Collect and analyze external informatio protected by virus shields (vulnerability information, security trends, I Respond to virus-related incidents and etc.) and report the results to related Coordination issues with anti-virus software departments across the Group I Exchange information and coordinate with computer security incident response teams outside the Group Monitor and protect computer systems using two specialized organizations to defend against cyber attacks and other security threats Cyber attacks Viruses Toppan Group ICT Environment Systems for client Internal systems Plants companies TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 35 Universal Design Initiatives Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Universal design (UD) is one of the primary corporate social The Toppan Group markets environmentally friendly prodresponsibilities for Toppan, a group of companies that strive ucts and services designed to contribute to sustainable to realize fulfilling lifestyles as enunciated in the Corporate consumption. Philosophy. The Group has been designing and producing attractive, easy-to-use packaging and communication tools Recyclable Aluminum-free Paper Carton for as many people as possible. In keeping with the Toppan ITO EN, Ltd. and Toppan Co., Ltd. won the Minister of the Declaration on Universal Design and Toppan’s Seven Principles Environment Prize at the 25th Grand Prize for the Global Envion Universal Design, the Group promotes UD initiatives that ronment Award sponsored by Fujisankei Communications assign greater weight to sensory values and customization Group. This prize was awarded to commend the two compawhile also emphasizing functions such as understandability nies for developing a recyclable aluminum-free, paper-based and usability. beverage carton in collaboration with Nippon Paper Industries http://www.toppan.co.jp/ud/ (in Japanese) Co., Ltd. Conventional paper containers use aluminum foil liners Examples of UD Initiatives inside to preserve beverages for long periods. Recycling after Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. formed a business alliance with use requires a difficult process to separate the aluminum foil Mirairo Inc. in advance of the April 2016 introduction of the from the underlying paper. The used containers are usually Act on the Elimination of Discrimination against Persons with discarded and not recycled via existing routes because of the Disabilities of Japan. Under the alliance, Toppan has started difficulty in separation. to distribute a Universal Manners Test (operated by the Japan In 2010, ITO EN began examining solutions using GL FILM Universal Manners Association) and offer consultations to clifrom Toppan as an alternative to aluminum foil. GL FILM is an ent companies who seek to develop products and services eco-friendly, transparent, high-barrier film used for the packthat accommodate the viewpoints of persons with disabilities aging of products such as food, toiletries, and cosmetics. Over and the elderly. The Universal Manners Test is designed to the next four years, a paper carton lined with GL FILM for the facilitate the appreciation and entrenchment of a universal packaging of vegetable juices was successfully developed. code of good manners to enable people to base their actions The new carton has roughly the same oxygen permeability of on an adequate knowledge and understanding of the standexisting containers and rivals them in other quality-preserving points of others. The test helps people learn the psychology properties. It is the first paper-based vegetable juice container of the elderly and disabled, along with specific ways of interstorable at room temperature for long periods that can be acting with them. Toppan encourages persons inside and recycled by the same process used for milk and beverage outside the Group to acquire the certification for this test. The cartons. ITO EN and Toppan were awarded with the Minister Group will also embrace the universal good manners perspecof the Environment Prize in recognition of the environmental tive by adopting comprehensive UD proposals for client comfriendliness of the new carton. panies engaged in the handling of manuals, pamphlets, product packages, events, and other products and services Popularizing Carbon Offsetting Using CFP Data accessible to more diverse people. The Toppan Group offers a one-stop service for client comIn April 2016 the Toppan Group launched a comprehensive panies covering the stages from quantification under the carsupport service for Muslim-friendly product packaging rangbon footprint of products (CFP) system to carbon offsetting. ing from research and planning services to development and CFP is a method to quantify CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas manufacturing. Muslim-friendly packaging provides Muslims (GHG) emissions associated with a product or service throughwith designs respectful of their faith, cultures, and customs. out its entire life cycle, from raw-material procurement to disThe Group offers one-stop support for producing Musposal and recycling. CFPs are expressed as single numbers lim-friendly packaging by adopting methods for displaying anyone can understand. Carbon offsetting is a method used raw materials and styles of design favored by Muslim tourists to partially or completely “offset” difficult-to-reduce GHG emisvisiting Japan, as well as other features. The Toppan Group sions with equivalent credits—GHG-emission reduction values will provide client companies with various services, including and/or GHG absorption values—earned elsewhere. The Group backup support for study sessions on Muslim-friendly prodalso uses this simple, one-stop procedure for its own printed uct packaging and research on Muslims living in Islamic materials. regions for companies planning to market their products or services in Islamic countries. 36 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design 1. Design products and services that are more responsive to people with 6. Provide products at a reasonable price and in the amounts required different physical abilities and perceptions. by society. 2. Facilitate communication using multiple channels for communication, 7. Engage in design that appeals to the senses with consideration for including visual, aural, and tactile channels. comfort, enjoyment, and beauty. 3. Make products easier to use by making them easier to understand. 4. Make products that are easier to move, easier to approach, and require less strength (remove the physical burdens). 5. Design products that are safe to use procedurally, functionally, structurally, materially, and environmentally. Established in 2001 Revised in April 2010 Lecture for the Universal Manners Test Monitoring research by Muslims Jujitsu Yasai 200ml carton (aluminum-free paper container) n Framework for CFP and Carbon Offsetting Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) Quantify CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the entire life cycle ( ) of a product and label the CFP data on printed materials shop Consumer Issues brochures brochure collection Toppan box Raw material Use and Disposal and procurement Production Distribution maintenance recycling Carbon Offsetting Partially or completely “offsetting” difficult-to-reduce GHG emissions with equivalent credits (GHG-emission reduction values and/or GHG absorption values) earned elsewhere. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 37 Community Involvement and Development Community Contribution and Involvement attended by prize-winning students also received reproductions of famous drawings. The Toppan Group has supported the communities in which it operates by addressing local issues and contributing to susEmployment Support tainable local development. Domestic and overseas sites in Toppan Group sites organize workplace training programs the Group have engaged in contribution activities forged across Japan to give students working experience and help through dialogues with neighboring communities. Their diathem cultivate working values. A program for nursing students logue is sustained through manifold activities, including colarranged in fiscal 2015 by the site in Miyagi Prefecture encourlaborative works in organizations that bring together the opinaged students to consider healthcare issues in industrial fields. ions of community members. The students experienced shift patterns, environments, and duties in the workplace and healthcare systems for workers Dialogues with Communities at Toppan. Toppan sites take part in the meetings and activities of various community organizations. Group sites have shaped business Cooperating with Communities for Fireand activities and community contribution activities by sounding Disaster-preparedness out opinions from their communities. Conferences are also The Toppan Group engages in proactive disaster-preparedheld at the sites to inform neighborhoods of production operness activities in the communities neighboring its operational ations and environmental initiatives, to answer questions from sites. Some Group sites cooperate with local fire-response community members, and to elicit opinions. squads and sign agreements with nearby communities to In fiscal 2015 the operational sites in Kawaguchi and Niiza arrange cooperative activities to be performed in emergencies. Cities, Saitama Prefecture invited residents from neighboring In fiscal 2015 one operational site in Osaka Prefecture communities onto their premises to learn about the environentered into a disaster-preparedness agreement with the premental efforts underway at their plants. Visitors took part in fectural government covering three activities: providing disasenriching exchanges with Toppan personnel and later asked ter relief supplies, using packaging technologies to enhance the sites to continue holding similar meetings. the prefecture’s stockpiling capacity, and holding educational events for local residents and companies on improved disasFostering Future Generations and Contributing to ter-preparedness. As part of the activities, the site provided Education an emergency bag developed and sold by Toppan to transport Many operational sites at the Toppan Group organize prowater during disasters. This emergency bag holds up to about grams to foster the children and young people who one day nine liters of water. It can be folded up for storage when not will be sustaining society and communities. Japanese sites in use and is compact enough to carry in a tote bag or arrange various activities such as plant tours, work experience the like. programs, internships, and off-site lectures. Group sites in Bunkyo and Itabashi Cities within Tokyo Initiatives at Overseas Sites cooperate with local elementary schools by organizing the A Toppan site in Thailand repurposed plastic offcuts generated “Printing School,” a workshop class where students create from its plant as a raw material for the production of baskets, guidebooks to promote the shopping districts in their towns. handbags, and other personal effects in community workYounger employees from Toppan lecture on the efficient methshops. Employees at the site purchased the items created at ods to mine and edit data. The students learn more about the workshop to supplement the livelihoods of the community work-oriented mindsets by interviewing shopkeepers and gain members. exposure to the challenges of phrase-making and persuasive A Group site in Shanghai, meanwhile, has been inviting expression in their work by editing the guidebook content. The students from local universities to attend lectures on printguidebooks are published and delivered in and around the ing-related industries and participate in work experience prolocal shopping streets. grams. The site wants to incentivize the students to work by Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. has worked for many years with showing them the joys of work and how it can help them to the Japan School Library Association and The Mainichi Newsachieve their dreams. papers Co., Ltd. as a cosponsor of the Central Contest for Book Report Drawings, an annual contest that cultivates the reading and creative skills of students by encouraging them to express their impressions of books by drawing. The judges of the 27th competition in 2015 received 635,263 picture entries from 6,678 schools. Toppan produced and distributed a calendar decorated with the prize-winning works to schools and other educational facilities across Japan. The schools 38 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Cleanup around the site (Sapporo) Cleanup around the site (Shiga) Plant tour for elementary school students (Gunma) Plant tour for high school students (Saitama) Work experience for middle school students Class for elementary school students invited to (Chiba) the site (Aichi) Printing School for students from elementary Shopping-street guidebook created in a Printing Central Contest for Book Report Drawings schools, a workshop class to make guidebooks School class Community Involvement and for local shopping streets (Tokyo) Development Calendar with prize-winning pictures from the Emergency water-supply bag provided to the Basketand handbag-creation with community contest prefectural government (Osaka) members using plastic offcuts from the factory (Thailand) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 39 The Environment Toppan’s Environmental Activities ment for the continuous upgrading of environmental management are proposed and implemented throughout the entire Four Environmental Activity Areas Group. The Toppan Group promotes environmental initiatives based The environmental audit follows a three-stage screening on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment, process: a management system audit by an ISO 14001 rega basic philosophy for the environmental conservation activiistrar, an internal audit by the Ecology Center, and another ties of the Group. internal audit at the individual site. Toppan underwent manToppan’s environmental activities are divided into four agement system audits for 43 systems and carried out interareas—Environmental Management, Eco-protection, Econal environmental audits at the 59 sites in fiscal 2015. Necescreativity, and Environmental Communication. The Group sary procedures were taken to correct the deficiencies pointed enacted a set of five bylaws to strengthen the Eco-protection out during the audits. Activities performed to minimize environmental burden associated with the Group’s corporate operations: the Bylaw on Improving Environmental Literacy Global Warming Mitigation, the Bylaw on the Building of a The Toppan Group implements various measures to improve Recycling-oriented Society, the Bylaw on Chemical Substance the environmental literacy of its employees based on social Management, the Bylaw on Pollution Control, and the Bylaw trends related to the environment, priority topics for year-byon Biodiversity. The Toppan Group has taken steps to conyear environmental activities, and other environment-related serve the global environment in each of the areas based on issues. the five bylaws. In fiscal 2015 Toppan held sessions for rank-based training, optional training, and internal auditor training, along with The Toppan Group Declaration Group-wide e-learning-based training. Ongoing group training on the Global Environment in rank-based education is arranged in conjunction with As responsible members of international society, e-learning programs focused on Eco-creativity Activities for we who work within the Toppan Group employees in sales departments. strive to realize a sustainable society through forward looking corporate activities with consideration for the conservation of the global environment. Calculating Scope 3 Emissions More and more businesses around the world nowadays are Basic Principles quantifying and managing their value chain greenhouse gas 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the environment. (GHG) emissions associated with all stages of operation from 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of raw material procurement to the distribution and disposal of limited resources and the reduction of all types of environmental products (scope 3), in addition to direct emissions (scope 1) ­burden. and indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity 3. W ith foresight, we promote the development and widespread use of products that show consideration for the environment, and contriband steam consumption (scope 2). ute to the environmental activities of customers. The Toppan Group calculated its scope 3 emissions in 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a wide fiscal 2015 to identify the categories of corporate activity that range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive for represented larger sources of GHG emissions and to establish mutual understanding. 5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in priority targets in its emission reduction strategy. This calcucorporate activities in international society. lation showed that category 1 (manufacturing of products purchased by Toppan), categories 4 and 9 (transportation and Established in April 1992 distribution of products purchased and sold by Toppan), Revised in April 2009 ­category 12 (end-of-life treatment of products sold by Toppan), and other categories related to raw material consumption colEnvironmental Management Activities lectively accounted for the largest share of Toppan’s GHG emissions. Operating Environmental Management Systems The Group will continue monitoring and evaluating GHG The Toppan Group operates established environmental emissions across its value chain and work to reduce environ­management systems based on its environmental managemental burden incurred throughout the life cycle and producment rules. tion process of every product. Fifty-nine Group sites in Japan undertake environmental activities to achieve the targets set under the Eco-protection Activity Plan. The Ecology Center collects environmental performance data as the organization responsible for supervising the Group’s environmental activities. The center then evaluates and verifies the data and reports the results to the Board of Directors and other management bodies. Points of improve40 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 Action for building Conservation of the Mitigation of global warming a recycling-oriented society atmospheric environment I Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% I Reduce final landfill waste I Reduce VOC emissions into the compared to the fiscal 2008 level disposal by 87% compared to atmosphere by 70% compared (751 kilotons the fiscal 2008 level to the fiscal 2008 level 600 kilotons: –151 kilotons) (1,584 tons (7,326 tons 206 tons: –1,378 tons) 2,198 tons: –5,128 tons) n Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2015 and Environmental Target Values for Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015 Environmental Management Environmental Targets Target Achievement Target Values for Indicators Results Evaluation Values Rates Fiscal 2016  itigation of M I Reduce CO2 emissions I CO2 emissions 613 kilotons 551 kilotons 110.2% S 550 kilotons global warming Action for building I Reduce final landfill waste I Final landfill waste a recycling-orient240 tons 160 tons 133.3% S 130 tons disposal disposal ed society Conservation of I Reduce VOC emissions into I VOC emissions into the atmospheric 4,000 tons 3,684 tons 107.9% S 3,400 tons the atmosphere the atmosphere environment Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] 105); A, Targets achieved (100 achievement rate [%] 105); B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 achievement rate [%] 100); C, Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] 70) Achievement rates: 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%] n Calculating Scope 3 Emissions n Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 I Extraction of raw materials Other categories* Scope 2 Category 12 I Consumption of Category Suppliers, etc. electricity supplied by entities 9 I Production of raw outside the reporting company Category materials, etc. 4 I Consumption of heating and cooling supplied by entities outside the reporting company Scope 3 3,938 Scope 1 kilotons 3,826 kilotons The reporting company itself I Transportation and Category distribution of raw I Fuel combustion 1 materials, etc. I Emissions from industrial processes I End-of-life treatment of sold products and I Employee commuting goods I Sales activities, business travel Scope 2 379 345 kilotons kilotons The Environment Scope 1 205 214 kilotons I Transportation and Users of products kilotons Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 distribution of sold and goods products and goods I Use of sold products *Categories 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and goods TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 41 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Eco-protection Activities Environmental Impact Mitigating Global Warming and Saving Energy The Toppan Group applies the LIME* life-cycle assessment The Toppan Group has been reducing the total emissions of method to consolidate INPUT and OUTPUT data on environcarbon dioxide (CO2) to help mitigate global warming. mental burden associated with business activities into a single In fiscal 2015 Toppan continued operating its nationwide index of environmental impact. demand-monitoring system to control peak power demand in This assessment provides a holistic view of the environsummer and winter in Japan. The electricity consumption data mental impact of all business activities at the Group and serves compiled for each site via this system enables the Group to as a benchmark for establishing medium-and-long-term envireview power contracts and encourage energy-saving efforts ronmental targets and checking the effectiveness of environon a site-by-site basis. mental measures. Toppan has managed to reduce its enviToppan is also replacing long-used utility facilities with ronmental impact every year. In fiscal 2015 the Group attained high-efficiency alternatives according to schedule. In fiscal a 40% reduction compared to the fiscal 2006 level. 2015 the Sakado Plant in Saitama Prefecture attained * Life-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling ­ significant energy savings by replacing existing cooling (LIME): A version of the damage-oriented environmental impact assessmachines with more efficient models. To reduce the unnecesment method adjusted for application in Japan based on the domestic environmental background. Damage derived from impact categories is sary or nonessential use of electricity, the Group has quantified for each part of the environment to be protected (e.g., human redressed demand-and-supply imbalances and suspended health, biodiversity). Once the damage is quantified, the environmental the use of any equipment that stays running continuously impacts of multiple factors are integrated into a single index. ­during ­vacations. As a result of these efforts, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2015 n Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field were reduced to 551 kilotons, below the targeted limit of 613 100% kilotons for the year. Other Other Other Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics 80% Photochemical Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the oxidants ­Toppan Group, is working with shippers from Toppan Group companies to reduce the energy consumption per unit of transport volume by company vehicles and the total volume Environmental impact 60% of CO2 emissions from transport. Global warming Global Energy consumption per unit of transport volume in fiscal warming 2015 was 58.9 kL/million ton-kilometers, a 2.3% increase from 40% Global fiscal 2014, missing the year-by-year reduction target of 1% warming prescribed by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. On another front, CO2 emissions totaled 33,533 tons, falling below the fiscal 2014 level by 3.7%. 20% Toppan Logistics will work to accomplish the targets for fiscal 2016 by optimizing transportation conditions and further Resource Resource Resource consumption consumption consumption improving transportation efficiency. 0% Information & Living & Electronics Communication Industry Note: E  very business field shows comparatively high global warming effects from energy consumption for electricity used for power and air-conditioning and for natural gas used for heat sources. The Living & Industry field shows significant impacts from photochemical oxidants, pollutants formed by reactions between sunlight and VOCs released into the atmosphere. The Toppan Group includes these indicators among medium-and-long-term environmental targets and has taken steps to reduce environmental impacts of these types. 42 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) INPUT Material Input Total Energy Consumption Total Water Consumption Total PRTR Handling Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 665,131 (54.1%) 3,326 (26.5%) 840 (13.3%) 494 (12.6%) Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry 544,107 (44.2%) 5,170 (41.2%) 1,580 (25.1%) 1,827 (46.7%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 20,778 (1.7%) 3,445 (27.4%) 3,540 (56.2%) 1,593 (40.7%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 0 (0%) 620 (4.9%) 340 (5.4%) 2 (0.1%) Total 1,230,015 (Unit: tons) Total 12,561 (Unit: 1,000 GJ) Total 6,300 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 3,917 (Unit: tons) OUTPUT Total Waste Discharge CO2 Emissions Total Effluent Discharge Total PRTR Release Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 113,151 (49.0%) 142,938 (26.0%) 441 (8.7%) 33 (24.0%) Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry 99,713 (43.1%) 244,049 (44.3%) 1,152 (22.8%) 103 (74.3%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 14,855 (6.4%) 138,643 (25.2%) 3,146 (62.3%) 2 (1.3%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 3,393 (1.5%) 24,991 (4.5%) 308 (6.1%) 1 (0%) Total 231,111 (Unit: tons) Total 550,621 (Unit: t-CO2) Total 5,047 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 139 (Unit: tons) Notes: I Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. Some of the material inputs are calculated from estimated values based on production values. I “Waste” in this report includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). IT otal energy consumption is the quantity of electricity and fuels consumed. IT otal values may not exactly match the sum totals of individual values, as decimals are rounded up or down. n CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) 1,000 750 751 632 593 551 500 250 High-efficiency cooling machine (Sakado Plant) 0 2008 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) Note: CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of Japan. The CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption, however, are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh.  CO2 emissions in fiscal 2015 totaled 683,296 t-CO2 when calculated using the effective emission factor from another MOE method The Environment specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015). Facility for recovering solvents (Gunma Central Plant) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 43 Building a Recycling-oriented Society Controlling Chemical Substances In a drive to use limited resources more effectively, the Toppan The Toppan Group has striven to reduce the consumption of Group works to reduce the discharge of waste, increase chemical substances to mitigate the impacts of these subthe recycling rate, and apply appropriate waste treatment stances on the environment. The Group continues reducing methods. the consumption of chemical substances designated under Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) law of Information & Communication and Living & Industry fields Japan and introducing safer substitutes by setting priorities in makes up the largest portion (74.7%) of the total waste terms of both the type and range of application. These meas­discharged at Group sites. This is followed by waste plastics ures helped the Group reduce the amount of chemical subfrom plants in the Living & Industry field and sludge from the stances handled under the designation of the PRTR law by Electronics field. The Group has striven to increase the mate12.2% compared to the amount handled in fiscal 2014. rial recycling rate by processing waste paper into recycled Group production sites have also been appropriately paper, separating waste plastics and processing composite ­managing chemical substances based on established control plastics into pellets, and implementing other recycling methprocedures. ods. Sludge, meanwhile, has been reduced in-house to smaller volumes for disposal. The Fukaya Plant in Saitama Prefecture Approach to Environmental Compliance began material recycling in fiscal 2015 by processing waste In fiscal 2015, Toppan used its in-house environmental dataglass, a material previously treated for landfill disposal, for base to identify possible risks of exceeding any of the limits reuse as a cement material for structures to be built understipulated under regulatory standards for Group sites in Japan. water and elsewhere. These measures reduced the final landPreventive measures against higher risks were taken to ensure fill waste disposal in fiscal 2015 to 160 tons. that none of the regulatory limits were broached. The Toppan Group will continue reducing waste discharge Despite these steps, one production site recorded excesand promoting material recycling. sive levels of air pollutants and three sites recorded excessive levels of BOD, total nitrogen, or other water contaminants Preventing Pollution relative to standards set under laws, ordinances, agreements, The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site or other applicable regulations. The Toppan Group has taken in Japan sets in-house control standards more stringently than immediate corrective measures for every case, including steps the regulatory standards require. By complying with these to inspect facilities and revise the methods for facility control. standards, the Toppan Group works to reduce environmental Since implementing these corrective measures, the Group has burden and prevent pollution. reviewed control procedures and taken necessary actions to To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilreliably prevent recurrences. As a preventive action against ers and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by environmental pollution, the Group reviews drills for coping managing operations under appropriate combustion condiwith potential emergencies and accidents during production tions. The Group enhances the efficiency of effluent-gas treatoperations whenever necessary. ment in plant facilities subject to requirements under the Air Communities around Toppan plants filed two complaints Pollution Control Act by reusing recovered solvents and at two sites in fiscal 2015. One involved noise and the other ­precisely controlling combustion facilities. VOC and toluene involved inconvenience to community residents related to odor. emissions into the atmosphere in fiscal 2015 were both The Group has responded by reviewing the operational rules reduced compared with the fiscal 2014 levels. for plant facilities responsible for noise and instituting a stricter To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wasteregime for maintaining and inspecting facilities that generate water treatment facilities designed to cope with specific water noise or odor. Whenever judged to be appropriate, Toppan consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. will install deodorizing equipment to control odor. The Toppan Wastewater recycling systems have also been installed at Group will continue enhancing the quality of environmental Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant management through earnest dialogue with residents in suramounts. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these rounding communities. systems, the plants have been working to reduce the levels of water consumption and effluent discharge. The Toppan Group also checks plant facilities subject to the Water Pollution Control Law in compliance with the regulatory regime for facility structures. The Group will monitor every facility, including those not subject to the law, to prevent groundwater pollution caused by the leakage of chemicals and other liquids. Any equipment or components with undue wear will be replaced. 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 n Total Waste Discharge and n VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere*1 Final Landfill Waste Disposal (tons) VOCs Toluene (1,000 tons) ■ Total waste discharge (left axis) (1,000 tons) ■ Final landfill waste disposal (right axis) 10,000 350 2.5 313.8 7,500 7,326 280 2.0 255.9 242.2 231.1 1.6 210 1.5 5,000 4,232 3,935 3,684 140 1.0 2,500 70 0.5 0.5 362 0.4 221 162 126 0.2 0 0 0 2008 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2008 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) *1 E  missions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). n Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate n Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law*2 (%) Recycling rate (recycling / total waste discharge) (tons) Total handling Total transfer Total release Material recycling rate (material recycling / total waste discharge) 100 6,000 5,271 98.8 99.5 99.6 99.7 95 4,463 4,500 3,917 90 93.0 92.5 92.4 91.8 3,000 85 1,894 1,654 1,402 1,500 80 243 185 139 0 0 2008 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) 2013 2014 2015 (fiscal year) *2 Dioxins are excluded because of a difference in the counting unit. n Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Operational Site Detail Current Progress*3 Itabashi Plant (Itabashi City, Tokyo) Groundwater pollution by hexavalent chromium and toluene Continuously monitored Niigata Plant (Shibata City, Niigata) Soil pollution by fluorine and fluorine compounds Continuously monitored Toppan Technical Research Institute Soil pollution by fluorine and fluorine compounds Monitoring completed (Kita-Katsushika District, Saitama) n Soil Pollution Remediation for Redevelopment in Conformance with Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Ordinances Remediation Operational Site Chemical Substances Subject to Remediation Current Progress*3 Measures Excavation Kawaguchi Plant (Kawaguchi City, Saitama) Lead; fluorine; cyanide and cyanide compounds Remediation completed and removal Excavation Ebie Site (Osaka City, Osaka) Hexavalent chromium; lead and lead compounds Remediation completed and removal *3 As of March 2016 The Environment TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 45 Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity Eco-creativity Activities IBiodiversity Conservation at Operational Sites The Fukaya Plant in Saitama Prefecture has promoted biodiDeveloping and Approving Environmentally Friendly versity conservation within its premises in collaboration with Products the Environmental NPO “SHU” since fiscal 2012. The NPO and Toppan has established the Toppan Standards for Environplant worked together in the 7th phase of their wildlife-support mentally Friendly Products, a set of criteria covering five project, “Paradise for Wild Birds,” in the summer of 2015. Parstages of the product life cycle. A total of 88 products were ticipating children mowed undergrowth, creepers, and other registered as “environmentally friendly products” as of the end weeds to clear a small square. In the “Leaf Card” activity, they of March 2016. learned about the diverse forms and shapes of leaves taken The Company has approved and registered “exceptional from nature by playing with special decks of cards made from environmentally friendly products” that are recognized by actual leaves. The game sharpened the children’s abilities to ­third-party organizations or that have undergone life cycle both observe different shapes and explain their observations. assessment for quantification of environmental burden across In the following winter, participants in the 8th phase of the the life cycle. project installed new birdhouses for woodpeckers and Japanese Tits and surveyed the nesting rate at birdhouses installed Environment-related Businesses at Group Companies a year earlier. A high rate of about 60% was confirmed. Like Toppan itself, the companies of the Toppan Group Since fiscal 2013 the employees from the Asaka Plant in develop, produce, and market eco-friendly products in line Saitama Prefecture have been maintaining a conservation with standards they formulate themselves in consideration of pond on the plant premises mimicking waterside environments social demands. surrounding local rivers. Under the supervision of the Saitama The total sales of environment-related businesses—includEcosystem Conservation Society, they have checked the qualing, most notably, sales of environmentally friendly products ity and year-round temperature of the pond water and identisatisfying the in-house criteria of the Toppan Group—were fied species to be conserved. The pond is currently inhabited 311.8 billion yen in fiscal 2015. by Japanese eight-barbel loach, Japanese minami medaka rice fish, and several other aquatic organisms comfortable in Environmental Communication Activities the pond ecosystem. Asaka Plant will manage the pond to protect these species from any existential threats. Presenting at Eco-Products 2015 At the Eco-Products 2015 fair in December 2015, the Toppan IBiodiversity Conservation outside Operational Sites Group presented a set of environmental proposals based on The Toppan Group continues conserving forest resources various themes such as forest nurturing, CO2-reduction measthroughout Japan. In fiscal 2015 Group employees tuned in ures, energy-saving actions, and a recycling-oriented society. to the sights, sounds, smells, feelings, and textures of the The Toppan booth exhibited products and services the Group woods in Asahiyama Memorial Park in Sapporo City, Hokkaido. has created in collaboration with client companies, organizaThey visited the urban park to document their perceptions of tions, and other entities in development, sales, and operation. abundant natural phenomena such as holes pecked into trees The exhibit included a virtual reality display to vividly depict by woodpeckers and the gnarled surfaces of nuts gnawed by the effects of forest thinning operations and demonstrate their Ezo squirrels. importance. Toppan employees also worked with members from the Center for Ecological Education (CEED) to observe migrant Issuing Site Eco Reports birds and create decoys in the Kasai Rinkai Park in Edogawa Toppan Group’s ISO 14001-certified sites in Japan issue Site City, Tokyo. Participants found more than 15 species of wild Eco Reports directed towards local municipalities and resibirds and witnessed a bird fight between goshawk and ravens. dents in surrounding communities. Thirty-five reports from 47 Carved into the form of little terns, the decoys have been put sites were issued in fiscal 2015. on the water to attract real-life terns as they gather into breeding colonies. Employees also took part in educational fieldwork in the “Ranzan Community Forest” neighboring the Ranzan Plant in Saitama Prefecture to mow low-growing plants such as nezasa dwarf bamboo and thin out evergreen needle-leaved trees such as Japanese cypresses. Children assisting the works collected beetle larvae, locusts, crickets, and other insects and sketched the captured creatures in an original illustrated guide. Employees in Katano City, Osaka, meanwhile, have been maintaining bamboo thickets in countryside woods. 46 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 “Leaf Card” activity (Fukaya Plant, Saitama) Conservation pond mimicking local waterside Wood study in Asahiyama Memorial Park in environments (Asaka Plant, Saitama) Hokkaido Wild-bird observation in Kasai Rinkai Park in Eco-Products 2015 Eco-Products 2015 Tokyo n Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Life Cycle Stage Large Categories Small Categories Reduced use of hazardous substances Reduced use of hazardous substances and volatile solvents (excluding banned substances) Use of waste paper Use of recycled materials Use of recycled plastics Use of materials with lower Raw material Reduced consumption of energy and water environmental burden procurement Resource-saving efforts Reduced use of materials in production Use of lumber from forest-thinning operations, use of forest-certified paper, use of tree-free paper Use of sustainable resources Alternatives to petroleum-based materials and mineral resources Effective use of biomass resources Reduced energy consumption in Reduced energy consumption through changes in product design and production production processes (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Use of recyclable energy Use of green electricity Implementation of carbon offsets Same as left Production Reduced water consumption in Reduced water consumption through changes in product design and production processes production (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Reduced generation of waste in Waste reduction (excluding reuse of waste inside plants) production Improvement in transport efficiency Product design for improved loading ratio Distribution Optimization of transportation Selection of more environmentally friendly transportation Reduced release of chemical Reduction of chemical substances potentially released from products substances during use Use Extension of product life Prolonged product life through improvement in durability and enhancement of functions Reduced environmental burden Reduced consumption of energy and water during use during use Improvement in reusability Reuse Easy separation and disassembly for reuse The Environment Improvement in recyclability Recycling Easy separation and disassembly for recycling Disposal & recycling Recyclability through existing recycling routes (excluding waste paper collection routes) Environmentally friendly disposal Reduced emissions of hazardous gases during disposal Use of recyclable materials that can be degraded and returned to nature (biodegradability, Use of biodegradable materials photodegradability, etc.) Proof of environmental Visualization of environmental burden Carbon footprint of products (CFP), life-cycle assessment (LCA), water footprint (WFP) friendliness Labeling with environmental logos Examples: Eco Mark, Forest Thinning Mark, etc. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 47 Independent Assurance The CSR Report 2016 expounds upon the Toppan Group’s environmental burden incurred throughout the life cycle of its use of managerial resources to help solve social issues by products. We hope that future reports on the value chain will presenting efforts in health management, para-sports promopresent more concrete information on the Group’s own risk tion, and literacy support in developing countries. The “Digest awareness beyond the realm of the environment, as well as 2015” section provides a clear summary of the results of information on actions taken to cope with the expected risks, ­various CSR activities like the initiatives described above. and the results achieved. Data on human rights and human The Toppan Group has been reporting CSR issues expected resource development cover mainly Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. to become more material for the Group, starting from the 2015 alone. We recommend that the Toppan Group extend the report. The Group will be expected to present detailed inforboundaries of reporting systematically to help readers better mation more focused on material issues in the coming reports. understand the activities and results of the entire Group. To promote social responsibility in the value chain, for example, Toppan explains its methodologies for calculating its entire Tomonori Yoshida value chain greenhouse gas emissions and assessing the KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Indicators in this Report Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Pages Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider 24 Number of retired employees; number of reemployed employees Number of female managerial and supervisory staff Human Rights 25 Number of employees with disabilities; percentage of employees with disabilities Number of Recruits; number of persons hired through the mid-career recruitment of experienced personnel Number of Employees Reasons for Leaving 27 Average Annual Salary Annual Paid Leave Used Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Labor Practices Number of employees who participated in the Toppan Business School Number of employees who learned in basic, Company-wide education programs via the e-learning system 28 Number of employees deployed overseas under the trainee system to acquire practical training in overseas businesses Number of employees who participated in selective training on global business 29 Occupational Health and Safety Number of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; ratio of female Leaders Number of employees who participated in training sessions for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders 30 Number of employees who participated in training sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan Fair Operating Practices Number of employees who participated in training in group sessions or via the e-learning system on export controls under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act of Japan 32 Number of business partners surveyed to verify the legality of lumber used for paper production Number of employees who participated in training sessions for internal auditors Consumer Issues 34 Results of audits conducted using the quality audit checklist Environmental target values and results for fiscal 2015 41 Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) 43 CO2 Emissions Number of production sites that recorded air-pollutant and water-contaminant levels exceeding applicable regulatory 44 standards Number of complaints and inquiries from communities around Toppan sites The Environment Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate 45 VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Number of approved and registered environmentally friendly products 46 Total sales of environment-related businesses Some data in the CSR Report 2016: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website are also assured by the assurance provider. Toppan is authorized to attach the mark on the left as a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in this report. Any report bearing this mark meets the Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. 48 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 Independent Assurance Report TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2016 49 http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ © TOPPAN 2016.11 K I Printed in Japan
