Annual Report 2015 The company The products 2 The year in brief 20 Product portfolio 3 The Mylan offer 24 Respiratory 4 CEO’s comment 26 Dermatology 6 Strategy and business model 28 Pain and Inflammation 10 Investment story 30 Non-prescription 12 Market products: Cx 16 Sales and marketing 32 Non-prescription products: OTC 34 Product development 38 Manufacturing and supply Sustainability report Management report and financial reports 41 About the sustainability report 65 Operations 42 Focus, objectives and 70 Risks performance 73 Corporate governance report 44 Meda in context 76 Board members 45 Value chain 80 Executive management team 46 Sustainability aspects 84 Accounts Group 47 Product portfolio and market 90 Notes Group development 117 Accounts parent company 48 Manufacturing and distribution 122 Notes parent company 50 Employees 128 Statement of the board 52 Environment 129 Auditor’s report 55 Patient and consumer safety 130 Financial review 56 Governance 132 The Meda share 59 Community engagement 134 Definitions 60 GRI content table 135 Glossary and trademark rights 63 Auditor’s report 136 Shareholder information Key therapy areas and product areas1) Prescription drugs Non-prescription drugs Rx Cx OTC Aerospan EpiPen Fortilase Azep/ ­Novolizer Ialumar Respiratory Astepro Pafinur Dymista Acnatac Betadine EndWarts Aldara Babygella Naloc Dermatology Elidel Dermasol AKN Zyclara Rantudil Dona/Viartril Pain and Rheumon GO-ON Inflammation Zamadol Reparil Tambocor Agiolax CB12 Other key Thioctacid ArmoLIPID products Uralyt Legalon Zyma Saugella 1) The chart shows examples of Meda’s products within selected areas. Definitions Rx Rx products are pre­ Cx Cx are clinically-proven OTC OTC products are overscription based pharmaconsumer healthcare the-counter products sold ceuticals prescribed by products recommended directly to consumers via doctors and therapists by doctors and pharmapharmacies and retail for patients. cists to consumers. chains. SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2015 SALES BY PRODUCT AREA 2015 Dermatology, 22% Prescription Respiratory, 15% (Rx), 62% Pain and Non-prescription Inflammation, 14% (Cx/OTC), 36% Cardiology, 12% Other sales, 2% Gastroenterology, 11% CNS1) , 8% Metabolism/vitamins, 6% Other, 12% 1) Central Nervous System Mission We strive to be a fast-growing, innovative company that is open to ­different kinds of commercial models and that will be market-leading in certain therapy areas with prescription and non-prescription products. We are dedicated to providing products that serve ­society by increasing the well-being and quality of life of individuals. As a company, our aim is to attract the best talent and reward our employees for outstanding performance. Maintaining our excellent ­reputation is vital to us. Countries where Meda has its own sales organizations Vision Our vision is to become a worldleading specialty pharma company with a focus on sustainable and ­profitable growth to provide value for our patients, shareholders and other stakeholders. REVENUES BY GEOGRAPHY 2015 19,648 6,482 Group sales reached EBITDA excluding WESTERN EUROPE, 62% EMERGING MARKETS, 19% USA, 17% SEK 19,648 million nonrecurring items OTHER SALES, 2% amounted to SEK 6,482 million 150 Our pharmaceuticals 60 Our sales organizations are sold in more than are present in over 150 countries 60 countries MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 1 The year in brief Important events in 2015 Completing the integration Dymista approved for treatment Divestment of Euromed of the Italian acquisition of seasonal allergic rhinitis in manufacturing unit, a former Rottapharm. children aged 6 to 11. Rottapharm company located in Spain. The year in figures • Group sales amounted to SEK 19,648 million (15,352) • Organic growth of –11)% (2) • Free cash flow excluding non-recurring items of SEK 4,172 million (3,000) • Free cash flow per share excluding non-recurring items of SEK 11.41 (9.28) • Increased focus on the Respiratory therapy area and the OTC portfolio • Profit after tax excluding non-recurring items amounted to SEK 1,531 million (1,181) • Earnings per share excluding non-recurring items was SEK 4.14 (3.64) • EBITDA excluding non recurring items amounted to SEK 6,482 million (4,700), equivalent to a margin of 33.0% (30.6) • Proposed dividend per share SEK 2.50 (2.50) NET SALES EBITDA2) FREE CASH FLOW2) SEK million SEK million SEK million 20,000 8,000 5,000 7,000 4,000 15,000 6,000 5,000 3,000 10,000 4,000 2,000 3,000 5,000 2,000 1,000 1,000 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1) Organic growth pro forma 2) Excluding non-recurring items 2 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Important events after 2015 The Mylan offer On 10 February, 2016, Mylan announced a representing more than 90% of the total num• Enhances critical mass in key therapeutic ­public offer to aquire the shares in Meda. The ber of shares of Meda, Meda will sub­sequently areas: consideration consists of a combination of cash be de-listed from the Stockholm Stock Exchange. –C  omplementary therapeutic presence in and Mylan shares. If shareholders representing less than 90% all regions will create a leader in allergy Mylan N.V. is a leading global pharmaceutical of the shares accept the offer, Mylan may and respiratory and a scale player in company whose shares are traded on the choose to withdraw from the offer or to accept ­dermatology, pain and inflammation ­NASDAQ Global Select Market and the Tel Aviv shares tendered in the offer in which case –P  rovides opportunity to sell combined Stock Exchange. Meda may continue to be listed. ­portfolio in new markets The Board of Meda has made an evaluation • Financially compelling transaction: of Mylan’s offer and recommends Meda’s The evaluation of the Board of Meda –E  nhances size and scale with combined shareholders to accept it. The two largest The Board believes that there are a number of 2015 sales of approximately USD 11.8 shareholders, Stena Sessan AB and Fidim S.r.l., strategic benefits to Meda from combining its billion and combined 2015 adjusted have undertaken to accept the offer. operations with Mylan, including: EBITDA of approximately USD 3.8 billion Mylan will publish an offer document that will • Significantly strengthens and diversifies –S  ubstantial synergy opportunity, with be made available to all shareholders. The offer commercial presence: approximately USD 350 million of pre-tax document is expected to be published on or – Diversifies Meda’s global portfolio mix annual operational synergies expected around 19 May 2016. by strengthening branded platform and to be achieved by year four after consumMylan has made the offer conditional upon ­creates USD 1 billion business in attractive mation of the offer the offer being accepted to such an extent that OTC ­market Mylan becomes the owner of shares in Meda –E  stablishes critical mass across all comrepresenting more than 90% of the total nummercial channels in Europe; creates a leadber of shares of Meda. ing US specialty business; and provides If the offer is accepted to such an extent that exciting platform for growth in new Mylan becomes the owner of shares in Meda ­Emerging Markets THE TIME TABLE AND THE STEPS OF THE OFFER PROCESS READ MORE 1. 2. 3. You may read more about the offer in “Statement by the Board of Directors of Meda in ­relation to the public offer by Mylan”, published Estimated date for Estimated acceptance Estimated settlement on www.meda.se on February 10, publication of the offer period: 20 May 2016 to date: 5 August 2016 2016 and the Mylan’s offer announcement available at: document: 19 May 2016 29 July 2016 medatransaction.mylan.com. This means that the transaction might be finalized during the third quarter of 2016. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 3 CEO’s Comment Keeping our focus “Meda’s strong performance in 2015 reconfirmed that our strategy is successful. We have built a cohesive portfolio of products that improve the quality of life for many people.” Meda’s performance in 2015 reconfirmed that cash flow. I truly believe we are now on the right Meda is a very attractive company in this industry; we were on the right track with our strategy to track with our business in Italy. In addition, we we have an extensive and interesting product focus on growth products, optimized base busihave made progress with our efforts to improve portfolio and a fantastic organization in key marness and acquisitions. Sales rose to SEK 19.6 our manufacturing and supply organization with kets such as Western Europe, Emerging Markets billion driven by a strong performance in our the divestment of Euromed in Spain end of and the US. We are a highly interesting company growth business which was up 6%. 2015. for other companies that need to strengthen their I am proud of what Meda and its employees We believe it is important to be a responsible own presence in these key areas. have achieved in 2015. We have successfully part in the global pharmaceutical market. In February 2016, Mylan announced that it integrated Rottapharm, our largest ever acquiMeda’s intention is to keep the sustainability has made an offer to acquire the shares in sition, ahead of plan and achieved more than efforts relevant and close to the business. Our Meda. I find the proposed transaction with the planned synergies for the year while at the approach is about making constant improveMylan very compelling from a strategic standsame time continuing to drive our day-to-day ments. Meda shall be a reliable and trustworthy point and I believe Mylan’s and Meda’s busibusiness forward in our respective markets. partner within the value chain. 2015 meant nesses are highly complementary. The Board of We have now achieved a leading position in the renewed takeoff in a new organization and new Meda has made an evaluation of the offer and European specialty pharma market with good resources. Some highlights from the year are recommends Meda’s shareholders to accept profitability and strong cash flow generation. the renewed ISO 14001 group certificate, we the offer. The two largest shareholders have Apart from synergies and increased revenues, are well underway on the Rottapharm integraundertaken to accept the offer. If the offer is the acquisition has strengthened us in several tion into Meda’s sustainability program and we accepted, Meda will be de-listed from the areas. We now have a wider product range and elevated our efforts within business ethics and Stockholm Stock Exchange. a more balanced portfolio with the addition, in anti-corruption, such as a dedicated anti-corUntil this process is finished and the owner­particular, of a strong range of Cx-products and ruption policy to complement Meda’s Business ship is settled, we are still Meda and the busiincreased presence in Emerging Markets. Our Conduct Guidelines. ness needs to be run as usual going forward. own distribution network now spans over 60 Meda is a Global Compact signatory since We have obligations to our customers, patients countries, which is quite unique for a company 2012 and we hereby express our continued and other stakeholders to uphold our good of our size. In short, we are now one of the leadsupport to the initiative and its principles. ­service, quality and reputation – and with the ing European specialty pharma companies. The pharma industry is still very fragmented. track record from our recent years, I know we This forms an excellent foundation for our The trend toward specialization in the industry can do just that – keep our focus and deliver on ­continued growth. will continue for at least another decade. Meda promises and continue to develop Meda as a We have also taken measures to address focuses on market and patient-adapted prodleading specialty pharma company. issues in our Italian business. The challenges uct development, sales, and marketing, and do we are facing in Italy include a Cx business with not conduct any high-risk, early-stage pharmapotential to improve; unfavorable pricing ceutical development. Meda’s historical combi­conditions, and over the years high inventories nation of acquisitions and product developbuilt up at the wholesale level. We have now ment close to the market has built a cohesive reorganized the sales force and improved the portfolio of improved, affordable, high quality situation with wholesale stocks. As a result, we products that improve the quality of life for Dr. Jörg-Thomas Dierks significantly reduced receivables and improved many people. Chief Executive Officer 4 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CEO’s Comment MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 5 Strategy and Business Model Proven successful strategy Based on a broad product portfolio and a strong cash flow, Meda’s business concept is to identify, secure access to, Focus on sales ­integrate and commercialize pharmaceutical products in the key therapy areas, and products for self-treatment and preventive and marketing healthcare (Cx/OTC). FINANCIAL TARGETS The company’s main focus is sales and marketing. One of Meda’s assets is the • Organic growth, 1–2% over a ­business cycle ability to commercialize products through • EBITDA margin above 30% ­moving toward 35% over time its global organization. Key activities are • EBITDA cash conversion at 60–70% primarily sales and marketing, development of existing products, manufacturing To achieve the financial goals, Meda has applied the following strateand supply. gies: Focus on sales and marketing, Market and patient-adapted product development, Growth through acquisitions and A focused portfolio. MEDA’S POSITION IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL VALUE CHAIN Meda holds a special position in the value chain. The company does not conduct any high-risk, in-house, early-stage ­pharmaceutical development. New products have been secured through acquisitions. Instead, Meda is focused on market and patient-adapted product development in key therapy areas, and sales and marketing. Drug discovery Drug development Manufacturing & supply Sales & marketing Specialist advisory Market adapted product development in late clinical phase, typically phase III Meda’s position in the pharmaceutical value chain 6 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategy and Business Model Market and patientGrowth through A focused portfolio adapted product acquisitions development Meda’s development work can best be Acquisitions have historically been the Meda focuses on three therapy areas; described as market and patient-adapted main driver of the company’s expansion. Respiratory, Dermatology, and Pain and product development in late clinical Between 2000 and 2015 Meda made Inflammation. This focus is the foundation phases with the objective of, for example, more than 30 major acquisitions of comfor clear synergies in sales and marketing. prolonging a product’s life cycle or panies and product rights. Several strateThe portfolio includes prescription drugs ­securing approval for a product so that it gic acquisitions have added important as well as consumer healthcare (Cx) and can be launched in new markets. products to Meda’s portfolio, and Meda OTC products. Cx is a highly attractive Meda improves the properties of has gained a solid understanding of the area with benefits such as non-reimburse­existing products through: acquisition process (see page 8). Meda’s ment, free pricing, good margins and lim• More efficient and new formulations largest acquisition to date was completed ited generic competition. Around 60% of (EndWarts and Astepro) in 2014 when Italian specialty pharma Meda’s product sales are in Rx and around • New product combinations (Dymista) company Rottapharm was acquired. 40% are in Cx/OTC. • Internationalization of products (Novolizer) Meda does not conduct any in-house, early-stage pharmaceutical development. New products mainly come to the company through the acquisition of companies, product rights and through partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies. Growth is continually supported by investments in product and market ­development. The combination of new launches and increased investments in new markets has supported growth in 2015. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 7 Strategy and Business Model Acquisitions support our strategic direction Acquisition process and criteria Growth by acquisitions has been an important element of Meda’s Three key reasons There are three key reasons why acquisitions strategy. Over the last 15 years Meda has acquired more than have been an attractive source of growth for 30 companies and product rights around the world. This has led to Meda: strong sales growth and created significant shareholder value. • Results clearly suggest that bigger is better in the pharma industry. On average, the EBITDA margin in large pharma companies tends to be significantly higher compared to small pharma companies • The pharma industry is still very fragmented, meaning that the number of potential acquisitions will remain high and that the business model is sustainable • Acquisitions have been the key source of new business and core competence in Meda, building a foundation for organic growth 3. Cash flow 1. 1. Transaction To make the next acquisition OW TR A decision is made based on a ­possible, Meda maintains a strong FL AN ­combination of strategic and financial focus on the generation of cash objectives. Before closing the deal, 3 . CAS H flow throughout the integration S AC Meda prepares a detailed execution ACQUISITION TION process. plan for how to integrate the new PROCESS asset. This means that integration can start immediately on closing. The ful­ filment rate of these plans is normally close to 100% after 6–9 months. 2. INT E G R AT I O N 2. Integration Integrating acquisitions is a key competence at Meda. When a deal is announced it normally creates uncertainty within the acquired organization. This problem is minimized by quick, clear and respectful communication of objectives and action plans. It is stressed that what awaits is integration into Meda’s organization, values and culture, rather than a merger of two cultures. The process is facilitated by the vast experience and continuity in Meda’s acquisitions team, which makes it possible to quickly exploit the full synergy potential. The fact that a vast majority of Meda employees entered the company by way of acquisition, minimizes the risk of divisions between “old” and “new” parts of the company. Integration also includes the amalgamation of product portfolios. 8 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategy and Business Model Acquisitions and sales development 2005 2006–2007 2008–2009 2011 2013 2014 The acquisition of Viatris The acquisition of the Meda acquired the Meda acquired the Meda acquired Acton Meda acquired was of great importance 3M European pharmaEuropean business global product rights including the patented Rottapharm, its largest for several reasons. It ceutical bulsiness of Valeant thereby to Elidel from Novartis. product Aerospan, acquisition to date, transformed Meda into a strengthened Meda’s establishing Meda in Elidel is one of Meda’s expanding Meda’s adding a portfolio of pan-European specialty European product Eastern Europe. Meda most important product portfolio in strong Cx-brands as pharma company, portfolio. The MedPointe expanded its rights to dermatology products the key Respiratory well as the new key strengthened the acquisition established Dymista to Europe and in the area of atopic therapy area. The EB24 therapy area Pain and product portfolio and Meda in the US and other major markets. dermatitis. acquisition was an Inflammation. generated significant provided access to an Antula, a Nordic important addition to synergies. allergy franchise with company focusing on Meda’s OTC portfolio the market-leading OTC was acquired at and a complement to products Astelin and the beginning of 2011. CB12. Astepro, as well as the CB12 was one of the development project brands in the Antula Dymista which was in product portfolio clinical development at alongside other wellthat time. known brands such as Zyx and Naloc. ACQUISITIONS AND SALES DEVELOPMENT Acquisitions have been an important source of growth for Meda. The graph below shows how some transformational acquisitions have affected Meda’s sales. Sales, SEK billion 20 19.6 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 9 Investment story Investment Story Meda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a focus on growth products, optimized base business and acquisitions. The product portfolio has focus on selected geographical and therapy areas. The company has a clear position in the value chain, an efficient organization and strong cash flow generation. Supporting growth drivers Acquisitions drive growth in two ways The successful integration of Rottapharm Growth drivers exist on several levels, such as Acquisitions have been the primary source of ­during 2015 opened possibilities for further demographics (increasing and ageing populagrowth. Meda has been built on several transorganic growth based on an expanded position tion), economics (higher disposable income) formational acquisitions. The addition of new (Pain and Inflammation) and sustained potential and the changing structure of the pharma­ products is also key to Meda’s growth over (Respiratory and Dermatology) in key therapy ceutical market (expiring patents). Read more time. Acquisitions drive growth in two ways. areas, clinically-proven Cxand OTC products about what drives demand on the global Firstly by adding acquired revenue. Secondly – together with the increased presence in ­pharmaceutical market on page 12. by creating new organic growth opportunities Emerging Markets. which are realized through ­market and patientadapted product development and expanded geographical footprint. SALES AND EBITDA1) (SEK million) FREE CASH FLOW1)/NET SALES (%) NET DEBT/EBITDA1) 20,000 25 6 20 5 15,000 4 15 10,000 3 10 2 5,000 5 1 0 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Sales EBITDA Free Cash Flow/Net Sales Net Debt/EBITDA 1) Excluding non-recurring items. 10 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Investment story VALUE CREATION Meda has a solid foundation and a business model supported by several growth drivers. The combination of acquisitions and continously strong cash flow has been the key factors in Meda’s value creation. THREE FOCUS VALUE SHAREHOLDER AREAS CREATION VALUE NEW BUSINESS 1. IDENTIFICATION 1. PROFITABLE 1. M&A AND INTEGRATION GROWTH OF M&A CURRENT 2. EFFECTIVE BUSINESS GLOBAL BUSINESS 2. GROWTH PLATFORM AND 2. CASH FLOW BUSINESS OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY 3. CLEAR 3. BASE 3. FINANCIAL THERAPEUTIC BUSINESS FLEXIBILITY FOCUS The daily business has three focus There have been three dimenShareholder value is crucial for areas: growth business, optimized sions to Meda’s value-creation Meda. It is the result of the compabase b ­ usiness and acquisitions. efforts: ny’s value creation activities and 1. Meda has strived to grow sales 1. Identification and integration of its financial results: and create shareholder value selected acquisitions, where 1. Meda has a broad product portthrough acquisitions. These Meda has secured synergy folio and a strong cash flow. The should support the strategic gains in different parts of the cash flow has allowed Meda to direction, strengthen key thervalue chain, and has ensured finance necessary investments apy areas, increase focus on that acquired products can be in future growth, such as the promising products or attracprofitably commercialized. company’s own product and tive geographical areas, and 2. An effective, global business marketing investments, as well offer significant synergies. platform and operational effias acquisitions. 2. Around 30% of the portfolio ciency, where Meda develops 2. The investments, combined consists of products and and commercializes products with ongoing efficiency ­geographical areas with good in attractive ­markets ­supported improvements, enable Meda to growth potential. Growth is by efficient manufacturing and maintain sustainable growth in continually supported by supply, sales and marketing both profits and cash flow. investments in product and ­processes. 3. Meda has a high cash convermarket development. 3. Clear therapeutic focus, where sion rate, which means that a 3. The remaining 70% of the portMeda has a specialist role in large percentage of the comfolio consists of products with building a u­ niform product pany’s profits are converted limited growth potential, but portfolio in selected therapy into free cash flow. This has strong and stable cashflow areas and is developing the Cx allowed the company to invest generation that enables further and OTC portfolio. in the business and pay diviacquisitions. dends to shareholders over time. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 11 Market Market Continued good long-term growth The global pharmaceutical market is expected to show continued good growth in 2016–2020. According to IMS Consulting accessibility for patients. Growth and specialty medicines per 34% Group the global pharmaceutical is, however, offset by expiring pat­capita, while pharmerging markets market is expected to grow by a ents and increased use of generwill use more generics and OTC compound annual growth rate of ics. Specialty medicines, driven by medicines. 4–7% in 2016–2020, compared to new treatment options, will account 6.2% in 2011–2015. The major for 28% of total global spending in European markets are expected to 2020, up from 26% in 2015. SpeThe global pharma­ grow at 1–4% in 2016-2020, cialty medicines will continue to ­compared to 2.9% in 2011-2015. have a significantly higher share of ceutical market is In pharmerging countries growth the market in developed counexpected to grow will remain strong at 7–10%, driven tries, where it will account for 36% around 34% by 2020. primarily by wider access to health­ of spending in 2020, compared to care. The US remains however the only 12% in pharmerging markets. largest market, and good growth is The OTC share of the global expected in the coming years, and pharmaceutical market will remain will increase its share of the total stable at 13% in 2016-2020. The ­market to 41% in 2020. percentage of OTC sales is signifiBranded drugs1) are expected to cantly higher in growth markets continue to grow and will account than in Europe, North America and for more than half of the spending Japan. on medicine in 2020, driven by Developed markets will conspecialty pharma and increased tinue to use more original branded GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICAL MARKET, 2015 AND 2020 In 2015 drugs were sold for a total of USD 1,069 billion globally, according to IMS Consulting Group. Value in USD billion 1,430 1,500 1,400 1) Branded drugs – pharmaceuticals with strong brand and patents. 1,200 1,069 2) Developed markets are defined 870 900 as Canada, France, Germany, Italy, 900 Japan, South Korea, Spain, UK and US. 684 3) Pharmerging countries are defined 600 as Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, 345 375 Colombia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, 249 Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, 300 ­Romania, R­ ussia, Saudi Arabia, South 150 180 135 Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, ­Vene­zuela and Vietnam. 0 Developed2) Pharmerging3) Rest of World Global Source: IMS Consulting Group 2015 2020 low estimate 2020 high estimate 12 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Market Growth drivers Global pharmaceutical demand is mainly driven by demographic trends, economic development, and new drugs and therapies. Demographic trends nearly the entire 1.4 billion populaPHARMACEUTICAL SPENDING IN SOME IMPORTANT MARKETS A fundamental driver of drug tion by 2020. In some developed demand is the global population markets, growth is held back by Share of Value in Expected growth increase. An aging population, prithe increased use of generics as global market USD billion per year 2015, % 2015 2016–2020, % marily in Europe, North America well as efforts to control healthand Japan is driving demand for care spending. Growth is, howNorth America 40 430 5–8 pharmaceutical products for ageever, expected to increase as Western Europe 1) 13 144 4–7 related and chronic diseases. The economies recover and advances Growth markets 23 249 7–10 combination of increased medicaare made in important therapy 1) EU5 (Germany, France, Italy, UK and Spain) VA tion use per patient and a growing areas. Greater interest in prevenSource: IMS Consulting Group number of new patients is driving tive care and quality of life is drivpharmaceutical market volumes in ing demand for OTC products. the number of prescriptions and The OTC market also benefits dosages dispensed. from consumers moving from eases, can be treated with drugs. oped world. There is still an unmet Rx to Cx products to treat their Specialty pharmaceuticals targetmedical need in most therapeutic Economic development ­disease conditions. Changes in ing specific diseases are expected areas and therefore new drugs More and more people get access eating habits are also impacting to become more important going with added benefits will retain to modern healthcare and medicathe demand for products such forward, and this will support overtheir strong market potential. At tions as incomes, healthcare budas those to treat diabetes. all market growth. New, advanced the same time, more generics are gets and insurance coverage drugs can treat increasingly severe being prescribed and this continincrease in emerging markets. For Development of new drugs diseases in very small patient ues to offset growth in developed example, China is expected to proAn increasing amount of diagnogroups and these products will countries. vide basic medical insurance to ses, especially in lifestyle disgrow in importance in the develGLOBAL PHARMACEUTICAL MARKET, GROWTH RATES 2010–2020 Growth is expected to remain strong. The global market is expected to grow by a compound annual growth rate of 4–7% in 2016–2020. Growth, % 15 11.9 12 10.0 9 7.0 7.0 6.0 6.2 6 5.2 4.8 4.0 4.0 3.0 3 1.0 0 Developed Pharmerging Rest of World Global 2010–2015 actual 2016–2020 low estimate 2016–2020 high estimate Source: IMS Consulting Group MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 13 Market Rapid change, challenges and opportunities The global pharmaceutical industry is changing at a rapid pace and companies are facing major challenges. This trend brings important opportunities for specialized companies such as Meda to compete in well-defined areas. More expensive research the search for economies of scale. Many ingly specific diagnoses – and by extension, but not more drugs ­companies have also launched extensive solutions rather than products – is also driving The major pharmaceutical companies have ­rationalization programs to reduce costs in companies to further specialize. increasingly seen the patents for their blockresearch, production and sales & marketing. buster drugs expire. The cost of research for A recent driver for consolidation is tax invernew pharmaceuticals has increased considersion used by US pharmaceutical companies ably, and there are fewer blockbusters in the through an acquisition abroad and a sub­ pipeline. Instead, pharmaceutical companies sequent change of the company’s domicile. are investing in more diversified research port­Companies of all sizes and lines of business, folios containing advanced products aimed at including specialty pharma companies, have specific therapeutic areas. Existing patented been acquisition targets. products that do not fit into the new strategy may be divested, for example to specialty The value chain is breaking up pharma companies. Paradoxically, market consolidation drives fragmentation in the value chain. As competition Consolidation activity has increased increases, it is becoming increasingly difficult to The increasing cost of R&D, in combination with retain the highest level of expertise and scale in fewer new blockbusters that provide an added all segments, and companies are being forced benefit over established therapies that have to specialize in one or a few links in the chain. become generic, is driving consolidation. The There are no signs that this trend is diminishing. pharmaceutical industry is being restructured in Conversely, the trend toward drugs for increasESTIMATED FULL COST OF BRINGING A NEW CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL ENTITY (NME) TO MARKET USD million 2,000 1,600 1,200 800 400 0 1979 1987 1991 1993 2003 2012 Source: EFPIA 14 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Meda has a strength in tight cost control and development of working capital “Most of Meda’s growth through acquisitions has been debt financed. A strong cash flow generation to repay debt has therefore been a prerequisite to the grow via acquisitions.” PÄR-OLA WIRENLIND, GROUP TREASURER & HEAD OF GROUP CONTROLLING Sales and marketing Strong market presence 60 Global reach Expansion strategy Presence in more than 60 countries Growth through efficient sales and marketing Our sales organizations Meda’s sales are generated by the company’s Meda’s expansion has been based on acquisiare present in over 60 own sales organization and by third-party tions and organic growth. In 2015, sales and countries. ­distributors and licensees. The company has marketing efforts continued to focus on key 2,690 employees working in sales and marketgrowth areas, now including Pain and Inflaming in over 60 countries, and the organization is mation, both within existing markets and characterized by its efficient structure and a through internationalization. The Cx know-how high level of education among employees. was leveraged to other countries through the Meda’s market presence is the strongest in international roll-out of leading Cx brands, such Western Europe, where the company has 1,815 as Armolipid. Future opportunities for growth employees in sales and marketing. In recent were also accelerated through the launch of years significant resources have been invested new campaigns, e.g. for CB12 and the EndWarts in the sales and marketing organization in PEN. Emerging Markets. In 2015, Emerging Markets Further to driving organic growth, sales and accounted for 19% of Meda’s total sales, marketing have been also crucial processes in ­compared to 17% in 2014 and 15% in 2013. the integration of acquisitions, as success In countries where Meda has no sales orgadepends on the acquired company and/or nization of its own, the International Trade Busiproducts being quickly integrated and commerness (ITB) department is responsible for the cialized according to the Meda model. products marketed and distributed by Meda’s The Meda model reflects several of the partners. ITB operates in some 80 countries ­company’s fundamental business values: and generates significant sales for Meda. ITB • Non-bureaucratic, efficient and business uses a systematic partner process to introduce driven and market Meda’s products in new markets • Highly efficient marketing activities and (read more below). ­personal sales • Always take full advantage of the top talent and expertise in the acquired operations The integration of Rottapharm was successfully completed in 2015 leading to, among other things, a significant addition of Cx products and a stronger presence in Southeast Asia. INTERNATIONAL TRADE BUSINESS Operations in some 80 countries In the countries where Meda has no sales organization of its own, the function within Meda as it has established the Meda portfolio via International Trade Business (ITB) unit is responsible for the products a third party so that Meda can take the next step and establish its marketed and distributed by Meda’s partners. ITB operates in some 80 own new sales organizations in these markets based on established countries and generates significant sales and profits for Meda. sales and profit. This allows Meda to expand its presence in the most The ITB partner process is a systematic method to introduce and profitable way. market Meda’s products in new markets. This is an important strategic 16 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sales and marketing Approach adapted to market and product areas Significant difference between Cx products are marketed by a combination access, clinical research, drug regulatory affairs ­marketing Rx and OTC of promotion to physicians by medical repre– prior to launch is key. Quality and knowledge are the cornerstones of sentatives, endorsement by experts and mediThe marketing centers are responsible for Meda’s sales and marketing operations. Activical societies as well as pharmacists and media medical marketing which involves establishing ties are to a large extent adapted to local condichannels. Endorsement is an important driver, and maintaining relationships with worldwide tions and differentiated between markets and and is complemented by brand development key opinion leaders and international organizaproducts. There is a significant difference in public channels. tions in the therapy areas. The marketing between marketing Rx and OTC products, while It is increasingly common for individual ­centers also drive life cycle management in marketing of clinically proven Cx products patients to search for more information on Rx, close c­ ooperation with other departments. shares features with both areas. Cx and OTC products. Patients are gradually Other key tasks include providing advanced Rx products are marketed mainly through increasing their level of knowledge and their business support to the local sales organizamedical representatives, combined with trainparticipation in treatment decisions. The intertions by assisting with expertise, ideas and ing programs and seminars. Endorsement by net is a very important source of information for experience from both Meda’s own therapy experts, medical societies and recommendaall types of products. Patient organizations are areas and the company as a whole. This tions in guidelines are key for Rx products in another channel where relevant information involves handling the flow of information for all the early launch phase. Pre-marketing activican be communicated. of Meda’s products. ties, such as scientific congresses, studies etc All markets are supported by Meda’s marketAcquisitions have been core element of are also an important success factor. ing centers. The centers provide support for a Meda’s strategy and the marketing centers OTC products are primarily marketed directly group of products in a specific therapy area and ­provide in-depth knowledge on the market to consumers through a variety of media define the strategy for new launches and prod­environment as well as competition profiles for ­channels. The emphasis is on developing and uct development. Working closely with Meda’s acquisition ­targets. positioning the brands in a retail environment. other corporate departments – such as market MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 17 Sales and marketing Digital marketing increasingly important The internet is an increasingly important source products is to provide education and informaan example in 2015, Meda launched a successof information for all types of pharmaceutical tion about therapy areas, with the aim to raise ful education campaign aimed at pharmacists in products. Both professionals and consumers awareness of the benefits and availability of Finland. At year-end more than 1,500 on-line appreciate easily accessible digital information, treatment. trainings had been completed. and it is important for Meda to meet this demand. A streamlined organization with proven effiDigital marketing is facilitated by multiple Meda has therefore strengthened its experciency helps the local marketing departments channels such as social media platforms, e-mail tise in digital marketing and turned the digital to roll out a new site at a low cost. In average marketing, online PR and traditional websites. channels into strong complementary marketing Meda launched one new site a week 2015, and To specify which ones to use for each target tools. the traffic for existing sites is continuously group and leveraging on best practice examThe strategies for digital marketing differ growing as the content is constantly improved. ples from Meda’s various markets, is part of the between the two main target groups, consumOne example from 2015 is that new added ongoing work for the growing digital marketing ers and professionals, and are continually content for the EndWarts websites improved team in the company. adapted to local conditions and regulations. search-engine visibility and led to a significant A corporate digital marketing department traffic increase. Traffic increased by almost ­supports activities in the different markets with 1,200% in Germany and by more than 250% strategical and technical know-how. in Sweden. When targeting consumers, pharma compaMeda aims to establish a position as a leadnies are allowed to market brands in the Cx and ing educator of professionals within relevant OTC categories, but not Rx brands. Within Cx therapy areas. Physicians, pharmacists and and OTC, Meda has therefore established a other professionals are provided information large number of product sites containing brand about Meda’s Rx products on different platmarketing. The digital marketing strategy for Rx forms behind log-in and by e-mail marketing. As SALES TREND SALES BY GEOGRAPHY SEK million SEK million 20,000 20,000 15,000 15,000 10,000 10,000 5,000 5,000 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2014 2015 Western Europe Emerging Markets US Other sales 18 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Digital marketing growing in importance “The set up with a Global Digital Marketing team ­providing strategies, know-how and technology to the countries help the local marketing teams to focus on doing the right thing for the right audience and achieve a high ROI on the digital marketing activities.” EVA ENANDER, HEAD OF GLOBAL DIGITAL MARKETING Product portfolio Focus on selected therapy areas Meda’s product portfolio is well diversified and spans several therapeutic and ­product areas. Rx drugs account for around 60% of net sales, while non-prescription drugs – consisting of Cx and OTC products – account for around 40%. Even though Meda is involved in several therapy areas, it has three key areas: ­Respiratory, Dermatology, and Pain and Inflammation. Key therapy areas due to environmental factors such as sun expoCx products Meda is active in several therapy areas but has sure. The Pain and Inflammation therapy area is Cx includes clinically effective and scientifically a strategic focus on Respiratory, Dermatology, experiencing growth in several different indicaproven non-prescription drugs. Cx is an attracand Pain and Inflammation. In these areas, tions with rising costs for the society as a result. tive area which combines the best of Rx and Meda has been active for many years building In more mature markets, particularly in North OTC, such as non-reimbursement, free pricing, solid experience and strong networks within America and Europe, Respiratory is the third good margins and limited generic competition. the scientific community. Several of Meda’s largest therapy area in the pharmaceutical most important products are found in the key ­market and Dermatology is the tenth largest. In OTC products therapy areas, such as Dymista and Elidel. All growth markets, Dermatology is the seventh In recent years, Meda has built an extensive three areas address diseases that are increaslargest and Respiratory the tenth largest portfolio of OTC products, and now offers an ing and are causing major costs for society. ­therapy area. Pain and Inflammation is an area increasing range of OTC products in its marThere is a large unmet medical need and Meda affecting more and more people, reflecting the kets. OTC products are key complements to sees opportunities to add value for the patient increase in life expectancy. The most common prescribed drugs because they are easily through its clear therapeutic focus. indications are back pain, neck pain and knee accessible, save patients’ time and reduce cost osteoarthritis. pressures on the healthcare system. Prescription drugs Meda’s products are meeting a growing need Non-prescription drugs among patients and healthcare providers. The Non-prescription drugs have increased in need is driven by different factors, such as the importance for Meda following the acquisition growing incidence of respiratory illnesses in the of Rottapharm. The non-prescription product form of allergies and asthma, particularly in category consists of Cx and OTC products, Western Europe and North America, but also in which are categorized based on how they are growth markets. The dermatology area marketed. Sales of the 10 largest non-prescripincludes diseases such as skin cancer, acne tion drugs in 2015 amounted to around SEK and dermatitis, all of which are common condi3,722 million, re­presenting some 19% of Meda’s tions where incidence is growing. This is partly net sales. SALES PRESCRIPTION PER COUNTRY 2015 SALES NON-PRESCRIPTION PER COUNTRY 2015 US, 21% Italy, 14% Germany, 12% France, 13% Italy, 7% Sweden, 10% Sweden, 6% Germany, 8% United Kingdom, 6% Spain, 5% France, 6% US, 4% Spain, 4% Belgium, 4% Belgium, 3% Netherlands, 3% Austria, 3% Portugal, 3% Other, 32% Other, 36% 20 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Product portfolio Therapy areas and product areas1) Prescription drugs Non-prescription drugs Rx Cx OTC Aerospan EpiPen Fortilase Azep/ ­Novolizer Ialumar Respiratory Astepro Pafinur Dymista Acnatac Betadine EndWarts Aldara Babygella Naloc Dermatology Elidel Dermasol AKN Zyclara Rantudil Dona/Viartril Pain and Rheumon GO-ON Inflammation Zamadol Reparil Tambocor Agiolax CB12 Other key Thioctacid ArmoLIPID products Uralyt Legalon Zyma Saugella 1) The chart shows examples of Meda’s products within selected areas. SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2011 SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2015 SALES BY PRODUCT AREA 2015 Dermatology, 20% Dermatology, 22% Prescription Pain and Respiratory, 15% (Rx), 62% Inflammation, 17% Non-prescription Pain and Respiratory, 15% Inflammation, 14% (Cx/OTC), 36% Cardiology, 11% Cardiology, 12% Other sales, 2% Gastroenterology, 9% Gastroenterology, 11% CNS1), 9% CNS1) , 8% Metabolism/ Metabolism/vitamins, 6% vitamins, 5% Other, 12% Other, 14% 1) Central Nervous System 1) Central Nervous System MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 21 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY 15% Respiratory Allergies and asthma are among the most sone. The formulation contributes to the product ­common chronic conditions globally, ranging profile. Dymista’s efficacy and safety were from manageable to life-threatening. Allergies ­documented in several studies involving more in particular are on the rise: in 2015 close to than 4,600 patients. The drug is faster and of sales 50% of the world population was affected by more effective than the first line therapy some form of allergy, while severe allergic (azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone ­reactions (anaphylaxis) have increased several­propionate) for patients with moderately severe fold in the past decade. to severe seasonal allergic rhinitis. It can thus Rx Cx OTC Allergic rhinitis is one form of allergy and is provide more moderate to severe allergic Respiratory considered a global epidemic, affecting some ­rhinitis patients with substantial or complete 500 million people worldwide, of which around symptom relief. Dermatology 180 million are in Western Europe, US and Dymista was launched in the second half of Japan. The disease is associated with high 2012 in the US and was launched in Europe in Pain and Inflammation socioeconomic costs. 2013 and quickly captured a significant share of Other key Asthma is a chronic condition affecting the several important markets. Dymista is now products respiratory tract and lungs. It narrows the being rolled out in Emerging Markets. ­airways to the lungs due to inflammation in the air passages, resulting from both generic and AEROSPAN environmental influences. It is the most In 2013 Meda acquired Aerospan which allows RESPIRATORY, ­common chronic disease among children and Meda to market the only inhaled corticosteroid SALES PER COUNTRY 2015 an estimated 300 million individuals worldwide (ICS) treatment containing an integrated spacer. are affected. This feature ensures consistent and targeted US, 32% The cornerstone in asthma therapy is effecdelivery to the lungs for the treatment of Germany, 22% tively treating the underlying chronic inflammaasthma. External inhalation spacers are United Kingdom, 8% tion with inhaled corticosteroids while minimiz­commonly used in clinical practice and are Sweden, 7% ing systemic exposure. Optimal drug delivery to ­recommended for use with metered dose Italy, 5% the lungs is therefore of paramount importance ­inhalers in the US and in international treatment France, 3% and can be facilitated by spacers. US asthma guidelines. Spain, 2% guidelines recommend using a spacer for Aerospan is an inhaled corticosteroid which Netherlands, 2% inhaled corticosteroid therapy. is indicated for the maintenance treatment of Portugal, 2% asthma in patients six years of age and older, Other, 17% RESPIRATORY PRODUCTS and for asthma patients requiring oral corticoDYMISTA steroid therapy, where adding Aerospan inhalaAllergic rhinitis has become more difficult to tion aerosol may reduce or eliminate the need treat in recent years. More than two thirds of the for oral corticosteroids. patients have moderate to severe allergic rhiniAerospan was launched in the US in the tis. They are more likely than in the past to be beginning of the second quarter 2014. This will sensitive to multiple allergens, and around 20% allow the company to continue to grow in the of them show greater resistance to therapy. respiratory field, addressing upper and lower There is an unmet medical need for more airway conditions with its spectrum of products. effective therapy, in particular since studies have shown that many patients continue to EPIPEN ­suffer even during and after their treatment with Anaphylaxis (anaphylactic shock) occurs when existing therapies. the body’s immune system overreacts to a subDymista is a novel nasal spray that contains stance, such as a food item. It is an unpredictthe active ingredients azelastine and fluticaable condition that can be life threatening. 24 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY EpiPen is an adrenaline auto-injector used for PAFINUR the acute treatment of anaphylactic shock or Pafinur is an antihistamine used to treat various severe allergic reactions to allergens, e.g. forms of allergies including allergic rhinitis. insect bites or foods. Meda has received a label Sales of Pafinur are primarily generated in Italy extension for EpiPen and the product is now where the molecule, rupatadine, is patented. also intended for immediate administration in patients who are determined to be at increased OTHER RESPIRATORY PRODUCTS risk of anaphylaxis (including patients with a Allergospasmin history of anaphylactic reactions). People at risk Fortilase (Cx) of anaphylactic shock should always carry an Ialumar (Cx) adrenaline injector. The at-risk indication is Optivar ­further endorsed by the new guidelines of the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI). AZELASTINE Azelastine is a nasal spray for the treatment of allergic and non-allergic rhinitis. It contains the active ingredient azelastine which is an anti­ histamine. In China it is marketed under the brand Azep, and is a fast growing brand in ­allergic rhinitis. In Europe, Azep is marketed under the brands Allergodil and Rhinolast. In the US market the Azelastine trademark Astelin has largely been replaced by the life cycle product Astepro. ASTEPRO Astepro is a nasal spray used for the treatment of allergic and non-allergic rhinitis. It contains the active ingredient azelastine, which is an antihistamine. Astepro is an improved formulation of Azelastine (Azep, Astelin, Allergodil and Rhinolast) which is better tolerated and more effective. Once-daily Astepro is the first nasal antihistamine approved as a single dose for patients with seasonal allergies. The registration process is ongoing in other important markets. NOVOLIZER Novolizer is an innovative dry powder inhaler used to administer the active substances salbutamol (albuterol), formoterol and budesonide for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 25 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: DERMATOLOGY 22% Dermatology The skin is the body’s largest organ and has ALDARA many vital functions, such as protection from Aldara contains imiquimod 5%, an immuno­ microbes and the elements. Skin diseases are modulating agent for the treatment of different common in all age groups and in all parts of the forms of non-melanoma skin cancer such as of sales world. Some of the most common skin diseases small areas of actinic keratosis and superficial are eczema, psoriasis, acne and skin cancer. basal cell carcinoma (the most frequent skin tumor that rarely metastasizes), and external DERMATOLOGY PRODUCTS genital warts in men and women, an infection Rx Cx OTC ELIDEL caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV) Respiratory Atopic dermatitis (or atopic eczema) is a chronic, some subtypes of which are associated with recurring inflammatory skin disease for which cervical cancer. Dermatology the incidence is rising. It is estimated that more than 20% of all children and 2–10% of the world ACNATAC Pain and Inflammation adult population suffer from atopic dermatitis. Acne is a chronic inflammatory disease that Other key Elidel is a patented drug for the treatment of affects more than 80% of adolescents. Acnatac, products atopic dermatitis based on the ingredient indicated for the treatment of acne when pimecrolimus. It is the first class of topical prepinflammatory and non-inflammatory lesions are arations for the treatment of atopic dermatitis present, is in the launch phase. Clindamycin which does not contain a corticosteroid and (antibacterial) and tretinoin (topical retinoid) in DERMATOLOGY, therefore has fewer side-effects. Elidel has combination are more effective for the treatSALES PER COUNTRY 2015 been documented in studies involving more ment of inflammatory and non-inflammatory France, 16% than 60,000 patients. Elidel is currently availacne than each of the ingredients individually, Italy, 16% able for sale in 90 markets globally through so-called monotherapy. Acnatac has a novel Germany, 10% Meda’s own marketing organization and via aqueous-based formula that provides a better partners. In North America, Canada and safety profile than existing retinoid-based Spain, 5% ­Mexico, Elidel is out-licensed to Valeant. Elidel ­compounds and increases adherence. Acnatac Belgium, 4% is recommended in the European guidelines as has been tested clinically in more than 4,500 United Kingdom, 4% the first line treatment of atopic dermatitis in patients. Sweden, 4% sensitive skin areas (e.g. the face). In 2012, a Russian Federation, 4% study in infants and children (2,400 patients BETADINE (Cx) US, 3% treated for five years) with mild to moderate Betadine is an iodine-based antiseptic to treat Other, 34% atopic dermatitis showed that Elidel has the and prevent infections of the skin and mucous same efficacy as topical steroids without any membranes. It has a broad spectrum of antimilong-term safety concerns. crobial activity that includes gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, bacterial spores, fungi, ZYCLARA protozoa and viruses. Betadine which has been Actinic keratosis is an early stage to skin cancer on the market for more than 50 years, is that affects large areas of the skin and is a ­marketed in seven European countries through ­common type of cancer affecting an increasing Meda’s own organization. Under the Betadine percentage of the population, particularly in the brand there are six product lines addressing northern hemisphere and in Australia. Zyclara is antiseptic needs in retail and hospital markets. currently the only topical drug (used directly on the skin) that can detect and eliminate sub­ OTHER DERMATOLOGY PRODUCTS clinical (invisible) and clinical (visible) lesions of Dermatix actinic keratosis on large areas of the skin. The Efudix (5-Fluoruracil) active ingredient in Zyclara is imiquimod EndWarts (OTC) (cream) 3.75%, a formulation that allows Zyclara Kamillosan to be used on a significantly larger treatment Naloc (OTC) area than other preparations. Zyclara was Solcoseryl approved in Europe in 2012 and the launch was initiated in 2013. 26 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: DERMATOLOGY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: PAIN AND INFLAMMATION 14% Pain and Inflammation Inflammation is a process by which the body’s suggested as a first line treatment and basic white blood cells and the substances they therapy for the management of knee osteo­ ­produce protect us from infection with foreign arthritis by the European Society for Clinical organisms, such as bacteria and viruses. In and Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis and of sales some diseases, like arthritis, the body’s defense Osteo­arthritis (ESCEO). system – the immune system – may trigger an inflammatory response. In these diseases, i.e. REPARIL (Cx) autoimmune diseases, the body’s normally Reparil is used for the treatment of traumatic Rx Cx OTC ­protective immune system causes damage to injuries, edema and venous diseases. Reparil is Respiratory its own tissues. The body responds as if normal clinically proven to relieve pain rapidly due to tissues are infected or somehow abnormal. its anti-inflammatory effect. The natural extract Dermatology Osteoarthritis is a quite frequent condition in inside contributes to reduce edema, a condiwhich one or more joints are affected by a tion often present during trauma and in venous Pain and Inflammation degenerative process which, over time, leads diseases. The Reparil product family includes Other key to a progressive loss of the normal function. various brands such as Reparil Gel, Feparil and products Pain – due to the concurrent onset of inflammaVenoparil for topical treatment and also an oral tion – is the main symptom associated with this form (Reparil dragees). condition. Osteoarthritis involves the breakdown of cartilage. Normal cartilage protects a GO-ON (Cx) PAIN AND INFLAMMATION, joint and allows it to move smoothly. Cartilage GO-ON is a product based on hyaluronic acid SALES PER COUNTRY 2015 also absorbs shock when pressure is placed on injected intra-articularly, used for the treatment the joint, such as while walking. Without the of osteoarthritis of the knee and other joints Sweden, 8% normal amount of cartilage, the bones rub such as shoulder, hand and hip. It is classed as United Kingdom, 7% together. This causes swelling (inflammation) a medical device. The hyaluronic acid is derived France, 7% and stiffness. from a biosynthetic source and the highly US, 6% Pain may not be a primary issue but can be a ­standardized purification process guarantees Germany, 5% life-disrupting symptom of an inflammatory absence of immunogenic reactions and avian Thailand, 5% ­disease, since many organs do not have many virus contamination. GO-ON does not contain Taiwan, 4% pain-sensitive nerves. Treatment of organ any animal protein or exogenous DNA. inflammation is directed at the cause of inflamHong Kong, 4% mation whenever possible, while relieving the RHEUMON China, 4% most disrupting symptoms for the patient. Rheumon (Etofenamate) is a non-steroidal Other, 50% ­anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) for topical or PAIN AND INFLAMMATION PRODUCTS intra-muscular administration. NSAIDs relieve DONA/VIARTRIL (Cx) pain and reduce the inflammation and fever Dona (Glucosamine sulfate) is an osteoarthritis produced by the body’s immune system. treatment drug that acts through the modula­Etofenamate has been successfully used for a tion of cytokines, mediators of the biological number of years to treat patients with acute or genesis of the arthritis process, resulting, chronic rheumatic diseases. among other things, in the stimulation of the cartilage metabolism, joint protection, as well OTHER PAIN AND INFLAMMATION as reducing pain over time and supporting joint ­PRODUCTS mobility. The brand name family of Dona Axorid includes Viartril, Arthril, DONArot, Artrofort, Xicil Difflam and Osaflexan. Lederspan Two long-term clinical studies have shown Rantudil that Dona is able to delay the progression of Relifex knee osteoarthritis and a 6-month study Soma ­performed according to the EMA rules, Tilcotil assessed its role as a symptomatic slow-acting Zamadol drug for osteoarthritis (SYSADOA). It has been 28 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: PAIN AND INFLAMMATION PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION Rx Cx OTC Respiratory Non-prescription Cx PRODUCTS Dermatology Meda’s portfolio of consumer healthcare (Cx) medicine based on milk thistle containing silyPain and Inflammation products, which can be prescribed or recommarin with its major active ingredient silibinin, Other key mended by physicians and pharmacists, are which makes up 55% of the mixture. The particproducts backed by clinical data, which strengthens their ular selection of plants and the method of credibility and reputation with healthcare proextraction make it unique. The family of Legalon fessionals. products includes Legalon E, Legasil, Legalon Meda considers Cx products to be less susProtect, Legalon Forte, Legalon 70 and Legalon ceptible to the pricing pressures that affect Rx140. The substance Legalon is classified as a Meda’s 10 biggest products as a result of reference pricing, finandrug. non-prescription cial pressure on national health systems and the increased competitiveness of generics. ARMOLIPID products ArmoLIPID is a line of natural products classi(Cx and OTC) KEY Cx PRODUCTS fied as nutraceuticals and used for dyslipidDONA/VIARTRIL emia. ArmoLIPID and ArmoLIPID Plus are DONA Dona (glucosamine sulfate) is an osteoarthritis ­clinically tested and used when cholesterol and BETADINE treatment drug that acts through the modulation triglyceride levels are high. The formulation SAUGELLA of cytokines, mediators of the biological genesis ArmoLIPID Prev can also be used when the ARMOLIPID of the arthritis process, resulting, among other ­dyslipidemia is associated with high blood CB12 things, in the stimulation of cartilage metabolism, pressure. All these products are well REPARIL joint protection and a reduction in pain over time, ­documented and recommended by doctors. TREO as well as support for joint mobility. The brand GO-ON name family of Dona includes Viatril, Arthril, REPARIL DESUNIN DONArot, Artofort, Xicil and Osaflexan. Reparil is used for the treatment of traumatic AGIOLAX Two long-term clinical studies have shown injuries, edema and venous diseases. Reparil is that Dona is able to delay the progression of clinically proven to rapidly relieve pain due to knee osteoarthritis and a 6-months study perits anti-inflammatory effect. The natural extract formed according to the EMA rules assessed its inside contributes to reduce edema, a condirole as a symptomatic slow-acting drug for tion often present during trauma and in venous osteoarthritis (SYSADOA). It has been suggested diseases. The family of Reparil products as a first line treatment and basic therapy for the includes various brands such as Reparil Gel, management of knee osteoarthritis by the EuroFeparil and Venoparil for topical treatment and pean Society for Clinical and Economic Aspects also an oral form (Reparil dragees). of Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis (ESCEO). GO-ON SAUGELLA GO-ON is a product based on hyaluronic acid Saugella is a full-range line for daily intimate injected intra-articularly, used for the treatment hygiene. The Saugella range of products target of osteoarthritis of the knee and other joints all ages and different hygiene requirements. The such as shoulder, hand and hip. It is classed as Saugella product family includes liquid cleansa medical device. The hyaluronic acid is derived ers, cleansing wipes, gels, creams, and sanitary from a biosynthetic source and the highly towels. The Saugella products contain natural ­standardized purification process guarantees extracts with specific properties protecting and absence of immunogenic reactions and avian respecting the vaginal ecosystem, thereby virus contamination. GO-ON does not contain ­helping prevent diseases. They are promoted to any animal protein or exogenous DNA. doctors in obstetrics and gynecology (OB/GYN). LEGALON (Rx/Cx) Legalon is used for the treatment of diseases in the liver, especially liver steatosis, for the ­supportive therapy of chronic inflammatory liver diseases and liver cirrhosis. Legalon is a natural 30 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION Rx Cx OTC Respiratory Non-prescription OVER-THE-COUNTER PRODUCTS Dermatology The market for over-the-counter (OTC) ­products patented combination of zinc acetate and Pain and Inflammation is growing faster than the Rx market and chlorhexidine diacetate and the effect of CB12 Other key ­currently accounts for around 13% of the global is well documented in clinical studies and lasts products pharmaceutical market. Unlike Rx drugs, ­pricing for 12 hours as the product has the ability to is unrestricted and the products can be adhere to the oral mucosa. The brand portfolio ­marketed directly to consumers. includes mouth rinse, chewing gum and toothThe percentage of OTC products is generally paste. The CB12 product range is available in 18 higher in growth markets than in mature countries and is a growth driver for Meda in the ­markets, often due to the fact that consumers in non-prescription area. those markets have less access to advanced healthcare and reimbursement systems. In ENDWARTS these circumstances, OTC products may A wart is a small growth on the skin caused by replace Rx drugs. In more developed markets, the human papilloma virus, HPV. Warts are condemand for OTC products is driven by a tagious and can easily be transferred to other ­growing interest in self-healing, wellness and people and other parts of the body. As many as improved quality of life. 10% of the total population are suffering from OTC products are commonly sold via retail warts and among children, as many as 1 in 3 are channels such as pharmacies, drugstores or affected. supermarkets directly to consumers. This EndWarts is a powerful wart treatment, which makes it comparable to regular retail business effectively dries out warts on hands, feet, with broad advertising and trade channel elbows and knees. It contains formic acid and ­promotions. In the OTC segment the value is in the unique solution penetrates the wart deep brand names and consumers are very loyal to down to the roots and helps the body to effecwell-known brands to solve their health tively dry out and reject the wart. EndWarts is ­problems. Recommendation and reputation are easy to use and the treatment only takes a few very important in this market and therefore it seconds once a week until the wart is gone. takes time and promotional effort to build The solution is absorbed directly into the wart strong brand names. and leaves no scars. EndWarts is now also available in a conveKEY OTC PRODUCTS nient pen device for a safe and precise appli­ CB12 cation. Further life cycle projects are ongoing CB12 is an oral care product for everybody, to strengthen the brand and the position in every day. The unique composition is neutralizthe market. ing the formation of sulfur compounds, thereby providing first class breath for 12 hours. NALOC A common misconception is that bad breath Naloc treats nails affected by fungal infection or comes from the stomach. In some 9 out of 10 psoriasis and improves the appearance of discases it originates in the oral cavity when colored and deformed nails. Through a physical ­bacteria in the mouth start breaking down food antifungal effect Naloc kills the fungi that typiparticles, which forms malodorous sulfur gases cally causes nail infection. creating an unpleasant breath. CB12 contains a 32 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION Product development Late stage, market and patient-focused product development Meda is primarily active in late-stage clinical development. This department has 449 ­employees who work on development, clinical trials and drug registration. The value-generating work performed in • Development of combination products, such 449 Meda’s development department is focused on as Dymista (azelastine and fluticasone tailored clinical development programs and the ­propionate) for allergic rhinitis compilation of scientific arguments defending, • Internationalization and regulatory approval exploring and highlighting product features. of approved drugs, such as Novolizer, As a specialty pharma company, Meda ­Acnatac, Zyclara and Dymista, in new refrains from high-risk, capital-intensive early ­countries/regions employees work research. Instead the company’s resources are concentrated on development ‘close to market’ In 2015 Meda invested SEK 207 million (235) in with development, in the late clinical or registration phases. The product maintenance and development, clinical ­trials and drug focus is often on well-known active ingredients excluding costs for registration, side-effect ­registration. and improving the characteristics of existing management and quality assurance. products, for example through: • New improved formulations, such as a pen in addition to the cotton swab for the medical device product EndWarts, which contains ­formic acid for the treatment of warts MEDA’S ACTIVITIES IN THE DRUG DEVELOPMENT PHASE In the product development phase, Meda focuses on market-adapted product development through the generation of new formulations and combinations of existing products, as well as preparing ­products for launch in new countries and regions. Proof of concept Efficacy and safety File for approval Launch Market-adapted product development in late clinical phase, typically phase III 34 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Product development Products in late-stage development or launch phase RESPIRATORY OTC PRODUCTS DYMISTA ENDWARTS PEN Dymista is a novel intranasal formulation of the NOVOLIZER BRANDS The medical device EndWarts is a unique wart antihistamine azelastine and the corticoid flutiThe Novolizer is an innovative dry powder treatment which effectively dries out warts on casone propionate for the treatment of patients inhaler used to administer the active subhands, feet, elbows and knees. Meda has with allergic rhinitis. Dymista is the first and only stances salbutamol (albuterol), formoterol and developed a new applicator in the form of a pen product of its kind available worldwide. Several budesonide for the treatment of asthma and to make the use of EndWarts more convenient clinical studies, involving more than 4,600 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. New for consumers. The product was successfully patients, have supported its efficacy and safety, national marketing authorizations have been launched in 2015. A clinical study to underline including a long-term safety study of more than granted in Finland, Latvia Slovenia, Ukraine, the clinical performance vs. a placebo pen and 600 patients. Dymista provides faster and more Bulgaria and Greece. confirm safety, tolerability and usability has complete symptom relief than the current first been started. line therapy. EPIPEN Dymista was launched in the US in 2012, in Labels have been broadened for the epinephNEW DENTAL HEALTH PRODUCT LINE most European countries in 2013/2014, in Ausrine auto-injectors EpiPen and EpiPen junior. EB24 is an OTC product line for the once-daily tralia in 2014 and also in Canada, Brazil, Mexico The products are now also intended for immetreatment of dental erosion. This new product and The Netherlands in 2015. The registration diate administration in patients who are deterprotects the teeth from erosion caused by process is on-going in other markets such as mined to be at increased risk of anaphylaxis exposure to acidic food and drinks or gastric Ukraine, Belarus, South Africa, China, New Zea(including patients with a history of anaphylacacids. There is currently no effective treatment land and Thailand. Applications for Malaysia, tic reactions). The label change has so far been for this condition which is sometimes referred Philippines, Singapore and Vietnam have been approved in 2015 in several European counto as the “new caries”. Dental erosion may prepared. In addition, the local study required tries, including Germany, Sweden, Austria, impact all ages and is estimated to affect in Russia has been successfully conducted and ­Belgium, Norway, Spain, Finland, Netherlands, 15–50% of the population. full dossier submitted for registration. Luxembourg, Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, EB24 contains hydrofluoric acid highly Island, Hungary and Denmark. Further sub­ diluted in water. In studies, the product has SOCIOECONOMIC BENEFIT missions are pending for Russia and Ukraine. been shown to form an acid-resistant calcium A scientific real life study was conducted in the fluoride layer on the enamel surface protecting health claims database of an US private health DERMATOLOGY the teeth from further erosion. insurance company. It compared the cost for ACNATAC Three strengths have been developed to allergic rhinitis patients under therapy with Acnatac gel is a dermal application containing protect from mild, moderate and severe forms Dymista with those using a free combination of the retinoid tretinoin and the antibiotic of dental erosion. Manufacturing has been an intranasal corticosteroid and an intranasal clindamycin for multi-factorial treatment of acne established in Confienza, Italy. Thanks to the antihistamine. The results revealed cost benevulgaris. After having obtained registrations new center for medical device excellence in fits for Dymista when considering total cost, across Europe, applications have now also nearby Monza, a Class IIa certification by a Noticosts related to allergic rhinitis and in a sub­ been submitted in Australia and South Africa. fied Body has been achieved. This corresponds population of asthmatic patients in asthma to an approval for drugs and allows pan-Eurorelated costs. ALDARA pean marketing. The opportunity can be Two long-term head-to-head clinical trials verexploited by Meda itself or via partners/outFULFILMENT OF POST APPROVAL sus diclofenac have been successfully comlicensing. REQUIREMENT pleted. These studies were imposed by EMA as Meda completed and promptly submitted a post approval commitment. Results of the metaSTRENGTHENING OF EXISTING PRODUCTS 3-month safety and a 2-week efficacy study in analysis demonstrate significantly higher initial Meda is conducting non-interventional obserpediatric population. FDA approved the use of clearance rate and consistently lower recurvational trials to strengthen the profiles of its Dymista for treatment of symptoms of seasonal rence rate in the imiquimod group. After three global growth products such as Acnatac and allergic rhinitis in children 6 years and older. An years, imiquimod was shown to be superior in Dymista. This is backed by selected support of application to extend the current lower age limit incidence of and time to histological progresinvestigator initiated studies with registered of 12 years has also been submitted in Europe. sion to squamous cell carcinoma making Meda products such as Aldara, Zyclara, imiquimod the more sustainable treatment of ­Acnatac and Dymista. actinic keratoses. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 35 Product development Cx the consumer products The Rottapharm acquisition included a proprietary development structure for nutraceuticals with promising development projects. Meda’s consumer Cx products such as Saugella, ­Babygella, CB12 (OTC), Armolipid, Biomineral and Biothymus are geared to general consumer well-being and sustainable health and are designed to treat specific conditions. Scientific evidence gained from well-planned Intimate hygiene and cosmetics Projects are low risk, clinical studies supports their targeted effecfor babies (Saugella and Babygella) tiveness and ensures that claims are credible. Orthodermic1) cleansing of the skin is achieved involve limited cost and The active ingredients are of calibrated dose. by prebiotics2) and by bio-adhesive polymers. can be rapidly marketed Meda’s sales force conveys the scientific inforPrebiotics maintain a natural and healthy skin without reimbursement mation to the doctors and pharmacists. Proven microbiota3) whereas bio-adhesive polymers health claims validated in clinical studies differare used to prolong the exposure contact time or pricing issues. entiate Meda’s cosmetics and nutraceuticals. of the active substances. All such projects are low risk, involve limited cost and can be rapidly marketed without reimMetabolic syndrome (Armolipid) bursement or pricing issues. Metabolic syndrome is a central topic. Meda is working to keep a competitive edge with conStrategy stant innovation of products and formulations The common development strategy for all with an international foothold and to increment ­consumer products is oriented towards health the product range to cover various aspects of rather than hedonistic values and is based on the metabolic syndrome such as prediabetes, the concept of low impact to the customer by obesity, high blood pressure and high choleshaving formulas which are intrinsically “hypo­ terol. allergenic”. Allergic syndromes are in fact remarkably Oral Care (CB12 – OTC) frequent and continue to increase. This is Special focus is on the CB12 product family. ­probably related to qualitative and quantitative Improved formulations, new packaging and modifications of numerous environmental haptics will underlie good efficacy, meet oral ­factors. Therefore, Meda strives to develop care consumer needs and strengthen self-­ ­formulations which use the fewest possible confidence. number of ingredients to reduce the overall consumer exposure to chemicals. 1) Cosmetics which are intended to keep the skin in normal physiological condition, respecting the natural balance. 2) Substances like Galactooligosaccharides, Fructooligosaccharides, Xylitol that induce activity of beneficial microorganisms (bacteria and fungi). 3) The ecological community of commensal, symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms that literally share our body space. 36 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The speedy product life cycles has allowed Meda to benefit quickly from the Cx portfolio “Speed is fundamental in all parts of the product life cycle for Cx products: from the concept phase, passing through development and manufacturing, to marketing and sales. Integration with Meda has allowed an incredible ­acceleration of opportunities for robust internationalization of the Cx portfolio. The integration process has enabled us to quickly tune in to a new mind-set.” ANDREA ZANARDI, HEAD OF CORPORATE SCIENTIFIC CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Manufacturing and supply Proprietary production and external manufacturing Meda combines proprietary production with contract manufacturing of products and pharmaceuticals. In 2015 Meda’s proprietary production accounted for around 40% of the company’s volume. Meda has continuous focus on improving efficiency in purchasing, manufacturing and ­distribution. This includes finding the right balance between proprietary and external manufacturing. Meda’s proprietary production takes place at six units. Dublin (Ireland) Troisdorf (Germany) Cologne (Germany) Around 160 employees Around 240 employees Around 260 employees Production of glucosamine Multipurpose production of Production of various sulphate (API), oral solid dosoral solid dosage, liquids, gels ­preparation forms, for age and drops, for example and granules, for example ­example Novolizer. the products Dona, Zyma and Legalon, Reparil and Agiolax. Plantaben. Recently awarded At a site in Goa extruded granthe Responsible Care Award ules of Agiolax/Agiocur are (2013) from European Chemiproduced to be packed later in cal Industrial Council (CEFIC). Troisdorf. Decatur (Illinois, US) Confienza (Italy) Mérignac (France) In December 2015 Around 90 employees Around 80 employees Around 260 employees Meda announced the Production of various preparaProduction of cosmetics (liquid Production of creams, l­iquids ­divestment of its Euromed tion forms, for example Soma, soaps and semisolids) and and solutions, for example manufacturing unit, a former Astepro and Geritol. food supplements in tablets, Betadine and Elidel. Rottapharm company, for example Saugella, located in Spain. Armolipid and Estromineral. 38 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Meda’s culture an important part of the continued success “The implementation of Meda’s vision, mission and ­values was a very valuable experience that elevated our conceptual skills. In addition, the Meda business process helped to develop the strategic thinking and management skills. Meda’s product port­folio fits very well with the needs in Southeast Asia where people have improved purchasing power and are seeking to enhance their quality of life.” JIRASAK PHISITSAK, COUNTRY MANAGER, THAILAND Experience and continuity in acquisitions team “The Corporate Patent & Trademark department is responsible for managing and securing the worldwide patent and trademark portfolio of the entire Meda company, and handling the transaction of IP rights. The key is to be focused on the enforcement, maintenance, enhancement and defense of the IP portfolio as well as on providing support to all Meda affiliates regarding any IP matters.” GABRIELE ENDLER AND MANUELA KOCH, PATENTS & TRADEMARKS Sustainability report Content 41 About the sustainability report 42 Focus, objectives and performance 44 Meda in context 45 Value chain 46 Sustainability aspects 47 Product portfolio and market development 48 Manufacturing and distribution 50 Employees 52 Environment 55 Patient and consumer safety 56 Governance 59 Community engagement 60 GRI content table 63 Auditor’s report About Meda’s sustainability report 2015 Meda’s Annual Report 2015 includes the company’s complete sustainability report 2015, pages 41–63. The sustainability report 2015 constitutes Meda’s Communication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. Meda has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines since 2010. The 2015 sustainability report is Meda’s first report in accordnace with GRI 4 core. The report has been subjected to third party assurance. A complete GRI content table is presented on pages 60–62 and the ­auditor’s assurance statement is presented on page 63. Meda’s 2015 sustainability report covers all of Meda’s operations. For the first time, all sustainability data cover the previous Rottapharm units, no material limitations have been made. In late 2015 Meda divested its Euromed manufacturing unit Spain. This unit is not included in the sustainability report 2015. Also, the manufacturing unit in Goa, India that supplies Meda Troisdorf is not covered by the sustainability report 2015 as it is out of Meda’s operational control. The intention is that the Annual Report, including the sustainability report 2015, will meet the information requirements and provide a complete picture of Meda’s social, economic and environmental impact and performance. Lina Andersson, Head of Global Sustainability at Meda is the main contact for the sustainability report. Contact: lina.andersson@meda.se. Meda’s sustainability report 2015 is also presented on the company website, meda.se/csr. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 41 Sustainability report Focus, objectives and performance 2015 was characterized by the continued integration of Rottapharm and the realization of synergies. Meda’s intention for the sustainability efforts is to stay close to the business and support the overall objectives. Hence, the efforts in 2015 were focused on efficient operations. At the same time, new and increased resources were put into the company’s sustainability agenda and important activities were undertaken. A strong foundation has been created to drive further progress in 2016. Sustainability ­governance Operational and environmental efficiency • Evaluate Meda’s ­sustainability efforts • Continue to reduce Meda’s environmental and risk readiness impact. The key measurement is CO2 • Further develop internal policies emissions per employee and processes in line with the • Re-certify relevant units to ISO 14001 OBJECTIVES UN Global Compact in accordance • Begin inclusion of Rottapharm in Meda’s with the action plan ISO 14001 Group certification 2015 • Further develop internal control and the Business Conduct Guidelines with respect to communication and employee training • An overall assessment was performed • Multiple improvements were made • An anti-corruption policy was issued to com­ at the manufacturing units. Meda’s CO2 plement the Business Conduct Guidelines emissions per employee were reduced • A Business Partner and Business Ethics compared to 2014 Guideline was issued • Meda’s units that are included in PERFORMANCE • Internal communication on sustainability Meda’s ISO 14001 Group certification in general and anti-corruption in were all recertified in 2015 particular was enhanced • The inclusion of Rottapharm is • A corruption risk mapping is in progress progressing according to plan • Further develop procedures to align • Continue to reduce Meda’s environ­ with the UN Global Compact and mental impact. The key measurement international guidelines is CO2 emissions per employee • Implement Meda’s Anti-Corruption Policy • Continue the inclusion of former Rottapharm OBJECTIVES • Enhance internal communication and units in Meda’s ISO 14001 Group certification training on business conduct • Certify at least one former Rottapharm 2016 unit according to Meda’s ISO 14001 Group certification 42 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report Responsible ­integration of new business Sustainable supply chain • Include Rottapharm in Meda’s • Engage with suppliers based on sustainability framework the self-assessment i­nitiated in 2014 • Perform a sustainability risk analysis • Roll out Meda’s S ­ upplier Code of Conduct of Rottapharm across R­ ottapharm’s ­supplier base • Include relevant s­ uppliers from ­ Rottapharm’s ­supplier base in Meda’s supplier f­ ollow-up system • The inclusion of Rottapharm units • The engagement process will with proceeded according to plan supplies continue in 2016 • Communication of Meda’s Business • The roll out of Meda’s Supplier Code Conduct Guidelines and other of Conduct across Rottapharm’s ­supplier prioritized steering documents base was initiated according to plan and internal procedures • The inclusion of relevant ­suppliers from • Training of the above for country ­Rottapharm’s ­supplier base in Meda’s managers and other selected managers supplier f­ ollow-up system is progressing • No dedicated sustainability risk assessment of according to plan Rottapharm has been performed • Further refine procedures for managing • Engage with suppliers included in relevant sustainability aspects in the Meda’s follow-up system integration of new business • Perform company-wide supplier mapping • Advance procedures for managing • Perform supplier risk assessment relevant sustainability aspects in • Develop standard operating procedures relation to business partners for sustainable supply chain management MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 43 Sustainability report Meda in a broader context Significant progress has been made on improving living conditions and health globally in recent years. 2015 was the year that the Millennium Development Goals were concluded, which highlighted the ­substantial progress made on access to healthcare services and medicine since 2000. The new Sustainable Development Goals were also launched in 2015. However, inadequate access to healthcare and medicines is still a major issue in many parts of the world, and the pharmaceutical industry has an important role to play in overcoming these challenges. and eating habits, are driving demands for new fi ­ nancing or, are part of the development and Global public forms of healthcare and treatment. The industry is also being revolutionized by the growing middistribution of Meda’s products: • Patients and consumers ­healthcare dle classes in emerging markets, digitalization, enhanced mobile access to information and • Healthcare providers • Suppliers A report issued by the World Health Organization new service providers, which brings new oppor• Employees and the World Bank in 2015 shows that at least tunities to healthcare patients and consumers. • Public authorities and agencies 400 million people do not have access to one or • Owners/investors more essential health service and 6% of people • Distributors in lowand middle-income countries are tipped • Wholesalers/retailers into or pushed further into extreme poverty Creating Meda’s ability to meet stakeholder expectations is because of their personal spending on health. A new Sustainable Development Goal on health stakeholder value key for the company. Meda’s dialogue with stakeaims to ensure healthy lives and promote well­ holders is both informal and formal, and input is Meda is a specialty pharma company with the being for all at all ages, by mobilizing the relevant mostly collected during normal business proambition to provide high quality products that forces around the world and in all sectors to cesses. In 2015, Meda met with representatives meet patient needs. Our ability to create value ­identify how they can contribute to this objective. from the responsible investment and research is dependent on the relevance of our product The cost of medicine has been a prioritized community as well as participated in round table portfolio and our success in distributing issue within the public sector and pharmaceutidiscussions with investors and industry peers on ­products where they are needed. cal industry for some time, partially because sustainability. Also, Meda responded to a number Meda’s broad product portfolio includes medication is predominantly financed by public of investor surveys regarding its sustainability per­several therapeutic areas, which are well suited funds. Despite significant efforts to develop formance. Anti-corruption, climate change and supto emerging markets. The company works effective drugs at prices that make them ply chain management have been higlighted in the ­systematically to expand in emerging markets ­available to all, and innovative access-oriented dialogue. The combined input continues to drive and is proud to make products and services business models, there are still people who are and develop Meda’s approach to sustainability. available that promote health and well-being. denied the right to treatment due to cost. Antimicrobial resistance threatens the effecGENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED tive prevention and treatment of an ever-increasFINANCIAL VALUE ing range of infections caused by bacteria, parasites, viruses and fungi, as stated by the World Markets SEK million 2015 2014 Health Organization. Meda in Sweden supports the government initiatives to reduce antibiotic and stakeholders Revenue1) Operating expenses 19,685 –10,267 15,415 –8,515 resistance as one of the key priorities in the area Meda’s manufacturing and sales takes place Salaries and of public health. By offering a wide range of throughout the world, including in regions that employee benefits –2,898 –2,137 products, reviewing the portfolio of products for pose various risks. Besides its manufacturing Payments to optimization and close cooperation with the base in Western Europe and North America, providers of funds –1,217 –639 ­scientific community as well as the government, Meda is present in all continents. The company Dividend –914 –756 Meda contributes to the goal of improving an must consequently manage the relevant issues Payments to optimal use of antibiotics in Sweden. in specific regions. governments –803 –551 The pharmaceutical industry has an imporMeda’s value chain affects several stakeSocietal investments 0 0 tant role to play in promoting public healthcare holder groups. The following stakeholders have Remaining economic globally. been identified as particularly relevant as they value2) 3,586 2,817 Population growth and greater life expeceither are the purpose for Meda’s business, 1) Net sales, financial income (excluding exchange gains) and recognized gains for the sale of non-current assets. tancy, in combination with changes in lifestyles they regulate the business, enable it by 2) Excluding non-recurring items of SEK 720 million (992), see Note 11 for the Group. 44 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report Strengthening the value chain Meda’s value chain Meda’s value chain comprises four basic stages: product portfolio and market development, manufacturing and distribution, sales and marketing, and customers and end-users. The relevance, quality, price and availability of the products Meda provides are key attributes to Meda’s business and must be considered at every stage. Vision and objectives Product portfolio and market development Sales and marketing Meda’s vision is to become a world-leading The basis of Meda’s value chain is a supply of Meda’s understanding of customers and specialty pharma company with a focus on safe and high quality products that promote life ­market drivers are vital for sales and marketing. ­sustainable and profitable growth, in order to quality for patients and consumers. Market Customer understanding ensures the right provide value for our patients, shareholders insight and the ability to identify needs and positioning for each product across markets to and other stakeholders. preferences are essential. By building capacity provide market access. Meda aims to lead the market in certain within product portfolio and market developPreferences vary across Meda’s markets but areas of prescription and non-prescription ment, as well as identifying potential acquisithe overall trend is clear; the sustainability products. The company is dedicated to tions, Meda has maintained a relevant portfolio ­performance of the company and its products is ­providing products that serve society by and expanded its market access and presence. gaining relevance to customers, particularly for ­promoting the well-being and quality of life of Meda has managed its product and market big brands and public sector customers. Meda’s individuals. In order to achieve this, Meda shall development by successfully integrating sustainability performance and capabilities will be innovative, fast growing and open to acquired companies, by wisely selecting its have to further evolve for the company to ­different commercial models. partners and by hiring skilled and develop­continue to be relevant and profitable. This is ment-oriented employees. It is increasingly particularly true in highly competitive environIntegrating sustainability important to properly manage various sustainments where the cost of goods and product Assessing Media’s impact across the entire ability related risks, particularly as regulations pricing remain key competitive features. It is value chain helps the company to identify risks continuously change and new markets become essential that Meda provide conditions and and opportunities, and pinpoint what is most interesting for Meda. resources that enable employees and others important in order to achieve sustainable and representing the company to act correctly. profitable growth. Manufacturing and distribution Well-functioning sourcing, manufacturing and Customers and end-users distribution processes are key to providing Meda’s customers are a variety of health profeshigh-quality products. This includes maintaining sionals, wholesalers and individual end-users. and improving operational efficiency and cost Meda and its brands must be trusted by customcontrol, as well as securing supply chain integers, be relevant to their needs and preferences, rity and quality assurance. Recalling products is and must be available when they are needed. costly in all aspects. Access to accurate information and minimal risk Meda’s supply of goods relies on own manuof negative side effects are fundamental for facturing as well as contract manufacturing. end-users. Meda works systematically to secure Suppliers of input materials and finished goods quality and safety, to maintain effective supply are significant to Meda’s operations. Meda’s and to understand its customers. Meda’s relacapability to assess various relevant parametionship with end-users include being available ters within sourcing and contract manufacturing for questions about the products and providing is key. The purpose is to ensure high standards information in case of side effects. of health and safety, labor conditions and enviMeda creates value by supplying high quality ronmental work within its own manufacturing products that meet users’ needs, at affordable and its suppliers. These aspects become even prices. By running its business responsibly, more material as they are increasingly Meda creates value on multiple levels – for ­scrutinized by Meda’s customers and other key ­individual health, for society by contributing to stakeholders. Finally, Meda manages manu­ public health, for our owners by being profitfacturing and distribution by complying with able, and for the environment by mitigating Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). GMP also negative impacts. applies to Meda’s suppliers. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 45 Sustainability report Material aspects along the value chain To identify the most significant aspects and Sustainability. The group used the value ity management in the supply chain, employee throughout the value chain is key to mitigate chain to map sustainability aspects significant development, and business ethics and anti-­ risks and manage opportunities, and is essento Meda’s value chain. The participants also corruption was highlighted. This is thought to be tial to become a world leader in the specialty graded various sustainability aspects, accorddue to greater general interest in sustainability, pharma industry. Meda intends to keep sustaining to their importance to Meda’s business. more clearly articulated customer expectations ability efforts close to its core business, and to In parallel to the workshop, country and stricter regulations, along with the 2014 make constant improvements. ­managers from Meda’s six largest and most acquisition of Rottapharm and Meda’s continMeda has ongoing dialogue with stakeholdstrategically important markets also ranked ued expansion in emerging markets. ers about prioritizing sustainability aspects, and sustainability aspects as part of a survey. They Based on the initial analysis, the most material stakeholder input is regarded by the company were requested to rate a list of aspects in the sustainability aspects to Meda’s vision of sustainwhen defining its sustainability focus areas. areas of: product quality, operational & environable and profitable growth have been identified. mental efficiency, supply chain and purchasing, Product quality and consumer and patient safety Updated materiality analysis employee management, ethics & compliance are the most important aspects as they are In 2015, Meda performed its second materiality and economic performance. directly linked to the relevance and legitimacy of assessment. A workshop was conducted, with the company. Meda’s ability to manage them are representatives from the following company Confirmation of earlier assessments key to all the company’s stakeholders, directly or functions: Group management, Accounting and The results of the 2015 materiality assessment indirectly. Reporting, Human Resources, Quality Assurwere similar to the assessment from 2013. Howance, Sales and Marketing, Strategic Purchase ever, a slightly greater emphasis on sustainabilAspect material to Meda’s business Corresponding GRI aspect Aspect boundary Business integrity and accountability Anti-corruption Within and outside of Meda Compliance Consumer and patient safety Customer health and safety Within and outside of Meda Contribution to public health and wellbeing Customer health and safety Within and outside of Meda Supplier environmental assessment Employee (talent) attraction and retention Employment Within Meda Diversity and equal opportunity Employee development Training and education Within Meda Employee health and safety Occupational health and safety Within Meda Market access and customer retention Economic performance Within and outside of Meda Market presence Operational and environmental efficiency Energy Within and outside of Meda Water Emissions Compliance Effluents and waste Product quality Customer health and safety Within and outside of Meda Risk management in the acquisition process Anti-corruption Within and outside of Meda Compliance Sales and marketing practices Marketing communications Within and outside of Meda Supply chain management Supplier assessment for labor Within and outside of Meda practices Supplier environmental assessment Synergies in mergers and acquisitions Employment Within and outside of Meda Economic performance The table displays aspects identified as material to Meda, the corresponding aspect according to GRI’s guidelines, as well as the aspect boundaries; whether the aspects are material within and/or outside of Meda. Most of these aspects confirm Meda’s current prioritized areas. The materiality analysis was initiated in late 2015 and the connected stakeholder ­dialogue will continue into 2016. The results will be used to refine Meda’s approach to sustainability. 46 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report Product portfolio and market development Meda’s growth strategy has involved a combination of organic growth and acquisitions, although acquisitions have been the main driver of Meda’s expansion to date. Acquisition has been an important means for oped its port­folio through market adapted Responsible integration Meda to develop its product portfolio and to product development, and through acquisiOne of Meda’s focus areas has been the ­better meet the needs of patients and consumtions. Each product manager at Meda works to responsible integration of newly acquired ers – to develop the company’s market. This has maintain and enhance the competitiveness of ­businesses. Extensive investigation precedes involved either the acquisition of a single the company’s portfolio for the different maran acquisition, and certain sustainability factors ­product, a product range, a branch or an entire kets, partially by modifying the product or the are part of the investigation process. The acquicompany. combination of products to more precisely meet sition and integration process includes implepatient and consumer need. menting company-wide guidelines such as Relevant product portfolio Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines, the InterThe supply of safe and high quality products Acquisitions as a growth driver nal Control Procedures and the Delegation of that promote life quality for patients and conFrom 2000 to 2014 Meda made more than 30 Authority. The acquired company is expected sumers is the foundation of Meda’s business. major acquisitions of companies and product to implement the guidelines and Meda moni­ The relevance of the products and the portfolio rights, which have helped to develop a relevant tors the harmonization and implementation will determine the company’s business success. product portfolio. In 2014, Meda secured the ­process through communication and internal Meda is not an R&D focused company. It does acquisition of Rottapharm, its most significant to controls. Relevant persons and functions within not invest significant means in early-stage proddate. Read more about acquisitions on pages the new affiliates have received dedicated uct development nor does it conduct early6–10. training in the above guidelines. stage clinical research. Meda has rather develDona is one example of the inter­ national rollout and commercialization of leading brands from the ­Rottapharm acquisition. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 47 Sustainability report Manufacturing and Distribution Meda both manages its own manufacturing operations and contracts external manufacturing partners. Operational and environmental efficiency is one of Meda’s focus areas and the combination of own ­manufacturing and contract manufacturing allows flexibility and access to specialist processes, whilst ­providing adequate cost control. Consistent standards sustainable procurement as an enlarged orga• Excipients suppliers Meda’s own manufacturing units are located in nization following its recent acquisitions. Meda • Packaging materials suppliers France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the US. is a decentralized company and sustainability • Logistics suppliers External partners manufacture more than half considerations are made locally as part of key the products that Meda supplies to the market. business processes. This is also the case within By the end of 2015, the system covered 108 The same standards and requirements on procurement and therefore, Meda has estabsuppliers in 22 countries, including suppliers in ­quality, safety and delivery reliability along with lished a sustainable procurement network over multiple European countries, China, India and other significant parameters apply to both the past two years. The network includes key the US. Meda’s own manufacturing units and contract employees from purchasing, quality, supply The supplier monitoring process consists of manufacturers. chain management and sustainability. In 2015 a standardized survey based on Meda’s SupFor each pharmaceutical product that Meda an action plan was set to promote integration plier Code of Conduct, the UN Global Compact brings to market, a permit is required from the and performance. The key components are: principles and other relevant internationally national medical agency. Permits cover the • Setting up the network and organization recognized standards. Each supplier will quality of the finished product, quality of the • Supplier mapping receive a rating based on the survey, which input materials, and tractability throughout the • Supplier risk assessment forms the basis for a more detailed analysis on value chain, among other parameters. In addi• Development and integration of standard whether further follow up and a targeted audit tion, non-pharmaceutical products are covered operating procedures on sustainable supply is required. by various quality and safety requirements that chain management The majority of Meda’s suppliers operate in must be fulfilled before the product is brought Europe and North America. However, the to market. Monitoring compliance ­acquisition of Rottapharm and the general trend Meda monitors supplier performance with selfin the industry to concentrate raw material Strict requirements assessments, analysis and site audits. Meda ­suppliers to Asia brings increased exposure to Meda enforces strict standards internally and performs regular supplier audits to verify comsuppliers in countries where sustainability risks for suppliers, which are based on the Good pliance with the GMP requirements. Sustainare deemed to be high. Meda has a good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Meda’s ability management is reviewed to varying ­overall understanding of the risks, operations ­standards and procedures aim to ensure that all degree during quality audits. As the extent and and performance of these suppliers. pharmaceutical products that Meda brings to quality of integration of sustainability varies In 2015, Meda began further enhancing its market fulfill the GMP. The GMP is the industry between markets, Meda plans to evaluate the understanding of the company’s supply chain standard covering areas such as quality, safety possibility of creating a common approach. No and potential supply chain risks. This work also and ethics. dedicated sustainability audits were performed aims to identify and to promote synergies in the Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines cover in 2015. purchasing processes. ethics, working environment, labor and employMeda has an established system to commument terms, environmental impact, animal welnicate its Supplier Code of Conduct and follow Distribution fare and management systems. The relevant up on supplier’s sustainability management. Meda’s products are primarily distributed by supplier requirements are detailed in Meda’s In 2015, suppliers that were formally part of local service providers. Meda has contracts Supplier Code of Conduct. Meda holds a group Rottapharm were integrated into Meda’s supply with wholesalers, or independent distributors in certificate according to ISO 14001, and in 2015 chain management system, together with logismarkets where the company lacks own reprethe work to integrate the former manufacturing tics suppliers. As of 2015, the system covers sentation. units of Rottapharm into the certification began. direct Meda suppliers with a purchasing volume Meda is working to better understand the exceeding SEK 5 million. The supplier groups ­distributors’ ability to comply with its Business Sustainable supply chain are: Conduct Guidelines. The distribution of Meda’s Sustainable supply chain is one of Meda’s focus • Active pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers products will be included in the supply chain areas. In 2015, Meda intensified its work with • Contract Manufacturers improvement activities described above. 48 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The sustainable procurement network consists of people from the quality, purchasing, supply chain and sustainability functions. From left to right: Lina Andersson, Head of Global Sustainability; Danilo Vertemara, Materials Manager at Meda’s production plant in Dublin; Sabine Jean-Dubourg, Supply and Sustainable Purchasing Manager at Meda’s production plant in ­Mérignac and Matthias Engler, Strategic Purchasing. Founding member, Lawrence Levey, Director Supply Chain, Meda in the US, is missing in the picture. Sustainability report Employees As Meda grows and utilizes the benefits of being a global company, it strives to retain the characteristic of being a lean and fast moving company. At Meda, this means a decentralized and effective organization with short decision paths. The Meda Way tions. The process typically involves clear All employees in France, Italy and Sweden are Meda’s vision, mission and company values are ­communication, transparent processes, training covered by collective bargaining agreements. the foundation for a common approach throughand consistent implementation. Guiding local The share in Germany is about 64%1). out the company. They provide a platform and decision makers in implementing Meda’s way allow employees, departments and countries to of operating into their local context, and being Professional development find common ground. It is the responsibility of present to demonstrate leadership and engageThe skills, good judgment and drive of Meda’s each country organization to work with the ment, are also important components of employees highly influences the company. ­values and make them relevant in their local ­successful integration. Meda aims to be an attractive and supportive ­context. Also, Meda’s corporate ­values have workplace that offers opportunities and stimubeen important in the integration of Rottapharm. Meda’s workforce lating assignments. Professional development In 2015, one year after implementing the At the end of 2015, Meda had 4,156 (4,675) is based on individual employee needs and ­values, Meda followed up how employees employees and 461 (527) contractors, primarily Meda has a structured professional develop­perceive the values; if they find them relevant in in sales and marketing. Out of Meda’s total ment process in place, with a particular focus their day-to-day business, how they live the workforce, 151 (159) were employed on a on product training. ­values and if they are aware of role models in ­temporary basis. Employee development capabilities vary their organization. Workshops were held with As the company grows and realizes across Meda’s entities as it is a local responsibilselected groups of employees. The follow-up ­synergies, Meda strives to achieve a balance ity. During 2015, Meda revised its bonus system will continue in 2016. between bringing in new competence and to ensure that company incentives drive the ­taking advantage of existing experience. desired efforts and support business objectives. Integrating acquired companies Recent acquisitions and integration efforts have Acquisition has been a fundamental part of resulted in an above average employee turnDiversity and equal rights Meda’s growth strategy, and identifying inherover. In 2015, 1,160 (764) employees left Meda At the end of 2015, 54% (56) of Meda’s employent synergies with Meda’s business has been either by resignation, retirement, dismissal or ees were female and women held 37% (39) of key to successful acquisitions. From a human outplacement. Meda’s employee turnover was management positions. Meda strives to increase resources perspective, 2015 was dominated by 28% (16). Employees who are affected by the proportion of female managers by clearly the integration of Rottapharm. Meda drew on its ­organizational changes are offered support in defining skill requirements for each position extensive experience of integrating acquisicompliance with local legislation and practices. and by monitoring progress. EMPLOYEES PER FUNCTION, 2015 WORKFORCE EMPLOYEES AND DIVERSITY 5,000 4,000 Men, 63% 3,000 Women, 37% 2,000 Sales and marketing, 60% 1,000 Manufacturing, 20% 1) All Meda’s employees have the right to collective bargaining agreements Development, 10% 0 and to join a union. Meda does not collect data for all entities within the Administration, 10% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 group, only for the above reported countries. Men Women 50 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report Meda is committed to safeguarding employee EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER rights and opportunities. Meda’s Business ­Conduct Guidelines state that all employees and 2015 2014 applicants are to be treated equally. Women Men Women Men Discrimination based on gender, gender Europe1) 1,714 1,393 2,091 1,651 ­identity or gender expression, ethnicity, religion US 243 234 262 229 or other belief systems, disability, sexual orien­ Asia 197 190 187 142 tation, age or any other personal characteristic is strictly prohibited within Meda. No case of Other countries 81 104 70 43 ­discrimination was reported in 2015. Total 2,235 1,921 2,610 2,065 1) Including Turkey and Russia Health and safety at Meda Meda shall provide safe, healthy and pleasant workplaces for its employees. Meda has dediEMPLOYEES AND DIVERSITY cated employee and workplace handbooks according to local common practice to promote 2015 2014 compliance with relevant occupational health Women Men Women Men and safety legislation. Sales and marketing 1,320 1,139 1,550 1,146 All employees are entitled to form or join labor Production and warehousing 374 467 393 531 unions, and Meda works actively with unions on Medical and development 304 122 351 159 health and safety issues. Factory and laboratory employees are Administration 237 193 316 229 ­particularly exposed to health and safety risks Total 2,235 1,921 2,610 2,065 and these units have specific health and safety procedures. Travelling sales representatives are exposed to traffic risks and Meda organizes NEW HIRES safety and eco driving training in Germany and Sweden, to raise awareness and promote safer <30 years 30–50 years >50 years driving. Good planning among sales teams that Women Men Women Men Women Men consider logistics when making appointments with customers is key in promoting safety as well Europe1) 54 41 156 98 18 19 as reducing fuel consumption. Incidents and US 11 10 26 23 5 10 accidents are followed up and steps are taken to Asia 30 47 14 98 1 9 prevent similar incidents from reoccurring. Other countries 4 3 14 23 – 1 In 2015, a total of 63 (44) work-related injuries Total 99 101 210 242 24 39 were reported. The incidents mainly involved 1) Including Turkey and Russia mild trip, slip or fall injuries as well as traffic ­incidents. Meda is dedicated to minimizing risks and strives to eliminate work-related accidents. SICK LEAVE (%) Sick leave was 2.6% (3.1) in 2015, and absence for 60 days or more was 0.6% (1.0). Health 2015 2014 2013 2012 ­monitoring and measures are managed at the local level. Women 3.1 3.7 4.0 3.6 Men 2.2 2.4 2.2 2.4 Going into 2016 Total 2.6 3.1 3.2 3.1 In 2016, Meda’s human resources management will focus on succession planning and efforts to <30 years 2.1 2.0 2.4 2.7 ensure that Meda has the right employee competencies to meet current and future demands. 30–50 years 2.4 3.1 3.0 2.9 >50 years 3.5 3.8 3.9 3.9 Continous sick leave >60 days 0.6 1.0 1.0 0.9 INDEFINITE CONTRACT EMPLOYEES, WORK RELATED INJURIES AND DISEASES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE Injury rate1) Lost day rate2) Sick leave (%) Full-time Part-time Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Europe3) 20 36 84) 16 3.5 2.7 2,003 1,901 232 20 US 0 4 – 2 3.0 1.6 Asia 0 0 – – 0.5 0.3 Other countries 0 0 – 0 1.4 0.3 1) Including contractors 2) Including contractors, excluding occupational disease 3) Including Turkey and Russia 4) Of which 4 relates to contractors MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 51 Sustainability report Environment Operational and environmental efficiency is one of Meda’s focus areas. The aim is to reduce Meda’s environmental impact and the company works to continuously improve its performance. The company’s environmental management system has been ISO 14001 certified since 2009 and the certificate was renewed in 2015. Priority areas include energy consumption, material consumption, hazardous waste and water management. Meda’s environmental impact primarily of including former Rottapharm units into the WATER1) derives from: company ISO 14001 certificate also began. • Energy consumption, emissions Addressing environmental impact in the 2015 and waste during production ­supply chain is also considered important to Withdrawal, m3 • Energy consumption at offices Meda’s overall environmental performance. Surface water 28,000 and other premises Ground water 30,576 • Emissions from goods Objectives and management Rainwater 0 transportation and travel Meda’s manufacturing units have local objectives for energy, carbon emissions, waste, and Waste water 47,472 Environmental Policy in some instances wastewater. These objecMunicipal water 124,332 Meda’s Environmental Policy states that the tives are closely monitored and regularly Total 230,380 company is to: revised. Performance is reported to Meda Recycled and reused • Comply with all applicable Group on a quarterly basis, within the frameRecycled/reused, total 23,009 environmental laws and regulations work of the environmental management sysRecycled/reused, share of • Consider commercial opportunities and tem. All relevant units perform internal audits at withdrawal 10% risks from an environmental perspective least once year and annual third party environ• Reduce energy consumption mental audits are conducted for all relevant Discharge • Consider environmental impacts when units. Own water management facility 13,404 purchasing goods and services Examples of Meda’s efforts to reduce its enviMunicipality waste water treatment • Ensure the safe and responsible ronmental impact include the implementation plant 113,097 management of chemicals of energy management systems, further moniRecipient 1,845 • Limit water consumption and toring of energy consumption and emissions, Total 128,346 waste generation eliminated use of oil, increased waste recycling • Operate in accordance with ISO 14001 and product development. Quality of water, kg • Raise environmental awareness among All the relevant units have taken appropriate Chemical oxygen demand load 80,242 managers and other employees action to comply with the EU Energy Efficiency Total suspend solids 2,895 Directive. The unit in Cologne was certified Other2) 37,970 Manufacturing according to ISO 50001 in 2015. Meda’s efforts to reduce environmental impact Quality of water, m3 primarily concern the company’s manufacturing Waste and wastewater Total suspend solids 370 1) Meda manufacturing and development units. units in Germany, France, Ireland, Italy and the As Meda’s manufacturing units are only 2) Including sulphates, oil, fats and grease. US, which formulate and package pharmaceutiengaged in formulating and packaging pharmacals and other products. All units have the releceuticals, the amount of waste generated is vant environmental permits required by local ­relatively small and solvent emissions to air are law and EU regulations. All units are monitored negligible. Waste mainly consists of process and no significant deviations or cases of nonwater, primarily from equipment cleaning. The compliance were noted in 2015. Meda’s ISO volume of hazardous waste generated is rather 14001:2004 group certificate1) was renewed in low and only small amounts of pharmaceutical 2015, which involved comprehensive external ­residue are generated. All waste is handled in audit on management, objectives and perforaccordance with the relevant laws and estabmance on all units. During the year, the process lished routines. In addition, all treatment plant 1) Covers manufacturing units in Cologne, development in Radebeul and corp. office in Bad Homburg, Germany, manufacturing in Merignac, France and Decatur, US, and corp. office and sales in Solna, Sweden. 52 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report facilities have environmental permits to release per net sales of SEK thousand. Direct ­emissions WASTE1) process wastewater together with regular result from heating and the use of company wastewater, and discharges are within the cars. Indirect emissions are derived primarily 2015 ­compliance of their permits. No spills occurred from electricity consumption. Hazardous waste, tons in 2015. Reused 0 Reducing emissions Recycled 68.8 Pharmaceutical residue The most important short-term measure for Recovery, incl. energy rec. 83.6 Pharmaceutical residue in the environment is reducing CO2 emissions is energy consumption Incineration (mass burn) 55.1 an essential industry issue. The risk of environin Meda’s plants and office buildings. Meda has mental impact from pharmaceutical residue implemented steps to reduce electricity Landfill 0.2 from individual Meda products depends on the ­consumption. The company will also continue On-site storage 46.9 specific substances, their inherent properties, its efforts to improve goods transportation Other 3.9 and the quantities in which they are manu­ ­efficiency by promoting better coordination. Total 258.5 factured and used. In addition, the risk depends Another activity involves promoting alternatives Non-hazardous waste, tons on the manufacturing stage and the processes to business travel, such as tele and video employed. ­conferencing. Reused 121.4 The company’s environmental management Product and process development is also Recycled 1,337.2 system enforces proper procedures to monitor part of reducing emissons. In 2015, Meda’s Composting 4.2 and manage pharmaceutical residue in the manu­facturing unit in Mérignac was selected Recovery, incl. energy rec. 447.4 environment from Meda’s own manufacturing. for a government sponsored project in France. Incineration (mass burn) 165.9 Meda’s units comply with the relevant regulaThe project was about applying new tech­ Landfill 167.5 tory requirements concerning the documentanology to quantify environmental and emission On-site storage 31.2 tion of pharmaceutical residue in aquatic envisavings when modifying a product. Other 100.0 ronments that arise from pharmaceutical use. In the longer term, Meda will look into how it can further develop products and processes, as Total 2,374.7 1) Meda manufacturing and development units. Energy and emissions objectives well as work with prioritized suppliers to reduce Reducing energy consumption and greenCO2 emissions. house gas emissions is Meda’s top environMeda offsets the climate impact of its mental priority. The objective is to reduce CO2 ­Swedish operations by investing in certified emissions per employee every year compared Clean Development Mechanism projects. with the previous year. This objective was intended to create trickle down effects throughCarbon disclosure out the business. With an emissions figure of Meda participates in the Carbon Disclosure 8.61) (9.12)) metric tons emissions per employee Project (CDP). In the CDP Nordic Report 2015, in 2015, Meda met its objective of a reduction Meda was included in the Climate Disclosure compared to 2014, by 5%. Leadership Index for the second year in a row. In 2015, Meda’s total direct and indirect CO2 Meda’s 2015 CDP reporting was awarded a emissions amounted to 35,698 (28,972) metric score of 99 B/100 A (95 B). For more informatons, which equates to 1,817 (2,097) metric tons tion on CDP, go to cdp.net. CARBON EMISSIONS, TONS 1)  These emission values are based on actual data from all Meda’s production and development units and other operations in Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, ­Sweden 2015 2014 2013 and the US. CO2 emissions for the entire company were extrapolated from this data. Adjusted to include all Meda’s units since the Rottapharm acquisition. Scope 1: 2) Data for business trips and no. of employees 2014 has been corrected. Gas and oil1) 8,136 5,569 6,245 Company cars 9,243 7,781 7,619 Scope 2: Electricity 10,503 8,243 9,226 Scope 3: Business trips 3,346 3,4632) 3,258 CARBON EMISSIONS PER REGION ENERGY USE Commuting 4,470 3,915 2,900 Supply chain NA NA 5,300 Germany, 38% 2015 2014 Total 35,698 28,972 34,5483) US, 14% Natural gas, m3 3,684,651 2,877,302 Per employee 8.6 9.1 11.34) France, 10% Natural gas, GJ 143,738 112,244 Scope 1: D  irect emissions from CO2 sources owned or controlled by the reporting organization. Ireland, 5% Electricity, MWh 32,388 24,472 Scope 2: I ndirect emissions caused by the organization’s Italy, 2% consumtion of energy. Electricity, GJ 116,598 88,099 Scope 3: O  ther indirect emissions that occur as a result Sweden1), 2% of the organization’s activities. Other units2), 29% Meda does not report on emissions in the supply chain since 2013 due to lack of reliable data. 1) No production in Sweden. 2) These emission values are based on actual data from all Meda’s production 1) Cover Meda’s manufacturing units. No oil in 2015. 2) Data for business trips and no. of employees 2014 has been corrected. and development units and other operations in Germany, France, Ireland, 3) Excluding supply chain: 29,248. Italy, ­Sweden and the US. CO2 emissions for the entire company were 4) Excluding Supply chain: 9.3. extrapolated from this data. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 53 Open communication with new colleagues “Interaction with our new colleagues has been characterized by open communication and a collaborative approach. We are very pleased to become the first site from Rottapharm to be included in Meda’s 14001 Group ­certification. ISO 14001 represents a great opportunity to bring all our ­systems and ­programs together within a certified scheme that will help us to improve even further.” PAT GARRAHY, PLANT MANAGER IRELAND Sustainability report Patient and consumer safety Meda’s mission is to provide effective and safe products that improve people’s lives. Consequently, the health and safety of patients and ­consumers is always Meda’s top priority. Access to healthcare and medicine is what the Animal studies Pharmacovigilance pharmaceutical industry is all about. The proviMeda is committed to minimizing the use of The use of any pharmaceutical poses the risk of sion of relevant products and services deter­animal studies. The pharmaceutical industry side effects, in various forms and degrees. The mines which companies will thrive in the long has made considerable progress on alternasimultaneous use of multiple medicines or the term. Meda’s business is to help improve tives to animal studies when developing drugs. consumption of foods or beverages can alter a access to healthcare and medicine. For Meda, However, animal studies are sometimes drug’s effect. Meda has its own pharmacovigithis equates being effective and ­successful in ­mandatory. Meda only conducts animal studies lance departments across the world working to its business. This is the company’s greatest when it is required by regulation and is fully ensure that medicines are used safely. long term contribution to society. ­justified. Meda’s pharmacovigilance departments Meda enforces strict standards to ensure the As Meda’s product development is essenapply periodic reporting and risk management safety and quality of all products that Meda tially focused on late-phase studies, the need plans, among other routines, to ensure drug brings to market. The Good Manufacturing for animal studies is very limited. When animal safety. The objective is to investigate, detect Practice (GMP) standards are applicable to all studies are required, an Animal Care and Use and prevent any adverse effects from the use of pharmaceutical products and the requirements Committee must approve the case and Meda’s pharmaceuticals. Changes to the basic are the same regardless of location of manufac­procedures. Meda complies with the relevant information about a drug are made when turing. Also the non-pharmaceutical products guidelines and regulations relating to animal ­necessary, or restrictions may be placed on the are covered by safety and quality guidelines. studies, such as those established in Good use of a product. All potential side effects are Learn more on page 48. ­Laboratory Practice guidelines according to reported to the relevant regulatory authority in ISO 17025 and the OECD Principles of Good each country. Clinical trials Laboratory Practice. In 2015, there were no significant pharma­ Meda focuses on product development in the In 2015, 15 (1) animal studies were performed, covigilance incidents. late clinical or registration phases. By these as demanded by authorities and regulating phases, the products have already been tested bodies. They concerned drugs, medical Complaints and product recalls on humans several times. In the event of devices and cosmetics. The increased number Meda has an established system for handling ­products requiring clinical trials, Meda enlists of animal studes is due to the expansion and medical and technical complaints. All comthe help of specialized research companies. launch of new products to new markets. plaints are investigated and corrective meaMeda is committed to conducting clinical trials sures taken where necessary. Meda registers in an ethical manner. Pharmaceutical registration all complaints, which allows the company to Meda’s policies and procedures concerning Registering pharmaceutical products with the monitor trends and track recurrent complaints. clinical trials ensure compliance with best authorities is required before a new or modified By working in accordance with procedures and ­practice guidelines such as the EU 2001/20EC, product can be launched. All of Meda’s marketguidelines such as the GCP, GMP and quality ICH Good Clinical Practice (GCP), Good Manuing companies have local registration experts assurance, Meda aims to supply products that facturing Practice (GMP) and the Declaration of who manage the registration of new and fulfill all legislative requirements and that can Helsinki. ­existing products. They also monitor and be used safely. During the year, Meda did not 13 (9) clinical trials for drugs, medical devices, ensure that products are developed in accorrecall any products to safeguard patient or food supplements and cosmetics were dance with ­relevant legislation, public authority ­customer safety. ­performed in 2015. The trials for drugs were requirements and guidelines. To guarantee that performed to expand registrations, fulfill posta product is used correctly and for the right Key guidelines that Meda complies with: approval commitment as per regulations and to ­purpose, Meda also works in cooperation with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) substantiate market claims. The trials for coslocal registration and pharmaceutical authoriGood Clinical Practice (GCP) metics, food supplements and medical devices ties on producing prescription information and Good Distribution Practice (GDP) were performed to check and validate the user directions. Good Pharmacovigilance Practice (GPvP) safety and efficacy profile of the products. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 55 Sustainability report Sustainability governance Meda’s governance and conduct program is designed to help the company operate with ­integrity and fulfill overall business objectives. Effective governance is part of ­efficient operations. At Meda, this work is characterized by constant improvements. Ethical conduct ual responsibility of each Meda employee to ruption risk assessment, which will guide the In 2015 several major corporate scandals consider them in their daily activities. The development of companywide procedures. emphasized the need of strong governance. guide­lines are available on Meda’s global They proved that the cost of poor conduct is intranet and corporate website. Monitoring compliance high. At the same time, legislation as well as The guidelines include business ethics and Monitoring compliance with the Business Conindustry and corporate guidelines are evolving, the company’s relationships with employees, duct Guidelines and Internal Control Standards placing demands on companies to be proactive customers, suppliers, public authorities, comare conducted through self-assessments, and and transparent. petitors and other stakeholders. The guidelines internal and external audits. Meda frequently Meda is working to meet these requirements prohibit partnerships or agreements with conducts internal audits in countries perceived and expectations. Meda’s Business Conduct ­competitors on price, terms or similar aspects. as having an elevated risk of fraud and corrupGuidelines combined with the Swedish Furthermore, donations or any advantages to tion. These audits focus on sales, supplier rela­Corporate Governance Code are the principal political parties or candidates are prohibited. tionships and incentives. Meda uses both interguidelines for all Meda’s operations. nal and external auditors for internal audits. Meda has a zero tolerance on bribery and Guiding principles Meda also conducts business continuity risk corruption. Consequently, all Meda employees • Accurate information: All information proassessments that focus on product supply and and representatives must act in accordance vided by Meda must be correct and issued in external suppliers. with the law, Meda’s Business Conduct Guidea clear and easy to understand manner In 2015, no significant non-conformities were lines and recently issued Anti-Corruption Policy. • Regulated market: Meda operates in a strictly identified. Furthermore, no cases of corruption During 2015, several initiatives to enhance regulated market. All products and services were reported during the year. Finally, no Meda’s readiness were launched. These are subject to regulation and standards for ­sanctions or significant fines were imposed on include: content, manufacturing, use and side effects. Meda for non-compliance with applicable laws • Meda’s Anti-Corruption Policy Information may also be required on how to and regulations. • Meda’s Business Partners and Business dispose of some products Meda’s corporate governance and internal ­Ethics Guidelines • Regulated communication: Meda complies control processes are continuously being • An ongoing corruption risk assessment with national regulations on how to commurefined to manage important topical issues as • Intensified internal communication nicate information to patients and other the business grows. In 2015, the key issues stakeholders involved integrating all the former Rottapharm Corporate governance • Good marketing practices: Meda complies units into the control framework and train the As a publicly listed company Meda is obliged to with the relevant local guidelines for good relevant personnel. In addition, all country act in accordance with the Swedish Corporate marketing practices ­managers, financial managers and additional Governance Code. Meda has several • Corruption and conflicts of interest: Meda’s key functions were trained in Meda’s Business ­governing documents, including the Business Business Conduct Guidelines and Anti-­ Conduct Guidelines with an emphasis on Conduct Guidelines and Internal Control Corruption Policy provide details of Meda’s ­business ethics, together with internal control ­Standards, which all affiliates within Meda must zero tolerance for bribery and corruption, standards and the delegation of authority. abide by. and rules on how employees should handle ­situations where conflicts of interest arise Whistleblowing Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines Meda’s whistleblowing procedure has been in The Meda Business Conduct Guidelines Anti-Corruption Policy place since 2012. It enables internal and ­supplement legislation and state Meda’s expecIn late 2015, Meda’s Business Conduct Guide­external stakeholders to anonymously report tations on business conduct. Meda’s country lines were complemented by an Anti-Corrupdeviations from Meda’s regulations. managers have the overall responsibility of tion Policy. The Policy has a more complete In total, six cases have been reported by use ensuring that each of their employees understatement on bribery and corruption and offers of the whistleblowing procedure and one more stands the Guidelines, although it is the individmore detailed guidance. Meda initiated a corcase was reported outside of the whistleblow56 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report ing procedure. Five of the six cases were conduct, for instance by aligning the company’s reported in 2015. One of this year’s cases consustainability goals with the UNGC’s principles. cerned conflict of interest and was found to be During 2015, Meda made progress within a violation. Corrective actions were taken. The several areas, for instance supply chain manremaining cases were deemed not to be violaagement and anti-corrution. The improvement tions of Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines. efforts will continue in 2016, along with focus on Also the non-violations provided opportunities training and internal communication. Meda will to improve certain routines. also evaluate how the company can contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. The UN Global Compact Meda has been a signatory of the UN Global Risk management in expansion Compact (UNGC) since 2012 and is committed Some of Meda’s new markets are deemed to be to its ten principles on human rights, labor associated with relatively high risk of corruption, rights, the environment and anti-corruption. human rights violations and environmental Meda supports all internationally recognized ­degradation. The company’s own operations in principles on human rights as well as the ILO high-risk countries are limited to sales and Core Conventions. ­marketing. Meda continues to improve internal The UNGC’s ten principles are being incorgovernance and control in recently acquired porated into Meda’s governance and business operations, including sustainability governance. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 57 Market adapted strategies “Vital strengths of Meda are the ability to develop country-specific, objective driven and pragmatic business strategies and their ­implementation. But as the health care environment is very dynamic and increasingly often full of surprises, you must keep the organization and the processes as flexible as possible. This of course starts with the culture and the mindset of the individuals.” DAN FURRER, COUNTRY MANAGER GERMANY Sustainability report Community engagement For Meda, community engagement is a duty MAP International OTC drugs, medical supplies and equipment, and a privilege. Beyond improving health and Meda has donated products to MAP Inter­ personal care products and nutritional supplewell-being through the core business and national since 2001. MAP is a voluntary aid ments. In addition, the organization makes effective operations, Meda’s affiliates engage organization founded in 1954 that works to ­targeted capital donations and provides health in societal matters, sponsor research and ­support some of the world’s poorest people in worker education. In 2015 Meda’s products donate to charitable organizations across the over 115 countries. reached 14 countries via Direct Relief. world. The support varies as local needs and The organization supplies clinics and priorities differ. Meda’s support contributes to ­hospitals in vulnerable areas with FDA Project HOPE proactive care as well as emergency relief. approved drugs and medical equipment. MAP In 2015 Meda also donated pharmaceutical International also works to prevent and mitigate products to Project HOPE (Health Opportunities AmeriCares outbreaks of disease and to promote the for People Everywhere). Project HOPE, was Since 2003, Meda has partnered with ­construction of local healthcare facilities. founded in 1958 and is dedicated to providing ­AmeriCares, an emergency response and MAP International has played an important long-lasting solutions to health problems and global health organization committed to saving role in providing access to healthcare and improving the quality of life of the world’s most lives and building healthier futures for people in drugs for millions of victims of disasters, such as vulnerable people, especially women and crisis in the United States and around the world. typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, the earth­children. Project HOPE works in about 120 Since its founding in 1982, AmeriCares has quake in Haiti, Ebola victims in West Africa and countries to build the skills of health care delivered more than USD 12.5 billion in humanidevastating hurricanes in the Caribbean. ­providers, strengthen management capacity, tarian aid to 164 countries. The organization’s In 2015 Meda’s products reached people in and support sustainable systems to improve emergency response experts have responded need in 38 countries. access to quality health services. to the Southeast Asia tsunami, Hurricane In addition to the above-mentioned initiaKatrina, the Haiti earthquake and the West Direct Relief tives, several local initiatives have been impleAfrica Ebola outbreak, among other emergenMeda regularly donates pharmaceutical pro­ mented. For more information on local initiacies. In 2015 products donated by Meda were ducts to Direct Relief. Since 1948 Direct Relief tives and other important donations supporting distributed in 37 countries. has been helping to improve the quality of life Meda’s local operations, please visit meda.se of people in extremely difficult situations. The and Meda’s country websites. organization provides high-demand medicines, MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 59 Sustainability report GRI content table About Meda’s sustainability report 2015 requirements for reporting option Core. The inBelow is Meda’s GRI content table. The table Meda reports its sustainability performance formation in this report has been reviewed by a includes the mandatory profile information and ­annually. The sustainability report refers to the third party (PwC) that confirms this statement. at least one performance indicator per material fiscal year 2015. The most previous report was Meda’s sustainability report covers the entire aspect. All information referred to in the GRI conissued in April 2015. Meda applies GRI’s guidecompany unless indicated otherwise. The report tent table is coverd by the third party assurance. lines for sustainability reporting, version 4. The provides a complete picture of Meda’s social, information provided in the report meets the GRI economic and environmental impact and results. General standard disclosures Page STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1: CEO statement 4 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3: Name of the organization Back cover G4-4: Primary brands, products and services Inside front cover, 16, 20–36 G4-5: Location of headquarters 90 G4-6: Number of countries of operation 16, 90 G4-7: Ownership and legal form 90 G4-8: Markets served 13, 16, 18, 20–21 G4-9: Scale of organization 1–2, 65–67 G4-10: Employees 50–51, 98 G4-11: Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 50 G4-12: Supply chain 38, 45, 48 G4-13: Significant changes in the organization’s size, structure etc. 67 G4-14: Application of the precautionary principle 52–53, 57 G4-15: External charters, principles etc. 48, 52–53, 55–57 G4-16: Memberships of associations etc. Not applicable IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17: Entities included 41 G4-18: Process for defining report content 46 G4-19: Identifed material aspects 46 G4-20: Aspect boundaries within organization 46 G4-21: Aspect boundaries outside organization 46 G4-22: Restatements of information 53 G4-23: Changes in scope and aspect boundaries 41 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24: Stakeholder groups 44 G4-25: Selection of stakeholders 44 G4-26: Approach to stakeholder engagement 44 G4-27: Key topics raised 44–46 REPORT PROFILE G4-28: Reporting period 60 G4-29: Most recent previous report 60 G4-30: Reporting cycle 60 G4-31: Contact point 41 G4-32: GRI content index 60–62 G4-33: External assurance 63 GOVERNANCE G4-34: Governance structure 56–57, 67, 73, 76–83, 98 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56: Codes of conduct etc. 52, 56–57 60 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and indicators Page Omissions incl. reason and explanation ECONOMIC Economic performance G4-DMA 3, 6–11, 56–57, 67 G4-EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 44 ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4-DMA 52–53, 67 G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the company 53 G4-EN4: Energy consumption outside the company 53 Water G4-DMA 52–53, 67 G4-EN8: Water withdrawal 52 G4-EN10: Water recycled and reused 52 Emissions G4-DMA 52–53, 67 G4-EN15: Direct GHG emissions 53 G4-EN16: Indirect GHG emissions 53 G4-EN18: GHG emissions intensity 53 Effluents and waste G4-DMA 52–53, 67 G4-EN22: Water discharge 52 G4-EN23: Waste 52–53 G4-EN24: Significant spills 53 Compliance G4-DMA 52–53, 56–57, 67 G4-EN29: Fines and sanctions 52 Supplier environmental assessment G4-DMA 45, 48, 57, 67 G4-EN32: New supplier screening 48 Reported in absolute numbers and not % of total new suppliers. A mapping was initiated in 2015 and continued into 2016. It will allow disclosure of % in future reporting. SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-DMA 50–51, 67 G4-LA1: New hires and employee turnover 50–51 Occupational health and safety G4-DMA 51, 67 G4-LA6: Injuries and occupational diseases 51 Not reported absenteeism as regulatory differences across the markets makes it difficult to get a relevant number. Training and education G4-DMA 50, 67 G4-LA11: Performance review Not reported Not reported % employees that received performance review. All employees shall have an annual performance review but companywide follow system is not yet in place. Meda is looking into to possible follow up systems. It will allow disclosure of % in future reporting. Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA 50–51, 56–57, 67 G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies 50–51, 76–83, 98 Supplier assessment for labor practices G4-DMA 45, 48, 57, 67 G4-LA14: New supplier screening 48 See indicator EN32 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 61 Sustainability report SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and indicators Page Omissions incl. reason and explanation SOCIETY Anti-corruption G4-DMA 56–57, 67 G4-SO3: Corruption risk assessment and risks 56–57 A company wide risk mapping was initiated in 2015 and continued in 2016. Future report will present results and related measures. G4-SO4: Anti-corruption training 56–57 Meda doesn’t report on % of goverance bodies and employees trained, nor % business partners coverd by communication. Communciation on Meda’s anti-corruption poliy and related policies was company wide. Dedicated trainings in business ethics were initiated in 2015 for selected employee groups, about 70 employees. More comprehensive efforts continued in 2016. More detailed reporting will be possible in the future. G4-SO5: Incidents of corruption 56 Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA 56–57, 67 G4-SO7: Anti-competative behavior 56 Compliance G4-DMA 56–57, 67 G4-SO8: Fines and sanctions 56 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety G4-DMA 48, 55–57, 67 G4-PR1: Product and service assessment 48, 55 G4-PR2: Non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 56 Product and service labeling G4-DMA 55–57, 67 Information request is not fully in line with industry standards; Regulation governs information to be provided in association with pharmaceutical products. In the context of health and safety, the regulated information is the most significant information that Meda shall provide. The industry is looking into what additional information (i.e environmental) that can be G4-PR3: Product and service information required 55 relevant and possible to provide for certain products. G4-PR4: Non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 56 Marketing communications G4-DMA 56–57, 67 G4-PR7: Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes on marketing communications 56 62 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability report Independent Auditor’s ­Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To Meda AB (publ) Introduction assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable We have been engaged by the Group Executive Management of Meda assurance conclusion. AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Meda’s The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and ­Sustainability Report for the year 2015. accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with Responsibilities of the Board and Management ­ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and for the Sustainability Report regulatory requirements. The Board of Directors and Group Executive Management are responsiOur procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of ble for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the Directors and the Group Executive Management as described above. applicable criteria, as explained on page 41 in the Sustainability Report, We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustain­ and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by ability Report. The Global Reporting Initiative, GRI) which are applicable to the SustainWe believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the priate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Company has developed. This responsibility includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, ­nothing Responsibilities of the auditor has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the ­Sustainability Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. the ­criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Executive We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ­Management. RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are Stockholm, 22nd March 2016 less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted PricewaterhouseCoopers AB in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become Mikael Eriksson Fredrik Ljungdahl aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 63 MANAGEMENT REPORT Management report Financial reports Table of Contents Management report 65 Operations 70 Risks 73 Corporate governance report 76 Board members 80 Executive management team Financial reports 84 Accounts Group 90 Notes Group 117 Accounts parent company 122 Notes parent company 128 Statement of the board 129 Auditor’s report 130 Financial review 132 The Meda share 134 Definitions 135 Glossary and trademark rights 136 Shareholder information 64 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Operations Operations The board of directors and CEO for Meda AB, corporate ID 556427-2812, costs for the society as a result. In more mature ­markets, particularly in North hereby submit the following annual report and consolidated financial stateAmerica and Europe, Respiratory is the third largest therapy area in the pharments for the 2015 financial year. maceutical market and Dermatology is the tenth largest. In growth markets, Dermatology is the seventh largest and Respiratory the tenth largest therapy Operations area. Pain and Inflammation is an area affecting more and more people, Meda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a broad reflecting the increase in life expectancy. The most common indications are product portfolio and its own sales organizations in over 60 countries. back pain, neck pain and knee osteoarthritis. Including those markets where sales are managed by distributors, Meda’s products are sold in more than 150 different countries. Non-prescription drugs The non-prescription product category ­consists of Cx and OTC products, Business concept which are categorized based on how they are marketed. Based on a broad product portfolio and a strong cash flow, Meda’s busiCx includes clinically effective and scientifically proven non-prescription ness concept is to identify, secure access to, integrate and commercialize drugs. Cx is an attractive area which combines the best of Rx and OTC, pharmaceutical products in the key therapy areas, and products for such as non-reimbursement, free pricing, good margins and limited generic self-treatment and preventive healthcare (Cx/OTC). competition. In recent years, Meda has built an extensive portfolio of OTC products, and Sales and marketing now offers an increasing range of OTC products in its markets. OTC products The company’s main focus is sales and marketing. One of Meda’s assets is are key complements to prescribed drugs because they are easily accessible, the ability to commercialize products through its global organization. save patients’ time and reduce cost pressures on the healthcare system. Key activities are primarily sales and marketing, development of existing products, manufacturing and supply. Sales Net sales for 2015 amounted to SEK 19,648 million (15,352), which correGrowth sponds to an increase of 28%. At constant exchange rates, sales increased Meda’s growth strategy involves a combination of organic growth and by 21%. The Rottapharm acquisition contributed sales of SEK 4,937 million. acquisitions, although acquisitions have been the main driver of Meda’s Pro forma organic growth amounted to -1%. Strong sales in Emerging Marexpansion to date. Meda has been built on several transformational acquikets and in the US region were more than offset by lower sales in Western sitions. The addition of new products will also remain key to Meda’s growth Europe, mainly attributable to Italy. Excluding Italy, pro forma organic over time. Acquisitions have driven growth in two ways. Firstly by adding growth was 2%. For the top 20 products pro forma organic growth was 4%. acquired revenue. Secondly by creating new organic growth opportunities which are realized through market and patient adapted product developSales by geographic area (SEK million) ment and expanded geographical footprint. The successful integration of Rottapharm during 2015 opened possibilities for further organic growth 2015 2014 Index Index1) Index2) based on an expanded position (Pain and Inflammation) and sustained Western Europe 12,213 10,205 120 116 95 potential (Respiratory and Dermatology) in key therapy areas, clinically US 3,354 2,542 132 110 111 proven Cxand OTC products together with the increased presence in Emerging Markets 3,660 2,370 154 148 107 Emerging Markets. Other Sales 421 235 179 175 98 Total sales 19,648 15,352 128 121 99 Therapy areas 1) Constant exchange rates 2) Pro forma organic growth Meda’s product portfolio is well diversified and spans several therapeutic areas and product areas. In 2015, prescription drugs (Rx) accounted for Sales for Western Europe were SEK 12,213 million (10,205), representing a 62% of net sales, while non-prescription drugs accounted for 36%, 20% increase and a 16% increase at constant exchange rates. Sales of ­consisting of both Cx and OTC products. Even though Meda is involved in products from Rottapharm amounted to SEK 3,013 million. Sales were several therapy areas, it has three key areas: Respiratory, Dermatology, and ­negatively impacted above all by poor sales development in Italy, as well as Pain and Inflammation. in France, due to generic competition for Tambocor. Sales development was positive in the Nordic markets, Germany, Austria and Portugal. Prescription drugs US sales amounted to SEK 3,354 million (2,542), corresponding to an Meda’s products are meeting a growing need among patients and healthcare increase of 32% and 10% at constant exchange rates. Sales were held back providers. The need is driven by different factors, such as the growing inciby the impact of generic competition on Astepro and sales of launch dence of respiratory illnesses in the form of allergies and asthma, particularly ­quantities in Q1 2014 for Aerospan. These negative effects were more than in Western Europe and North America, but also in growth markets. The dermacompensated for by higher sales of Felbatol in particular, as well as Astelin tology area includes diseases such as skin cancer, acne and ­dermatitis, all of and some other products. Dymista sales of SEK 706 million were 3% higher which are common conditions where incidence is growing. This is partly due than last year in local currency. to environmental factors such as sun exposure. The Pain and Inflammation therapy area is experiencing growth in several different indications with rising MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 65 Operations MANAGEMENT REPORT Sales in Emerging Markets amounted to SEK 3,660 million (2,370), items, the tax expense was SEK 471 million (351), equivalent to a tax rate of ­representing a 54% increase. At constant exchange rates, the increase was 23.5% (22.9). 48% and pro forma organic growth was 7%. Sales of products from RottaNet profit totaled SEK 1,192 million (402). pharm amounted to SEK 1,612 million. Sales were especially strong in Earnings per share reached SEK 3.22 (1.23). Excluding non-recurring items, Greater China, the Middle East, and Malaysia. Sales in the CIS region were earnings per share totaled SEK 4.14 (3.64). The comparative amounts have hampered by the economic situation while Australia and Turkey also been recalculated to consider the bonus issue element in the 2014 new showed lower sales. share issue. Other Sales amounted to SEK 421 million (235). Cash flow Sales by product category (SEK million) Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital amounted to SEK 3,717 million (3,254). 2015 2014 Index Index1) Index2) Working capital had an impact of SEK –393 million (–212) on cash flow. Rx 12,160 10,536 115 108 100 Cash flow from inventories totaled SEK –198 million, mainly relating to Cx/OTC 7,067 4,581 154 147 97 bridging stocks of raw material for Elidel, following to the transfer to Other Sales 421 235 179 175 98 in-house manufacturing and lower sales in Q4 compared with Q4 2014. Total sales 19,648 15,352 128 121 99 Receivables had a negative effect of SEK 96 million on cash flow. Liabilities 1) Constant exchange rates 2) Pro forma organic growth had a negative effect of SEK 99 million on cash flow due to fluctuations in payments of trade payables offset by a reduction of accrued expenses in Sales of prescription drugs (Rx) amounted to SEK 12,160 million (10,536), the US market and the payment of acquisition-related transaction costs. representing an 8% increase at constant exchange rates. Pro forma organic Accordingly, cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 3,324 milgrowth was flat. The impact on sales growth from generic competitors to lion (3,042). Astepro in the US and Tambocor in France was -2%. Several products in Free cash flow was SEK 3,095 million (2,901). Restructuring costs of SEK Meda’s prioritized therapeutic areas showed good growth, including 632 million, acquisition-related transaction costs of SEK 113 million, costs Dymista at +19% and Elidel at +40%. related to the early redemption of the bond loan in Rottapharm of SEK 289 Cx/OTC sales amounted to SEK 7,067 million (4,581), representing a million, a tax payment of SEK 22 million linked to internal restructuring of 47% increase at constant exchange rates. The Rottapharm acquisition subsidiaries and settlement costs of SEK 21 million related to Reglan were contributed sales of SEK 3,474 million. Pro forma organic growth paid during the period. Accordingly, free cash flow excluding non-recurring amounted to –3%, mainly due to negative sales development in Italy. Pro items totaled SEK 4,172 million (3,000), corresponding to a 39% increase. forma organic growth, excluding Italy, was +4%. Dona grew by 12% and Cash earnings per share totaled SEK 8.47 (8.97). Excluding non-recurArmolipid by 15%. Betadine sales were slightly below last year, while CB12 ring items, cash earnings per share rose by 23% to SEK 11.41 (9.28). The sales declined by 17%. comparative amounts have been recalculated to take account of the bonus Other Sales amounted to SEK 421 million (235). issue element in the 2014 new share issue. Cash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK 262 million Profit (–8,906) and includes a cash effect of SEK 701 million related to the divestOperating profit ment of the Euromed manufacturing unit in Spain. Operating profit was SEK 2,719 million (1,487) and EBITDA was SEK 6,003 Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK –4,272 million million (3,990), yielding a 30.6% margin (26.0). Excluding non-recurring (7,914). The dividend of SEK 914 million was paid in the second quarter. items, operating profit amounted to SEK 3,198 million (2,197) and EBITDA to SEK 6,482 million (4,700). This corresponds to a growth rate of 38%, or 30% Financing at constant exchange rates, and to an EBITDA margin of 33.0% (30.6). On December 31, equity stood at SEK 20,956 million compared with Operating expenses amounted to SEK 9,426 million (7,824) and SEK 20,680 million at the start of the year, which corresponds to SEK 57.3 included restructuring costs of SEK 299 million and a provision of SEK 210 (56.6) per share. The equity/assets ratio was 34.4% compared with 31.8% at million related to the ongoing US product liability cases involving the prodthe start of the year. uct Reglan. Accordingly, operating expenses excluding non-recurring items Net debt totaled SEK 25,505 million on December 31, compared with were SEK 8,917 million (7,102). SEK 28,244 million at the start of the year. At December 31, 2015, the Selling expenses, including restructuring costs of SEK 227 million, were ­average cost of the debt portfolio, including pension liabilities, was 3.1%. SEK 4,359 million (3,718). Selling expenses excluding non-recurring costs increased by 15% compared with the previous year at constant exchange Proposed allocation of profit rates. The following profits are at the disposal of the 2016 annual general Medicine and business development expenses, including restructuring ­meeting: costs of SEK 25 million and the provision of SEK 210 million mentioned Parent company, SEK above, were SEK 4,086 million (3,223). Administrative expenses, including restructuring costs of SEK 47 million, The following profits are at the disposal of the AGM: totaled SEK 981 million (883). Share premium reserve 10,616,236,965 Fair value reserve –384,106,030 Net financial items, tax and earnings per share Retained earnings 1,936,874,627 Net financial items amounted to SEK –1,415 million (–905) and include Profit for the year 454,469,429 non-recurring expenses of SEK 219 million related to the redemption of the bond loan in late April 2015 which was absorbed in conjunction with the Total profit available for allocation 12,623,474,991 acquisition of Rottapharm. Excluding non-recurring expenses, net financial The board proposes the following allocation of available profits: items totaled SEK –1,196 million (–665). Dividend to the shareholders Profit/loss after net financial items totaled SEK 1,304 million (582). (SEK 2.50 per share) 913,668,428 Reported tax amounted to SEK –112 million (–180). Tax was SEK 359 ­million Carried forward 11,709,806,563 lower as a result of non-recurring items and the utilization of a non-capitalTotal 12,623,474,991 ized loss carry-forward in the German operations. Excluding non-recurring 66 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Operations One of Meda’s most important business goals is to generate long-term Significant agreements value growth for the shareholders. This value growth may be in the form of Meda is party to the following agreements whose terms will change in an a higher share price and dividend payments. In preparing its dividend event of change of control: ­proposal Meda’s board evaluates a number of factors including: • Bank facilities of SEK 25,000 million with nine Swedish and foreign banks • Sustained profit trends which matures 2018-2020 • Expansion opportunities and access to capital • Bilateral loan of SEK 2,000 million which matures in October 2017 • Operating risk • Bond loans of SEK 1,750 million which matures 2016, 2018 and 2019 • Effect of dividends on cash and cash equivalents • Agreement with Fidim S.r.l. regarding unconditional deferred payment of • Equity/assets ratio targets EUR 275 million which matures in January 2017. After an overall assessment of these factors, the board proposes a diviGroup operations in drug development dend for 2015 of SEK 2.50 (2.50) per share, making a total dividend of SEK The value-generating work performed in Meda’s development department 914 million (914). Based on equity as of December 31, 2015, this dividend is focused on tailored clinical development programs and the compilation represents a reduction in the Group’s equity/assets ratio from 34.4% to of scientific arguments defending, exploring and highlighting product 32.9%. ­features. As a specialty pharma company, Meda refrains from high-risk, Based on the board’s proposed allocation of profits and the disclosures capital-intensive early research. Instead the company’s resources are above, as well as other matters of which the board is aware, and after a ­concentrated on development ‘close to market’ in the late clinical or regist­ comprehensive assessment of the company’s and the Group’s financial ration phases. The focus is often on well-known active ingredients and position, the board has determined that the proposed dividend is justified improving the characteristics of existing products, for example through: taking into account the requirements that the risks, nature and scope of the • New improved formulations, such as a pen in addition to the cotton swab business place on the size of the company’s and the Group’s equity, and for the medical device product EndWarts, which contains formic acid for the company’s and the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and the treatment of warts. financial position in general. • Development of combination products, such as Dymista (azelastine and fluticasone propionate) for allergic rhinitis. Key events during the financial year • Internationalization and regulatory approval of approved drugs, such as Dymista approved for treatment of SAR in children aged 6 to 11 Novolizer, Acnatac, Zyclara and Dymista, in new countries/regions. On February 20, Meda announced that the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Dymista, a nasal spray that combines azelastine In 2015 Meda invested SEK 207 million (235) in drug maintenance and hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate in a composition for treating development, excluding costs for registration, side effect management and symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) in patients aged 6 to 11 in need quality assurance. of both components for treatment. Dymista was previously only indicated for adults and children over the age of 12. The approved dosage for Responsible business practice ­children aged 6 to 11 is one spray per nostril BID (the same dosage as for Meda’s value chain comprises of four basic stages: product portfolio and adolescents and adults with SAR). market development, manufacturing and distribution, sales and marketing, and customers and end-users. Each of these stages comprises multiple Reglan settlement highly relevant aspects from a responsible business practice perspective. In conjunction with the purchase of Alaven Pharmaceuticals in 2010, Meda They are addressed within Meda’s sustainability focus areas; Sustainability Pharmaceuticals Inc. assumed responsibility for ongoing US product liabilgovernance, Operational and Environmental Efficiency, Responsible inteity cases involving the product Reglan (metoclopramide). Presently, there gration of New Business and Sustainable Supply chain. are slightly less than 3,300 cases in which the company is named as one of Sustainability objectives are defined and monitored regularly. Overall multiple defendants, with most of the cases in Philadelphia, San Francisco governance takes place at Group level with direct feedback to the CEO, and New Brunswick. In general, the cases involve plaintiffs that took Reglan while local units are responsible for organization and implementation. for long periods of time to control gastric stasis and gastroesophageal Meda’s sustainability focus and performance in 2015 are presented in detail reflux and developed the side effect tardive dyskinesia, which is characterin Meda’s Sustainability Report on pages 41–63. Meda applies the G4 ized by repetitive, involuntary muscle movements, generally of the face and Reporting guidelines, level core. The Sustainability report is subject to third extremities. Even though the Reglan labeling since 1986 has warned party assurance. against the side effect if the product was taken for more than 12 weeks, the plaintiffs allege that the warning was not prominent enough. While Meda UN Global Compact believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims, in order to avoid the Meda has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2012 expense and distraction of litigation, Meda has entered into a confidential and is committed to its ten principles on human rights, labor rights, the settlement agreement which establishes a framework to resolve all of the ­environment and anti-corruption. Meda supports all internationally recogclaims. Meda has recognized a provision of USD 25 million in the third nized principles on human rights and the ILO Core Conventions, and works ­quarter 2015 whereof USD 2.5 million was paid in the fourth quarter. The to reduce the environmental impact from its operations and to fight settlement is subject to sufficient participation by the plaintiffs as deter­corruption. The company aims to continually develop and refine its efforts mined in Meda’s sole discretion. in these areas. The UNGC’s ten principles are being incorporated into Meda’s governance and business conduct. Divestment of Euromed manufacturing unit On December 1, Meda signed an agreement with The Riverside Company Environment to divest Euromed S.A., a business-to-business manufacturer of herbal Meda’s environmental impact primarily derives from: extracts and natural active substances located in Spain. The transaction • Energy consumption, emissions and waste from production. was closed December 29 and total consideration was EUR 82 million in • Energy consumption at offices and other premises. upfront cash for the shares of Euromed. The unit generates sales of around • Emissions from goods transportation and travel. EUR 40 million and an EBITDA margin of around 20% on an annual basis. Operational and environmental efficiency is one of Meda’s focus areas. The aim is to reduce Meda’s environmental impact and the company works to MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 67 Operations MANAGEMENT REPORT continuously improve its performance. The company’s environmental will continue until the end of 2017, at least. The levels of PAH and HET are ­management system has been ISO 14001 certified since 2009 and the cerunder control and the ongoing microbial degradation of the contaminants tificate was renewed in 2015. Priority areas include energy consumption, is successful. material consumption, hazardous waste and water management. Employees Manufacturing and environmental permits The number of employees as of December 31, 2015, was 4,617 (5,202) and Meda’s efforts to reduce its environmental impact primarily concern the includes 461 (527) contractors. Information on the average number of company’s manufacturing units in Germany, France, Ireland, Italy and the employees and staff costs can be found in the Group’s Notes 7 and 8. The US, which formulate and package pharmaceuticals and other products. All majority of the employees, 2,690 (2,996), work in sales and marketing. units have the relevant environmental permits required by local law and EU regulations. All units are monitored and no deviations were noted in 2015. Professional development, equality and diversity Meda’s ISO 14001:2004 group certificate was renewed in 2015, which The skills and good judgment of Meda’s employees determine the road of involved subjecting all units to a comprehensive external audit on managethe company. Meda strives to be an attractive and supportive workplace, ment, objectives and performance. During the year, Meda also began the with a work environment characterized by stimulating assignments and process of including the former Rottapharm units into the company ISO individual mandate and accountability. Professional development is based 14001 certificate. on employees’ individual needs. There is a structured professional develMeda’s manufacturing units have local objectives for energy, carbon opment process, with particular focus on product training. emissions, waste, and in some instances wastewater. These objectives are Of Meda’s employees, 54% (56) are women. 37% (39) of the manageclosely monitored and regularly revised. Performance is reported to Group ment positions is held by women. Meda strives to increase the percentage on a quarterly basis, within the framework of the environmental of female managers through clearly defined skills requirements for each ­management system (EMS). All relevant units perform internal audits at ­position, and by following up on the development. least once per year and annual third party environmental audits are conMeda’s Business Conduct Guidelines state that all employees and ducted for all relevant units. All the relevant units have taken appropriate ­applicants are to be treated equally. Discrimination based on, for example, action to comply with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. The unit in gender, gender identity or gender expression, ethnicity, religion or other Cologne was certified according to ISO 50001 in 2015. belief systems, disability, sexual orientation or age is strictly prohibited As Meda’s manufacturing units are only engaged in formulating and within Meda. No cases of discrimination were reported in 2015. packaging pharmaceuticals, the amount of waste generated is relatively small and solvent emissions to air are negligible. Waste mainly consists of Sick leave process water, primarily from equipment cleaning. The volume of hazardIn 2015, sick leave was 2.6% (3.1) and absence 60 days or more was 0.6% ous waste generated is low and only small amounts of pharmaceutical resi(1.0). The rate is higher among women. Health monitoring and measures due are generated. All waste is handled in accordance with the relevant are managed at the local level. laws and established routines. In addition, all treatment plant facilities have environmental permits to release process wastewater together with regular Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives wastewater, and discharges are well within the compliance of their permits. The board proposes that the AGM 2016 approves the following remunerNo spills occurred in 2015. ation guidelines for senior executives. The guidelines reflects Meda’s Pharmaceutical residue in the environment is an essential industry need to be able to recruit and motivate qualified employees via compenissue. The risk of environmental impact from pharmaceutical residue from sation that is competitive in various countries. The Group’s executive individual Meda products depends on the specific substances, their in­hermanagement team consists of the chief executive officer (CEO) and such ent properties, and the quantities in which they are manufactured and senior executives r­ epresenting management functions reporting directly used. In addition, the risk depends on the manufacturing stage and the to the CEO. ­processes employed. The company’s EMS enforces proper procedures to The guidelines for remuneration and other employment terms for the monitor and manage pharmaceutical residue in the environment from company’s Group executives are based on existing agreements and mean: Meda’s own manufacturing. Meda’s units comply with the relevant regu­ (i) that Meda shall strive to offer its executives market-based remuneralatory requirements concerning the documentation of pharmaceutical tion/compensation, ­residue in aquatic environments that arise from pharmaceutical use. (ii) that the criteria shall be based on the significance of responsibilities, competence requirements, experience and performance, and Energy and carbon disclosure (iii) that the remuneration will consist of: Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is Meda’s • fixed base salary top environmental priority. Meda’s key KPI is CO2 emission per employee. • short-term variable pay In 2015, Meda’s CO2 emission per employee was 8.6 ton (9.1). Meda reports • long-term variable pay its efforts and CO2 emissions to Carbon Disclosure Project. The participa• pension benefits and tion supports the company’s continuing environmental and climate efforts • other benefits and severance terms and conditions. and also provides feedback on performance, transparency and measure implemented. Distribution between base salary and variable pay shall be proportionate to the executive’s responsibility and authority levels. Restoration obligations Short-term variable pay is entirely performance-based, partly on group In the 1980s, long before Meda acquired its production facility in Cologne, profit and partly on individual qualitative parameters. The variable pay, in groundwater contaminants of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and the case of the CEO, must not exceed 80 percent of the fixed base salary heterocyclic compounds (HET) were discovered. An action plan was proand, in the case of other senior executives, must not exceed 50 percent of duced at that time in cooperation with the relevant authorities. The plan the fixed base salary. involved removing contaminated soil, and in 1997 a pump and remediation Long-term variable pay may include one or several share-related incensystem was taken into operation. It was stopped in agreement with regulative programs. tory authority in 2004 and substituted by the concept of Monitored Natural Pension benefits shall reflect customary market terms. Pension basing Attenuation (MNA). The pump and remediation system was kept as back up salary consists of base salary and variable salary. Other benefits will be until 2012. The groundwater is monitored twice a year and the monitoring mainly a company car. Further benefits may be customary benefits in con68 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Operations nection with an executive moving for work abroad. Such benefits may include temporary accommodation, tuition fees, moving costs, tax filing assistance and similar benefits. Base salary during the period of notice for termination and severance pay shall together not exceed an amount equivalent to two years’ fixed and variable remuneration. Upon closing of a change of control of Meda, the terms of the CEO will be modified, see the Group’s Note 8 for further details. The remuneration committee shall prepare matters concerning ­remuneration to Group executives for resolution by the board. If there are justifiable reasons, the board may deviate from the above remuneration principles for executives. For information on current remuneration packages for senior executives and the guidelines adopted at the 2015 AGM, see the Group’s Note 8. Deviations from previously adopted remuneration principles for the Group management Meda has, in 2015, deviated from the guidelines approved by the AGM 2015 regarding variable remuneration to the CEO and senior executives, see the Group’s Note 8 for further information. The board has decided to deviate from the guidelines due to the exceptional work performed in conjunction with the integration of Rottapharm during the year. In 2015 Meda deviated from the guidelines approved by the AGM 2015 regarding addendum to the CEO and senior executives employment agreement concerning remuneration in the event of a change of control and remuneration at termination. The board’s opinion is that the deviations promotes the opportunity to keep the CEO and senior executives within the Company. Events after the reporting date Mylan N.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands, and whose ­ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, announced on February 10, 2016 a recommended public offer to the shareholders of Meda AB to transfer all of their shares in Meda AB to Mylan N.V. for a consideration consisting of a combination of cash and shares of common stock in Mylan N.V. Please refer to Mylan N.V.’s separate offer announcement for more information about the offer, and to a separate press release issued by Meda AB regarding the Board’s recommendation of the offer. Parent company The parent company’s net sales reached SEK 6,422 million (6,011), of which intra-Group sales represented SEK 4,390 million (4,052). Operating profit totaled SEK 950 million (809) and net financial items amounted to SEK 214 million (261). Investments in intellectual property rights for the period were SEK 17 ­million (6), and investments in property, plant, and equipment totaled SEK 46 million (0). Financial assets on December 31, 2015, totaled SEK 40,224 million, compared to SEK 38,425 million at the end of the previous year. Cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 968 million (611). Future outlook In 2016, Meda will continue its journey. Focus will be on further exploiting growth products, Emerging Markets franchises and other opportunities to counter challenges faced by the base business. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 69 Risk factors MANAGEMENT REPORT Risks Meda’s operations may be affected by many different events. Below is a nies may increase competition and lower sales of Meda’s products. Some of description of the main risks that are considered of material importance for Meda’s products are purchased by or entitle the end customer to remuneraMeda because they could have a significant impact on the company’s finantion from paying third parties, such as private insurance companies and the cial position, results and/or reputation. The risks are not listed in any particupublic sector. Changes among such bodies in terms of their scope, efforts, lar order of priority. Other risks that are unknown to Meda or that are not conguidelines and ability to influence pricing of and demand for pharmaceutisidered material at this time could have a similar impact on the company. cals may result in negative commercial and financial effects for Meda. Commercial risks and operational risks Economic trends Emerging Markets The pharmaceutical industry is affected to some extent by the general ecoMeda’s focus on continuing to develop business in Emerging Markets is an nomic trends and Meda does not consider itself any different from other important factor for future growth. It is associated with various challenges, companies in the industry. An economic downturn could result in reduced such as: demand, primarily for OTC drugs, which could have a negative impact on • Greater fluctuation in economic conditions the company’s operations, earnings and financial position. This risk is lim• Competition from companies that are already established in the market ited partly by the fact that Meda operates in many markets, and partly • The ability to correctly identify and utilize relevant sales and marketing because the majority of the company’s products are vital for the end user, opportunities irrespective of the prevailing economic climate. • Potentially weaker protection for intellectual property rights than is the case in mature markets Seasonal variations • Inadequate protection against crimes such as imitation, corruption and Some of Meda’s sales are dependent on external seasonal variations that fraud the company cannot influence. For example, a short pollen season or a • Unintentional violation of local and international laws ­season with low pollen counts may lead to reduced sales of the company’s • Inability to recruit personnel with the appropriate skills and experience products in the key asthma/allergy therapy area, resulting in a negative • Actions of national governments or registration authorities that limit effect on the company’s sales. However, this risk is limited by the fact that access to the market and/or the introduction of price controls resulting Meda operates in many geographic markets and has numerous products in in negative consequences. its prioritized therapy areas. Thus only a small portion of Meda’s overall sales rely on individual factors such as pollen seasons and similar external Product launches factors, and the correlation between these factors has historically been low. Launching new drugs takes time and involves considerable investment in, for example, marketing and stocking of products before launch, and other Parallel imports types of costs. The success of new products is particularly important for It cannot be ruled out that the difference in the price of pharmaceuticals in Meda because it is meant to compensate for the loss of sales of products markets where Meda operates will lead to an increase in parallel imports, with with expired patents and products with declining sales as a result of factors Meda’s products being purchased more cheaply in certain markets and then such as competition from generic products. There is a risk that new product competing with Meda’s sales in other markets. Parallel trade may increase and launches will not succeed for a variety of reasons. Examples could be an this could result in negative commercial and financial effects for Meda. inability to demonstrate a differentiated profile for the product compared with existing treatments, the effect of price controls introduced by governRisk for production disruptions ments and healthcare authorities, and the undermining of intellectual Around 40 percent of Meda’s production takes place internally and around property rights. 60 percent is handled by external contract manufacturing suppliers. Success when establishing existing products in new markets is of ­Production consists of a chain of processes, and stoppages or disruptions ­particular importance for Meda because they help to drive growth. There is at any stage could impact the company’s ability to manufacture sufficient a risk that the launch of existing products in new markets will not succeed products to meet the demand. Such stoppages could therefore have a for various reasons. An example of this might be an inability to correctly ­negative impact on Meda’s operations, financial position and earnings. identify and utilize relevant sales and marketing opportunities for the ­Production is planned to minimize the risk of production stoppages and so ­product, an inability to create a differentiated profile for the product and the that individual stoppages will not determine Meda’s ability to fulfill its undermining of intellectual property rights. ­commitments to customers. Also, Meda has production disruption ­insurance to protect the company in certain cases against immediate Competitors and pricing ­economic losses in connection with production disruptions or stoppages. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and price pressure has been and can be expected to remain significant within Meda’s business Ability to recruit and retain key employees areas. This is the case in particular when patents expire. There is therefore Meda is highly dependent on a number of key individuals. The possible a risk that Meda will not be able to maintain its current margins on products. loss of one or more such individuals could have negative financial and There is also a risk that the company’s product candidates or products ­commercial implications for Meda. The ability to recruit and retain qualified developed by its partners will not be preferred over existing or newly develemployees is of utmost importance in order to secure the appropriate level oped products. Products in development by other pharmaceutical compaof expertise within the company. Meda is confident in the company’s ability 70 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk factors to attract and retain qualified employees. There is, however, stiff competiing control, governance, accounting and information systems may prove to tion for experienced employees among pharmaceutical companies and be inadequate for the planned growth, and additional investment may be there is a risk of losing qualified employees. necessary. Meda’s potential inability to govern and control this growth effectively could have negative commercial and financial consequences for Partnership agreements the company. Meda collaborates actively with other pharmaceutical companies in ­marketing and development. There is no guarantee that the companies Risks associated with liability, legislation and compliance with which Meda will enter into or has already entered into partnership and/ Product liability and insurance or license agreements will meet their obligations under such agreements. The parts of Meda’s operations that involve product development, clinical Their failure to do so could have a negative impact on the company’s sales trials, production, marketing and sales of the company’s products are assoand earnings. Nor is there any guarantee that Meda will be able to enter ciated with product liability risk. Although Meda has comprehensive prodinto partnership and/or license agreements on terms that are acceptable to uct liability insurance protection, there is no guarantee that Meda will be Meda in the future. able to avoid claims for damages in the event of damages resulting from the use of the company’s products. This could negatively affect the compaUncertainty with respect to future clinical trials ny’s operations and profitability. Prior to the sale of new products, the company or its partners must demonstrate the potential product’s safety and efficacy for humans in each speciProtection of intellectual property rights fied indication. There is no guarantee that the clinical trials will be able to Meda invests significant sums of money in product development and demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to receive the requisite approval acquires intellectual property developed by other companies on an ongofrom authorities, or that they will lead to products that can be sold on the ing basis. In order to guarantee a return on these investments, the commarket. pany actively asserts these rights and closely monitors the activities of its competitors. If necessary, Meda will defend its intellectual property rights Acquisition-related risk through legal processes. There is always a risk that competitors will, intenOpportunities for acquisitions and financing tionally or unintentionally, infringe on Meda’s rights. Should this occur, there An important aspect of Meda’s growth strategy is based on acquisitions. is a risk that the company will be unable to fully assert its rights in a court The company’s business model is contingent upon acquisitions because case, which would have a negative impact on the company’s operations Meda’s focus is on sales and marketing of drugs and not on developing and profitability. new drugs. Acquisitions constitute an important source of new products There is no guarantee that Meda’s rights will not constitute an infringeand support for Meda’s strategic focus. The aim is for acquisitions to ment of the rights of a competitor or that Meda’s rights will not be contested strengthen the companies prioritized areas, broaden the geographical or disputed by competitors. Nor can it be ruled out that Meda will be drawn scope and generate strong cash flows. Meda has many years of experiinto court proceedings by competitors for alleged infringement of the comence of creating value and has built up core expertise in identifying, executpetitor’s rights. If this happens there is a risk that the company may be liable ing and integrating acquisitions. There is, however, no guarantee that Meda to pay significant damages and that this would have a negative impact on will be able to continue to find suitable acquisition prospects and/or secure the company’s ability to operate. the necessary financing for future acquisitions on acceptable terms. Any Furthermore, Meda is dependent on know-how and it cannot be ruled shortage of acquisition prospects and/or failure to secure acceptable finanout that competitors may develop similar know-how, or that Meda will be cial terms may lead to reduced or declining growth for Meda. unable to protect its know-how effectively. Integration Actions by public authorities Acquisitions generally involve integration-related risk. Apart from compaLike other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, Meda is dependent ny-specific risks, the acquired company’s relationships with key individuals, on and subject to the actions of public authorities. Such actions may include customers and suppliers may be negatively affected. There is also a risk of changes in regulations on pricing and discounting of drugs or a change in integration processes taking longer or being more costly than estimated. the conditions for prescribing a certain drug. If Meda’s products or operaSimilarly, the anticipated synergies may only be partially realized or not tions become subject to further or changed actions or restrictions from regmaterialize at all. The integration of acquisitions may involve organizational ulatory authorities, this could have negative commercial and financial implichanges which, in the short term, could delay the implementation of plans cations for Meda. and achievement of objectives. Pharmaceutical companies are knowledge companies, and accordingly, integration normally involves risk relating to Corporate governance standards the ability to retain talent and to create a common culture. Meda operates in compliance with corporate governance laws and rules and has also joined several initiatives for responsible business practices Governance and environmental management. The company has increased its focus on Through successful acquisitions Meda has accumulated experience in and anti-corruption, an area in which the laws have been changed in many knowledge about the governance issues that may be associated with countries. To ensure that the company operates in accordance with the strong growth. With continued expansion comes the risk that Meda’s existstandards that apply, the Group’s management system includes a business MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 71 Risk factors MANAGEMENT REPORT ethics code, Meda Business Conduct Guidelines, a sustainability policy and uct rights are mainly written off on a linear basis and their economic life is indiother policies and guidelines for the company’s operations. Meda has also cated in the Group’s Note 1. Impairment testing is done on a continuous basis. undertaken to apply the UN’s guiding principles for companies and human Significant reduction in value may arise in the future for a variety of reasons, rights in its operations. Meda is constantly striving to improve and take the such as unfavorable market conditions that either affect the company specifinecessary steps to follow up and scrutinize internal compliance with cally, the entire pharmaceutical industry or more generally. This may result in ­policies and guidelines, as well as compliance by the company’s suppliers negative effects on the company’s results and financial position. with the code of conduct for suppliers. Meda cannot guarantee that no ­violations will occur. Any possible violations may have significant negative Currency and interest rate risks effects on the company and Meda’s brand. A significant portion of Meda’s drug purchasing and sales occurs in foreign currencies. Consequently, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the Group’s Tax future sales and operating profit. Through its financial policy, the company Meda is subject to taxation in a large number of countries. Moreover, Meda aims to identify and reduce financial risks, and thereby avoid major shortis from time to time subject to tax investigation by tax authorities in different term fluctuations in earnings and cash flow. Decisions regarding currency jurisdictions. The company’s interpretation of these tax regulations may be hedging are therefore made on an ongoing basis. However, there is no incorrect or legislations may be amended, potentially with retroactive guarantee that Meda’s currency hedges (if a decision about such is made) effect. By decision from Swedish and foreign tax authorities, Meda’s will provide complete protection against exchange rate fluctuations that ­previous or current tax position may change, which may negatively impact have a negative impact on Meda’s sales and operating profit. Meda’s Meda´s operations, earnings and financial position. financing consists partly of interest-bearing liabilities, and accordingly, the Group’s net earnings are affected by changes in general interest rates. The Economic and financial risks interest rate risk is addressed by spreading Meda’s borrowing across differGoodwill and product rights ent rate maturities. Information on other financial risks can be found in the Meda reports substantial value for goodwill and product rights. Goodwill is Group’s Note 2. the only intangible asset that is reported based on indefinite useful life. Prod72 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Corporate governance General meetings Meda is a Swedish public limited company listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Meda’s shareholders exercise their right to vote at annual and extraordinary Meda applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and hereby subgeneral meetings (AGMs and EGMs). In accordance with the Swedish Commits the corporate governance report for 2015. Meda deviates from the panies Act, resolutions are passed at general meetings by popular majority. code, point 9.8, remuneration at termination. For remuneration to the CEO Information from Meda’s most recent AGM and EGMs can be found in and Executive Vice Presidents (EVPs), see Group’s Note 8. The board’s the corporate governance section of the company’s website. There is also opinion is that the deviation promotes the opportunity to recruit and keep information on the shareholders’ right to have matters addressed at meetqualified key persons and strengthen Meda’s attractiveness as an ings and the date by which Meda must receive shareholder requests to employer from an international perspective. ensure the matter is included in the notice to attend the meeting. The current version of the Corporate Governance Code is available on the Swedish Corporate Governance Board’s website, www.bolagsstyrning.se. Annual general meeting The AGM is held in Solna. The meeting date and venue is announced on Corporate governance structure Meda’s website no later than in connection with the publication of the third quarter interim report. Shareholders who are unable to attend in person Nomination Shareholders may be represented by an authorized proxy. Only shareholders who are committee through the AGM Remuneration listed in the share register are entitled to vote. committee At the AGM the shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions appointed by the about the Group’s operations. Meda endeavors to ensure that members of board Board of directors the board and executive management are always present to respond to Auditors Board members shareholder questions. The auditor also attends the AGM. elected at the AGM Audit committee appointed by the board 2015 AGM The AGM took place on Wednesday, May 6, 2015 in Solna. The minutes from Group Group president Managing the 2015 AGM are available on Meda’s website. The meeting was attended management and CEO directors by 351 shareholders, either in person or by proxy. Meda’s board of directors, management, nominating committee and the company’s auditor were Shareholders ­present at the AGM. The following main resolutions were passed: Meda’s share has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange since 1995 • A dividend of SEK 2.50 per share for 2014 and on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2006. The largest shareholder is Stena • Martin Svalstedt was re-elected as the Chairman of the Board Sessan Rederi AB with 75,652,948 shares, equivalent to 20.7% of the • Luca Rovati, Peter Claesson, Peter von Ehrenheim, Lars Westerberg, ­capital and votes. For additional information of the share and owners, see Guido Oelkers and Karen Sörensen were re-elected as board members pages 132–133 and Medas website www.meda.se. • Kimberly Lein-Mathisen and Lillie Li Valeur were elected as new board members Shares and votes • Adoption of remuneration for the board and auditor The parent company’s shares consist of 365,467,371 Class A shares. Each • Adoption of principles for remuneration for executive management Class A share represents one vote. • Authorization for the board to decide on issuing shares and convertibles • Authorization for the board to decide on the acquisition and transfer of Authorizations – approved by the 2015 annual general meeting (AGM) treasury shares According to a decision at the 2015 AGM, the parent company is authorized • Creation of a long-term, performance-based incentive program to issue a maximum of 36,546,737 Class A and/or Class B shares for use as • Adoption of principles for appointing the nomination committee. payment in connection with acquisitions of other companies, shares in companies, product rights or other assets the board considers of value for 2016 AGM the company. Meda’s 2016 AGM will take place on Thursday April 14 at the company’s The parent company is also authorized by a decision at the 2015 AGM offices. Shareholders wishing to have a matter addressed by the AGM must to, on one or more occasions, decide on the purchase and sale of Class A submit a request in writing to the board well in advance of the AGM. More treasury shares according to the following: Shares may only be purchased information is available on Meda’s website. at Nasdaq Stockholm at a price that is within the current share price interval. Shares may be purchased so that the company holds no more than 10 Articles of Incorporation percent of the total shares and votes in the company. Treasury shares may Meda’s Articles of Incorporation do not contain any limitations in terms of be transferred at Nasdaq Stockholm at a price within the current share the number of votes each shareholder may exercise at general meetings or price interval. The transfer of the full number of treasury shares the comany specific provisions on the appointment and dismissal of board pany is holding at any given time is permitted. The purpose of this authori­members and on amendments to the Articles of Incorporation. zation is to be able to adjust the company’s capital structure and thereby help increase shareholder value. The above authorizations are valid until the end of the 2016 AGM. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 73 Corporate governance report MANAGEMENT REPORT Nomination committee Structure of the board’s work The 2015 AGM resolved that the nomination committee will consist of one As outlined in the board’s rules of procedure, four regular meetings and member appointed by each of the four largest shareholders as well as the one statutory meeting are held each year. The board may convene addichairman of Meda’s board. The nomination committee prepares and tional meetings when circumstances require this. ­submits proposals to the AGM for: The regular meetings address established reporting and decision items. • Election of a chairman for the meeting The CEO provides ongoing information about the company’s progress. The • Election of the chairman of the board and other board members board makes decisions on general matters such as strategic, structural, and • Fees for the board and their distribution between the chairman and other organizational issues as well as large investments. The chairman is also members and any remuneration for committee work actively involved in these issues in between board meetings. The compa• Election of and fees for auditors and deputy auditors (where applicable) ny’s auditor attends at least one board meeting. • Principles for appointing the nomination committee Work of the board in 2015 As announced in a press release on October 13, 2015, the current nominaIn 2015, 11 board meetings were held. The attendance of the board tion committee consists of: ­members at the board meetings is indicated in the table on pages 78–79. In NOMINATION COMMITTEE addition to the usual reporting and decision items, the board has dealt with the integration of Rottapharm, several acquisitionand divestment projects Bert-Åke Eriksson and questions related to a possible bid on Meda from Mylan N.V. (nomination committee chairman) Stena Sessan Rederi AB Martin Svalstedt (chairman Meda’s board) Board work evaluation Sigieri Diaz Pallavicini Fidim S.r.l The chairman of the board is responsible for evaluating the boards work. This includes gaining an understanding of the issues that the board thinks Evert Carlsson Swedbank Robur Fonder warrant greater focus, as well as determining areas where additional comElisabeth Jamal Bergström Handelsbanken Fonder petence is needed within the board and whether the board composition is appropriate. The evaluation also serves as guidance for the work of the Nomination committee’s work in preparation for 2016 AGM nomination committee. During 2015 the board has evaluated its work The nomination committee has held three meetings and had contact by through a so called self-assessment which is based on several parameters. email and phone. The work has been conducted in a good and friendly The result from this evaluation is that the board is performing well and that spirit of broad consensus. The chairman of the board has provided the the board is well composed with good competence. nomination committee with information on the work of the board. The chairman of the board has also accounted for the performed board evaluation. Board committees The committee has discussed the board’s composition, addressing the The board has appointed an audit committee and a remuneration commitexisting and possible future requirements with respect to new experience tee. The committee members are selected from the board members for a and expertise. It is the committee’s opinion that the board has executed its one-year term in accordance with the principles stipulated in the Swedish tasks in an efficient and professional manner. The nomination committee’s Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. suggests no changes to the board’s composition. The nomination committee has during the years specifically strived to reach a more equal gender Audit committee distribution in the board. Meda’s board consists of 33 percent women. The The audit committee consists of three members, as indicated in the tables committee has concluded that a majority of the proposed board members that follow. The audit committee has the following main responsibilities: are independent in relation to the company, its management and the com• Preparations for the board’s work on assuring the quality of financial pany’s major shareholders. For further information about the nomination reporting committee’s work, please refer to Meda’s website. • Addressing issues concerning internal control of financial reporting and regulatory compliance Board of directors • Monitoring and evaluating the work of external auditors The board of directors has ultimate responsibility for Meda’s organization • Monitoring accounting developments in areas that may affect Meda. and the administration of the company’s operations. The board appoints a CEO who is responsible for day-to-day operations based on guidelines and The committee held three regular meetings in 2015 with a particular instructions prepared by the board. The CEO informs the board regularly emphasis on interim reports, audit reports, internal control, integration of about events of significance for Meda, including information on the compaRottapharm and valuation of intangible assets. The attendance of the board ny’s progress and the Group’s earnings, financial position and liquidity. members is indicated in the tables on pages 78–79. Composition of the board Remuneration committee According to Meda’s Articles of Incorporation, the board is to consist of at The remuneration committee consists of three members, as indicated by least three and no more than ten members, with no more than six deputies. the tables that follow. The remuneration committee has the following main Meda’s board consists of nine members including the chairman of the responsibilities: board elected by the AGM. Information about remuneration for board mem• Preparing for board decisions on remuneration principles, remuneration bers as resolved at the 2015 AGM is available in the Group’s Note 8 in the amounts and other terms of employment for company management annual report. The independence status of each board member is indi• Preparing remuneration guideline proposals for senior executives to be cated in the table on pages 78–79. proposed by the board at the AGM • Monitoring and evaluating programs that are ongoing or were concluded The board’s rules of procedure and written instructions during the year regarding variable remuneration for company management Annually, at the statutory board meeting the board adopts the rules of pro• Monitoring and evaluating the application of the remuneration guidelines cedure, instructions for the division of responsibilities between the board for senior executives which are to be resolved on by law by the AGM, and and CEO and instructions for financial reporting. existing remuneration structures and levels within the company. 74 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Corporate governance report In 2015, the committee held six regular meetings focusing on remuneration An action plan has been prepared for internal control work in 2016. policies within the Group, which included preparations and proposals for the long-term, performance-based incentive program approved by the Control environment 2015 AGM. The attendance of the board members is indicated in the tables Meda is organized in such way as to be able to react quickly to market on pages 78–79. changes. Operational decisions are therefore taken at the company level. Decisions on strategy, focus, acquisitions, and general financial issues are Executive management team taken by Meda’s board and the executive management team. Internal control The Group’s executive management team consists of eight Executive of financial reporting within Meda is designed to address these conditions. Vice Presidents and the CEO. Two persons have been added to the The company’s internal control environment is the basis for internal conextended executive management team. See table on pages 82–83 for trol of financial reporting. The internal control environment consists of the more information on the individuals in the executive management team. organizational structure, work procedures and routines, decision paths, The executive management team holds meetings on an ongoing basis at authority and responsibility, and attitudes and values specified and commuwhich the main topics discussed are the Group’s financial progress, nicated in governing documents. Examples of these governing documents ­projects in process and other strategic issues. During the year the focus are Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines, Delegation of Authority, and has been on the integration of Rottapharm. Internal Control Standards. Read more in the CSR-report on pages 41–63. For principles, remuneration and other fees for the Executive Vice ­Presidents, see Group’s Note 8. Risk assessment Risk assessment of financial reporting is based on the income statements Internal audit and balance sheets to assess aspects such as materiality, complexity and Meda has chosen not to establish a separate audit function (internal audit). fraud risks. This risk assessment is done at the Group and company levels Internal audit work is carried out according to a specific plan by the Group’s and results in a risk-level classification for various processes. For a more central finance function in cooperation with the external auditors. With detailed description of Meda’s risks, see The Group’s Note 2 on financial regard to the outcome of this year’s internal audit and development of risks and the section on risk factors on pages 94–96. Meda’s internal control in general, the board has determined that, for the Identified risks are mitigated through a clear division of responsibility time being, a special review function is not justified. and work, and by having internal guidelines for accounting and reporting. Auditor Control activities Meda’s auditor is the certified public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Appropriate control activities are developed at the Group and company AB, with authorized public accountant Mikael Eriksson as chief auditor and levels to manage material risks relating to financial reporting identified authorized public accountant Mikael Winkvist as co-auditor. PwC was during risk assessment. These control activities include both general and appointed at the 2015 AGM for the period until the end of the next AGM. more specific controls designed to prevent, detect and correct errors and deviations. Meda performs and documents the following controls: Internal control of financial reporting • Manual controls and application controls to ensure that key risks in finanThe board’s internal control responsibility is governed by the Swedish cial reporting procedures are controlled. Examples of important manual ­Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The overall and application controls are verification of journal vouchers, reconciliapurpose of Meda’s internal control is to protect the company’s assets and tion, access rights and allocation of responsibilities. reputation and thus the shareholders’ investments. • General IT controls that secure the IT environment for key applications. The board’s work with internal control includes internal control of finanExamples of important general IT controls are backup routines, access cial reporting and internal control from an operational perspective. Risk rights and user management. management is an integrated part of the board’s work with internal control • Company-wide controls that secure and improve the control environment of which objective is to ensure that the company is managed appropriately with Meda. Examples of key company-wide controls are Group-specific and efficiently. guidelines, accounting rules, signatory authority instructions and financial The board continuously monitors that the internal governance and monitoring. ­control is managed appropriately and efficiently with support of external auditors and internal functions. The audit committee is responsible for Information and communication ­monitoring of the financial reporting. External auditors and internal funcMeda’s information and communication channels are intended to help tions performs audits annually of the internal control in several entities of ensure that the company’s financial reporting is complete, accurate and the Group, according to, by management, established plan. This is reported timely. This is achieved by making all current guidelines and instructions for to the audit committee and the board. internal procedures available to all relevant employees. Regular updates Meda is also continuously overviewing and analyzing its governance and notifications of amendments to accounting rules/guidelines, reporting procedures and internal control to provide the board with a foundation for requirements and disclosure requirements are provided as needed. determining appropriate levels of internal governance and control The ­procedure is based on the COSO frameworks 17 principals linked to the five Monitoring components, control environment, risk assessment, control activities, Meda’s work with internal controls helps to increase awareness about the ­information and communication, and monitoring. importance of sound internal control and guarantee its continual improvement. This oversight results in an annual action plan for the development of Throughout the year, Meda performs ongoing analysis of the control internal control. In 2015 this involved: environment, risk assessment and control activities. This analysis forms the • Updating and implementing of Medas Business Conduct Guidelines and basis for the action plan for the following year. The purpose of this process Whistleblower Policy is to identify and monitor areas where internal control could be improved. • Establishment and start of implmenetation of Medas Anti-Corruption ­Policy The board is provided with monthly financial reports. The content of the • Updating and implementing governing documents such as Meda’s Group reports is increased ahead of interim reporting. The board reviews and Accounting and Reporting Manual and Delegation of Authority approves all interim and annual reports for publication. • Integration of Rottapharm • Continued upgrading of the IT environment • Following up compliance with internal regulations and guidelines MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 75 Board members MANAGEMENT REPORT Board members 1 Peter Claesson 2 Kimberly Lein-Mathisen 3 Guido Oelkers 4 Luca Rovati Board member Board member Board member Deputy chairman 76 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Board members 5 Lillie Li Valeur 6 Peter von Ehrenheim 7 Martin Svalstedt 8 Karen Sörensen 9 Lars Westerberg Board member Board member Board Chairman Board member Board member MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 77 Board members MANAGEMENT REPORT Member Name since Education Shares in Meda Other board appointments Current role 1 Martin Svalstedt 2014 BSc Business 40,016 Chairman of the board of Gunnebo AB, BallCEO of Stena Adactum AB and Chairman and Economics ingslöv International AB, Envac AB, Stena Stena Sessan AB (1963) Renewable AB. Board member of Stena Adactum AB and Stena Sessan Rederi AB. 2 Luca Rovati 2014 Business 33,016,2862) Chairman of the Board of GWM REII S.p.A. and See other board appointments (1961) ­Economics Fidim Servizi S.r.l. Deputy Chairman of Greentech Energy Systems AS and Armònia Holding S.r.l. Board member of Nuove Partecipazioni S.p.A., RRL Immobiliare S.p.A. and Fenice S.r.l. 3 Peter Claesson 2009 BSc Business 5,500 Board member of Stena Line Holding BV, CFO of Stena AB (1965) and Economics Stena Drilling Ltd, Stena Fastigheter AB, Sveriges Ångfartygs Assurans Förening, Handelsbanken Regionbank Västra Sverige and Wisent Oil PLC. 4 Peter von Ehrenheim 2011 MSc Engineering 16,500 Chairman of the board of Biolin Scientific AB, Entrepreneur in manufacturing (1955) KTH Denator AB and Robustus Wear Components industry and life sciences AB. B ­ oard member of Biotage AB, Boule ­consultant Diagnostics AB, VBN components AB and Kontigo Care AB 5 Kimberly Lein-Mathisen1) 2015 BSc Engineering, 0 Board member of NHST Meda Group. CEO of Orkla Home & Personal (1972) University of Care. ­Illinois and MBA Harvard Business School 6 Lillie Li Valeur1) 2015 MBA and BSc in 0 Board member of AAK AB. Vice President of Arla Southeast (1970) Medicine. Asia 7 Guido Oelkers 2014 PhD in Strategic 0 None. CEO of BSN Group (1965) Management and Master in Economics 8 Karen Sörensen 2013 MSc Engineering 0 Board member of several Philips ­companies CEO of Philips Nordic and head of (1962) and MBA and Technical University of ­Denmark – Philips Healthcare in the Nordics SCION. 9 Lars Westerberg 2012 BSc in business 242,0003) Board member of Volvo AB, Sandvik AB, See other board appointments (1948) administration SSAB and Stena AB. and a MSc in electrical engineering 1) Took up position at 2015 AGM. 2) Checked by associated company – Fidim S.r.l. 3) Including related party. 4) Reisgned at 2015 AGM. 78 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Board members Remuneration Independent of Independent Board meetings Audit committee/ ­committee/ No. of Meda/company of major in 2015/ No. of meetings in 2015/ ­meetings in 2015/ management shareholders Professional experience Attendance Attendance Attendance Yes No Various positions at Capio e.g. CFO, VP Finance 11/11 Yes Yes, chairman Stora Merchant and Controller ABB. 3/3 6/6 Yes Yes CEO of Rottapharm|Madaus and Contract 10/11 No Yes1) Professor of Business Finance at Catholic 4/4 ­University – Milan. Yes No Various positions within the Trelleborg Group 11/11 Yes No (1992–2007), most recently Senior Vice President 2/3 Group Treasury. Götabanken (1989–1992). Yes Yes CEO of GE Healthcare Life Sciences and a num11/11 No Yes1) ber of positions within Amersham and Pharmacia 4/4 ­Biotech. Yes Yes Global Diabetes Alliance Leader, Eli Lilly, USA 9/9 No No 2011-2013, General Manager Eli Lilly Germany 2007-2010, Country Manager, Eli Lilly Norway 2005-2007 and Sales and Marketing Manager, Eli Lilly UK 2001-2004. Manufacturing Manager, Procter & Gamble, USA 1994-1999. Yes Yes 13 years management experience in Arla Foods 9/9 No No amba with various positions: VP for SEA, VP for China, Global marketing director for milk powder, and 4 years pharmaceutical and OTC business experience in Novartis and Lundbeck, and 2 years managerial consulting experience in Bain & Co. Yes Yes CEO of Gambro AB. CEO of Invida Holding Pte 11/11 No No Ltd. Executive Vice President Commercial Operations and member of the Executive Committée Nycomed Intl. GmbH. Yes Yes Vice President responsible for Western Europe at 10/11 No No Sanofi-Aventis and previously employed within several global pharmaceutical, biotech and med tech companies. Yes No President & CEO and member of the board of 11/11 Yes, chairman1) No4) Autoliv Inc (1999–2007). President and CEO 2/2 2/2 of Gränges AB (1994–1999). President and CEO of Esab AB (1991–1994). MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 79 Executive management team MANAGEMENT REPORT Executive management team 1 Rainer Weiß 2 Mårten Österlund 3 Hans-Jürgen Tritschler 4 Ton van’t Hullenaar 5 Jörg-Thomas Dierks 80 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Executive management team 6 Paula Treutiger 7 Joachim Maus 8 Magnus Kjellberg 9 Henrik Stenqvist 10 Enzo Lacchini 11 Esfandiar Faghfouri MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 81 Executive management team MANAGEMENT REPORT Previous experience/ Shares Name Title Education professional background Employed since in Meda 1 Jörg-Thomas Dierks CEO. Physician Senior vice president for Commercial 2005 195,000 (1960) Operations and COO of Viatris and before that, Novo Nordisk and Asta-Medica. 2 Esfandiar Faghfouri Executive Vice President, Pharmacist Medical Representative, 2005 3,500 (1962) Region East. Product Manager, Head of Business Unit. 3 Ton van ‘t Hullenaar Executive Vice President, Business school Healthcare Manager 3M 2007 3,850 (1955) Region West. Germany, European Manager 3M Pharmaceuticals. 4 Magnus Kjellberg Vice President, Corporate BSc in Business Morgan Stanley. 2011 0 (1973) Strategy and M&A. and Economics 5 Enzo Lacchini Executive Vice President, Chemistry and More than 30 years production 2014 0 (1953) ­Supply Chain. ­Pharmaceutical ­experience. ­Technology 6 Joachim Maus Executive Vice President, Physician Head of Human Pharmacology 2005 3,000 (1967) ­Scientific Affairs. and Head of Clinical Research at ASTA Medica/ VIATRIS; Specialist in internal medicine. 82 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORT Executive management team Previous experience/ Shares Name Title Education professional background Employed since in Meda 7 Henrik Stenqvist CFO, Executive Vice PresiBSc in Business CFO of subsidiaries 2003 192,605 (1967) dent, Finance & Procurement. and Economics in AstraZeneca. 8 Paula Treutiger Vice President, Corporate BSc in Business Alfred Berg and Gambro. 2011 0 (1967) Communications and and Economics ­Sustainability. 9 Hans-Jürgen Executive Vice President, PhD Biochemistry Medical Affairs, Marketing, 2005 1,000 Tritschler ­Global Marketing. Business development, (1962) Emerging Markets. 10 Rainer Weiß Executive Vice President, Master of Business Head Human Resources ­Marketing 2005 5,725 (1962) HR & IT. and Administration & Sales, Head Human Resources ­Commercial ­Operations. 11 Mårten Österlund Executive Vice President, PhD in molecular Has researched at the Pasteur 2005 108,000 (1957) Business Development/ ­biology ­Institute in Paris. Experience from Legal & IP. development companies, including an executive position at Karo Bio. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 83 Accounts Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated income statement SEK million Note 2015 2014 Net sales 4,5 19,648 15,352 Cost of sales 6 –7,525 –6,083 Gross profit 12,123 9,269 Other income 22 42 Selling expenses –4,359 –3,718 Medicine and business development expenses –4,086 –3,223 Administrative expenses –981 –883 Operating profit 4,6–11 2,719 1,487 Finance income 12,13 37 8 Finance costs 12,13 –1,452 –913 Profit after financial items 1,304 582 Tax 14 –112 –180 Net income 1,192 402 Earnings attributable to: Parent company shareholders 1,176 399 Non-controlling interests 16 3 1,192 402 Earnings per share1) 15 basic, SEK 3.22 1.23 diluted, SEK 3.22 1.23 Average number of shares1) basic (thousands) 365,467 323,397 diluted (thousands) 365,467 323,397 Actual number of shares at year-end basic (thousands) 365,467 365,467 diluted (thousands) 365,467 365,467 Dividend per share (SEK) 2.50 2.50 1) For 2014, recalculation has been done to consider the bonus issue element in the rights issue 2014. 84 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts Group Consolidated statement of earnings and other comprehensive income SEK million Note 2015 2014 Net income 1,192 402 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Revaluation of defined benefit pension plans and similar plans, net after tax 25 55 –292 55 –292 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Translation difference 25 –376 2,118 Translation differences reversed to income statement 25 –3 –11 Net investment hedge, net after tax 25 308 –1,014 Cash flow hedges, net after tax 25 –1 9 Available-for-sale financial assets, net after tax 25 –9 6 –81 1,108 Other comprehensive income for the period, net after tax –26 816 Total comprehensive income 1,166 1,218 Earnings attributable to: Parent company shareholders 1,176 1,215 Non-controlling interests 16 3 1,192 1,218 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 85 Accounts Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK million Note Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 ASSETS Non-current assets Tangible assets 16 1,504 1,692 Intangible assets 17 47,478 50,798 Derivatives 23 – 25 Deferred tax assets 18 1,812 1,640 Available-for-sale financial assets 19 23 45 Other non-current receivables 22 262 305 Total non-current assets 51,079 54,505 Current assets Inventories 21 2,876 2,988 Trade receivables 22 4,295 4,151 Other receivables 320 480 Tax assets 225 203 Prepayments and accrued income 290 266 Derivatives 23 149 208 Cash and cash equivalents 24 1,612 2,311 Total current assets 9,767 10,607 TOTAL ASSETS 60,846 65,112 86 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts Group SEK million Note Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 EQUITY Share capital 25 365 365 Other capital contributions 25 13,788 13,788 Other reserves 25 375 401 Retained earnings including profit for the year 6,431 6,142 20,959 20,696 Non controlling interests –3 –16 Total equity 20,956 20,680 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Borrowings 26 22,507 26,817 Derivatives 23 19 22 Deferred tax liabilities 18 4,708 5,278 Pension obligations 27 2,273 2,430 Other non-current liabilities 28 2,474 2,464 Other provisions 29 337 375 Total non-current liabilities 32,318 37,386 Current liabilities Trade payables 1,696 1,542 Current tax liabilities 515 483 Other liabilities 240 495 Accruals and deferred income 1,553 1,731 Derivatives 23 205 284 Borrowings 26 2,355 1,391 Other provisions 29 1,008 1,120 Total current liabilities 7,572 7,046 Total liabilities 39,890 44,432 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 60,846 65,112 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 87 Accounts Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated cash flow statement SEK million Note 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities Profit after financial items 1,304 582 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 31 3,373 2,668 Net change in pensions –45 –46 Net change in provisions –112 601 Income taxes paid -803 –551 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 3,717 3,254 Cash flow from changes in working capital Inventories –198 182 Receivables –96 –536 Liabilities –99 142 Cash flow from operating activities 3,324 3,042 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of tangible assets –220 –116 Acquisition of intangible assets –79 –74 Acquisition of operation 20 –149 –8,744 Divestment of operation 20 695 –25 Acquisition of financial assets available for sale 0 –2 Divestment of financial assets available for sale 12 – Decrease in financial receivables 3 0 Sale of non-current assets 0 55 Cash flow from investing activities 262 –8,906 Cash flow from financing activities Loans raised 2 ,107 21,433 Loan repayments –5,464 –14,770 New share issue – 2,014 Decrease in financial liabilities –1 –7 Dividend to parent company shareholders –914 –756 Cash flow from financing activities –4,272 7,914 Cash flow for the period –686 2,050 Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 2,311 178 Exchange-rate difference in cash and cash equivalents –13 83 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 24 1,612 2,311 Interest received and paid Interest received 29 5 Interest paid –1,071 –736 Total –1,042 –731 88 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts Group Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to parent company shareholders Retained Other ­earnings contri­ ­including NonShare buted ­ Other profit for the controlling SEK million capital capital reserves year Total interests Total equity Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2014 302 8,865 –415 6,491 15,243 –32 15,211 Other comprehensive income – – 816 – 816 0 816 Profit/loss for period – – – 399 399 3 402 Total comprehensive income – – 816 399 1,215 3 1,218 Non-cash issue 30 2,946 – – 2,976 – 2,976 Non-cash issue costs – –5 – – –5 – –5 Tax on non-cash issue costs – 1 – – 1 – 1 New share issue 33 1,994 – – 2,027 – 2,027 New share issue costs – –17 – – –17 – –17 Tax on new share issue costs – 4 – – 4 – 4 Divestment of operation – – – – – 31 31 Acquisition of holdings with non-controlling interests – – – – – –18 –18 Share-based payments, settled using equity instruments – – – 8 8 – 8 Dividend – – – –756 –756 – –756 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2014 365 13,788 401 6,142 20,696 –16 20,680 Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2015 365 13,788 401 6,142 20,696 –16 20,680 Other comprehensive income – – –26 – –26 0 –26 Profit/loss for period – – – 1,176 1,176 16 1,192 Total comprehensive income – – –26 1,176 1,150 16 1,166 Divestment of operation – – – – – –3 –3 Share-based payments, settled using equity instruments – – – 27 27 – 27 Dividend – – – –914 –914 – –914 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2015 365 13,788 375 6,431 20,959 –3 20,956 Note 25 contains additional information on share capital, other capital contributions, and other reserves. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 89 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Note 1 Accounting policies General information ria for the application of hedge accounting by replacing the 80–125 criteMeda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a broad ria with a requirement for an economic relationship between the hedging product portfolio and its own sales organization in more than 60 countries. instrument and the hedged item, and for the hedging quota to be the Including the markets where distributors handle sales, Meda’s products are same as that used in risk management. The hedge documentation sold in more than 150 countries. Meda AB is the Group’s parent company requirement is also changed to some extent in comparison with IAS 39. and its headquarters are located in Solna, outside of Stockholm, Sweden. The standard will be applied for the financial year starting on January 1, Meda is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Group has not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 9. Basis for preparation of reports • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (not adopted by the EU) The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance regulates how revenue is to be recognized. The principles upon which with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations IFRS 15 is based give the users of financial statements more useful inforissued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) as adopted by the mation on the entity’s revenue. Under this increased disclosure requireEU, the Swedish Annual Accountant Act and the Swedish Financial Reportment, information must be provided on the revenue’s nature, timing and ing Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for uncertainty in connection with revenue recognition, as well as cash flows Groups. The consolidated accounts were prepared using the cost method, arising from customers with contracts. According to IFRS 15 revenue apart from for remeasurement of available-for-sale financial assets, and should be recognized when the customer assumes control of the sold financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) measured goods or service and is able to use or benefit from the goods or service. at fair value through profit or loss. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts as well Preparing financial statements to conform to IFRS requires the use of as the related SIC and IFRS Interpretations Committee’s interpretation. some critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to make IFRS 15 goes into effect on January 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. certain assessments in applying the company’s accounting policies. Note 3 The Group has not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 15. discloses the areas that require a more thorough assessment, are complex • IFRS 16 Leases (not adopted by the EU). In January 2016, IASB issued a or in which assumptions and estimates are of significant importance to the new lease standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the related interconsolidated financial statements. pretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from all leases, with some exceptions, to be recognized New standards and interpretations on the balance sheet. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the New and ameded standards applied by the Group lessee obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an The standards, amendments or interpretations that were applied by the obligation to pay for that right. The accounting for lessors will in all mateGroup for the first time for the financial year beginning on January 1, 2015 rial aspects be unchanged. The standard is effective for annual periods have no significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Group has not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 16. New standards and interpretations not yet applied by the Group The following new standards and interpretations have been published. No other IFRSs or IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations that have not • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (not adopted by the EU) addresses classifiyet gone into effect are expected to have any significant impact on the Group. cation, measurement and recognition of financial liabilities and assets. The full version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and replaces the parts of Changes in external reporting IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial As of January 1, 2015, Meda reports all medical device products by geoinstruments. IFRS 9 contains a blended approach to measurement but graphic area and by product category. These products were previously not simplifies it in some respects. There will be three measurement categoallocated in full by geographic area and were recognized as other sales in ries for financial assets: amortized cost, fair value through other comprethe reporting by product category. The change has not resulted in any hensive income and fair value through profit or loss. The classification of change in the reporting by geographic area for the full year 2014. an instrument depends on the company’s business model and the nature Other Sales by product category for 2014 have been adjusted from of the instrument. Investments in equity instruments are to be recognized SEK 492 million to SEK 235 million, with SEK 28 million allocated to Rx and at fair value through profit or loss. There is, however, an option at initial SEK 229 million allocated to Cx/OTC. recognition to recognize the instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income. In such a case no reclassification is made to profit or Consolidated accounts loss upon divestment of the instrument. IFRS 9 has also introduced a new Subsidiaries model to calculate credit loss provisions based on expected credit losses. Subsidiaries are all of the companies over which the Group has a conFor financial liabilities the classification and measurement are not trolling influence. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or changed other than in cases where a liability is recognized at fair value has the right to a variable yield from its holding in the company and has the through profit or loss based on the fair value option. In these cases, ability to affect the yield through its influence over the company. Subsidi­ changes in value attributable to changes in the entity’s own credit risk are aries are consolidated from the date on which the controlling influence is to be re­cognized in other comprehensive income. IFRS 9 lowers the critetransferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date the con90 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group trolling influence ceases. The Group uses the acquisition method to recogtion on other assets in order to allocate their costs of acquisition down to nize its business combinations. The purchase consideration for the acquisitheir estimated residual values, is calculated using the straight-line method tion of a subsidiary consists of the fair value of transferred assets, liabilities according to plan over their estimated useful lives, as follows: incurred to the previous owners of the acquired entity and the shares • Buildings 14–50 years issued by the Group. The purchase consideration includes the fair value of • Machinery and plant 3–14 years all assets or liabilities arising from an agreement on an additional purchase • Equipment and installations 3–14 years consideration. Identifiable acquired assets as well as liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values on the The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed on each reporting acquisition date. The excess is recognized as goodwill and consists of the date and are adjusted if required. An asset’s carrying amount is written difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of the down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired. Acquisition-related exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses on disposals costs are expensed in the income statement in the period when they arise. are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amounts and Intra-Group transactions, balance sheet items, and unrealized gains on are recognized through profit or loss. transactions between Group companies are fully eliminated. Intangible assets Segment reporting Goodwill Operating segments are reported in a way that is consistent with the interGoodwill arises in connection with the acquisition of subsidiaries and nal reporting which is submitted to the highest executive decision-maker. re­presents the amount by which the purchase consideration exceeds the The highest executive decision-maker is the person/persons responsible fair value of the Group’s share of the acquired company’s identifiable net for allocating resources and assessing the operating segments’ results. For assets. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or as needed and is Meda this has been identified as Group management. Division into geo­carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains or losses on graphic markets reflects the Group’s internal organization and reporting divestment of an entity include the remaining carrying amount of goodwill system. The markets are Western Europe, US and Emerging Markets. relating to the divested entity. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units in impairment testing. Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Product rights Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities Product rights have a limited useful life and are carried at cost less accumuare valued using the currency of the economic environment in which the lated amortization and, where appropriate, impairment losses. Amortization entity mainly operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial is used to distribute the cost of product rights over their estimated useful life, statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the parent usually 10–25 years. The amortization pattern for product rights is adapted company’s functional and presentation currency. to the amount of expected earnings. The value of product rights is tested regularly to identify whether impairment exists. See also Note 3 and 17. Transactions and balance sheet items Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency Software using the exchange rates in effect on the transaction date. Translation difAcquired computer software licenses are capitalized based on the costs ferences arising upon payment of such transactions and when translating incurred when the specific software was acquired and brought into use. monetary assets and liabilities at the exchange rate on the reporting date These costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets, are recognized in net financial expense through profit or loss. Exceptions ­usually 3–7 years. are when transactions are hedges that meet the criteria for hedge accounting of cash flows or of net investments, where gains/losses are recognized Research and development in other comprehensive income. Research expenditure is expensed immediately. Development project expenditure (for product development) is capitalized in the Group as an Translation of foreign subsidiaries intangible asset to the extent this expenditure is very likely to generate Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other surfuture economic benefits. Acquisition costs of such intangible assets are plus and deficit values, are translated into Swedish kronor at the exchange amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets. Other development rate on the reporting date. Income and expenses in a foreign operation are expenditure is expensed as it occurs. Expenditure must meet stringent translated into Swedish kronor at an average rate that approximates the requirements to be recognized as an asset. With stringent requirements, exchange rates on each transaction date. Translation differences arising in Meda believes that it is not very likely that a product (drug) will generate the translation of foreign operations are recognized in other comprehenfuture economic benefits before being approved by the relevant registrasive income. tion authority. Meda has no development projects that meet these high requirements, so no development expenditure was recognized as an asset. Net investments in foreign operations Translation differences arising in the translation of a foreign net investment Impairment and associated effects of the hedging of net investments are recognized as Assets that have an indefinite useful life, i.e. goodwill, are not subject to a separate component of other comprehensive income. When divesting amortization but are tested annually for any impairment. Assets subject to foreign operations, the cumulative translation differences attributable to amortization are assessed for impairment of value whenever events or the divested operations, less any currency hedging, are reclassified from changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be other comprehensive income to profit or loss for the year as part of the recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the ­capital gain/loss. asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less selling expenses and its Property, plant and equipment value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition less depre­ at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows ciation. The cost of acquisition includes expenditures that can be related (cash-generating units). directly to the acquisition of the asset. Land is not depreciated. DepreciaMEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 91 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 1 Impairment of financial assets The Group performs an assessment on each reporting date of whether Cash-generating units there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets In business combinations goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-gene­rating is impaired. In the case of available-for-sale financial assets, impairment is units. A cash-generating unit represents the lowest level in the Group at which indicated if there is evidence of a material or lasting decline in the fair value the goodwill in question is monitored by internal control. Meda has four sepaof the asset below its cost. If this can be proved, the accumulated loss, rate cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated, see Note 17. ­calculated as the difference between the cost of acquisition and the current fair value, less any previous impairment losses recognized through profit or Financial assets loss, is moved from other comprehensive income and recognized through Financial assets are recognized when the Group is party to the instrument’s profit or loss. A provision for any decrease in the value of trade receivables contractual terms. Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recogis made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to nized on the trade date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase recover all past due amounts as per the receivable’s original terms. The or sell the asset. Financial assets are removed from the balance sheet reserved amount is recognized through profit or loss. when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument expires or is transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of Financial liabilities ownership. Financial liabilities are recognized when the Group is party to the instruThe Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: ment’s contractual terms. Financial liabilities are removed from the balance loan and trade receivables, financial assets measured at fair value through sheet when the liability is eliminated through completion, annulment or profit or loss and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification ­termination of the agreement. The Group classifies its financial liabilities in depends on the purpose for which the instruments are used. The instruthe categories financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or ments are classified at initial recognition. loss, i.e derivatives, and other financial liabilities. Financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value plus trans­ action costs. This applies to all financial assets with the exception of those Borrowings measured at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially recognized Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net after transaction costs. at fair value but the related trans­action costs are recognized through profit Borrowings are subsequently recognized at amortized cost. Any difference or loss. between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and the repayment amount is recognized through profit or loss over the loan period using Loan receivables and trade receivables the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities Loan receivables and trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer payment of the liability that have fixed or determinable payments and are not quoted on an active for at least 12 months after the reporting date. market. They are included in current assets, except for items with maturities more than 12 months from the reporting date, which are classified as Trade payables non-current assets. Loan and trade receivables are recognized at amorTrade payables are initially recognized at fair value and thereafter at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any provision for a tized cost using the effective interest method. decrease in value. Derivatives and hedging Financial assets measured at fair value though profit or loss Derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet on the contract day and Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial measured at fair value, both initially and in subsequent remeasurements. The assets that are held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category method of recognizing the gain or loss from remeasurement depends on if it is primarily acquired for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivawhether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and whether it tives are classified as if they are held for trading unless they are identified also fulfills the hedge accounting criteria of IAS 39. Meda holds both derivaas hedging instruments. Assets in this category are classified as current tives that do and do not qualify for hedge accounting. Fair value disclosure assets if they are expected to be sold within 12 months, otherwise they are for various derivatives used for hedging purposes can be found in Notes 2 classified as non-current assets. Assets in this category are recognized and 23. Changes in the hedge reserve in equity are specified in Note 25. after the date of acquisition at fair value. Changes in fair value are recogDerivatives are classified as a non-current asset or non-current ­liabilities if the nized in net financial income/expense through profit or loss in the period time to maturity exceeds 12 months. If the time to maturity is less than 12 they arise. months, the derivative is classified as a current asset or current liability. Available-for-sale financial assets Cash flow hedges Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets that are either The effective part of changes in fair value of the Group’s interest rate designated in this category or not classified to any of the other categories. ­deri­vatives that are identified as cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for They are included in non-current assets unless Group management intends hedge accounting according to IAS 39 is recognized in other comprehensive to divest the asset within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. income. The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective part is recognized Assets in this category are recognized after the date of acquisition at fair immediately through profit or loss as financial income or expense. Certain value. Changes in fair value for monetary and non-monetary securities in transactions are hedged through currency forward contracts. The Group this category are recognized in other comprehensive income in the providoes not meet the criteria for hedge accounting for currency forward consion for available-for-sale financial assets. Exchange differences on monetracts according to IAS 39. Changes in fair value are recognized as financial tary securities are recognized in net financial income/expense through income or expense through profit or loss. Accumulated amounts in equity are profit or loss, while translation differences on non-monetary securities are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit recognized in other comprehensive income in the provision for availableor loss, e.g. when the forecast interest payment which is hedged takes place. for-sale financial assets. When securities in this category are sold, accumulated adjustments of fair value previously recognized in other comprehenHedging of net investments sive income are transferred to profit or loss. Hedging of net investments in foreign operations is recognized in the same way as cash flow hedges. The effective part of changes in fair value of the Group’s hedging instruments is recognized in other comprehensive income. 92 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective part is recognized through counting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on first-class profit or loss. Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognized through corporate bonds, mortgage bonds or government bonds that are issued in profit or loss when foreign operations are disposed of in whole or in part. the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity comparable to the terms of the related pension liability. Actuarial gains Fair value hedges and losses arising from experience-based adjustments and changes in Certain loans are hedged through currency forward contracts. The Group actuarial assumptions are recognized in other comprehensive income does not meet the criteria for hedge accounting for currency forward conduring the period in which they arise. Costs for prior periods of service are tracts according to IAS 39. Changes in fair value are recognized as financial recognized immediately through profit or loss. income or expense through profit or loss. Health care benefits Inventories The Group offers health care benefit plans. The accounting method and Inventories are carried at the lower of cost (weighted average price) and assumptions resemble those used for defined-benefit pension plans. the net realizable value. Acquisition costs relate to raw materials, direct ­Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience-based adjustments and labor, freight, other direct costs and related indirect production costs. The changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in other comprehensive net realizable value is the estimated selling price in operating activities less income during the period in which they arise. The value of these obligations applicable variable selling expenses. is calculated annually by independent actuaries. Cash and cash equivalents Share-based payment Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and bank balances and other IFRS 2 distinguishes between payments settled with cash and payments ­current investments with maturities of less than three months. Utilized bank settled with equity instruments. For the Group’s share based compensaoverdrafts are recognized in the balance sheet as borrowings among tions that is settled with equity instruments the cost is determined by the ­current liabilities. Company’s fulfillment of performance criteria for each program. The cost is recognized in the income statement over the vesting period of 3 years with Equity equity as offsetting entry. The number of shares to be alloted for each proTransaction costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or ­warrants gram is based on above fulfillment of the performance criteria divided by are recognized, net after tax, in equity as deductions from the issue proceeds. the volume weighted average share price of Meda’s class A-shares. Social security costs is recognized through profit or loss and is from allotment Taxes based on Meda’s class A-shares fair value at each balance date. Income taxes comprise current and deferred tax. Income taxes are recogCash-settled warrants give rise to a commitment to the employees which nized through profit or loss except when the underlying transaction is is measured at fair value and recognized as an expense with a corresponding ­recognized directly in equity, in which case the related tax effect is recogincrease in liabilities. Fair value is initially measured on the date of allotment nized in equity or other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that will be and distributed over the vesting period including social security costs. The fair paid or received for the current year, applying the tax rates enacted or subvalue of the cash-settled warrants is calculated according to the Black & stantially enacted as of the reporting date. This includes adjustment of curScholes model taking into account the terms and conditions for the allotted rent tax attributable to prior periods. Deferred tax is recognized in full using instruments. The liability is remeasured on each reporting date and when it is the balance sheet liability method on all temporary differences ­arising settled. All changes in fair value on liabilities are recognized through profit or between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in loss for the year as a staff cost including social security costs. the consolidated accounts. Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates See Note 8 for information on outstanding incentive programs as of and tax rules enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date and that December 31, 2015. are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realized or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets relating to deductible Provisions temporary differences and loss carry-forwards are only recognized where it A provision is recognized in the balance sheet when the Group has a pre­ is probable that they will be used and will result in lower future tax payments. sent legal or informal obligation resulting from past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation Employee benefits and the amount has been reliably estimated. The Group has various post-employment benefit plans including A restructuring provision is recognized when the Group has established defined-benefit and defined contribution pension plans and post-employa detailed and formal restructuring plan and restructuring has either started ment healthcare benefits. or been publically announced. No provisions are made for future operating losses. The provisions are valued at the present value of the amount expected Pension obligations to be required to settle the obligation. The discount interest rate reflects a A defined-contribution plan is a pension plan under which fixed contributions current market estimate of the time value of money and the risks associare paid to a separate legal entity. The Group’s obligations are limited to the ated with the provision. The increase in the provision dependent on the contributions it has undertaken to pay. The obligations with respect to the conpassing of time is recognized as interest expense. tributions for defined-contribution plans are recognized as staff costs in profit or loss for the year as they are earned through the employee’s service during Income statement classified according to function the period. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent Meda’s income statement is classified according to function and consist of cash payment or a reduction of future payments will accrue to the Group. the following cost functions: A defined-benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent Cost of sales on one or more factors such as age, years of service or salary. The liability Costs directly attributable to purchase and manufacture of products sold recognized on the balance sheet for defined-benefit pension plans is the during the period. present value of the defined-benefit obligation on the reporting date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined-benefit obligation is calculated Selling expenses annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Costs directly attributable to sales such as marketing expenses. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation is determined by disMEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 93 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 1 Medicine and business development expenses Costs related to development, registration, pharmacovigilance, quality and Note 2 Financial risks business related development of recent and future product portfolio. This include amortizations on product rights. The Group is exposed to various financial risks through its operations. Meda’s management of these risks is centralized to the Group’s internal Administrative expenses bank and is regulated in the Group’s financial policy. The objective is to Costs for administration not attributable to above functions. identify, quantify, and keep risks of adverse impact on the Group’s income statements, balance sheets, and cash flows at suitable levels. Revenue recognition Revenue consists of the fair value of goods and services sold excluding Currency risk ­value-added tax and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Transaction exposure Group. Revenue is recognized as: Transaction exposure is the risk of impact on the Group’s net income and cash flow due to change in the value of commercial flows in foreign currenGoods sold and contract manufacturing cies in conjunction with exchange rate fluctuations. Meda has sales through Goods sold and contract manufacturing are recognized as revenue when a its own sales organizations in more than 60 countries. Sales to other Group company has delivered products to a customer, the customer has ­countries occur as exports in both the customers’ local currency and other accepted the products, and payment of the related receivable is reasoncurrencies such as EUR and USD. Purchases are mainly made in EUR, SEK, ably assured. Revenue is adjusted for the value of expected returns which and USD. So in all, the Group is continually exposed to transaction risk; this is based upon the historical rate of returns. exposure is however limited to a few units and the exposure that rises in trade receivables and trade payables denominated in foreign currency is Royalty income continuously hedged. On December 31, 2015, currency derivatives that Income from royalties is accrued as prescribed in the relevant agreement. hedged transaction exposure had a net fair value of SEK 36 million (13). Hedge accounting is not applicable to these transactions, which means Services sold and other income that changes to the fair value is carried to the income statement. Services sold are recognized as revenue in the accounting period in which the services are rendered. Translation exposure – balance sheet Most of the Group’s operations are conducted in subsidiaries outside of Interest income Sweden in functional currencies other than SEK. Translation exposure Interest income is recognized as revenue on a time-proportion basis using arises in the Group for net investments in foreign operations. Meda’s transthe effective interest method. lation exposure is for the most part in EUR, but also USD. The Group hedges risk partially by taking external loans and contracting for currency Leases swaps in the respective currency. Hedge accounting in accordance with Leases in which the risks and rewards associated with ownership are essenIAS 39 is applied for these hedging transactions. Translation differences tially transferred to the Group are classified as finance leases. When the recognized in other comprehensive income in 2015 that relate to net leased asset is initially recognized, it is measured at the fair value or present investments in foreign operations amounted to SEK –376 million (2,118), and value, whichever is lowest, of the minimum lease payments. The asset is translation differences from hedging instruments for net investments thereafter recognized according to the accounting principles that apply for amounted to SEK 308 million (–1,014) after tax. the asset. The depreciation period may not, however, exceed the lease term. All other leases are operating leases and, accordingly, the leased asset Translation exposure – income statement is not recognized in the balance sheet. Costs associated with operating Group sales are generated principally in currencies other than SEK. leases are recognized through profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the Changes in exchange rates therefore have a significant effect on the conlease term. Discounts received are recognized as a portion of the total solidated income statement since consolidation in the foreign subsidiaries’ lease cost over the lease term. income statements is in SEK. This exposure is not hedged, because the subsidiaries mainly work in local currencies; exchange rate fluctuations Dividends thus have no significant impact on competition or margins. Dividends to the parent company’s shareholders are recognized as a liabilThe next table shows the annual theoretical translation effect on Meda’s ity in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends net sales and earnings before tax. Calculated effects are based on recogare approved by the parent company’s shareholders. nized figures for 2015 excluding non-recurring items. The average EUR/ SEK exchange rate for 2015 was 9.35346 and 8.43026 for USD/SEK. Earnings per share Calculation of earnings per share is based on consolidated profit for the year Change, Effect on net Effect on profit attributable to parent company shareholders, divided by the weighted averParameter % sales, SEK m after tax, SEK m age number of outstanding ordinary shares during the year. When calculatOn December 31, 2015 ing diluted earnings per share, the average number of outstanding ordinary EUR/SEK +/– 1 +/– 98 +/– 31 shares is adjusted where appropriate to take into account the effects of USD/SEK +/– 1 +/– 36 +/– 4 diluting potential ordinary shares. There were no potential diluted ordinary Other currencies/SEK +/– 1 +/– 49 +/– 1 shares in 2015. The dilutive effect of potential ordinary shares is only recognized if a conversion to ordinary shares would lead to a reduction in diluted On December 31, 2014 earnings per share. Further information is provided in Note 15. EUR/SEK +/– 1 +/– 84 +/– 15 USD/SEK +/– 1 +/– 24 +/– 1 Other information The financial statements are reported in SEK million unless otherwise Other currencies/SEK +/– 1 +/– 31 +/– 1 stated. Some tables may not add up because figures were rounded off. 94 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Undiscounted financial liabilities On December 31, 2015 > 5 years from SEK million < 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years the reporting date Borrowings 2,891 3,130 7,540 9,769 3,746 – Unconditional deferred payment – 2,458 – – – – Derivatives 40 8 – – – – Trade payables 1,696 – – – – – Other liabilities 80 – – – – – Accrued expenses 907 – – – – – On December 31, 2014 > 5 years from SEK million < 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years the reporting date Borrowings 1,967 1,949 2,610 7,275 12,620 6,195 Unconditional deferred payment – – 2,583 – – – Derivatives 21 4 – – – – Trade payables 1,542 – – – – – Other liabilities 257 – – – – – Accrued expenses 981 – – – – – The Group’s financial derivatives, which will be settled gross, comprised various currency forward contracts on the reporting date (see also Note 23). On the reporting date, the contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows from these instruments, maturing within 12 months, stood at SEK –23,835 million and SEK 23,895 million respectively (SEK –23,907 million and SEK 23,792 million respectively). Interest rate risk Confirmed credit facilities were as follows on December 31, 2015: Interest risk refers to the risk that changes in general interest rates may • Bond loan of SEK 400 million, maturing in April 2016 have an adverse effect on the Group’s net profit/loss. The time taken for • Bilateral bank loan of SEK 2,000 million, maturing in October 2017 interest rate fluctuations to affect net profit/loss depends on the fixed inter• Bond loan of SEK 600 million, maturing in April 2018 est period for the loan. As per Group policy, the loan portfolio’s fixed inter• Bond loan of SEK 750 million, maturing in April 2019 est period, on average, should be between 3 and 15 months. On average, • Credit facility with nine banks amounting to SEK 25,000 million, ­maturing this period was 5.5 months on December 31, 2015. 2016–2020. Meda uses interest rate swaps to extend/shorten the period of fixed – Term loan of SEK 6,063 million, maturing in December 2018 interest on underlying loans. As per Group policy, the duration of an interest – Revolving loan of SEK 12,500 million, maturing in December 2019. rate swap may not exceed five years. Hedge accounting is applied to these – Term loan of SEK 6,151 million maturing in December 2020 transactions, and fair value is charged to other comprehensive income. In (amortization of SEK 2,578 million) 2015, interest rate swaps had an impact on other comprehensive income of SEK –1 million (9) from cash flow hedging after tax. The fair value included in The syndicated credit facilities are available provided that Meda meets the consolidated balance sheet for interest rate swaps as of December 31, ­certain financial key ratios concerning net debt in relation to EBITDA and 2015 was a net amount of SEK –23 million (–22). interest coverage ratio. Meda has met its finacial key ratios for 2015. On December 31, 2015, Group borrowings of SEK 24,862 million were mainly distributed as: EUR 1,614 million (SEK 14,834 million), USD 610 million Liquidity risk (SEK 5,149 million), and SEK 4,879 million. The average interest rate includThe Group’s current liquidity is covered by a retained liquidity reserve (cash ing credit margins on December 31, 2015 was 2.5% (3.6). Interest expense and bank balances, current investments, and the unused portion of confor 2016 for this loan portfolio at unchanged interest rates would thus firmed credit facilities) that in the long term is to amount to at least 5% of the amount to approximately SEK 600 million. If interest rates change instantaGroup’s annual sales. On December 31, 2015, the liquidity reserve stood at neously +/– 1 percentage point, Meda’s profit after tax would change by SEK 6,839 million, corresponding to 35% of sales for 2015. The table above +/– SEK 168 million (135) on an annual basis, taking into account the loan shows the contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows from the Group’s amounts and fixed interest rates that existed on December 31, 2015. financial liabilities and net settled derivatives that constitute financial liabili­Further information can be found in Note 26. ties classified by the time that, on the closing date, remained until the contractually agreed maturity date. For derivatives with a variable interest rate, Refinancing risk the variable rate that applied to each derivative on December 31, 2015 was Refinancing risk is the risk that the refinancing of a maturing loan is not feaused for the entire period to maturity. sible, and the risk that refinancing must be done during unfavorable market conditions at unfavorable interest rates. Meda seeks to limit refinancing risk Credit risk by spreading the maturity structure of the loan portfolio over time and The Group’s financial transactions lead to credit risks in relation to financial spreading financing over several counterparties. On December 31, 2015, counterparties. According to Meda’s financial policy, financial transactions Meda had SEK 28 billion (33) in available credit facilities. The basis of the may only be conducted with the Group’s financing banks, or banks with a Group’s debt financing is syndicated bank loans of SEK 25 billion with nine high official rating corresponding to Standard & Poor’s long-term A–rating Swedish and foreign banks. This financing is augmented with borrowing via or better. Investments in cash and cash equivalents can only be made in a Swedish MTN program with an upper limit of SEK 7 billion, a Swedish ­government securities or with banks that have a high official rating. commercial paper program with an upper limit of SEK 4 billion, and a Credit risk exists in the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, derivatives, ­bilateral bank loan of SEK 2 billion. and cash balances with banks and financial institutions and in relation to MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 95 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS distributors and wholesalers, including outstanding receivables and developments, the financial statements could be affected. As of December ­committed transactions. 31, 2015, provisions for legal disputes amounted to SEK 254 (73) million, see Meda’s sales are mainly to large, established distributors and whole­ Note 29. See Note 30 for a description of legal proceedings that Meda is salers with robust financial strength in each country. Since sales occur in part of and for which the recognition criteria for provisions according to several countries and to many different customers, the Group has good risk IFRS are not met. distribution. Meda follows up granted credits continually. Group assets that entail credit risk are reported in Notes 22, 23 and 24. Important sources of uncertainty in estimates Impairment testing of goodwill Capital risk The Group conducts regular impairment testing of goodwill, as per the prinThe Group’s capital structure goal is to secure the company’s ability to ciple described in Note 1. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units ­continue its operations with the aim of generating return to shareholders were established through measurement of their value in use. Certain estiand benefit for other stakeholders. The goal is also to keep the costs of mates must be made in order to arrive at these measurements as explained capital down, through an optimal capital structure and by that strengthen in Note 17. Medas ability to meet its financial key ratios. Capital in the Meda Group is judged on the basis of the Group’s equity/assets ratio. The Group’s longProduct rights term goal is an equity/assets ratio of 30%. New shares may be issued to The value of product rights is measured based on certain assumptions. maintain the capital structure in conjunction with major acquisitions. These assumptions relate to forecasts of future sales revenue, contribution margins and expenses for each product. Assumptions are also made on SEK million 2015 2014 discount rates, product life and royalty rates. The Group’s maximum period Equity 20,956 20,680 of amortization of product rights is 25 years. A need to re-assess the valuaTotal assets 60,846 65,112 tion of product rights cannot be ruled out and this may have a major impact Equity/assets ratio, % 34.4 31.8 on the Group’s financial situation and earnings. The Group conducts regular goodwill impairment tests, as described in Note 1. On December 31, 2015 the value of product rights totaled SEK 21,869 million. Pensions and similar obligations Important estimates and assessments Provisions and costs for post-employment benefits, mainly pensions and Note 3 for accounting purposes health care benefits, are based on the assumptions made when the amounts are calculated. Special assumptions and actuarial measurements Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires are made based on estimates of discount rates, health care cost trends, management to make assessments, estimates and assumptions which inflation, salary increase trends, staff turnover, mortality and other factors. affect the reported assets and liabilities and other information disclosed in Each change in these assumptions will impact the carrying amounts of the the closing accounts as well as the income and expenses reported during obligations. The discount rate for each country is established on the basis the period. Estimates, assessments and assumptions are evaluated continof the market rate of first-class corporate bonds and takes into account the ually and are based on past experience and other factors, including expecestimated time to maturity of each obligation. In countries where there is no tations of future events that are deemed reasonable under prevailing confunctioning market for such bonds, the market rate for government bonds ditions. The actual outcome may differ from these assessments, estimates or mortgage bonds is used. and assumptions. Below is a description of the most important accounting In Sweden, the Group has used Swedish mortgage bonds to establish policies applied based on assessments and the most important sources of the Swedish discount rate. The Swedish mortgage bond market is considuncertainty in estimates what may have an impact on the Group’s reported ered to be first-class (AAA or AA) and liquid, therefore meeting the requireresults and position in future financial years. ments stipulated in IAS 19. In Germany, the US and the UK, the Group uses first-class corporate bonds to establish the discount rate. Assessments in the application of accounting policies Inflation assumptions are based on analyzing external market indicaAcquisitions tors. Assumptions on salary increase trends reflect expected payroll When making acquisitions, the Group, based on IFRS 3 Business Combinaexpense trends. Staff turnover reflects the average long-term staff turn­over tions, makes assessments as to whether the transaction is a business comwithin Meda. Mortality is primarily based on official mortality statistics. The bination or an acquisition of assets. When a transaction is regarded as a Group reviews actuarial assumptions annually and adjusts them where this business combination, all identifiable assets and liabilities in the acquired is deemed appropriate. As of December 31, 2015, provisions for pensions company are identified and valued at fair value. When the fair value cannot amounted to SEK 2,273 million and assets were recognized in the amount be reliably measured, the value is included in goodwill. When a transaction of SEK 18 million. Provisions for health care benefits amounted to SEK 94 is regarded as an acquisition of assets, the individually identifiable assets million. For further information on expenses and assumptions for post-emand assumed liabilities are identified and recognized. The cost of acquisiployment benefits, see Note 27 and 29. tion is allocated to the individual assets and liabilities based on their relative fair values on the acquisition date. An acquisition of assets does not give Taxes rise to goodwill. In the preparation of the financial statements, Meda estimates the income taxes in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which the Group operate as well Legal proceedings as any deferred taxes based on temporary differences. Deferred tax assets Meda is involved in legal proceedings typical for the business from time to relating mainly to tax loss carry-forwards and temporary differences are time. Meda recognizes a liability when an obligation exists and the recognirecognized in those cases when future taxable income is estimated to be tion criteria for provision according to IFRS are met. The Group reviews oututilized in the various tax jurisdictions. Changes in assumptions in the prostanding legal cases regularly in order to assess the need for provisions in jection of future taxable income as well as changes in tax rates could result the financial statements. These reviews consider the factors of the specific in significant differences in the valuation of deferred taxes. As of December case by internal legal counsel and through the use of outside legal counsel 31, 2015, Meda recognized deferred tax assets of SEK 1,812 (1,640) million and advisors when necessary. To the extent that Group management’s and deferred tax liabilities of SEK 4,708 (5,278) million. For further informaassessment of the factors considered are not reflected in subsequent tion on deferred taxes, see Note 18. 96 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Note 4 Segment information Group management assesses operations from a geographic perspective. Earnings per geographic area are assessed on the basis of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization). On December 31, 2014, the Group was organized in three geographic areas: Western Europe, the US, and Emerging Markets. 2015 Emerging Other SEK million Western Europe US Markets Sales Total Segment’s sales 13,612 3,421 3,739 421 21,193 Sales between segments –1,399 –67 –79 – –1,545 External net sales 12,213 3,354 3,660 421 19,648 EBITDA 4,247 1,432 1,281 –957 6,003 Depreciation and amortization –3,284 Finance income 37 Finance costs –1,452 Profit after financial items 4,247 1,432 1,281 –957 1,304 2014 Emerging Other SEK million Western Europe US Markets Sales Total Segment’s sales 11,214 2,636 2,370 235 16,455 Sales between segments –1,009 –94 – – –1,103 External net sales 10,205 2,542 2,370 235 15,352 EBITDA 3,327 972 663 –972 3,990 Depreciation and amortization –2,503 Finance income 8 Finance costs –913 Profit after financial items 3,327 972 663 –972 582 The company is based in Sweden. Geographic breakdown of total non-­ Revenues from external customers in Germany amount to SEK 2,053 current assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets is ­million (1,507), France SEK 1,594 million (1,415), Sweden SEK 1,427 million shown in below table (1,409) and Italy SEK 1,809 million (1,407). Total revenues from external ­customers in other countries amount to SEK 12,765 million (9,614). Net sales Non-curent assets A breakdown of net sales by income type is found in Note 5. SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Western Europe 1) 12,213 10,205 28,821 31,599 Geographic areas US 2) 3,354 2,542 10,066 10,302 Western Europe includes western Europe, excluding the Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. The US comprises the US and Emerging Markets 3,660 2,370 10,010 10,533 ­Canada, and Emerging Markets includes eastern Europe, including the Other Sales 421 235 169 167 ­Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Turkey, the Middle East, Summa 19,648 15,352 49,066 52,601 Mexico and other non-European markets. Other Sales concern revenues 1) whereof in Sweden 8,818 9,667 from contract manufacturing, parts of royalty and other income. 2) whereof in the US 10,066 10,302 A breakdown of goodwill is found in Note 17. Note 5 Net sales disclosed by type Note 6 Expenses by type SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 Goods sold 19,037 14,796 Changes in stock of finished goods Royalties 435 361 and work in progress 264 172 Revenue from contract manufacturing 133 145 Raw materials and consumables 2,315 1,900 Other 43 50 Goods for resale 3,063 2,376 Total 19,648 15,352 Staff costs 3,154 2,494 Depreciation and amortization 3,285 2,503 Other expenses 4,870 4,462 Total cost of sales, selling expenses, ­medicine and business development expenses, and administrative expenses 16,951 13,907 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 97 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 7 Personnel, number of employees 2015 2014 Average no. Average no. of employees No. of employees No. of employees of employees No. of employees No. of employees Women Men On December 311)2) On December 313)4) Women Men On December 311)5) On December 313)6) Germany 411 482 888 955 399 354 1,031 1,096 US 251 243 475 475 290 256 497 498 France 304 198 438 443 258 174 524 534 Italy 229 165 378 378 119 67 382 382 China 118 105 195 195 56 59 167 167 Ireland 59 124 178 178 22 35 171 172 Russia 122 41 161 162 123 43 199 200 Spain 79 55 127 127 81 63 327 332 Sweden 72 40 104 106 74 36 107 114 Turkey 16 85 102 102 23 124 134 134 Thailand 66 21 89 89 18 4 94 94 UK 42 37 77 77 45 31 79 79 Portugal 40 33 73 73 33 29 140 140 Belgium 39 25 63 67 30 26 66 69 Mexico 31 32 63 63 26 32 58 56 United Arab Emirates 16 41 57 57 14 33 47 47 Egypt 2 47 49 49 – – – – Netherlands 28 15 43 48 28 15 44 48 Austria 22 20 41 44 21 22 65 67 Balkans 24 18 40 40 29 14 43 43 Ukraine 27 11 37 37 32 18 48 48 Poland 19 24 36 36 22 20 38 38 India 4 28 31 31 1 3 22 22 Brazil 8 10 30 30 7 3 10 10 Denmark 27 3 28 28 24 4 28 29 Finland 16 9 25 25 15 9 23 23 South Africa 16 8 25 25 18 6 23 23 Norway 14 9 24 24 14 8 24 24 Switzerland 17 7 22 24 16 7 22 25 CIS 15 6 21 22 18 8 25 25 Greece 6 15 21 21 5 15 19 19 Baltics 18 2 20 21 18 1 18 18 Australia 14 5 18 18 15 5 22 24 Czech Republic 11 6 17 17 10 5 15 15 Slovakia 11 6 17 17 9 7 16 16 Hong Kong 1 3 15 15 0 1 1 1 Hungary 11 4 15 15 12 4 25 25 Belarus 10 4 15 15 8 4 13 13 Luxembourg 5 – 5 5 3 1 5 5 Canada 1 – 2 2 1 0 1 1 2,222 1,987 4,065 4,156 1,937 1,545 4,572 4,675 Total 4,209 3,482 1) Number of employees, December 31, where number of hours worked are considered in relation to fulltime work. 2) In addition there are contracted personnel of 453 in the following countries: Germany 37, US 22, Turkey 21, France 26, Gender distribution in Meda management Sweden 23, CIS 2, Ireland 4, Finland 1, Italy 42, Mexico 2, Poland 1, Russia 1, South Africa 1, Portugal 5, Philippines 48, Malaysia 56, India 112, Saudi Arabia 42, Australia 1 and Thailand 6. 2015 2014 3) Number of employees, December 31, where number of hours worked are not considered in relation to fulltime work. 4) In addition there are contracted personnel of 461 in the following countries: Germany 41, US 22, Turkey 21, France 26, Women Men Women Men Sweden 26, CIS 2, Ireland 4, Finland 2, Italy 42, Mexico 2, Poland 1, Russia 1, South Africa 1, Portugal 5, Philippines 48, Malaysia 56, India 112, Australia 1, Saudi Arabia 42 and Thailand 6. Boards1) 12 179 10 176 5) In addition there are contracted personnel of 511 in the following countries: Germany 52, US 25, Turkey 21, France 6, SweCEO and other senior den 16, Norway 1, CIS 7, Belgium 3, United Arab Emirates 3, Ireland 16, Finland 1, Italy 86, Mexico 2, Poland 40, Netherlands executives2) 10 42 8 36 1, ­Russia 1, South Africa 1, Hungary 1, Spain 2, Portugal 3, China 14, Philippines 49, Malaysia 55, India 104 and Australia 1. 6) In addition there are contracted personnel of 527 in the following countries: Germany 56, US 25, Turkey 21, France 7, Total 22 221 18 212 Sweden 24, Norway 1, CIS 7, Belgium 3, United Arab Emirates 3, Ireland 16, Finland 2, Italy 86, ­Mexico 2, Poland 40, 1) Boards of the Group’s operating companies. Netherlands 1, ­Russia 1, South Africa 1, Hungary 1, Spain 2, Portugal 3, China 14, Philippines 49, Malaysia 55, India 104, 2) Group management and regional and country/national management. Australia 1, Czech Republic 1 and Slovakia 1. 98 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Note 8 Salaries, other remuneration, and social security costs Remuneration to the board of directors and senior executives Board of directors Distribution between basic salary and variable pay must be in proportion to The chairman and directors of the board fees are paid as resolved by the the executive’s levels of responsibility and authority. Short-term variable annual general meeting (AGM). The CEO does not receive a director’s fee. pay is performance based partly on Group profit and partly on individual Pursuant to these decisions, directors’ fees for the period until the next qualitative parameters. The variable pay ceiling is 80% of fixed basic salary AGM SEK 4,750,000, of which SEK 900,000 is for the chairman’s fee and for the CEO and 50% of fixed basic salary for other senior executives. LongSEK 650,000 is for the vice chairman’s fee. The remaining amount is term variable pay consists of share related incentive programs. Pension divided so that each non-executive director receives SEK 400,000. benefits shall reflect current common market terms. Pension based salary In addition to these amounts, according to the 2015 AGM decision, a fee is made up of basic salary and variable salary. Other benefits primarily contotaling SEK 400,000 is paid for serving on the board’s audit committee or sist of leasing cars. Other benefits may also include commonly accepted remuneration committee. The table on pages 78–79 shows remuneration benefits in conjunction with employment or the move abroad of the senior to the Board of Directors for 2015. executive. Such benefits may include temporary housing, education fees, moving expenses, tax filing assistance and similar benefits. Senior executives Fixed salary during the period of notice for termination and severance Since the 2015 AGM, the following guidelines for remuneration to senior pay shall together not exceed an amount equivalent to two years of fixed executives, as determined by the AGM, have been applied with exception salary. for the deviations accounted for on page 69. The proposed principles for remuneration to senior executives that the The board’s proposal for guidelines for remuneration to senior execuboard intends to put before the 2016 AGM for resolution is provided in the tives is to reflect Meda’s need to recruit and motivate qualified employees management report on page 68. through a compensation package that is competitive in the various countries. Executive management comprises the CEO and the senior executives Remuneration to CEO who represent the executive functions that report directly to the CEO. The CEO’s remuneration consisted of basic salary of SEK 12.5 million and The principles for remuneration and other employment terms are based variable pay of SEK 17 million, which includes remuneration related to the on previously made contracts between Meda and its senior executives. Group’s long-term performance based incentive programs in the amount of These principles entail the following: SEK 2.0 million. Other benefits amounted to SEK 0.4 million. Pension costs (i) Meda shall seek to offer its senior executives market based amounted to SEK 7.4 million. The CEO elected during the year to convert ­remuneration; pension benefits of SEK 3.0 million to salary. The CEO has a premium (ii) Remuneration criteria shall be based on the significance of their based pension plan equal to 35% of fixed salary and variable pay. The pen­responsibilities, skills requirements, experience, and performance; and sion commitment to the CEO is secured through the purchase of endow(iii) Remuneration is to consist of the following components: ment insurance pledged to the benefit of the CEO. In his previous role as • Fixed basic salary. COO, the CEO is covered by a defined benefit pension plan for which the • Short-term variable pay. pension commitment at the end of the year amounted to SEK 45 million. No • Long-term variable pay. further provisions is done to the defined benefit plan since the end of 2013. • Pension benefits. If the CEO resigns or his employment contract is terminated, a mutual • Other benefits and severance terms period of notice of 12 months applies. If the company terminates the Total salaries, social security costs and pensions 2015 2014 Salaries Social Of which Salaries Social Of which and other security pension and other security pension SEK million r­ emuneration costs costs r­ emuneration costs costs 2,521 690 177 2,020 525 146 Pension costs – Defined-contribution plans 80 74 – Defined-benefit plans 93 69 – Defined-benefit post-employment health care plans 4 3 Total 177 146 Salaries and other remuneration 2015 2014 Salary/ Of which Pension Average no. Salary/ Of which Pension Average no. SEK million board fee ­variable pay costs of people board fee ­variable pay costs of people Board, CEO and other ­executives1) 153 60 17 61 116 29 10 57 Other employees 2,368 274 160 4,157 1,904 222 136 3,433 Total 2,521 334 177 4,218 2,020 251 146 3,490 1) Board of the parent company, Group management, and regional and country/national management. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 99 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS cont. Note 8 employment contract, fixed and variable remuneration is payable during ipants shall be paid compensation equivalent to the dividends paid during the period of notice as well as severance pay equal one time the annual the three year vesting period up to the date of transfer. Compensation will base salary and one time the annual full bonus. Upon closing of a change of be paid only for dividends whose distribution was decided after the allotcontrol defined as shareholding by one owner of more than 50% (i) each ment date. party must observe a notice period of 24 months which will be reduced pro As of December 31, 2015 the programs cover, LTI 2014, 83 persons and, rata, per each month, during 12 months after closing, until the mutual notice LTI 2015, 98 persons. The allotment of shares according to the programs is period is yet again 12 months and (ii) the CEO will receive a payment of two determined based on the participant’s position according to the four times the annual base salary and two times the annual full bonus. Upon tergroups mentioned and the outcome of three performance criteria’s regardmination, initiated by either party within 3 months from a change of control ing 1) net sales, 2) EBITDA margin, and 3) cash flow. Each performance critethe CEO will receive an additional payment equal to two times the annual ria has been divided into three levels for a total of nine equally weighted full bonus payable three months after closing of the change of control . All levels corresponding to 11.1% per level. The performance criteria’s have such payments will be made together with additional pension contribution been adjusted for non-recurring items. The outcome for each program is of 35%. The CEO’s total severance payment should not exceed two times presented in the following table. the annual base salary and four times the annual full bonus payment and respective pension. Performance criteria LTI 2015 – level LTI 2014 – level The CEO’s employment terms are determined by the board of directors. Net sales 2 2 EBITDA-margin 3 2 Executive vice presidents (EVP) Cash flow 3 1 At year end, Meda’s executive management consisted of eight EVPs, in Outcome performance criteria (%) 88.8% 55.5% addition to the CEO. Salary and other remuneration are shown on the next table. All EVPs are covered by the company’s long-term performance based incentive programs. The number of shares to be allotted to the participants of the LTI 2014 as of EVPs employed in Sweden are covered by a premium based suppleDecember 31, 2015 is presented in the following table. The number of mentary pension plan. The plan entitles the individuals concerned to a supshares to be allotted to the participants of the LTI 2015 will be based on the plement to the pension benefits based on the ITP plan. The premium paid market value of the share and determined when the annual report has is based upon the individual’s pensionable salary (defined as fixed monthly been adopted by the board of directors and signed by the auditor. salary including annual leave supplement). The premium is calculated at 30 LTI 2014 percent of pensionable salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. The pension commitment for these individuals is secured through the purchase Value of shares at allotment (million SEK)1) 48 of endowment insurance pledged to the benefit of the employee. Number of shares at allotment 2) 350,665 Four EVPs who are not Swedish citizens are covered by a defined beneAdditional shares due to dividend compensation 6,844 fit pension plan. The pension commitment for these individuals amounted Number of forfeited shares during the period –19,388 to SEK 51 million at the end of the year. Other EVPs who are not Swedish Total allotted shares as of December 31, 2015 338,121 ­citizens are covered by defined-contribution pension plans to which provisions are made to a maximum of 18% of fixed salary. 1) The value of allotted shares at allotment have been calculated as the volume weighted average share price of Meda’s class A-shares at Nasdaq Stockholm during ten trading days for the period 2015-03-13 – 2015-03-26. Basic salary during the period of notice for termination and severance The program fully compensate for dividends. pay shall together not exceed an amount equivalent to two years´ fixed and 2) The number of shares is based on a price per share of SEK 136.98. variable remuneration. Against the background of a possible change of control the EVPs particCost ipate in a retention program for 2016 which entitles them to receive an addiThe total cost of the programs, which is allocated across its duration, is SEK tional payment of 18 month base salary in case of completion or of 6 month 129 million excluding social security contributions. In 2015, the programs base salary in case of no completion of a change of control in the year 2016. resulted in a cost recognized in the income statement of SEK 28 million excluding social security contributions, which amounted to SEK 2 million. Long term variable pay The total reserve for social security contributions in the balance sheet Long term performance based incentive programs (LTI-programs) amounts to SEK 4 million. As of December 31, 2015, Meda has two outstanding LTI-programs approved by the AGM in 2014 and 2015. The programs covers senior Deliver of shares ­executives and other key employees of the Group. The participants are The AGM has passed a resolution allowing the company to meet its obligadivided into four groups: the CEO, EVPs, and additional two groups which tions to deliver shares under the programs by entering into an equity swap consist of country managers, and other senior executives. The participants agreement or other comparable agreement with a third party. are given the opportunity to earn allotments of Class A shares in Meda at no cost. The board of directors believes it is advantageous to Meda when Incentive program in the US key individuals in the Group have a long-term interest in ensuring the good The long-term incentive program that was introduced in 2008, for employvalue performance of the company’s stock. The program is also intended to ees in the US, and adjusted in 2011, expired in December 31, 2015. The increase the Group’s attractiveness as an employer in the global market incentive program closed at the end of 2011 and included synthetic options. and promote the ability to recruit and retain key individuals. The premium for the options is USD 0, and the redemption price per option Each program will run for three years and shares may be transferred in is 100% of the average price paid for the Meda share in January 2011. The 2017 and 2018 provided that the individual is employed by the Group for an total cost for 2015 recognized in the income statement is SEK 0 million (7). indefinite term at the transfer date. Exemptions from the requirement may be permitted in individual cases, such as the participant’s death, disability, Preparation and decision process retirement, or sale of the unit by which the participant is employed. In order Issues concerning remuneration to Group management are dealt with by to set the participants’ interest on par with those of shareholders, the particthe remuneration committee in preparation for decisions by the board of directors. 100 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Remuneration and benefits to board and senior executives Performance 2015 Fixed basic salary/ share Other SEK million board fee Variable pay ­ rogramme p Pension ­benefits Total CEO, Jörg-Thomas Dierks1) 12.5 15.0 2.0 7.4 0.4 37.3 Board chairman, Martin Svalstedt2) 1.0 – – – – 1.0 Vice chairman, Luca Rovati2) 0.5 – – – – 0.5 Board member, Peter Claesson2) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Marianne Hamilton2)3)4) 0.1 – – – – 0.1 Board member, Tuve Johannesson2)3) 0.2 – – – – 0.2 Board member, Kimberly Lein-Mathisen5) 0.3 – – – – 0.3 Board member, Guido Oelkers2) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Karen Sörensen4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Lillie Li Valeur5) 0.3 – – – – 0.3 Board member, Peter von Ehrenheim2)4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Lars Westerberg2)4) 0.5 – – – – 0.5 Other senior executives (8 persons) 18.2 13.4 7.1 4.2 0.9 43.8 Total 35.2 28.4 9.1 11.6 1.3 85.6 Performance 2014 Fixed basic salary/ share Other SEK million board fee Variable pay ­ rogramme p Pension ­benefits Total CEO, Jörg-Thomas Dierks1) 10.0 7.0 0.6 6.1 0.4 24.1 Board chairman, Martin Svalstedt2)6) 0.6 – – – – 0.6 Board chairman, Bert-Åke Eriksson7) 0.3 – – – – 0.3 Vice chairman, Luca Rovati8) 0.2 – – – – 0.2 Board member, Peter Claesson2) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Marianne Hamilton2)4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Tuve Johannesson2) 0.5 – – – – 0.5 Board member, Guido Oelkers6) 0.3 – – – – 0.3 Board member, Karen Sörensen4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Peter von Ehrenheim4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Board member, Lars Westerberg2)4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Other senior executives (8 persons) 14.9 7.0 1.9 3.8 0.9 28.5 Total 28.8 14.0 2.5 9.9 1.3 56.5 1) CEO has during the year, in accordance with the employment contract, 4) In addition to this an amount of SEK 0.3 million (0.4) 7) Relates to the period January 2014 – May 2014. decided to convert pension of SEK 3 million to salary. corresponding social cost for the part of the invoiced fee. 8) Relates to the period November 6 2014 – December 2014. 2) Including received compensation for work in the Board committee. 5) Relates to the period May 2015 – December 2015. 3) Relates to the period January 2015 – May 2015. 6) Relates to the period May 2014 – December 2014. Note 9 Fees and remuneration to auditors Note 10 Operating leases The table shows the financial year’s expensed auditing fees and expensed SEK million 2015 2014 fees for other assignments that the Group’s auditors performed. Leasing expensed during the financial year 249 238 SEK million 2015 2014 The nominal value of future minimum lease ­payments regarding non-cancelable leases is Audit assignment distributed as follows: PwC1) 14 13 Payable within 1 year 215 209 Other2) – 3 Payable within 1–5 years 467 387 Tax consulting Payable after 5 years 58 13 PwC 2 1 Total 740 609 Other2) – 0 The largest proportion of the lease payments is for rent of premises and cars Other services for sales representatives. The Group’s largest lease contracts are in GerPwC 7 123) many, Italy, US, France, UK and Sweden. An operating lease covering office rent in Bad Homburg, Germany expires in 2019. Lease contracts for office Other2) – 0 premises in Monza, Italy and factory premises in Confienza, Italy expires in Total 23 29 1)  2020. In the US, the lease for offices runs through 2021. In 2015 Meda Auditing fees refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e., such work that was necessary to issue the auditor’s report and audit advice given in connection with the audit assignment. Fees for auditing services other than regular auditing signed a new office lease in France which run from July 1, 2016 to July 1, assignments amount to SEK 1 million (3). 2) Auditing fees, tax consulting and other service to other auditors for 2014 refers to statutory audit and consulting fees 2022. In the UK, Meda has leases for offices running until 2018. A new office for aquired Rottapharm entities. lease in Sweden was signed during the year and it expires in June 2020. 3) Fees, invoiced centrally to the parent company, Meda AB, for work performed by PwC firms globally. The Group’s leasing contract for company cars usually runs for 3–4 years. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 101 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 11 Non-recurring items and restructuring costs Below are the consolidated income including and excluding non-recurring items and restructuring costs. See also Note 29. Excluding restructuring Restructuring Including restructuring costs and other costs and other costs and other SEK million non-recurring items non-recurring items non-recurring items Net sales 19,648 – 19,648 Cost of sales –7,533 81) –7,525 Gross profit 12,115 8 12,123 Other income – 222) 22 Operating expenses –8,917 –5091) –9,426 Operating result 3,198 –479 2,719 Net financial items –1,196 –2193) –1,415 Profit/loss for the period after net financial items 2,002 –698 1,304 Tax –471 3594) –112 Net profit/loss 1,531 –339 1,192 1) Refers to restructuring costs of SEK 291 million, of which SEK -8 million is allocated to cost of sales and SEK 299 million to operating expenses, and a provision of SEK 210 million relating to the ongoing US product liability cases involving the product Reglan. 2) Refers to the divestment of the Euromed manufacturing unit in Spain. 3) Refers to non-recurring expenses of SEK 219 million related to redemption of the bond loan in late April 2015 which was absorbed in conjunction with the acquisition of Rottapharm. 4) Refers to non-recurring items of SEK 200 million relating to the utilization of a non-capitalized loss carry-forward in the German operations, SEK 80 million related to the ongoing US product liability cases, SEK 27 million relating to tax on non-recurring items in net financial items, SEK 82 million related to tax on restructuring costs, SEK -8 million relating to additional tax for previous financial years, SEK -27 million relating to internal restructuring of operations due to the acquisition of Rottapharm and SEK 5 million related to the divestment of the Euromed manufacturing unit in Spain. Note 12 Exchange gains/losses, net Note 14 Tax SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 Finance income/costs (see Note 13) –16 –34 Current tax expense Total –16 –34 Current tax for the year –1,039 –462 Current tax attributable to prior years 236 –8 Total –803 –470 Note 13 Finance income and finance costs Deferred tax expense SEK million 2015 2014 Deferred tax (see Note 18) 691 290 Finance income Total –112 –180 Interest 37 8 Tax expense constituted 8.6% (30.9) of profit before tax. The difference Total finance income 37 8 between the recognized tax expense and the consolidated profit before tax calculated using the Swedish tax rate of 22.0% (22.0) is illustrated in the Finance costs table below. The tax expense was positively impacted by SEK 359 million Interest –1,067 –591 due to non-recurring items and the use of a non-capitalized loss carry forExchange losses (see Note 12) –16 –34 ward in Germany. The Group’s tax expense was SEK 471 million (351), correCosts of raising loans –1151) –192 sponding to a tax rate of 23.5% (22.9). Interest pensions –57 –50 SEK million 2015 2014 Other finance costs –1971) –462) Reconciliation of effective tax Total finance costs –1,452 –913 Profit before tax 1,304 582 1) Including non-recurring expenses of SEK 219 million related to redemption of the bond loan absorted in conjunction with the acquisition of Rottapharm, which was repaid in late April 2015. Tax as per applicable tax rate for parent 2) Including transactional tax for the acquisition of the shares in Rottapharm of SEK 36 million. company, % 22.0 22.0 Effect of other tax rates for foreign ­subsidiaries, % –3.7 –6.6 Internal restructuring of subsidiaries, % –0.3 3.6 Other non-deductible expenses, % 5.5 3.6 Effect of changed tax rates, % 0.7 1.9 Tax attributable to prior years, % –15.6 6.4 Recognized effective tax, % 8.6 30.9 102 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Note 15 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share 2015 2014 2015 2014 Profit attributable to parent company Profit attributable to parent company ­shareholders, SEK million 1,176 399 ­shareholders, SEK million 1,176 399 Average no. of shares (thousands) 365,467 323,397 Average no. of shares (thousands) 365,467 323,397 No. of shares in calculation of basic e ­ arnings No. of shares in calculation of diluted per share (thousands) 365,467 323,397 ­earnings per share (thousands) 365,467 323,397 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 3.22 1.23 Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 3.22 1.23 Basic and diluted earnings per share Calculation of earnings per share was based on net profit for the year after tax attributable to parent company shareholders in relation to a weighted ­average number of outstanding shares totaling 365,467,371 (323,396,680). For 2014 the number of shares have been adjusted to consider the bonus issue element in the 2014 new share issue. There are no potential diluted ordinary shares. Note 16 Tangible assets 2015 2014 Equipment ConstrucEquipment ConstrucBuildings Machinery/ and tion in Buildings Machinery/ and tion in SEK million and land plant ­installations progress Total and land plant ­installations progress Total Opening cost of acquisition 994 1,367 722 113 3,196 691 826 561 92 2,170 Investments 8 80 48 84 220 11 42 22 41 116 Sales/disposals –16 –26 –69 – –111 –45 –34 –54 – –133 Acquired operation – – – – – 262 382 115 73 832 Divested operation –40 –320 –19 –1 –380 – – – – – Reclassification 31 91 –38 –129 –45 11 69 20 –100 0 Translation difference –8 –8 6 –1 –11 64 82 58 7 211 Closing cost of acquisition 969 1,184 650 66 2,869 994 1,367 722 113 3,196 Opening depreciation –363 –649 –492 – –1,504 –319 –564 –439 – –1,322 Year’s depreciation –31 –116 –64 – –211 –23 –63 –47 – –133 Sales/disposals 15 24 65 – 104 7 26 41 – 74 Divested operation 21 204 16 – 241 – – – – – Reclassification –3 4 13 – 14 – – – – – Translation difference –1 1 –9 – –9 –28 –48 –47 – –123 Closing depreciation –362 –532 –471 – –1,365 –363 –649 –492 – –1,504 Carrying amount at year-end 607 652 179 66 1,504 631 718 230 113 1,692 Depreciation per function: Cost of sales –18 –105 –16 – –139 –10 –53 –15 – –78 Selling expenses – – –7 – –7 – – –6 – –6 Medicine and business ­development expenses –1 – –3 – –4 –1 –1 –6 – –8 Administrative expenses –12 –11 –38 – –61 –12 –9 –20 – –41 Total –31 –116 –64 – –211 –23 –63 –47 – –133 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 103 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 16 Finance leases The Group’s property, plant, and equipment includes objects held Future minimum lease payments have these due dates: via finance leases as follows: Nominal values Present values SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Opening cost of acquisition 33 50 0–1 year 0 5 0 5 Acquired operation – 33 1–5 years – 17 – 17 Divested operation –32 – Total 0 22 0 22 Reclassification – –50 Translation difference 0 0 Closing cost of acquisition 1 33 Opening depreciation –1 –25 Year´s depreciation –4 –3 Divested operation 4 – Reclassification – 27 Translation difference 0 0 Closing depreciation –1 –1 Carrying amount at year-end 0 32 Note 17 Intangible assets 2015 2014 Product Other Product Other SEK million Goodwill rights assets1) Total Goodwill rights assets1) Total Opening cost of acquisition 25,352 40,083 232 65,667 13,971 27,352 171 41,494 Investments 47 59 20 126 – 12 26 38 Sales/disposals – –6 –14 –20 – – –1 –1 Acquired operation – – – – 9,758 11,077 20 20,855 Divested operation – –511 –7 –518 – –96 – –96 Reclassification – –1 46 45 – – – – Translation difference 125 98 –9 214 1,623 1,738 16 3,377 Closing cost of acquisition 25,524 39,722 268 65,514 25,352 40,083 232 65,667 Scheduled opening amortization – –14,715 –154 –14,869 – –11,710 –118 –11,828 Scheduled amortization for the year – –3,040 –33 –3,073 – –2,348 –22 –2,370 Sales/disposals – 5 7 12 – – 1 1 Divested operation – 42 4 46 – 26 – 26 Reclassification – – –14 –14 – – – – Translation difference – –145 7 –138 – –683 –15 –698 Scheduled closing amortization – –17,853 –183 –18,036 – –14,715 –154 –14,869 Carrying amount at year-end 25,524 21,869 85 47,478 25,352 25,368 78 50,798 Scheduled amortization per function: Cost of sales – – –8 –8 – – –1 –1 Selling expenses – – –4 –4 – – –4 –4 Medicine and business development expenses – –3,040 –5 –3,045 – –2,348 –5 –2,353 Administrative expenses – – –16 –16 – – –12 –12 Total – –3,040 –33 –3,073 – –2,348 –22 –2,370 1) Other intangible assets mainly refers to software 104 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Rate of Remaining Cash flow beyond the four-year period has been assumed to have annual Specification of major amortization, amortization, growth of 2%. This anticipated growth rate is a moderate assumption in ­product rights, SEK million 2015 years years relation to estimated long-term growth rate for the total market. According Dona 2,727 15 13.8 to IMS (IMS Health Market Prognosis, September 2015), the global pharmaElidel 1,654 15 10.2 ceutical market is expected to increase by an average of 4–7% during the 2016–2020 period. 3M-products 1,472 15 6.0 Average budgeted gross margin, growth rate beyond the four year-­ Saugella 950 15 13.8 period and discount rate before tax used in the calculation of value in use Valeant products 848 15 7.7 are shown in the table below: Alaven products 818 15 9.7 WesternRecip products 787 15 6.9 Europe excluding Emerging Antula products 738 25 20.3 2015, Parameter, % US Nordics Nordics Markets Treo 629 25 20.8 Average budgeted gross margin 75 58 62 62 Jazz 537 15 11.9 Growth rate beyond Other 10,709 10–25 8.1 the four-year period 2 2 2 2 Total 21,869 Discount rate, before tax 13 11 12 12 Assumptions used Impairment testing of goodwill in the previous year The next table shows the carrying amount for goodwill distributed per cash Average budgeted gross margin 77 58 61 61 generated unit (CGU). Goodwill was tested for impairment regarding the US Growth rate beyond (acquisitions of MedPointe and Alaven), the Nordics (acquisitions of Recip the four-year period 2 2 2 2 and Antula), Western Europe excluding Nordics (acquisitions of Viatris, 3M, Discount rate, before tax 13 11 12 12 Valeant and Rottapharm) and Emerging Markets (acquisitions of Rottapharm). SEK million 2015 2014 Meda judges that the discount rate used is conservative because the US 5,997 5,497 weighted average cost of capital is lower than the discount rate. The recovNordics 2,108 2,113 erable amount for the tested entities exceeds their carrying amount, so no impairment loss was recognized. Western Europe excluding Nordics 12,653 12,888 Meda performed sensitivity analyses on the parameters growth rate, Emerging Markets 4,766 4,854 gross margin and discount rate and states that there are good margins in Total 25,524 25,352 the calculations for the Nordic region, Western Europe and Emerging ­Markets. For US the recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount with The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are based on value in use. These SEK 740 million at December 31, 2015. The recoverable amount would equal calculations stem from estimated cash flows based on management-apits carrying amount if the growth rate beyond the four year-period decreased proved financial budgets and cover a four-year period. Management estabfrom 2% to 0.6%. Meda has assessed that reasonable change to the other lished the financial budgets based on previous results, experience and parameters would not cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable expectations of market trend. amount. In the long term, Meda’s ability to generate future deals constitutes a The budgets includes the parameter growth rate, which includes key factor in justifying recognized goodwill. assumptions about product launches of existing products on new markets, price development, sales volumes, competing products estimated development, the parameter gross margin, which includes assumptions about salesand cost of goods development and the parameter discount rate. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 105 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 18 Deferred tax Amounts referring to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities on the balance sheet include: SEK million 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax assets to be used after 12 months 892 842 Deferred tax assets to be used within 12 months 920 798 Total 1,812 1,640 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities payable after 12 months 4,198 4,759 Deferred tax liabilities payable within 12 months 510 519 Total 4,708 5,278 Carry-forward of unused tax losses: At year-end 2015, the Group reported deferred tax assets attributable to carry-forwards of unused tax losses of SEK 137 million, mainly related to Portugal, Spain, Sweden and USA. The tax base of loss carry-­forwards not accounted for is SEK 50 million, mainly attributable to Spain and Portugal. The decision not to account for the loss carry-forwards is based on the uncertainty to be able to use them. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities on the balance sheet refer to the following: 2015 2014 SEK million Receivables Liabilities Net Receivables Liabilities Net Intangible non-current assets 109 4,268 –4,159 107 4,829 –4,722 Property, plant, and equipment 3 60 –57 49 85 –36 Stock (inventories) 420 5 415 296 5 291 Accrued expenses 698 72 626 526 23 503 Loss carry-forwards 137 0 137 190 0 190 Pensions 474 8 466 494 7 487 Untaxed reserves 0 333 –333 0 369 –369 Other 15 6 9 20 2 18 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities 1,856 4,752 –2,896 1,682 5,320 –3,638 Offsetting of assets and liabilities –44 –44 0 –42 –42 0 Tax assets and tax liabilities, net 1,812 4,708 –2,896 1,640 5,278 –3,638 Change regarding deferred taxes: Intangible Property, Stock Loss Unnon-current plant, and (invenAccrued carrytaxed SEK million assets equipment tories) expenses forwards Pensions reserves Other Total On January 1, 2014 –1,486 –60 255 192 84 199 –492 15 –1,293 Translation difference –200 0 6 29 14 6 0 –2 –147 Acquired operation –3,250 11 36 47 88 146 0 5 –2,919 Recognition in income statement 214 13 –6 –47 4 –12 123 1 290 Tax recognized in other ­comprehensive income 0 0 0 283 0 149 0 0 432 On December 31, 2014 –4,722 –36 291 503 190 487 –369 18 –3,638 Translation difference 20 –2 –2 16 –33 –6 0 –1 –8 Divested operation 145 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 156 Recognition in income statement 398 –30 126 192 –20 –4 36 –8 691 Tax recognized in other ­comprehensive income 0 0 0 –86 0 –11 0 0 –97 On December 31, 2015 –4,159 –57 415 626 137 466 –333 9 –2,896 106 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Note 19 Available-for-sale financial assets Note 21 Inventories SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 20141) Carrying amount at start of the year 45 5 Raw materials 740 866 Acquired operation – 31 Work in progress 134 191 Reclassification at acquisition of asset – –1 Finished goods and goods for resale 2,002 1,931 Purchase 0 2 Total 2,876 2,988 Disposal –12 – 1) 2  014 figures have been adjusted. Finished goods and goods for resale from SEK 2,621 million to SEK 1,931 million, with SEK 544 million allocated to raw materials and SEK 146 million to work in progress. Revaluation transferred to other comprehensive income –10 7 The Cost of sales item contains expenditure for inventories recognized as Translation difference 0 1 an expense amounting to SEK 5,812 million (5,081). Other income stateCarrying amount at year-end 23 45 ment items contain expenditure for inventories recognized as an expense The financial assets are not due for payment or in need of impairment. of SEK 0 million (0). Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Impairment of inventories in the Group totaled SEK 176 million (84) during the year. SEK million 2015 2014 Funds – US 16 26 Listed interest bearing securities – Austria 6 18 Note 22 Trade receivables Other 1 1 Total 23 45 SEK million 2015 2014 Trade receivables 4,396 4,227 Available-for-sale financial assets are expressed in the following currencies: Provision for bad debts –101 –76 SEK million 2015 2014 Total 4,295 4,151 USD 16 26 EUR 7 19 Other non-current receivables includes trade receivables of SEK 156 million Total 23 45 (190) which are due during 2017. The fair value of trade receivables corresponds to the carrying amount. On December 31, 2015, the Group’s trade receivables, excluding those Note 20 Business combinations and divestments that were past due and those impaired, stood at SEK 3,819 million (3,729). On December 31, 2015 past due but not impaired trade receivables Acquisition of Rottapharm amounted to SEK 574 million (368). Their aging analysis: Additional SEK 149 million of the purchase price was paid on January 2, 2015. SEK million 2015 2014 < 3 months 349 257 Divestments Euromed: In December 2015, Meda divested the Euromed manufacturing 3–6 months 109 32 unit in Spain.The purchase price was approximately EUR 82 million. The > 6 months 116 79 divestment resulted in a gain of SEK 22 million which has been recognized Total 574 368 as other income. Joint venture Hungary: In January 2015, Meda divested the joint venture in On December 31, 2015 the Group recognized trade receivables that were Hungary which was included in the Rottapharm acquisition in 2014. The impaired amounting to SEK 189 million (131). The provision for bad debts divestment resulted in a loss of SEK 4 million which has been recognized as totaled SEK 101 million (76). medicine and development expenses. Joint venture – Valeant: In April 2014, Meda reached an agreement with Changes in the provision for bad debts: Valeant to terminate the joint ventures in Canada, Mexico and Australia. The divestment resulted in a gain of SEK 42 million which has been recogSEK million 2015 2014 nized as other income. On January 1 76 22 The divested net assets and the impact on the Group’s cash flow are Additional provision for bad debts 68 91 presented in the table below. Receivables written off during the year as SEK million 2015 2014 non-recoverable –29 –29 Divested net assets Reversed unused amounts –8 –5 Tangible assets 139 – Translation difference –6 –3 Intangible assets 472 – Carrying amount at year-end 101 76 Inventories 252 8 Other assets 138 43 Deferred tax liabilities –156 – Other liabilities –114 –111 Divested net assets 731 -60 Cash received 762 7 Less transaction costs –16 – Less cash and cash equivalents in divested entities –51 –32 Impact on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 695 –25 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 107 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 23 Derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities Currency forward contracts Available-for-sale financial assets are primarily recognized at level 1 and 2. On December 31, 2015, the Group’s open forward foreign exchange Level 1 consist of listed interest-bearing securities. Fair value ­measurement ­contracts had terms of up to three months. This table shows classification is based on quoted prices on an active market. Level 2 mainly consist of by currency. funds where fair value measurement is based on observable market data. Embedded derivatives which were linked to the bond loan repaid in late Assets April 2015 were expensed in Q1 2015. Nominal amount, Fair value, Group derivatives are covered by right of set-off between assets and Currency pairs Exchange rate SEK million SEK million ­liabilities with the same counterparty. Offsetting of assets and liabilities has EUR/SEK 8.9578 4,031 103 not been applied. Derivatives recognized as assets and liabilities are RUB/SEK 0.124 220 21 ­presented in the table below. Other 25 No transfers have been made between level 1 and level 2 during the Total 149 period. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the fair value of the derivatives that are recognized as assets in the Liabilities Nominal amount, Fair value, ­balance sheet. Currency pairs Exchange rate SEK million SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 EUR/SEK 9.1331 7,137 43 EUR/USD 1.07 1,516 27 Assets USD/SEK 8.079 2,852 127 Currency forward contracts – 149 – 208 Other 4 Embedded derivatives – – 25 – Total 201 Available-for-sale financial assets 6 17 18 27 Total 6 166 43 235 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The following table comprises the consolidated financial assets and liabiliLiabilities ties that are measured at fair value. Interest rate swaps1) – 23 – 22 Interest rate swaps and currency forward contracts are reported as level Currency forward contracts – 201 – 284 2 and used for the purpose of hedging. Fair value measurement for interest Total – 224 – 306 rate swaps is calculated by discounting with observable market data. 1) Cash flow hedging. ­Measurement of fair value for currency forward contracts is based on pubThe following table comprises the fair value of financialassets and liabililished forward prices. ties by valuation category compared with their carrying amounts. Assets at fair Derivatives Available for Loans and value through used for sale financial 2015 SEK million r­ eceivables profit and loss hedging assets Total Fair value Available for sale financial assets – – – 23 23 23 Derivatives – 131 18 – 149 149 Trade receivables and other receivables 4,5821) – – – 4,582 4,582 Cash and cash equivalents 1,612 – – – 1,612 1,612 Total 6,194 131 18 23 6,366 6,366 Liabilities at fair Derivatives value through used for Other financial 2015 SEK million profit and loss hedging ­liabilities Total Fair value Borrowings – – 24,862 24,862 24,838 Unconditional deferred payment – – 2,458 2,458 2,458 Trade payables – – 1,696 1,696 1,696 Derivatives 169 55 – 224 224 Other liabilities – – 9872) 987 987 Total 169 55 30,003 30,227 30,203 1) Consists of the Group’s trade receivables, parts of other non-current receivables and parts of other short-term receivables. 2) Consists of the parts of the Group’s other short-term liabilities and accrued expenses. 108 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Assets at fair Derivatives Available for Loans and value through used for sale financial 2014 SEK million r­ eceivables profit and loss hedging assets Total Fair value Available for sale financial assets – – – 45 45 45 Derivatives – 211 22 – 233 233 Trade receivables and other receivables 4,6651) – – – 4,665 4,665 Cash and cash equivalents 2,311 – – – 2,311 2,311 Total 6,976 211 22 45 7,254 7,254 Liabilities at fair Derivatives value through used for Other financial 2014 SEK million profit and loss hedging ­liabilities Total Fair value Borrowings – – 28,208 28,208 28,254 Unconditional deferred payment – – 2,447 2,447 2,447 Trade payables – – 1,542 1,542 1,542 Derivatives 226 80 – 306 306 Other liabilities – – 1,2382) 1,238 1,238 Total 226 80 32,984 33,741 33,787 1) Consists of the Group’s trade receivables, parts of other non-current receivables and parts of other short-term receivables. 2) Consists of the parts of the Group’s other short-term liabilities and accrued expenses. Medas financial instruments attribute to level 1 and 2 and fair value by level is as follows: 2015 2014 SEK million Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total Financial assets 6 6,360 6,366 43 7,211 7,254 Financial liabilities – 30,203 30,203 3,9731) 29,814 33,787 1) See Note 26. Note 24 Cash and cash equivalents Note 25 Equity SEK million 2015 2014 Share capital and other contributed capital Cash and bank balances 1,612 2,311 No. of shares, share capital and premiums increased since 2014 as follows: Total 1,612 2,311 SEK million Other (except for contributed no. of shares) No. of shares Share capital capital 2014 January 1, 2014 302,243,065 302 8,865 Non-cash issue, net after tax 30,000,000 30 2,942 New share issue, net after tax 33,224,306 33 1,981 On December 31, 2014 365,467,371 365 13,788 2015 On December 31, 2015 365,467,371 365 13,788 Dividend per share At the AGM on April 14, 2016, a dividend of SEK 2.50 per share for a total of SEK 914 million will be proposed for 2015. Dividends for 2014 amounted to SEK 914 million (SEK 2.50 per share) and for 2013 SEK 756 million (SEK 2.50 per share). MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 109 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 25 Hedging Defined benefit Available–for– Translation of net Cash flow pension plans sale financial Other reserves, SEK million ­difference investment hedging and similar plans assets Total Other reserves January 1, 2014 –810 486 –26 –65 – –415 Translation difference 2,118 – – – – 2,118 Translation difference transferred to the income statement –11 – – – – –11 Earnings from hedging net investment – –1,300 – – – –1,300 Tax on earnings from hedging net investment – 286 – – – 286 Earnings from revaluation of derivatives ­recognized in equity – – 11 – – 11 Tax on earnings from revaluation of derivatives recognized in equity – – –2 – – –2 Earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – –441 – –441 Tax on earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – 149 – 149 Earnings from available-for-sale financial assets – – – – 7 7 Tax on earnings from available-for-sale financial assets – – – – –1 –1 Other reserves December 31, 2014 1,297 –528 –17 –357 6 401 Other reserves January 1, 2015 1,297 –528 –17 –357 6 401 Translation difference –376 – – – – –376 Translation difference transferred to the income statement –3 – – – – –3 Earnings from hedging net investment – 395 – – – 395 Tax on earnings from hedging net investment – –87 – – – –87 Earnings from revaluation of derivatives ­recognized in equity – – –1 – – –1 Tax on earnings from revaluation of derivatives recognized in equity – – 0 – – 0 Earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – 66 – 66 Tax on earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – –11 – –11 Earnings from available-for-sale financial assets – – – – –10 –10 Tax on earnings from available-for-sale financial assets – – – – 1 1 Other reserves December 31, 2015 918 –220 –18 –302 –3 375 1) Recalculated on the basis of revised IAS 19. 110 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Note 26 Borrowings Note 27 Post-employment benefits SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 Long-term borrowing Present value of funded obligations 1,262 1,248 Bank loans 21,150 21,190 Fair value of plan assets –869 –854 Bond loans 1,350 5,611 Deficit of the funded plans 393 393 Finance leases (see Note 16) 0 16 Present value of unfunded obligations 1,862 2,021 Other 7 – Net 2,255 2,415 Total 22,507 26,817 SEK million 2015 2014 Short-term borrowing Recognized as assets1) 18 15 Bank loans 623 574 Recognized as liabilities 2,273 2,430 Bond loans 400 500 Net 2,255 2,415 1) Plans with a net surplus, i.e. where plan assets exceed the defined benefit obligations is recognized as other non-­ Commercial papers 1,331 182 current receivables. Finance leases (see Note 16) 0 5 Factoring 1 130 Changes in fair value of plan assets during the year 2015 2014 Total 2,355 1,391 At year’s start 854 688 Interest income 34 32 Total borrowings 24,862 28,208 Remeasurements Return on plan assets, excluding amounts Fair value 2015 2014 included in interest income –35 36 Level1 – 3,973 Contributions Level 2 24,838 24,281 Employers 48 58 Total 24,838 28,254 Payments from plan Benefit payments –57 –44 Fair value deviates from the carrying amount on the Groups bond loans Settlements –36 –38 which are recognized in level 2 for 2015. Fair value measurement is based on observable market data on the OTC market. For 2014 level 1 consist of Exchange differences 61 122 the bond loan of 400 MEUR which was absorbed in conjunction with the At year-end 869 854 acquisition of Rottapharm and redeemed in late April 2015. Changes in present value of the Maturities for long-term borrowing: 2015 2014 obligations during the year 2015 2014 Payable within 1–2 years 2,580 973 At year’s start 3,269 1,788 Payable within 2–5 years 19,927 21,985 Costs for service in current year 30 17 Payable after 5 years – 3,859 Interest expense 87 79 Total 22,507 26,817 Remeasurements Gain (-)/loss from change in demographic assumptions –16 37 Carrying amounts in SEK million, by currency, for the Group’s borrowing: 2015 2014 Gain (-)/loss from change in financial assumptions –98 382 EUR 14,834 18,237 Experience gains (-)/losses –16 –5 USD 5,149 5,005 Payments from plan SEK 4,879 4,966 Benefit payments –133 –102 Total 24,862 28,208 Settlements –36 –38 Acquired operation – 858 Unused credits: 2015 2014 Exchange differences 37 253 Unused unconfirmed credits 700 700 At year-end 3,124 3,269 Unused confirmed credits 5,227 5,505 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 111 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 27 The defined benefit obligation and plan assets are composed by country as follows in the table below: 2015 SEK million Germany US Sweden UK Other Total Present value of obligation 1,652 1,011 102 193 166 3,124 Fair value of plan assets – –613 – –209 –47 –869 Net 1,652 398 102 –16 119 2,255 2014 SEK million Germany US Sweden UK Other Total Present value of obligation 1,789 997 104 189 190 3,269 Fair value of plan assets – –606 – –203 –45 –854 Net 1,789 391 104 –14 145 2,415 Germany determine investing decisions and allocation of funds. This work is abided In Germany, Meda has unfunded defined-benefit pension plans. These by an investment policy, which is determined by the board of Meda Pharplans are closed to new members and new employees are instead offered maceuticals Inc., and the SEI investment management agreement. The a defined-contribution solution. The defined-benefit pension plans are investments are determined within an asset-liability matching framework to based on the final salary and give employees covered by the plan benefits achieve a long-term investment that is in line with the obligations under the in the form of a percentage of salary upon retirement. The level of benefits pension plan. The company’s overall objective is to improve the funded staalso depends on the employee’s period of service. Withdrawals for pentus of the plan. The investment committee together with SEI actively monisions are made for payouts to the retirees with vested pension. The pentors how the duration and the expected yield of the investments are matchsion payouts for the German plans are adjusted based on the consumer ing the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligation. The price index. The plans cover 2,477 people, 549 of whom were active company has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from employees as of December 31, 2015. previous years. Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any One of the pension plans in Germany, which was partially financed by single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of the employer and partially by the employees, was discontinued on Decemassets. ber 31, 2004 and is secured by Bayer Pensionskasse. Meda is according to German law (Gesetz zur Verbesserung der betrieblichen Altersversorgung) Sweden liable to cover any future pension increases. The plan is a defined-benefit Meda has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans based on plan that encompasses several employers. Meda is recognizing this plan as collective agreement between the parties in the Swedish labor market. a defined-contribution plan since the Group has not had access to informaThe defined benefit plan, known as ITP 2, is valid for employees born in tion that would enable this plan to be recognized as a defined-benefit plan. 1978 or earlier. The retirement pension in the ITP 2 plan is a defined benefit Meda will not be paying any premiums to Bayer Pensionskasse for 2016. obligation handled by Meda and administered and secured by PRI Meda’s share of the total number of active participants in the plan as of Pensions­garanti which also provides credit insurance. Obligations for famDecember 31, 2015 was 0.2% (0.3). ily pension and disability pension for salaried employees is secured through insurance with Alecta. As per UFR 3 (statement issued by the US Swedish Financial Reporting Board) this is a multi-employer benefit-based The defined benefit pension plan in the US is a tax-qualified plan that is plan. For the 2015 financial year, the Group did not have access to informasubject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) tion that would enable this plan to be recognized as a defined benefit plan. minimum funding standards. The plan includes 1,821 persons whereof 104 These benefits as per ITP 2, secured through Alecta insurance, are thereare active employees as of December 31, 2015. fore recognized as a defined-contribution plan. Premiums for the defined The member’s defined benefit is based on their compensation and serbenefit survivor’s pension plan is calculated on an individual basis and vice with the Company. The plan is closed since 2003-01-31 and there are based, among other things, on salary, previously vested pension and the no benefit accruals after that date. Thus, service and compensation with assumed remaining service period. The expected premiums for 2016 for the Company earned after January 31, 2003 are not taken into account for ITP 2 plans with Alecta amount to SEK 7 million (6). Meda’s share of the total benefit accrual purposes but such service is taken into account for purcontributions to the plan amounts to 0.003% (0.003) and Meda’s share of poses of determining eligibility for early retirement benefits. A cost of living the total number of active participants is 0.018% (0.017). At the end of 2015, adjustment is done on the benefit payments for certain members of the Alecta’s surplus (in the form of the collective consolidation level) was 153% plan who were hired before April 1, 1977. No cost of living adjustment is (143). The defined benefit ITP plan is a pension plan based on final salary required on the portion of the benefit earned after September 30, 1980. and gives employees covered by the plan benefits in the form of a percentThe defined benefit pension plan in the US reports a deficit of SEK 398 age of salary upon retirement. The level of the benefit also depends on the million (391) as of December 2015. Meda is obliged to fund the plan accordemployee’s period of service. The plans are unfunded and withdrawals for ing to the rules of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 in the US and subsepensions are made for the payouts to the retirees with vested pension. The quent amendments under HATFA and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, pension payouts from the plan are not adjusted based on the consumer which generally require contributions to the plan on a yearly basis so that price index. The plan covers 332 people, 87 of whom were active employthe deficit is funded within 7 years. Any gains or losses to the plan assets ees as of December 31, 2015. will also affect the level of future contributions. Contributions in 2016 are The defined contribution plan, known as ITP 1, for employees born in estimated to SEK 58 million. The yearly contribution is calculated on a 1979 or later. yearly basis by an external actuary. The defined contribution plan ITP 1 or alternative ITP, for employees The trust fund of the defined benefit pension plan in the US is actively earning more than 10 income base amount and who have opted out of the monitored by an investment committee and by SEI Investments (SEI). The defined benefit plan ITP 2, where rules are set by the Company and board of Meda US has appointed an investment committee which consists approved by each employee selected to participate. of Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. employees. The committee works with SEI to 112 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group UK expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligation. The company The defined benefit pension plan in the UK is a funded plan and has been has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous closed to new members since January 1, 2007 and there are no benefit years. Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single accruals after that date. New employees are currently offered a retirement investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. solution through a defined contribution plan. The defined benefit pension plan includes 163 persons whereof none are active employees as of Other December 31, 2015. Recognized liabilities for other pension plans as of December 31, 2015 The plan is a final salary pension plan, which provides benefits to memamounted to SEK 120 million (145). Other pension obligations are mainly bers in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level related to France, Austria and Italy. of benefits provided also depends on members’ length of service. The pension payment in UK is on a yearly basis adjusted with 3% for some of the The significant actuarial assumptions are presented in the table below: plan members. For other members of the plan the pension payments are adjusted for inflation. (weighted average %) 2015 2014 The defined benefit pension plan in UK reports a surplus of SEK 16 milDiscount rate 2.6 2.3 lion as of December 2015. Meda makes yearly contributions to the plan to Future salary increase 2.2 2.2 ensure that the plan does not report a deficit. Any changes on the value of Future pension increase 1.6 1.6 the plan assets may affect the yearly contribution to the plan. Contributions in 2016 are estimated to SEK 6 million. The contribution is monitored and Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in calculated by an external actuary on a regular basis. accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. The funded pension plan in UK is administrated by Legal & General These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a Investment Management Limited (LGIM). The administration is regulated by pensioner retiring at age 65. an investment management agreement. The agreement includes targets related to return on plan assets of which an investment strategy is sug(weighted average, %) 2015 2014 gested for Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Investment decisions are handled by Retiring at the end of the reporting period trustees, ENTs (Entity Nominated Trustees), which according to British law is (age 65 years) designated by Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. The investments are determined Male 19.5 20.1 within an asset-liability matching strategy to achieve a long-term investFemale 23.0 23.4 ment that is in line with the obligations under the pension plan. The company’s objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in Retiring 25 years after the end of the reporting period ( age 40 years) long term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payment as they fall due. The trustees and LGIM actively monitor how the Male 19.5 19.7 duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the Female 23.5 23.5 The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions are:1) Discount rate Future salary increase Future pension increase Life expectancy SEK million 2015 +0.5% –0.5% +0.5% –0.5% +0.5% –0.5% +1 year –1 year Present value of funded ­obligations 1,262 1,205 1,323 1,264 1,261 1,273 1,254 1,283 1,242 Fair value of assets –869 –869 –869 –869 –869 –869 –869 –869 –869 Present value of unfunded ­obligations 1,862 1,734 2,007 1,877 1,847 1,981 1,753 1,947 1,768 Net 2,255 2,070 2,461 2,272 2,239 2,385 2,138 2,361 2,141 1) The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (projected unit method) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability. Plan assets in the Group which are mainly attributable to US and UK are comprised as presented in the table below. 2015 2014 Quoted Unquoted Total % Quoted Unquoted Total % Equity instruments US 292 51 343 40 305 – 305 36 UK 43 – 43 5 42 – 42 5 Debt instruments US 171 17 188 22 180 – 180 21 UK 166 – 166 19 161 – 161 19 Property US – 82 82 9 – 66 66 8 Other US – – – – 7 48 55 6 Other countries 24 23 47 5 23 22 45 5 Total 696 173 869 100 718 136 854 100 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 113 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 27 Contributions to the Group’s defined-benefit pension and health care plans Maturity Undiscounted payouts, SEK million for the 2016 financial year are expected to amount to SEK 145 million. The Within 1 year 145 weighted average maturity for the pension obligations is 13 years. Between 1–2 years 158 The maturities for expected undiscounted payouts for post-employBetween 2–5 years 512 ment pension are listed below: More than 5 years 3,912 Total 4,727 Risks Through its defined post-employment defined-benefit pension and healthcare plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are described below. Type of risk Volatility The largest proportion of the Group’s plan assets are in the US and the UK. The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate in assets based on corporate bonds. If the plan assets do not achieve returns corresponding to the level of the discount rate, a deficit will arise. The US and UK plan contains of equities. Although, over the long term, the return is expected to exceed the interest on corporate bonds, the equities are associated with volatility and risk in the short term. As the plans approach maturity, Meda intends to reduce the level of investment risk by increasing investments in assets that better match the liability. Bond yield A big part of the Group’s plans are unfunded and located to Germany where the discount rate is based on corporate bonds. A reducchanges tion in the interest on corporate bonds results in an increase in plan liabilities. In the US the pension plans are funded and any increase in the liability as a result of a decrease in interest on corporate bonds is to some extent compensated for by an increase in the value of the corporate bond holding. Inflation In the countries where the Group has pension obligations that are linked to inflation, higher inflation in those countries would lead to higher pension liabilities. The plan assets in the US and the UK are either not affected by (fixed interest on bonds) or slightly correlated with (equities) inflation, which means that an increase in inflation will increase the deficit in these plans. Life expectancy In most of the pension plans, individuals covered by the plans will receive life-long benefits, and accordingly, higher life expectancy assumptions assumptions result in higher pension liabilities. Note 28 Other non-current liabilities SEK million 2015 2014 The purchase price for Rottapharm includes an unconditional deferred payment of EUR 275 million which carries no interest and matures in January Unconditional deferred payment 2,458 2,447 2017. This is measured at fair value by discounting to present value using an Other non-current liabilities 16 17 interest rate of 2.6%. Interest cost for the period, since the acquisition, which Total 2,474 2,464 is recognized under financial expenses amounts to SEK 65 (14) million. Note 29 Other provisions Legal SEK million Returns Personnel Restructuring ­disputes Other Total On January 1, 2015 513 141 620 73 148 1,495 Additional provisions 488 76 273 213 30 1,080 Utilized during the year –300 –35 –561 –30 –37 –963 Reversed unused amounts –141 –12 –72 –2 –73 –300 Translation difference 37 8 –6 – –6 33 On December 31, 2015 597 178 254 254 62 1,345 114 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group SEK million 2015 2014 Note 30 Contingent liabilities Non-current provisions 337 375 Current provisions 1,008 1,120 Pledged collateral, SEK million 2015 2014 Total 1,345 1,495 Commitments Guarantees 31 32 Non-current Expected outflow date, SEK million provisions • In-licensing of the global rights to Edluar may lead to milestone payments In 2–3 years 118 totaling USD 60 million when defined sales targets are reached. In 4–5 years 62 • The acquisition of the European rights to the substance sotiromod may After 5 years 157 lead to milestone payments of USD 10 million when defined development Total 337 stages are reached. • The agreement with Ethypharm for the rights to the ketoprofen–omeprazole combination may lead to milestone payments of EUR 5 million upon Provisions for returns registration and when defined sales targets are reached. The provision for returns mainly comprises reserves for products that Meda • In-licensing of OraDisc A for the European market may lead to milestone is obliged to buy back from the customer a short time before or after their payments of EUR 4.8 million. expiry date. • The agreement with Cipla to expand the geographic territory for Dymista and the product development partnership may lead to milestone payProvisions for personnel ments of USD 35 million when defined development stages are reached SEK 94 million (89) of provisions for personnel relates to health benefits in the and upon the launch of new products. US after terminated employment which are unfunded. Accounting method, • The acquisition of ZpearPoint may lead to milestone payments of NOK 40 assumptions and number of evaluation points are similar to those used for million when defined development stages and sales targets are reached defined benefit pension plans. The plans are closed and no actively for the product EB24. employed are covered by the plan. The actuarial loss for 2015 amounted to • The in-licensed rights to Betadine from Mundipharma will expire on DecemSEK 2 million and interest expenses to SEK 4 million. Benefits paid from the ber 31, 2017. With this counterparty, Meda has a binding option to acquire an plans amounted to SEK 9 million. Expected fees for 2016 amount to SEK 6 eternal license for the rights to Betadine under certain conditions. The parmillion. Weighted average maturity for the plans amount to 9 years. ties have entered into negotiations on future rights to the product. The principal actuarial assumptions are the discount rate and long-term • The maximum additional purchase consideration for other product rights increase in the cost of health care which as of 2015-12-31 amounted to is around SEK 74 million. 4.25% (3.75) and 4.0% (4.0). A change in the discount rate of +/– 0.25% • In conjunction with the acquisition of Carter-Wallace in 2001, Meda Phardecrease / increase the liability with SEK +/– 2 million. A change in the longmaceuticals Inc. (previously MedPointe Inc.) took over certain environterm increase in the cost of health care by +/– 0.25% increase / decrease ment-related obligations. In 1982, US Environmental Protection Agency the obligation of SEK +/– 1 million. (EPA) stated that Carter-Wallace, along with more than 200 other compaOther personnel related provisions is mainly related to provisions for nies, were potentially responsible for waste placed at the Lone Pine Landterminated contracts in Germany and Italy. fill waste disposal facility. In 1989 and 1991, without admitting responsibility, Carter-Wallace and 122 other companies entered into an agreement Provisions for legal disputes with the EPA to decontaminate Lone Pine. The process is ongoing. The SEK 189 milion of the provision refers to a provision for an ongoing legal provision for decontamination costs amounted to USD 2.0 million as of dispute in the US related to the product Reglan, which is expected to be December 31, 2015. closed during the third quarter 2016. See Note 30 for more information. • In conjunction with the purchase of Alaven Pharmaceuticals in 2010, Meda Individual assessment of ongoing disputes occurs continually. Pharmaceuticals Inc. assumed responsibility for ongoing US product liability cases involving the product Reglan (metoclopramide). Presently, there Provisions for restructuring are slightly less than 3,300 cases in which the company is named as one The provision for restructuring amounted to SEK 254 million (620) whereof of multiple defendants, with most of the cases in Philadelphia, San FranSEK 249 million is related to Rottapharm. Costs for restructuring during the cisco and New Brunswick. In general, the cases involve plaintiffs that took year relating to the integration of Rottapharm were SEK 291 million (631). Reglan for long periods of time to control gastric stasis and gastroesophaSEK -8 million is recognized under cost of sales, SEK 227 million under sellgeal reflux and developed the side effect tardive dyskinesia, which is charing expenses, SEK 25 million under medicine and business development acterized by repetitive, involuntary muscle movements, generally of the expenses and SEK 47 million under administrative expenses in the income face and extremities. Even though the Reglan labeling since 1986 has statement. The costs are mainly related to personnel expenses. SEK 196 warned against the side effect if the product was taken for more than 12 million of the restructuring provision will be paid in 2016. weeks, the plaintiffs allege that the warning was not prominent enough. While Meda believes it has meritorious defenses to these claims, in order Other provisions to avoid the expense and distraction of litigation, Meda has entered into a Other provisions include, for example, excise duties, sales commissions confidential settlement agreement which establishes a framework to and provisions for ongoing tax audits. resolve all of the claims. Meda has recognized a provision of USD 25 million in the third quarter 2015 whereof USD 2.5 million was paid in the fourth quarter 2015. The settlement is subject to sufficient participation by the plaintiffs as determined in Meda’s sole discretion. • From time to time Meda is involved in legal disputes that are common in the pharmaceutical industry. Although it is not possible to issue any ­guarantees about the outcome of these disputes, on the basis of Group management’s present and fundamental judgment, we do not anticipate that they will have any materially negative impact on our financial ­position. This standpoint may naturally change over time. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 115 Notes Group FINANCIAL REPORTS Transactions with related parties: Note 31 Cash flow Sales of goods and services and other sales, SEK million Adjustments for items not included in cash flow Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. 4.1 Refers to sales of services SEK million 2015 2014 Other related parties 0.2 Operating activities: Depreciation of property, plant, Purchases of goods and services, SEK million and equipment 211 133 RRL Immobiliare SpA 28.1 Refers to rental of officeAmortization of intangible assets 3,073 2,370 and factory space Bank charges1 115 186 Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. 6.8 Refers to purchases of research and development Other –26 –21 services Total 3,373 2,668 1 Bank charges taken to income during the year. Balances as per December 31, 2015, SEK million Receivable Liability Fidim S.r.l. 12.11) – Note 32 Transactions with related parties RRL Immobiliare SpA 5.4 9.2 Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. 0.8 0.4 Fidim S.r.l. owns 33,657,052 shares in Meda AB, corresponding to 9.2% of the total number of shares. Fidim S.r.l. received 30,000,000 MEDA shares Other related parties 0.1 0.3 1) Refers to tax related expenses which have been re-charged to Fidim S.r.l. as part of the purchase price for Meda’s acquisition of Rottapharm. Luca Rovati is a board member of Meda since November 2014 and partner in Fidim S.r.l. All transactions between related parties are based on market conditions and negotiations have taken place on an arms’ length basis. To Meda related parties: Remuneration to senior executives is described in Note 8. No other Fidim S.r.l. Board member Luca Rovati holds shares related party transactions occurred in 2015. in Fidim Srl RRL Immobiliare SpA Fidim Srl owns RRL Immobiliare SpA. Luca Rovati is a board member of RRL Note 33 Events after the reporting date Immobiliare SpA Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. Fidim Srl owns Rottapharm Biotech Srl Public offer by Mylan Demi–Monde S.r.l. Demi-Monde Srl is owned by related party Mylan N.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands, and whose ordito board member Luca Rovati nary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the Tel Day Spa S.r.l. Day Spa Srl is owned by related party Aviv Stock Exchange, announced on February 10th 2016, a recommended to board member Luca Rovati public offer to the shareholders of Meda AB to transfer all of their shares in Johan & Levi S.r.l. Johan & Levi Srl is owned by related party Meda AB to Mylan N.V. for a consideration consisting of a combination of to board member Luca Rovati cash and shares of common stock in Mylan N.V.. Please refer to Mylan N.V.’s separate offer announcement for more information about the offer, and to a separate press release issued by Meda AB regarding the Board’s recommendation of the offer. 116 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts parent company Income statement parent company SEK million Note 2015 2014 Net sales 2,3 6,422 6,011 Cost of sales 4 –3,831 –3,388 Gross profit 2,591 2,623 Selling expenses –518 –484 Medicineand business development expenses –912 –1,173 Administrative expenses –211 –157 Operating profit 4–8 950 809 Profit from interests in Group companies 9 374 402 Interest income and similar items 10 883 608 Interest cost and similar items 10 –1,043 –749 Profit before appropriations and tax 1,164 1,070 Appropriations 11 –686 –175 Tax 12 –24 –110 Net income 454 785 Statement of comprehensive income SEK million 2015 2014 Net income 454 785 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Cash flow hedges, net after tax –1 9 Net investment hedge, net after tax –62 –304 Other comprehensive income for the period after tax –63 –295 Total comprehensive income 391 490 Items in the previous table are recognized net of tax. Details are given in the parent company’s specification for the equity on the tax attributable to each component in other comprehensive income. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 117 Accounts parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Balance sheet parent company SEK million Note Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 ASSETS 1 Non-current assets Intangible non-current assets Product rights and other intangible assets 13 4,459 5,137 Total intangible non-current assets 5,137 Property, plant and equipment Equipment 14 45 1 Total property, plant and equipment 45 1 Non-current financial assets Interests in Group companies 15 12,210 12,203 Receivables from Group companies 27,912 26,106 Deferred tax asset 12 23 28 Other non-current liabilities 79 89 Total non-current financial assets 40,224 38,426 Total non-current assets 44,728 43,564 Current assets Inventories 16 535 493 Current receivables Trade receivables 17 357 414 Receivables from Group companies 1,098 1,146 Other receivables 83 27 Derivatives 149 208 Tax assets – 2 Prepayments and accrued income 18 38 39 Total current receivables 1,725 1,836 Cash and bank balances 968 611 Total current assets 3,228 2,940 TOTAL ASSETS 47,956 46,504 118 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts parent company SEK million Note Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital 365 365 Statutory reserves 3,175 3,175 Total restricted equity 3,540 3,540 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 10,616 10,616 Fair value reserve –384 –321 Retained earnings 1,937 2,029 Profit for the year 454 785 Total non-restricted equity 12,623 13,109 Total equity 16,163 16,649 Untaxed reserves 19 1,520 1,679 Provisions Provisions for pensions 20 69 67 Other provisions 6 – Total provisions 75 67 Non current liabilities Borrowings 21 22,533 22,962 Liabilities to Group companies 1,521 1,697 Derivatives 19 23 Other liabilities 2 – Total non-current liabilities 24,075 24,682 Current liabilities Borrowings 21 2,303 1,188 Liabilities to Group companies 2,805 1,240 Trade payables 499 435 Derivatives 205 284 Other liabilities 42 147 Accruals and deferred income 22 269 133 Total current liabilities 6,123 3,427 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 47,956 46,504 Pledged assets – – Commitments 23 42 37 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 119 Accounts parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Cash flow parent company SEK million Note 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities Profit after financial items 1,164 1,070 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 24 405 760 Net change in pensions 2 5 Net change in other provisions –2 –7 Income taxes paid 0 –7 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,569 1,821 Cash flow from changes in working capital Inventories –32 –27 Receivables –2 –142 Liabilities 97 285 Cash flow from operating activities 1,632 1,937 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets –17 –6 Acquisition of tangible assets –46 0 Acquired operation –7 –28 Divested operation – 7 Increase of financial receivables –1,879 –12,162 Decrease of financial receivables 374 435 Cash flow from investing activities –1,575 –11,754 Cash flow from financing activities Loans raised 2,107 21,433 Loan repayments –1,607 –12,917 Capital contributions – 2,014 Increase of financial liabilities 1,816 881 Decrease of financial liabilities –1,102 –249 Dividend –914 –756 Cash flow from financing activities 300 10,406 Cash flow for the period 357 589 Cash and cash equivalents at periods start 611 22 Cash and cash equivalents at periods end 968 611 Interest received 782 469 Interest paid –780 –707 Total 2 –238 120 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts parent company Equity parent company Restricted equity Non restricted equity Share Retained earnShareStatutory premium Fair value ings and profit SEK million capital reserves reserve reserve for the year Total equity Opening balance, equity, January 1, 2014 302 3,175 5,694 –26 2,783 11,928 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 785 785 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – 11 – 11 Tax on cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – –2 – –2 Net investment hedge – – – –389 – –389 Tax on net investment hedge – – – 85 – 85 Total other comprehensive income – – – –295 – –295 Total comprehensive income – – – –295 785 490 Non-cash issue 30 – 2,946 – – 2,976 Non-cash issue costs – – –5 – – –5 Tax on non-cash issue costs – – 1 – – 1 New share issue 33 – 1,994 – – 2,027 New share issue costs – – –17 – – –17 Tax on new share issue costs – – 4 – – 4 Share-based payments, settled using equity instruments – – – – 2 2 Dividend in 2013 – – – – –756 –756 Closing balance, equity, December 31, 2014 365 3,175 10,616 –321 2,814 16,649 Opening balance, equity, January 1, 2015 365 3,175 10,616 –321 2,814 16,649 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 454 454 Other comprehensive income – – Cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – –1 – –1 Tax on cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – 0 – 0 Net investment hedge – – – –80 – –80 Tax on net investment hedge – – – 18 – 18 Total other comprehensive income – – – –63 – –63 Total comprehensive income –63 454 391 Share-based payments, settled using equity instruments – – – – 37 37 Dividend in 2014 – – – – –914 –914 Closing balance, equity, December 31, 2015 365 3,175 10,616 –384 2,391 16,163 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 121 Notes parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 1 Accounting policies Note 3 Intra-Group transactions The parent company prepared its annual report per the Swedish Annual These data show the year’s purchases and sales between Group companies. Accounts Act (1995:1554) and Recommendation RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 means that in the annual report for the SEK million 2015 2014 legal entity, the parent company must apply all EU-approved IFRS regulaGoods sold 4,213 3,889 tions and statements as far as possible within the framework of the Annual Royalty income 138 106 Accounts Act, with consideration for the connection between accounting Other income 47 57 and taxation. Goods purchased –193 –155 The main deviations between accounting policies adopted for the Total 4,205 3,897 Group and accounting policies for the Parent Company are: Interests in subsidiaries Interests in subsidiaries are carried at cost, less any impairment losses, per Note 4 Expenses by type the Annual Accounts Act. SEK million 2015 2014 Liabilities Raw materials and consumables 725 565 Liabilities that comprise hedging instruments for investment in subsidiaries were not revalued at the closing rate, but were valued at the acquisition Goods for resale 2,486 2,232 cost of the investment. Staff costs 177 136 Depreciation and amortization 696 971 Pensions Other expenses 1,388 1,298 Pensions are not recognized per IAS 19. Instead, the parent company comTotal cost of sales, selling costs, medicine plies with Recommendation RedR 4 of FAR, the institute for the accounand business development expenses, and tancy profession in Sweden. administrative expenses 5,472 5,202 Taxes Deferred tax attributable to untaxed reserves is not recognized separately in the parent company. Tax on Group contributions is recognized per IAS 12 Note 5 Personnel, average number of employees in the income statement. Average no. of employees Business combinations 2015 2014 Transaction costs attributable to the acquisition are included in the cost of Women Men Women Men acquisition in the parent company statements compared to Group Statements where these costs are expensed as incurred. 72 40 63 32 Total 112 95 Note 2 Distribution of net sales Gender distribution in the board SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Western Europe 5,120 4,958 Women Men Women Men US 36 31 The board of directors 3 6 2 7 Emerging Markets 998 755 Total 3 6 2 7 Other Sales 268 267 Total 6,422 6,011 Goods sold 6,237 5,847 Royalty income 144 106 Other income 41 58 Total 6,422 6,011 122 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 6 Salaries, other remuneration, and social security costs Total salaries, social security costs and pensions 2015 2014 Salaries Social Salaries Social and other security Of which and other security Of which SEK million r­ emuneration costs pension costs r­ emuneration costs pension costs 123 60 20 89 50 23 Pension costs – Defined-contribution plans 12 18 – Defined-benefit plans 8 5 Total 20 23 Remuneration and other benefits to board and senior executives For remuneration to the board and executives refer to Note 8, Group. Note 7 Fees and remuneration to auditors Note 9 Earnings from interests in Group companies The next table shows the financial year’s expensed auditing fees and SEK million 2015 2014 expensed fees for other assignments performed by the parent company’s Dividends from Group companies 374 435 auditors. Group contributions received – –15 SEK million 2015 2014 Impairment of shares in Group companies – –18 PwC Total 374 402 Audit assignment1) 2 5 Tax consulting 0 0 Note 10 Financial items Other services 1 122) Total 3 17 SEK million 2015 2014 1) Auditing fees refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e., such work that was necessary to issue the auditor’s report and audit advice given in connection with the audit assignment. Interest income and similar items Fees for auditing services other than regular auditing assignments amount to SEK 0 million (3). ​ 2) The work has been carried out by various PwC firms around the world but has been invoiced centrally. Interest 883 608 Total 883 608 Note 8 Operating leases SEK million 2015 2014 Interest expenses and similar items SEK million 2015 2014 Interest –961 –560 Leasing expensed during the financial year 11 11 Costs of raising loans –55 –186 Exchange losses –26 –1 The nominal value of future minimum lease payments regarding non-­ Other –1 –2 cancelable leases is distributed as follows: Total –1,043 –749 SEK million 2015 2014 Payable within 1 year 10 11 Note 11 Appropriations Payable within 1–5 years 30 5 Total 40 16 SEK million 2015 2014 No part of future minimum lease payments regarding non-cancellable Group contributions paid 844 735 leases is due for payment later than five years. Leasing costs includes priExcess depreciation/amortization –158 –560 marily office premises and cars. The lease agreement for office premises, Total 686 175 which was prolonged in 2015, expires in June 2020. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 123 Notes parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 12 Tax SEK million 2015 2014 The next table shows the difference between recognized tax expense and Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+) the relevant tax rate. Current tax for the year –1 –7 SEK million 2015 2014 Current tax attributable to prior years 0 0 Reconciliation of effective tax Total –1 –7 Profit before tax 479 895 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Deferred tax –23 –103 Tax as per applicable tax rate for parent Total –24 –110 company 22% (22) –105 –197 Other non-deductible expenses –1 –9 Tax items recognized directly in equity and other comprehensive Non-taxable income (dividends from income ­subsidiaries) 82 96 Tax attributable to prior years 0 0 SEK million Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Recognized effective tax –24 –110 Share issue, current tax – 5 Derivatives 18 83 Total 18 88 Temporary differences resulted in these deferred tax assets/liabilities: SEK million Other receivables Derivatives Borrowings Total On January 1, 2014 10 15 23 48 Recognized in equity – –2 85 83 Recognized in income statement –4 1 –100 –103 On December 31, 2014 6 14 8 28 Recognized in equity – 0 18 18 Recognized in income statement 0 – –23 –23 On December 31, 2015 6 14 3 23 Note 13 Product rights and other intangible assets 2015 2014 SEK million Product rights Other assets Total Product rights Other assets Total Opening cost of acquisition 11,562 35 11,597 11,658 29 11,687 Investments 13 4 17 – 6 6 Sales/disposals – – – –96 – –96 Closing cost of acquisition 11,575 39 11,614 11,562 35 11,597 Scheduled opening amortization –6,448 –12 –6,460 –5,508 –7 –5,515 Scheduled amortization for the year –690 –5 –695 –966 –5 –971 Sales/disposals – – – 26 – 26 Scheduled closing amortization –7,138 –17 –7,155 –6,448 –12 –6,460 Carrying amount at year-end 4,437 22 4,459 5,114 23 5,137 Scheduled amortization per function Medicine and business development expenses –690 –5 –695 –966 –5 –971 124 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Not 14 Tangible Assets SEK million 2015 2014 Opening cost of acquisition 9 9 Investments 46 0 Sales/Disposals –7 – Closing cost of acquisition 48 9 Opening depreciation –8 –8 Year’s depreciation –1 0 Sales/Disposals 6 – Closing depreciation –3 -8 Carrying amount at year-end 45 1 Note 15 Interests in Group companies Share of Carrying Carrying Subsidiaries Corporate ID number Registered office No. of shares equity, % amount 2015 amount 2014 Meda Germany Holding GmbH1) HRB 9848 Bad Homburg, Germany 4 100 5,041 5,041 Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. 13-4986583 Somerset, US 1,000 100 3,793 3,793 Meda A/S 46 03 22 17 Alleröd, Denmark 104 100 144 144 Ipex AB2) 556544-1135 Danderyd, Sweden 1,428 100 139 139 Ellem Läkemedel AB 556196-1789 Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 4 4 Meda Pharma Hungary Kft. 01-09-870550 Budapest, Hungary 130 100 5 5 Meda AS 920218199 Asker, Norway 2,000 100 2 2 Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 6130651123 Istanbul, Turkey 523,195 42.963) 23 23 Meda OY 0111457-9 Åbo, Finland 3,200 100 4 4 Meda Pharmaceuticals SA 58280/01AT/B/05/111 Aten, Greece 60,000 99.9 1 1 Meda Health Sales Ireland Ltd. 403901 Dunboyne, Ireland 510,000 100 43 43 Meda Pharma LLC 1097746271127 Moskva, Russia 1 14) 0 0 Meda Pharmaceuticals Sp.z o.o. 5272515293 Warszawa, Poland 50 100 0 0 Viatris Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 04303411 Nottingham, UK 1 100 0 0 Meda Pharma S de RL de CV 401800-1 Jardines en la Montaña, Mexico 1 100 0 0 Rottapharm S.p.A. 4472830159 Monza, Italy 36,000,000 185) 3,011 3,004 Total 12,210 12,203 Medas main business is sales of pharmaceuticals. Meda is also manufacturing pharmaceuticals and have 6 production sites, see page 38. The most important holding company within the Group is IPEX AB. 1) The most important holdings in Meda Germany Holding GmbH: 2) The most important holdings in Ipex AB: 3) IPEX AB has a 57.04% share of equity. Meda Pharma GmbH & Co KG, Bad Holmburg, Germany Meda Pharma GmbH, Wangen, Switzerland 4) IPEX AB has a 99% share of equity. Meda Manufacturing GmbH, Köln, Germany Meda Manufacturing SAS, Merignac, France 5) Meda Pharma S.p.A. has a 82% share of equity. Meda Pharma GmbH, Vienna, Austria Meda Pharma SAS, Paris, France Meda Pharma s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Bishop’s Stortford, UK Meda Pharma spol. s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia Meda Pharma S.A. / N.V., Brussels, Belgium Meda Pharma B.V., Amstelveen, Netherlands Meda Pharma SL, Madrid, Spain Meda Pharma S.p.A, Milan, Italy Meda Pharma Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A., Lisbon, Portugal Meda Pharmaceuticals Middle East & Africa FZ LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Meda Pharmaceuticals Switzerland GmbH, Wangen, Switzerland Meda Pharma Ilaç Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Istanbul, Turkey3) Meda OTC AB, Stockholm, Sweden Recip AB, Stockholm, Sweden Meda Pharma LLC, Moscow, Russia Meda Pharma S.a.r.l., Luxemburg, Luxemburg Meda Pharma Importação e Exportação de Produtos Farmacêuticos, Sao Paolo, Brazil Abbex AB, Stockholm, Sweden Meda Pharma GmbH, Austria MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 125 Notes parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 16 Inventories Note 20 Pension provisions SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 Raw materials 133 148 PRI pensions 69 67 Work in progress – 5 Total 69 67 Finished goods and goods for resale 402 339 Total 535 493 Pension costs for the defined-benefit pension plan were recognized in the amount of SEK 7 million (5) in the operation. Interest expense was The charge for expensed inventories is included in the Cost of sales item SEK 2 million (3). and amounted to SEK 3,193 million (2,827). Write-down of inventories in the parent company totaled SEK 0 million (6) during the year. Note 21 Borrowings SEK million 2015 2014 Note 17 Trade receivables Long-term borrowing Bank loans 21,183 21,212 SEK million 2015 2014 Bond loans 1,350 1,750 Trade receivables 357 414 Total 22,533 22,962 On December 31, 2015, past due trade receivables stood at SEK 38 million Short-term borrowing (82). Their aging analysis is as follows: Bank loans 572 511 Bond loans 400 500 SEK million 2015 2014 Commercial papers 1,331 177 < 3 months 18 65 Total 2,303 1,188 3–6 months 3 7 Total borrowings 24,836 24,150 >6 months 17 10 Total 38 82 Maturities for long-term borrowing: Payable within 1–2 years 2,573 973 No impairment was deemed to be applicable to the parent company’s trade receivables. Payable within 2–5 years 19,960 18,130 Payable after 5 years – 3,859 Excluding past due trade receivables, the parent company’s trade Total 22,533 22,962 ­receivables amounted to SEK 319 million (332). Their aging analysis: Carrying amounts in SEK million, by currency, for the parent company’s SEK million 2015 2014 ­borrowing: <3 months 301 332 3-6 months 18 – EUR 14,790 14,173 Total 319 332 USD 5,167 5,011 SEK 4,879 4,966 Total 24,836 24,150 Note 18 Prepayments and accrued income Unused credits: 2015 2014 Unused unconfirmed credits 700 700 SEK million 2015 2014 Unused confirmed credits 5,227 5,505 Prepaid rent 2 2 Prepaid insurance 4 3 Other prepayments 32 34 Total 38 39 Note 19 Untaxed reserves SEK million 2015 2014 Accumulated excess depreciation/amortization 1,520 1,679 Total 1,520 1,679 Accumulated excess depreciation/ amortization by asset type Product rights 1,520 1,679 126 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 22 Accruals and deferred income Note 24 Cash flow SEK million 2015 2014 Adjustments for non-cash items Accrued interest expense 185 49 SEK million 2015 2014 Vacation pay liability 13 12 Operating activities: Other accrued employee benefits expense 16 9 Amortization of non-current assets 696 970 Prepaid income 1 1 Not yet paid dividend from subsidiaries –374 –435 Other accrued expenses 54 62 Bank charges1) 55 186 Total 269 133 Other 28 39 Total 405 760 Note 23 Contingent liabilities 1) During the year recognized bank charges Pledged collateral, SEK million 2015 2014 Note 25 Financial risks Commitments Surety given that benefits subsidiaries 42 36 See Note 2 of the consolidated accounts for a description of financial risks. Guarantees 1 1 Total 43 37 • In-licensing of the global rights to Edluar may lead to milestone payments totaling USD 60 million when defined sales targets are reached. • The acquisition of the European rights to the substance sotiromod from 3M may lead to additional milestone payments of USD 10 million when defined development stages are reached. • The agreement with Ethypharm for the rights to the combination of ketoprofen and omeprazole may lead to milestone payments of EUR 5 million upon registration and when defined sales levels are reached. • In-licensing of OraDisc A for the European market may lead to additional milestone payments of EUR 4.8 million. • The agreement with Cipla to expand the geographic territory for Dymista and the product development partnership may lead to payments of USD 35 million when defined development stages are reached and upon the launch of new products. • The maximum additional purchase consideration for other product rights is around SEK 18 million. • From time to time Meda is involved in legal disputes that are common in the pharmaceutical industry. Although it is not possible to issue any guarantees about the outcome of these disputes, on the basis of Group management’s present and fundamental judgment, we do not anticipate that they will have any materially negative impact on our financial position. This standpoint may naturally change over time. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 127 Statement of the board FINANCIAL REPORTS Statement of the board The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Meda AB (publ) for statements were prepared using generally accepted accounting principles 2015 have been approved for publication according to a board decision on and provide a fair and true presentation of the parent company’s financial March 21, 2016. The board proposes adoption of the annual accounts and position and results. consolidated accounts at the annual general meeting on April 14, 2016. The management report for the Group and parent company provides a fair The board and the CEO hereby provide an assurance that the consolidated and true summary of the performance of the Group’s and parent company’s statements were prepared in accordance with the International Financial operations, their position and financial results, and describes significant Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide a fair and risks and uncertainties faced by the parent company and Group companies. true presentation of the Group’s position and performance. The annual Stockholm, March 21, 2016 The board and CEO of Meda AB (publ) Martin Svalstedt Luca Rovati Peter Claesson Board chairman Deputy Chairman Board member Peter von Ehrenheim Kimberly Lein-Mathisen Guido Oelkers Board member Board member Board member Karen Sörensen Lillie Li Valeur Board member Board member Lars Westerberg Jörg-Thomas Dierks Board member Chief Executive Officer We submitted our audit report on March 22, 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Mikael Eriksson Mikael Winkvist Auditor in charge Certified Public Accountant Certified Public Accountant 128 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Meda AB (publ) governance statement has been prepared. The statutory administration Corporate identity number 556427-2812 report and the corporate governance statement are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company Meda AB for the year 2015. The annual accounts and consolidated and the group. accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this ­document on pages 64–128. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the Director of Meda AB for the year 2015. preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal conThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of trol as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necesthe company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managing sary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts Director are responsible for administration under the Companies Act. that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriacomply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain tions of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reareasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolisoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to dated accounts are free from material misstatement. assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examaccounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, ined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. Managing Director is liable to the company. We also examined whether any In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director has, in any ­relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal conappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. trol. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Opinions Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administraWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and tion report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. ­Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance Stockholm March 22, 2016 with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2015 and of its PricewaterhouseCoopers AB financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have Mikael Eriksson Mikael Winkvist been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present Auditor in charge Authorized Public Accountant fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 Authorized Public Accountant December 2015 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 129 FINANCIAL Financial review REVIEW Financial review SEK million 2015 2014 2013 20121) 2011 SUMMARY OF INCOME STATEMENTS Continuing operations Net sales 19,648 15,352 13,114 12,991 12,856 Operating expenses –16,951 –13,907 –11,566 –11,190 –10,212 Other income 22 42 – – – Operating profit1) 2,719 1,487 1,548 1,801 2,644 Net finance costs –1,415 –905 –545 –565 –604 Profit after financial items 1,304 582 1,003 1,236 2,040 Tax –112 –180 –198 –61 –432 Net income2) 1,192 402 805 1,175 1,608 1) Operating profit, adjusted for non-recurring items 3,198 2,197 1,548 1,801 2,683 Non-recurring items, revenue 22 42 – – – Non-recurring items, expenses –501 –752 – – –39 2) Net income attributable to: Parent company shareholders 1,176 399 807 1,204 1,616 Non-controlling interests 16 2 –2 –29 –8 1,192 402 805 1,175 1,608 SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS Assets Non-current assets Tangible assets 1,504 1,692 848 795 811 Intangible assets 47,478 50,798 29,666 30,419 32,306 Other non-current assets 2,097 2,015 936 946 592 Current assets Inventories 2,876 2,988 1,982 1,931 1,780 Current receivables 5,279 5,308 2,683 2,486 3,089 Cash and cash equivalents 1,612 2,311 178 194 140 Total assets 60,846 65,112 36,293 36,771 38,718 Equity and liabilities Equity 20,956 20,680 15,211 14,723 14,971 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing 24,780 29,247 8,899 14,479 15,699 Other non-current liabilities 7,537 8,139 2,485 2,842 3,015 Current liabilities Interest-bearing 2,355 1,391 6,304 1,752 1,802 Other current liabilities 5,218 5,655 3,394 2,975 3,231 Total equity and liabilities 60,846 65,112 36,293 36,771 38,718 SUMMARY OF CASH FLOW STATEMENTS Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 3,717 3,254 2,956 3,051 3,130 Change in working capital –393 –212 –111 –238 –272 Cash flow from operating activities 3,324 3,042 2,845 2,813 2,858 1) Recalculated on the basis of revised IAS19. 130 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL Financial review REVIEW SEK million 2015 2014 2013 20121) 2011 Cash flow from investing activities 262 –8,906 –1,255 –1,143 –5,669 Cash flow from financing activities –4,272 7,914 –1,597 –1,608 2,844 Cash flow for the period –686 2,050 –7 62 33 Cash and cash equivalents at period’s start 2,311 178 194 140 111 Exchange-rate difference for cash and cash equivalents –13 83 –9 –8 –4 Cash and cash equivalents at period’s end 1,612 2,311 178 194 140 INVESTMENTS – in intangible assets3) 228 8,818 1,043 1,026 5,596 – in tangible assets 220 116 136 126 124 3) Including acquisition of subsidiaries and asset deals. KEY RATIOS RELATED TO EARNINGS Growth, total, % 28 17 1 1 11 Growth, constant exchange rates, % 21 12 3 3 18 Growth, organic, % –17) 2 4 0 0 Gross margin, % 61.7 60.4 61.2 61.2 63.8 Operating margin, % 13.8 9.7 11.8 13.9 20.6 Profit margin, % 6.6 3.8 7.6 9.5 15.9 EBITDA, SEK million 6,003 3,990 3,734 3,945 4,683 EBITDA margin, % 30.6 26.0 28.5 30.4 36.4 EBITDA excluding non-recurring items, SEK million 6,482 4,700 3,734 3,945 4,722 EBITDA margin excluding non-recurring items, % 33.0 30.6 28.5 30.4 36.7 KEY RATIOS RELATED TO CASH FLOW Free cash flow, SEK million4) 3,095 2,901 2,688 2,672 2,713 Cash earnings per share, SEK5) 8.5 9.0 8.6 8.5 8.7 Free cash flow excluding non-recurring items, SEK million4) 4,172 3,000 2,688 2,672 2,713 Cash earnings per share excluding non-recurring items, SEK5) 11.4 9.3 8.6 8.5 8.7 4) Cash flow from operating activities less cash flow from investing activities (excluding acquired product rights and acquired operations). 5) Calculated on average number of diluted shares. Recalculation has been done considering the bonus issue element in the rights issue 2014. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EARNINGS Equity, SEK million 20,956 20,680 15,211 14,723 14,971 Adjusted equity, SEK million 20,042 19,766 14,455 14,043 14,291 Return on capital employed, % 5.4 3.6 5.1 5.7 8.8 Return on equity, % 5.7 2.2 5.4 7.9 11.1 Net debt, SEK million 25,505 28,244 15,025 16,037 17,361 Net debt/equity ratio, times 1.2 1.4 1.0 1.1 1.2 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA 4.11 5.20 4.07 3.98 3.46 Equity/assets ratio, % 34.4 31.8 41.9 40.0 38.7 EBIT interest cover, times 1.9 1.7 2.8 3.0 3.9 Dividend yield, % 2.3 2.2 3.1 3.0 3.1 Equity per share 57.3 56.6 50.3 48.7 49.6 Earnings per share , SEK6) 3.22 1.23 2.67 3.98 5.35 Earnings per share excluding non-recurring items , SEK 6) 4.14 3.64 2.57 3.29 4.84 Adjusted earnings per share, SEK 10.57 9.29 7.67 8.27 9.55 Adjusted free cash flow/capital employed, % 10.3 10.7 10.6 10.3 11.2 Free cash flow/equity, % 20.1 18.2 18.0 17.9 19.0 Net working capital/net sales, % 22 23 16 16 15 Free cash flow/EBITDA, % 52 73 72 68 58 Free cash flow excluding non-recurring items/EBITDA excluding non-recurring items, % 64 64 72 68 57 Dividend per share, SEK 2.508) 2.50 2.50 2.25 2.25 6) Amounts for previous periods have been recalculated to consider the bonus issue element in the rights issue 2014. 7) Pro forma organic growth. 8) Proposed dividend. EMPLOYEES Average no. of employees 4,209 3,482 3,066 2,869 2,591 1) Recalculated on the basis of revised IAS 19. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 131 The Meda share The Meda share LISTING AND TRADING VOLUME SHAREHOLDERS Meda’s share has been quoted on the StockMeda’s shareholding structure and apportionment by size are set out below. holm Stock Exchange since 1995 and under the Based on data provided by Euroclear Sweden AB as of December 30, 2015 Large Cap segment of Nasdaq Stockholm since 2006. One trading unit contains one share. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AS OF DECEMBER 30, 2015 On December 31, 2015, market capitalization Share capital and was SEK 39,141 million. The total trading volume1) Name Number of shares voting rights, % of Meda shares in 2015 exceeded SEK 648.9 Stena Sessan Rederi AB 75,652,948 20.7 ­million shares to a value of almost SEK 69.5 bilFIDIM SRL 33,016,286 9.0 lion. This equates to an average daily trading volUBS AG LDN BRANCH A/C CLIENT, IPB 32,049,458 8.8 ume of 2.6 million shares, corresponding to SEK GOLDMAN SACHS INTERNATIONAL LTD, W8IMY 21,567,401 5.9 276.9 million per business day. Swedbank Robur fonder 15,437,974 4.2 DIVIDEND Handelsbanken Fonder 7,335,680 2.0 The board resolved to propose a dividend of SSB AND TRUST, BOSTON 6,936,575 1.9 SEK 2.50 per share (2.50) for 2015, correspondSSB CL Omnibus AC 6,575,924 1.8 ing to 60% (69) of profit excluding one-off items CBNY-NORGES BANK 6,264,336 1.7 for the year and 30% (28) of cash earnings per Nordea Investment Funds 6,244,273 1.7 share. Meda aims to enhance shareholder value B&E PARTICIPATION AB 4,900,000 1.3 in the long term, and the board’s intention is to AMF – Försäkring och Fonder 3,797,664 1.0 propose a dividend that reflects Meda’s sustainable earnings trend, taking into account expanLannebo fonder 3,557,000 1.0 sion possibilities and financial position. JPM CHASE NA 3,385,178 0.9 FJÄRDE AP-FONDEN 3,010,250 0.8 1) On all trading platforms SEB Investment Management 2,754,353 0.8 Other shareholders 132,982,071 36.5 TOTAL 365,467,371 100.0 SWEDISH AND FOREIGN SHAREHOLDING Source: Euroclear Sweden AB as of December 30, 2015 SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE Swedish shareholding, 52% The highest price paid in 2015 was SEK 150.80 and the lowest was SEK 100.20. Market capitalization Foreign on December 31, 2015, was SEK 39,141 million, corresponding to a development of around of –4.8% shareholding, 48% during the year. SEK million volume 150 150,000 120 120,000 SHAREHOLDINGS BY COUNTRY 90 90,000 Sweden, 52% UK, 21% US, 9% 60 60,000 Italy, 9% Canada, 3% Other, 6% 30 30,000 0 I I I I I I 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Meda OMX Stockholm PI Volume of shares traded, thousands Source: SIX Trust och Fidessa 132 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Meda share SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE AS OF DECEMBER 30, 2015 Share interval No. of shares Share capital, % No. of shareholders Shareholders, % 1–500 2,441,999 0.67 15,486 59.07 501–1,000 2,805,797 0.77 3,694 14.09 1,001–5,000 11,373,327 3.11 5,266 20.09 5,001–20,000 11,600,173 3.17 1,180 4.50 20,001–100,000 15,560,387 4.26 359 1.37 100,001– 321,685,688 88.02 230 0.88 Total 365,467,371 100.00 26,215 100.00 SHARE CAPITAL HISTORY Change in Change in share Total no. Total share Share’s nominal no. of shares capital, SEK of shares capital, SEK quota value, SEK 1994 – – – 200,000 2,000,000 10 1995 Conversion 168,406 1,684,060 368,406 3,684,060 10 1995 New share issue1) 2,000,000 20,000,000 2,368,406 23,684,060 10 1996 Conversion 46,719 467,190 2,415,125 24,151,250 10 1997 Conversion 2,173 21,730 2,417,298 24,172,980 10 1999 Non-cash issue 2,515,963 25,159,630 4,933,261 49,332,610 10 2001 New share issue2) 1,644,420 16,444,200 6,577,681 65,776,810 10 2003 New share issue3) 1,644,420 16,444,200 8,222,101 82,221,010 10 2003 Directed non-cash issue4) 482,759 4,827,590 8,704,860 87,048,600 10 2003 Redemption of warrants 3,180 31,800 8,708,040 87,080,400 10 2004 Redemption of warrants 78,400 784,000 8,786,440 5) 87,864,400 10 2005 Redemption of warrants 100,700 1,007,000 8,887,140 88,871,400 10 2005 New share issue6) 3,554,856 35,548,560 12,441,996 124,419,960 10 2005 Redemption of warrants 95,527 955,270 12,537,523 125,375,230 10 2005 Stock split 5:1 50,150,092 0 62,687,615 125,375,230 2 2005 New share issue7) 41,791,743 83,583,486 104,479,358 208,958,716 2 2006 Redemption of warrants 15,000 30,000 104,494,358 208,988,716 2 2007 New share issue8) 11,610,484 23,220,968 116,104,842 232,209,684 2 2007 Redemption of warrants 13,720 27,440 116,118,562 232,237,124 2 2007 Stock split 2:1 116,118,562 116,118,562 232,237,124 232,237,124 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 54,127 54,127 232,291,251 232,291,251 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 72,863 72,863 232,364,114 232,364,114 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue9) 17,362,775 17,362,775 249,726,889 249,726,889 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue9) 137,228 137,228 249,864,114 249,864,114 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 20,818 20,818 249,884,932 249,884,932 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 1,069,426 1,069,426 250,954,358 250,954,358 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 24,993 24,993 250,979,351 250,979,351 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue10) 5,700,000 5,700,000 256,679,351 256,679,351 1 2008 Redemption of warrants 2,386,134 2,386,134 259,065,485 259,065,485 1 2008 New share issue11) 43,177,580 43,177,580 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2009 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2010 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2011 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2012 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2013 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2014 Directed non-cash issue12) 30,000,000 30,000,000 332,243,065 332,243,065 1 2014 New share issue13) 33,224,306 33,224,306 365,467,371 365,467,371 1 2015 – – – 365,467,371 365,467,371 1 1) Price: SEK 20 6) Price: SEK 160. 12) Directed share issue to Fidim S.r.l. in connection with the Rottapharm 2) Price: SEK 44. 7) Price: SEK 70. ­acquisition. 3) Price: SEK 76. 8) Price: SEK 160. 13) Price: SEK 61. 4) Directed share issue in Pharmalink AB. 9) Directed share issue in connection with the MedPointe Inc. acquisition. 5) The number of registered shares on December 31, 2004 was 8,786,440. 10) Directed share issue in connection with the Recip acquisition. In addition, 41,340 shares were subscribed for but not registered. 11) Price: SEK 35. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 133 Definitions Definitions Adjusted earnings per share Equity/assets ratio Organic growth pro forma Earnings per share adjusted for non-recurring Equity as a percentage of the balance sheet Sales development in relation to the same items and amortizations on product rights and total. period the previous year including acquisitions related tax. of products and business adjusted for currency Free cash flow effects. Adjusted equity Cash flow from operating activities less cash Recognized equity less proposed dividend. flow from investing activities (excluding acquired Profit margin product rights and acquired operations). Profit after net finance costs as a percentage of Adjusted free cash flow/capital employed net sales. Free cash flow rolling 12 months excluding Free cash flow/equity non-recurring items and paid interest in relation Free cash flow rolling 12 months excluding Return on capital employed to average capital employed. non-recurring items in relation to average equity. Operating profit/loss relative to average capital employed. Average no. of employees Gross margin Total of the number of hours worked divided by Gross profit/loss as a percentage of net sales. Return on equity the number of compensable hours in a fiscal Gross profit/loss equals net sales less cost of Net profit/loss as a percentage of average year. sales. equity. Cash earnings per share Growth, constant exchange rates Sales by geographic area Free cash flow for the period in relation to Sales development in relation to the same Western Europe – Western Europe, excluding weighted average number of shares for the period the previous year adjusted for currency the Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia period. Where applicable, the comparative effects. and Hungary. ­periods have been recalculated to consider the US – includes Canada. bonus issue element. Growth, organic Emerging Markets – Eastern Europe, including Sales development adjusted for currency the Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Capital employed effects, acquisitions, disposals, discontinued Hungary, ­Turkey, the Middle East, Mexico and The balance sheet total less cash and cash products, and revenues from the cooperation other non-European markets. equivalents, tax provisions, and non-interagreement with Valeant. Other sales – Revenues from contract est-bearing liabilities. ­manufacturing, ­services, and other income. Growth, total Dividend per share Sales development in relation to the same Sales by product category Dividend per share, to be issued in the next period previous year. Rx – Prescription drugs and specialty products. ­fiscal year. Cx/OTC – Non-prescription drugs. Net debt Other Sales – Revenues from contract Dividend yield Net of interest-bearing liabilities and inter­manufacturing, ­services, and other income. Dividend per share divided by the share’s est-bearing pro-visions minus cash and cash ­closing price on the last business day of the year. equivalents, including current investments and interest-bearing non-current financial assets. Earnings per share Earnings attributable to parent company Net debt/adjusted EBITDA ­shareholders per share. Net debt divided by EBITDA rolling 12 months pro forma excluding restructuring and trans­ EBIT interest cover action costs due to acquisitions. Earnings after net finance costs plus financial costs divided by financial costs. Net debt/equity ratio Net debt divided by equity. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, Net working capital/net sales and amortization. Current assets less current liabilities in relation to net sales rolling 12 months pro forma. EBITDA-margin Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, Operating margin and amortization as a percentage of net sales. Operating profit/loss as a percentage of net sales. 134 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Glossary and trademark rights Glossary and trademark rights Actinic keratosis Dermatology Pain A skin condition characterized by reddish-­ The study of the skin and its diseases. Physical pain: a feeling of discomfort caused by brown, flakey patches on sun-damaged skin disease, injury, or something that hurts the body. that can be a premalignant condition, leading Generic to squamous cell carcinoma. A chemical equivalent to a brand-name drug Prevalence whose patent has expired. The number of people who have a certain Basal cell carcinoma ­illness/disease at a certain point in time. Type of skin cancer caused by sun exposure. IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards. Product Life-Cycle Management Blockbuster Strategies and activities addressed to extend Drug that sells for at least USD 1 billion Inflammation a drugs life cycle, such as introduction of new per year. Inflammation is a process by which the body’s preparation forms, expansion of indications, etc. white blood cells and the substances they proCOPD duce protect us from infection. Respiratory Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A system of the body used in breathing that in Milestone human beings consists of the nose, nasal pasCorticosteroid Payment upon achieved goals. sages, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchial tubes, A class of steroids that are produced in and lungs. the adrenal cortex and synthetic drugs with Monosubstance corticosteroid-like effect. Contains one active ingredient. Rhinitis Inflammation of the mucus membrane Covenants OTC products of the nose. Requirements for the company’s key figures, Over-the-counter non-prescription products. made by a money-lending bank. Rx Outsource International designation for prescription drugs. Cx Transfer existing goods and/or services within a Clinically-proven consumer healthcare company to an outside party. Topical products. Applied to the skin’s surface. Product Trademark Sign Product Trademark Sign Product Trademark Sign Acnatac Acnatac ® Efudix Efudix ® Reparil Reparil ® Aerospan Aerospan1) ® Elidel Elidel ® Rheumon Rheumon ® Agiolax Agiolax ® EndWarts EndWarts ® Rhinolast Rhinolast ® Aldara Aldara ® EpiPen EpiPen3) ® Saugella Saugella ® Allergodil Allergodil ® Estromineral Estromineral ® Solco Solco ® Allergospasmin Allergospasmin ® Formatris Formatris ® Solcoseryl Solcoseryl ® Armolipid Armolipid ® Fortilase Fortilase ® Soma Soma ® Astelin Astelin ® Geritol Geritol ® Spasmolyt Spasmolyt ® Astepro Astepro ® GO-ON GO-ON ® Tambocor Tambocor ® Astepro 0.15% Astepro ® Ialumar Ialumar ® Thiotacid Thiotacid ® Axorid Axorid ® Kamillosan Kamillosan ® Tilcotil Tilcotil ® Azep Azep ® Lederspan Lederspan ® Treo Treo ® Babygella Babygella ® Legalon Legalon ® Uralyt Uralyt ® Betadine Betadine2) ® Minitran Minitran ® Urivesc Urivesc ® CB12 CB12 ® Naloc Naloc ® Ventilastin Ventilastin ® Dermasol Dermasol ® Novolizer Novolizer4) ® Viartril Dermatrix Dermatrix ® Novopulmon Novopulmon ® Zamadol ”Travex ® Desunin Desunin ® Optivar Optivar ® Tradonal Pafinur Pafinur ® Tramadol Difflam Difflam ® Adamon Dona Dona ® Plantaben Plantaben ® Tramene” Dymista Dymista ® Rantudil Rantudil ® Zyclara Zyclara ® EB24 EB24 ® Relifex Relifex ® Zyma Zyma ® 1) Aerospan is a registered trademark of Forest Lab. and used under license. 2) Betadine is a registered trademark of Mundipharma AG and used under license. 3) EpiPen is a registered trademark of Mylan Inc. and used under license. 4) Novolizer is a registered trademark of Almirall S.A. and used under license. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 135 Shareholder information Shareholder information 2016 Interim financial reports Registration Addresses Interim report January–March May 3 Notice of attendance must be received no later HEADQUARTERS: Interim report January–June July 21 than April 8, 2016. Registrations shall include Meda AB Interim report January–September October 26 name, civil registration or corporate ID number, Box 906, SE-170 09 Solna, Sweden address, phone number, and number of shares Visitors: Pipers väg 2A Annual general meeting held. Shareholders represented by proxy must Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Location: Medas’s facilities, Pipers väg 2A, send a power of attorney for the proxy. If the Fax: +46 8 630 19 50 Solna, Sweden power of attorney is issued by a legal entity, a E-mail: info@meda.se Time: 5 PM on Thursday, April 14, 2016. notarized copy of the corporate registration www.meda.se ­certificate must also be included. The power of Shareholders who wish to participate attorney and registration certificate must not be Media and investor relations: in the meeting must: issued more than one year prior to the AGM. Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Be registered in the Euroclear Sweden AB share E-mail: IR@meda.se database by April 8, 2016, and notify the Share registration ­company by April 8, 2016. Shareholders may To participate in the AGM, any shareholders Contact information for subsidiaries register by postal mail (Meda AB AGM, Box 7835, whose shares are nominee-registered must is available at: www.meda.se SE-103 98, Stockholm, Sweden), by phone ­temporarily register their shares with Euroclear (+46 8-402 90 49), or via the website at Sweden AB. The entry must be effected by www.meda.se April 8, 2016. Address changes should be registered with the appropriate. 136 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2015 This annual report was produced by Meda in collaboration with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson Photo: Petter Karlberg, Magnus Torsne & Thomas Engström. Print: Larssons offset, Linköping 2016 Meda AB Box 906, SE-170 09 Solna Phone: +46 8-630 19 00 Fax: +46 8-630 19 50 E-mail: info@meda.se www.meda.se
