Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 ENABLING POSITIVE FUTURES CONTENTS Introduction 02 Statement of support from Bruce Hemphill, Group Chief Executive 04 Group at a glance 06 Our approach to responsible business Our progress 09 Human rights 11 Labour 13 Environment 15 Anti-corruption Looking forward 17 Looking forward 17 Useful links Find out more about Contact and feedback If you would like to find out more information, have any Old Mutual questions, or would like to provide any additional Corporate website feedback on this Communication on Progress please www.oldmutual.com email our Responsible Business Team at responsiblebusiness@omg.co.uk Annual Report and Accounts 2015 www.oldmutual.com/reportingcentre Cover images Smallholder farmer in Kenya. Principal at Maloney’s Eye Responsible Business Report Primary School, South Africa. Pupil at Richard Varha www.oldmutual.com/reportingcentre Secondary School, South Africa. Doug Thompson, Head of Investor Relations, Old Mutual Alternative Follow us on Investments. Patrick O’Sullivan, Chairman www.twitter.com/oldmutual www.facebook.com/oldmutual Last updated June 2016. www.youtube.com/oldmutual O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 INTRODUCTION 01 OLD MUTUAL IS AN INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT, SAVINGS, INSURANCE AND BANKING GROUP O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 02 Old Mutual is proud to be involved in the communities we serve – an ethos which is a cornerstone in each of our businesses. In particular, we have a very special relationship STATEMENT OF with South Africa and the African continent. We remain committed to being proactive in our contribution to society, including the SUPPORT growth of jobs, housing and income. Our Positive Futures Plan has the commitment from all our business leaders BY GROUP CHIEF because it consolidates the great work our business units are doing in financial wellbeing and responsible investment, EXECUTIVE and unites us in our long-term view of creating positive futures for all. We recognise that we can only succeed with the support of our partners, including the Global Compact, who are similarly committed to ‘enabling positive futures’. Our 2015 Communication on Progress provides an overview of our developments against the ten Global Compact principles over the last year. For more detailed information, please visit our website and other Old Mutual publications that detail our progress and plans, including our 2015 Positive Futures Plan. Old Mutual’s purpose in society is to help our customers to thrive, through enabling them to achieve their lifetime financial goals, whilst investing their funds in ways that will help secure a positive future for them, their families, their communities and the world at large Bruce Hemphill Group Chief Executive O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 What this means 03 for our four strong business units Ralph Mupita Mike Brown Chief Executive Officer, Old Mutual Emerging Markets Chief Executive Officer, Nedbank Old Mutual Emerging Markets (OMEM) Nedbank As a proud African business we recognise that we have a significant To be a sustainable business, I recognise that Nedbank needs to role, partnering with others, to support prosperous societies with operate within the confines of environmental limits while meeting positive futures. Our business decisions take full account of the social needs. Our eight Long-term Goals guide our strategy in this social and environmental challenges facing our markets. regard and will result in us being a more resilient bank that delivers As part of my commitment to integrate the Plan across OMEM, we value to our stakeholders. Our strong legacy position as a green will scale-up our involvement in financial education and enhance and caring bank means we are uniquely placed to develop current programmes; in recognition of the high levels of differentiated commercial offerings that shape the macro indebtedness and financial constraints that our customers face. environment and deliver a better future for all. Fair Share 2030 and our approach to integrating sustainability into our strategy align to As such, we will help build their financial wellbeing and long-term the aims of the Positive Futures Plan. prosperity, while at the same time, responsibly invest their funds in ways that will contribute to the socio-economic development of Africa. Paul Feeney Peter Bain Chief Executive Officer, Old Mutual Wealth Chief Executive Officer, Institutional Asset Management Old Mutual Wealth (UK) Institutional Asset Management When customers trust us with their savings we have a duty to invest We will continue to build on our strong foundation responsibly on their behalf. That means we think about risk in of ethical values, treating clients fairly and good governance that is broad terms and use our position as a shareholder to hold so critical to our custodianship of our clients’ money. In 2015, our companies to account, promoting strong corporate governance Affiliates devoted a good deal of attention, appropriately, to the and sustainable business models. This is one element of my topic of responsible investing and studying ways in which each commitment to the Positive Futures Plan alongside further might add value to its clients within the framework of its investment embedding responsible business practices across our business. discipline and client mandates. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 04 OLD MUTUAL PLC AT A GLANCE Our businesses operate in over 30 countries G R O U P A DJ U S T E D O P E R AT I N G P R O F I T ( AO P ) BY G E O G R A P H Y (Post-tax and NCI) South Africa Rest of Africa AOP £662m (+5%1) AOP £49m (+2%1) Share of Group 62% Share of Group 5% Old Mutual Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Emerging Markets Nedbank’s South African market and Nedbank’s markets in Africa (excluding South Africa) UK & Rest United Asia & of the World States Latin America AOP £258m (+32%1) AOP £87m (-7%1) AOP £14m (-33%1) Share of Group 24% Share of Group 8% Share of Group 1% Old Mutual Wealth UK-based businesses Institutional Asset Management Old Mutual Emerging Markets, other US-based businesses markets including: China, India, Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay AOP (pre-tax and NCI) of £1.7 billion up 11% in constant currency, up 4% in reported currency NCCF of £6.6 billion (excluding Rogge) Group ROE 14.2% Solvency II ratio 135% O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 05 Old Mutual Nedbank Old Mutual Institutional Emerging We provide Wealth Asset Markets A wide range of wholesale and retail banking services We provide Management We provide Advice-driven wealth solutions We provide and a growing insurance, to customers in the UK and a Financial solutions to retail and asset management and A diverse range of investment corporate customers across a number of cross-border strategies and products, wealth offering to individuals markets. number of market segments and businesses. delivered via a multi-boutique and geographies. Highlights and position model to institutional investors. Highlights and position 41% of FUM now Highlights and position Headline earnings up 9.6% Highlights and position Completed the acquisition managed internally. Achieve solid margins relative of a 60.7% stake in UAP. 2015 South African and African Best Investment Fund – to peers and a strong level Bank of the Year. Old Mutual Global Investors of revenue growth from net 2015 Presidential Game 2015 Moneyfacts Investment, new money flows across Changer Award for driving Adjusted operating profit Life & Pension Awards. core affiliates. transformation in financial services in South Africa. £754m (+7% ) 2 Adjusted operating profit Leading institutional asset manager. Funds under management Adjusted operating profit £11.9bn (+20% ) £307m (+35% ) 1 £615m (+9% ) 2 2 Funds under management Adjusted operating profit £149m (+6% ) 2 Funds under management £104.4bn(+27% ) 1 £43.4bn (+9% ) 2 Funds under management £168.2bn (-9% ) 2 G R O U P C U S TO M E R S GROUP ADJUSTED OPERATING G R O U P E M P LOY E E S BY P R O F I T BY B U S I N E S S U N I T BUSINESS UNIT (Pre-tax and NCI) 3 1 4 1 4 51 3 18.9m 3 1,663m 64,043 2 2 2 1. Old Mutual Emerging Markets 57% 1. Old Mutual Emerging Markets 37% 1. Old Mutual Emerging Markets 43% 2. Nedbank 39% 2. Nedbank 45% 2. Nedbank 49% 3. Old Mutual Wealth 4% 3. Old Mutual Wealth 18% 3. Old Mutual Wealth 5% 4. Institutional Asset Management3 4. Institutional Asset Management 9% 4. Institutional Asset Management 2% 5. Central activities (9%) 5. Other 1% 1 Reported currency movement against prior year 2 Local currency movement against prior year 3 Institutional clients 18.9m Customers in over 30 countries O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 06 economy and infrastructure, and transparency around responsible investment. OUR APPROACH TO Q – Why is a long-term view so important? A – Financial wellbeing and responsible RESPONSIBLE investment are by nature long term. Financial wellbeing depends on giving everyone access to financial services that BUSINESS meet their current and future needs, while basic financial literacy is the key to greater independence and achieving their lifetime financial goals. Responsible investment promotes the sustainability of our planet and its inhabitants. By allocating capital responsibly, we help to maximise Q – What does it mean to opportunities and ensure scarce resources be a responsible business? are used effectively. Progressive companies A – It’s about working to add value for naturally think long-term, embedding all of our stakeholders. Banks, insurance environmental and social issues in their companies and investment houses were strategies. These focus areas will deliver founded on the power of doing things sustainable, long-term value for us together: pooling people’s money to and for society. manage risks and returns better than they could do as individuals. But trust in financial Our governance Underlying our Responsible Business services companies has dwindled as they programme is a strong governance are perceived to focus on increasing structure supporting us in achieving our rewards for shareholders and executives at goals. Our Group Customer Director and the expense of customers. At Old Mutual Responsible Business Lead, Gail Klintworth, we want to live up to our true purpose – chairs our Responsible Business Committee helping customers to achieve their financial which, during 2015, contains representatives goals, while investing their funds in ways from our businesses and the Group. that create a positive future for them, their families, the community, and the wider Established in 2010, the Committee shares Gail Klintworth world. This in turn will ensure sustainable best practice from external organisations Group Customer Director and returns for shareholders too. and individuals and from each of our Responsible Business Lead Q – Why focus on financial businesses, as well as monitoring our progress to our policy and Plan. The wellbeing and responsible Old Mutual plc Board Risk Committee investment? receives updates on responsible business A – We want to be a leader in responsible activities, with ad hoc matters raised in business and we believe financial wellbeing between formal reports. and responsible investment are where we can make a long-term positive difference. Our Positive Futures Plan, developed with the Cambridge Institute of Sustainability Read more about Leadership, has ambitious goals to reach our approach at: millions of individuals through financial education and inclusion. We’ve also set www.oldmutual.com/rb targets for investments in the green O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 Our role Following the managed separation, the ■■ Fulfilling the Group’s ongoing regulatory 07 Our commitment to be a leader in lead regulator for each business will then obligations; and managing the Group’s responsible business stems from our be the same as the local regulator. debt obligations, central cost reductions purpose in society, which is to help our and distributions to shareholders. We will manage the separation of customers thrive by enabling them to the Group in a manner that aims Our values achieve their lifetime financial goals, while to enhance value to shareholders over time. We are committed to being a responsible investing their funds in ways that will create business with a view to the long-term and a positive future for them, their families, Our strategic priorities will focus on areas where our businesses their communities and the world at large. ■■ Working with our businesses in delivering can make a material impact and create enhanced performance relative to their meaningful change. Our businesses will Our future peer groups continue to be guided by our strong values: We recognise we cannot achieve our ambitious aim alone, and welcome the ■■ Stewardship of the managed separation respect, integrity, accountability and support of key partners. We already have process, balancing value, cost, time pushing beyond boundaries. partnerships with many institutions on the and risk ground in our businesses, such as our Black Economic Empowerment Trust partners. In addition, in 2015 we continued our work with the Cambridge Institute of Sustainability Leadership and began working with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development partners, such as WIPHOLD, our long-term partnership with WWF SA through Nedbank and Old Mutual South Africa’s partnership with the South African Savings Institute. In our two focus areas we have identified key partners who can support us on our goals for example we have entered into a partnership with Opportunity International to help increase access to capacity building loans and training for Kenya’s growing Collaborative approaches number of low-cost schools. We continue to work with UK Sustainable Investment Forum to solving global scale and the Code for Responsible Investment in issues is critical. In the South Africa. long term our markets We have established a common approach to measure the impact of our Plan and our will develop and society aim is to report not just what Old Mutual will benefit has delivered but what the effect is for our businesses and the long-term benefit to society. Our strategy To execute a managed separation of the Group into four strong standalone entities. A managed separation of the Group will free the constituent parts into four independent businesses, each having a capital structure and dividend policy suitable for its own strategy that will allow it to access its natural shareholder base. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 08 O U R A P P R OAC H TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Our Positive Futures Plan FOCUS AREAS Financial wellbeing Responsible investment G OA L S Education Products that drive A commitment Investment An investment approach A commitment at scale societal value to transparency at scale that drives societal value to transparency 50m people reached by 20m people reached by We will commission and publish independent research 10% of our funds under 100% compliance with our 100% of our funds offered are our financial education micro-finance and on the benefits management Responsible Investment publicly, environmentally, programmes micro-insurance to customers of invested in the Standard and socially and governance products which add our products green economy 100% proxy votes cast (ESG) rated positive value to society and infrastructure where applicable O U R 2020 G OA L S While delivering value through projects and partnerships in these areas we must maintain our licence to operate through our strong foundations in treating customers fairly, good governance, our culture, transformation, capital cover and risk management. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 09 OUR PROGRESS 1. Human rights UN Global Compact Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. UN Global Compact Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Old Mutual’s position The Group Code of Conduct contains explicit statements that As an international business, Old Mutual is fully committed to address the two principles relating to human rights in the Global raising awareness of human rights, labour standards, and their Compact. Our employees confirm their compliance to the Code impact, and ensuring they continue to be respected in all our through an annual disclosure. activities and across all locations in which we operate. In addition, in our Responsible Business Policy, which is part of our We have a public statement on our approach to human rights, Group Operating Model, we specifically reference human rights which details our principles and the governance structure we have and the responsibilities all our employees have towards others. in place across the Group. At Group level we have policies that actively encourage Process engagement with our communities, including our suppliers. To Across the Group and throughout our various operations, we have supplement these, at local level there is flexibility to focus on the a range of channels for reporting any suspected breach of, or issues that are most material to that business. concern regarding, human rights. These include our Human Resources, Responsible Business and Risk functions in each business, For the past three years, our Annual Report has included a specific who report such incidences to the Audit and Risk Committees that statement regarding our position on human rights (see page 16 of are in place across the Group. our 2015 Report) In each area of the business, owners of all Old Mutual Group policies, with support from business representatives, are tasked to review implementation and compliance. Through their role, they escalate relevant instances of non-compliance with the Group Governance function. Our Group Operating Model and Group Code of Conduct are central to ensuring responsible business practices are understood and embedded across the Group and in each of our businesses. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 10 1. Human rights 2015 highlights on progress During 2015 we: Enhancing governance around Responsible Business Responsible Business coninutes to be represented at Old Mutual ■■ Committed to invest R60.5bn in renewable energy projects across plc Executive Committee Level and Executive Director level of Africa at the end of 2015 Old Mutual Emerging Markets’ Board through the appointment of ■■ Screened nine Equator Principles-relevant deals through Gail Klintworth as our Group Customer Director and Responsible Nedbank, agreeing seven drawn-down deals Business Lead, highlighting the importance we are placing on the ■■ Submitted our second annual report to the United Nationstopic of responsible business. Gail chairs our Responsible Business supported Principles for Responsible Investment, covering our Committee, which meets quarterly to discuss issues and progress progress on embedding the Principles across the Group surrounding responsible business. ■■ Emphasised our desire to be an active shareholder by voting at Our progress regarding governance this year included: the AGMs of 363 companies through Old Mutual Investment Group. ■■ We published our Human Rights Statement following our human rights risk assessment Providing sustainable, tailored support for local communities ■■ We became part of the UN Global Compact UK Modern Slavery Our responsibility to support the local communities in the markets Act Working Group to support our approach to the Act in which we operate forms part of our commitment to the ■■ Going forward, we will be transitioning our human rights promotion of human rights. Our focus on financial wellbeing helps programmes and risk assessment into the businesses to prepare to create economically viable communities and helps enhance them for the managed separation. We will publish our Modern people’s livelihoods and dignity. In 2015 we invested £16.7m in the Slavery Act statement in 2016. communities in which we operate, reflecting our aim to enable positive futures. Continuing focus on responsible investment We believe responsible investment will help us better understand Highlights include: long-term investment risk, support innovation around new product development and strengthen trust with existing and new customers. ■■ 232,000 people participated in Old Mutual Emerging Markets Being a responsible investor ties closely with supporting and financial education programmes in 2015 respecting the protection of human rights. ■■ It is estimated that Nedbank volunteerism support can be valued at R5.5m ■■ Old Mutual Wealth launched its partnership with Kids First, to help understand what motivates children and encouraging them, with the support of their club coach, to give their all for themselves and their team-mates ■■ Across Nedbank and Old Mutual Emerging Markets we invested R175m in community investment programmes and a further R116m in Education funding. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 17. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 11 OUR PROGRESS 2. Labour UN Global Compact Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. UN Global Compact Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. UN Global Compact Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. UN Global Compact Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Old Mutual’s position Process Across the Group, we continue to uphold the principle of the At a Group level, we have a Human Resource Risk Management freedom of association as well as the effective recognition of Policy in place that relates to the management of labour standards the right to collective bargaining, where permitted by local law. regarding all our employees. This policy, applicable to all businesses, covers a range of areas, including employee relations Old Mutual does not, under any circumstances, tolerate forced and employment, diversity, recruitment, remuneration, performance labour or child labour. management and employee welfare. We remain committed to increasing diversity throughout our On an annual basis, CEOs from all our businesses are required to businesses and have a number of targets in place to promote sign a Letter of Representation to attest both they and their employees this. With over 64,000 employees, we recognise the different have complied with the Policy over the previous year and provide backgrounds, perspectives and experiences of our employees are detail on if and where any issues have arisen. Regular internal audit one of our largest assets. Our range of policies at both a Group and checks support this process, covering this and other Group policies. business level ensure no employee receives less favourable treatment based on any factor unrelated to the requirements of their position. In Reflecting our desire to ensure our suppliers reflect the values we southern Africa, we further address our commitment to address recognise as important in relation to labour standards, we have employment equality through our approach to B-BBEE (Broad-Based strengthened our Responsible Business Policy to include a section on Black Economic Empowerment), where two of our main customerresponsible procurement. We contact our key suppliers regularly facing business, Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank, are Level 2. and provide ongoing training to our employees to ensure all people responsible for procurement are aware of the relevant requirements and our expectations. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 12 2. Labour 2015 highlights on progress ■■ The Women’s Network in the UK is being extended to broaden its Encouraging mutually beneficial working conditions. diversity agenda; whilst in South Africa there are ongoing We monitor our working conditions and constantly seek to Employment Equity and Diversity workshops as well as dialogue improve our offering to employees across the Group: sessions ■■ Almost 80% of our employees responded to our fifth annual ■■ Our focus on people with disabilities in South Africa has resulted Culture Survey, helping us to learn what our employees value and in the South African Department of Labour naming Old Mutual how we can improve their working experience. Balance (home/ as the top employer for people with disabilities. We have been work), Employee Recognition and Wellbeing are a few of the recognised for setting the national benchmark for supporting desired attributes now being reported as features of the current people with a disability. culture in some businesses External recognition ■■ Employee Engagement is also measured in this survey and Our achievements have been recognised by a number of external remains significantly above the Global Financial Services organisations, such as: benchmark ■■ In the CRF Institute Top Employer Survey, we have been named ■■ Our wellbeing programmes across the Group focus not only on as the number 1 top employer in financial services and insurance professional support, but also physical and mental wellbeing for the past five years. We are a certified Top Employer in eight ■■ OMSA were ranked among South Africa’s Top 5 employers in the countries in the rest of Africa Department of Labour’s inaugural Employment Equity awards, ■■ Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank maintained their for ‘excelling in advancing the spirit of transformation’. Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Level 2 ratings Improving our diversity ■■ Awarded the Most Admired Employer in Financial Services, ■■ We continue to make progress in ensuring our employees reflect surveyed by 45,000 graduates and young professionals the diversity of our customers. In particular we have maintained ■■ Awarded the Graduate Employer of Choice in Financial Services our focus on the number of women within the business and by SAGEA. developing the proportion in leadership positions ■■ The progress we have made over recent years in improving the gender diversity of our Board and Executive Committee sets the tone for our ongoing focus on diversity at senior levels in all our businesses For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 17 O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 13 OUR PROGRESS 3. Environment UN Global Compact Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. UN Global Compact Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Old Mutual’s position Our Responsible Business Policy has a specific section on Across our businesses, we have a responsibility to ensure we are as responsible environmental management. We set clear targets of environmentally efficient as possible. This covers both our employeereducing Old Mutual’s direct carbon emissions by 20% by 2020 occupied properties and our property portfolio. We encourage our from a 2010 baseline in our property portfolio and employeeemployees to be environmentally conscious both at work and home. occupied properties. We have a number of environment task forces Through our large presence in South Africa, with its ongoing energy within our business units who work to implement our strategy and supply constraints, we continue to look for innovative ways of act as a central point in helping to deliver this target. contributing positively to the environment and ensuring our business approach reflects best environmental practices. One of the greatest environmental risks to our business is through the investments we hold and the policies we underwrite throughout The nature of our business, covering investment, savings, insurance our businesses. We continue to work to understand our carbon and banking, gives us a unique position to make the conscious exposure through our investments, and have been working towards decision to invest in sustainable technologies and promote our target of applying our Responsible Investment Standard to all products that allow our customers to have greater environmental our investment capabilities (US: 50%). We have a growing number responsibility. of socially responsible investment and ethical funds available for Process our customers to invest in specific environmental projects: however, Our approach to responsible environmental management lies our aim remains to mainstream environmental, social and with efficient facilities and property management, aligned with governance criteria into all our investment making decisions. employee engagement. We monitor, manage and reduce our negative impacts as far as possible – from energy usage, water consumption and waste in our buildings to how we travel to our meetings. We welcome employee suggestions and feedback on how we can reduce our reliance on scarce resources. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 14 3. Environment 2015 highlights on progress Advocating greater environmental responsibility Managing our direct environmental footprint We emphasise environmental responsibility through investment of Our targets for carbon emission reduction across the Group help our own and our customers’ funds. us focus on reducing our negative environmental impacts. ■■ By the end of 2015 we had committed R60.5bn of our customers’ ■■ Old Mutual submitted our CDP report but did not appear in the money in renewable energy projects, which also aim to drive job Leadership Index this year with a score of 97 (98 in 2014). Against creative and enterprise development in surrounding communities. our 2010 base year, our total direct carbon emissions have One such project in the 66 megawatt Hopefield Windfarm, decreased in both our property portfolio and employee-occupied developed by Old Mutual Alternative Investments through its properties. IDEAS and AIIM suite of funds ■■ During the year Nedbank facilitated the provision of over 4,000 new homes. This includes their agreement with the Green Fund – delivering funding for 400 affordable energy and water efficient houses in South Africa ■■ We signed the Paris Pledge and committed to reporting against the Montreal Pledge. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 17. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 15 OUR PROGRESS 4. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Old Mutual’s position Our Code of Conduct supports the Group’s anti-bribery stance and The values of Old Mutual are completely against bribery and our position with regard to employee conflict of interest. The Code corrupt business practices. We believe these create unfair markets, supplements our policies in this area and aims to ensure the destroy public trust and limit sustainable economic development. overarching message is fully understood and embedded, in line We are fully committed to responsible and legal business conduct with the Group values. across all the countries in which we operate. Process Our Business Protection team oversees the implementation of our policies regarding financial crime prevention. The team reports to the Group Executive, Board Risk and Group Audit Committees on a regular basis, with major issues escalated as they arise and less serious issues reported and analysed on a quarterly basis. All businesses have an anti-bribery risk assessment in place that is kept up to date. Employees across the Group are required to attest on an annual basis that they have read their local business unit anti-bribery policy and that they understand and will comply to it. In addition, we have a group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy in place, which business unit CEOs are required to attest their compliance to annually. We have good working relationships with regulators, law enforcement agencies and trade associations, creating networks where we share good practice both inside and outside the Group. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 16 4. Anti-corruption 2015 highlights on progress Throughout 2015, we continued our progress in this area: Using our networks to work against corruption Across the Group, we have a number of robust systems in place to ■■ We have worked on developing an anti-bribery management tackle corruption in all its forms. Our working culture and active information dashboard including taking advice from external employee engagement on this topic help us create positive, counsel (though this has been a slow burner) proactive networks to work against corruption. ■■ We have continued to work on the international ABMS standard ISO 37001 ■■ Nedbank have continued with their emphasis on anti-corruption work. They have built a strong Financial Crime Prevention framework which now includes a specific management subcommittee covering Corruption and Fraud. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 17. O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 17 LOOKING FORWARD Old Mutual is committed to advancing the Global Compact’s Useful links principles and wider United Nations goals throughout our businesses. Old Mutual Reporting Centre 2015 Our Positive Futures Plan is a bold progression for us but one that http://reports2015.oldmutual.com/#downloads builds on solid and long-standing foundation in our approach to Old Mutual Group Values operating as a responsible business. https://www.oldmutual.com/about/values.jsp?&tab=our-values We hope that as the plan develops and is delivered, that our Old Mutual Group Code of Conduct external stakeholders will also be enthusiastic about the benefits it http://www.oldmutual.com/vpage.jsp?vpage_id=2726 brings to them and others. Old Mutual Group Positive Futures Plan We have undertaken research and spent time ensuring that our http://www.oldmutual.com/vpage.jsp?vpage_id=26909 plan is aligned to relevant international and national frameworks, addresses the biggest issues in the markets in which we operate Adding Value to Africa Report and maximises the skills and knowledge of our people. We are http://www.oldmutual.com/rb/reports.jsp also scaling up our current activities by developing existing or Nedbank Integrated Report 2015 creating new partnerships. Instead of delivering lots of small https://www.nedbank.co.za/content/nedbank/desktop/gt/en/ projects across our businesses we will now focus our resources and aboutus/information-hub/integrated-reporting/2015.html build measurement to help us track where our efforts make the greatest difference. Nedbank United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress This all means that we will create long-term benefits which will have http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/detail/77721 a lasting positive impact on both our business and society. Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – During the time of managed separation we recognise that for each Guidelines on Responsible Investment business, there are elements of the Positive Future Plan which has http://www.oldmutual.co.za/docs/default-source/about-usmore resonance based on the markets they serve, skills of their document-library/omcresponsibleinvest.pdf?sfvrsn=2 employees or their own business strategy. Our business leaders are Old Mutual South Africa transformation committed to ensuring the continued integration of responsible http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/transformation.aspx business activities into their operations and delivering the aims and goals of the Plan. Old Mutual Group and Nedbank CDP reports https://www.cdp.net/ O L D M U T UA L P LC C OM M U N I C AT I O N O N P RO G R E S S 2 015 Old Mutual plc Registered office: For further information, Registered in England and 5th Floor please visit: Wales No. 3591559 and Millennium Bridge House www.nedbank.co.za as an external company 2 Lambeth Hill www.oldmutual.co.za in each of South Africa London EC4V 4GG www.oldmutual.com (No. 1999/004855/10), Malawi (No. 5282), Namibia (No. F/3591559) and Zimbabwe (No. E1/99) Acknowledgements Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.merchantcantos.com Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Amadeus 50 silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests. Amadeus 50 silk uses zero bleaching in the manufacturing process. Get connected with Old Mutual online www.oldmutual.com Last updated June 2016
