Report Description The report is the actual portrayal of the continuous improvements on fulfillment of social responsibility of CBMI ConstructionCo., Ltd. (CBMI) in 2015. By reading the report, employees, clients, partners, sub-contractors, shareholders and contributors, cavious national competent departments in charge, societies and all the people who cared about development of CBMI could understand the social responsibility ideas and practices as well as the unremitting endeavors the company had made for further promoting economic and social sustainable development. The annual report is basically compiled in accordance with the content and form outline recommended by the United Nations Global Compact in terms of Communication of Progress (COP). The annual report is written in both Chinese and English, and the Chinese version shall prevail for report auditing. The report ranges from January to December of 2015, which is released once every year, covering CBMI and its all affiliated projects. To publicize the knowledge and ideas of social responsibility in a larger scale and ensure the extensiveness, professionalism and quality of the material sources relating to the compiling of the social responsibility report as well as the compiling quality, CBMI set up leading compiling panel and compiling body to prepare the annual social responsibility report. We formulated the issued policy papers such as CSR annual report compiling scheme, guidelines, communications, schedule, feedbacks, and seriously learned the United Nations Global Compact in terms of Communication on Progress (COP). We also invited experts of the United Nations Global Compact Network China to guide and conduct training for some of those people who participated in the social responsibility report compiling. The financial data involved in the report was in consistence with stipulations of the “Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises” and the “Accounting System for Business Enterprises” issued by the State. To ensure the contents are authentic and reliable, CBMI invited Dr.Han Bin, a Executive Secretary General from Global Compact Network China to conduct the third-party evaluation and to provide improvement suggestions for CBMI Social Responsibility Report 2015. To read online “CBMI Social Responsibility Report 2015” in electronic version, please visit CBMI website at http://www.cbmi.com.cn. This report has been submitted to the website designated by the United Nations Global Compact Office, please visit http://www.unglobalcompact.org. Process of report compilation Data Identificati‐ Compilation collection Stakehold‐ on of and Designing and ers survey theme and translation and printing analysis topics of report Chairman's Statement Regarding the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles as an integral part of the corporate strategy and businesses, CBMI promises to publicize the principles among its senior managers and all the employees, so as to gain extensive support for the principles. Adhering to social responsibility ideas put forward by the United Nations Global Compact in such aspects as respect for human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption, CBMI will continue to support and promote the implementation of the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in its influencing extent. The strategies, corporate culture and day-to-day operation will focus on the influence on stakeholders, implementing corresponding social responsibilities. CBMI has publicly pledged to comply with the idea of “continuous improvements” of the United Nations Global Compact, consistently improving the human rights condition such as non-discrimination employment, elimination of child labor, no forced labor, and local labor rights, safeguarding the occupational health and personnel safety of all workers, guaranteeing their labor income and caring about personnel safety of all workers, guaranteeing their labor income and caring about their career development, promoting and utilizing new technologies to save energy, reduce emission and protect working environment and living surroundings, making efforts to construct fair and just culture, and advancing anti-corruption process. At present, China's economy has stepped into a new normality and the landscape of international competition is experiencing profound changes. In face of both challenges and opportunities, CBMI will continue to make the progress of the implementation of social responsibility known to the public, accepting the supervision of the public and constantly strengthening the management of social responsibility. Meanwhile, we engage ourselves in paying active attention to the climate channge and actuaally protectingg the interestss of the emplo oyees. What we vigorouslly want to ach hieve is thhe constructioon of an envirronment-frienndly enterprise and harmonnious labor reelations. And we greaatly concern about a mmunity deveelopment and social publicc welfare and spare no effo the com orts to acchieve a respoonsible and sustainable buusiness overseeas. We will cooperate c witth all m stakeeholders to mutually prommote sustainabbility of the economic e andd social development at ho ome and abroad. Company Profi P ile CBM MI office buillding in Beijiing——CBM MI Mansion Coompan ny Proffile CBM MI is affiliateed to Sinoma Internationall Engineering g Co., Ltd. off Sinoma Grouup, which alrready has a history of nearly n 60 yeaars and is reggistered in Tangshan City, Hebei Provinnce, China. It I is a natioonal high-tech enterprise headquartere h d in Beijing Economic E annd Technologgical Develop pment Zonee. CBM MI has the riights of foreiign trade, impport and exp port rights as well as the National Graade 1 e quallification of engineering general g contraacting, it is th he famous entterprise that ffirstly implem ments the strategy of going out , and it has a good brand and market influence inn the internattional cemment engineering constructtion field; thhe company contracted c thhe first domeestic EPC ceement projeect, the firstt overseas EPC cement plant p projectt by a Chineese enterprisses, it is the first enterprise that has built its cement factory in the developed country in Europe, and the first Chinese enterprise that exports large cement complete equipment to European enterprises. CBMI has passed the certification of ISO9001 quality management system, ISO14001 environmental management system and OHSAS18001 occupational health and safety management system. Its enterprise credit rating maintains AAA level consecutively. Business field CBMI Bulgaria project Main Business CBMI engages in turn-key cement plant projects. The company provides customized EPCor EP-mode general contracting integrated service in such aspects as engineering consultation, design and R&D, equipment manufacturing and complete set, civil engineering and installation, production and commissioning, spare parts and components, after-sales service, and production management of cement production line at various scales for clients in accordance with their requirements and environmental characteristics. In recent years, CBMI has actively explored and promoted multi-business development strategy. Good explorations have been made in building, metallurgy, electricity, municipal construction, environmental protection and extension of main business. It developed and promoted reconstruction technology of cement production projects with the advantage of energy saving, pro-environment and low emission, and used the technologies of cogeneration and desulfurization and denitrification. Operation scale Currently, CBMI’s main businesses are mainly located overseas, spreading over Europe, Asia, Africa and America, while its client resources are largely from high-end markets including Lafarge-Holcim, Heidelberg and Italcementi Group, with good brand and fame. In the construction history of China, CBMI contracted the largest cement project including two 10kt cement lines around the globe and the first production line of full introduction, the first dry method rotary kiln production line of independent R & D, the first production line based on Sino-foreign joint venture, the first international EPC turnkey project, and the first to export complete set of equipment for cement production line to European countries, it has been the first for many honors. CBMI has contracted most key projects of cement production line in the domestic cement industry, including the vast majority of foreign investment projects and the cement production line projects with scale reaching more than 4000 t/d cement clinker, it has built nearly 160 cement production lines around the globe. With over 1,000 employees, CBMI could construct more than 10 projects totaling nearly 10 billion Yuan in more than 10 counties simultaneously. Business Process Governance Structure CBMI is a limited liability company established in accordance to the “Company law of the people's Republic of China”. It has set up the board of directors, board of supervisors and management team in accordance to the corporate charts. The board of directors has set up specialized committees, including corporate strategy development committee, safety production committee, tender committee, technical committee, risk management and internal control leading group, and total budget management leading group, managing and controlling corporate operation risks and supervising clean operation. CBMI would hold meetings with shareholders, board of directors, and board of supervisors as well as the general manager’s office meeting regularly and irregularly, carrying out work in accordance with CBMI Articles and Association , Meeting Procedure Rules of Shareholders , Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Directors , Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Supervisors , and Work Rules of General Manager , an conducting decision-making in such areas as production, operation and management. Reception hall of the 1st floor of the office building of CBMI in Beijing Organizational Structure Chart of CBMI Project Distribution The construction projects undertaken and implemented by CBMI are mainly located in Spain, France, Italy, Russia, Hungary, Albania, Ukraine, Moldova, Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Morocco, Mauritania, Zambia, South Africa, Nigeria, Uganda, Benin, Algeria, Ghana, Guinea, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Malaysia Burkina Faso, Indonesia and other countries and regions in Europe, Asia, Africa and America. News Project in 2015: Russia's the Great Wall Project (Earthworks), Suqian Project (regional water supply),Tapai Jiaoling Project (equipment installation) Stakeholders Involved Overview of Stakeholders Means of Stakeholders Relationship Communic ation SinomaInternational The board of Shareholder Wholly owned subsidiary Engineering Co., Ltd. directors Business Clients Client service contact Staff I Registered Staff Staff II Domestic Employees Contract and Labor relations Foreign project-based trade union Staff III employees Supplier I Technical design subcontract Business subcontract Business Supplier II Procurement subcontract contact Supplier III Engineering subcontract Supplier IV Labor subcontract Local government Relevant policies and laws Tangshan Fengrun District Tax collection and Office, State Administration of management Taxation Tangshan Fengrun District Tax collection and Local Taxation Bureau management Bank of Communications, Bank Access, credit, and of China and other commercial guarantee, etc. banksFunds Community I Fengrun District Housing Management of employees’ AccumulationFund housing accumulation fund Management Center Conference Auditing of annual and visits Accounting firm financial statement Tangshan Central Branch of the Foreign exchange State Administration of Foreign management Exchange Import and Export Taxation Branch of Tangshan City Office, Export rebates State Administration of Taxation Economy, employment and Community II Local residents environment Community Tradeunion, information Local social organizations III and other special topics News media covering the headquarters, branches Informationand Interview and projects of the company advertisement Membership Involved SN Name No.NamePosition of CBMI Position of CBMI 1 United Nations Global Compact Member 2 China Building Materials Federation Member 3 China Enterprise Directors Association Member China Association of Construction Enterprise Council Members 4 Management 5 China International Contractors Association Council Members China National Building Materials Construction 6 Vice Chairman Association 7 China Cement Association Standing Director Unit 8 Building Materials Branch under Accounting Member Society of China Honors in 2015 SN Awarded by Honors China National Building Material First Award for Excellent EPC Project 1 Construction Association (CBMCA) (Russia FER project) China National Building Material First Award for Excellent Project Management 2 Construction Association (CBMCA) (Azerbaijan QAZAX project) Hongyu Cup Award for Technical China Building Materials Federation, Innovation of National Building Materials National Committee of China 3 Industry, Third Award for Technical Machine, Metallurgy and Building Development (Declared item: ceramic inner Material Trade Union cylinder for preheater) Award of Excellent Enterprise Case for Building Materials Industry for Social 4 China Building Materials Federation Responsibility Performance (Bulgaria DEVNYA project) CPC Tangshan Municipal Committee, 5 Tangshan Civilized Unit Tangshan People's Government The ceramic inner cylinder for preheater project of CBMI won Hongyu Cup Award for Technical Innovation of National Building Materials Industry, Third Award for Technical Development The Bulgarian project of CBMI is listed in the first Social Responsibility Report of China Building Material Industry (2014-2015) Concept and strategies Corporate Strategy &Philosophy As a service provider of global engineering construction, CBMI consistently holds the concept of integrity, way of realistic and scientific management to innovate our service with the aim to build a high-quality project for maximizing the investment from our clients. CBMI’s development positioning: Adhering to the main business of project contracting, striving to boost diverse development, insisting on scientific development, placing people in the first place, persisting in the innovation-oriented, internationalized and value-oriented corporate positioning, making efforts to build a leading integrated engineering company throughout the world by means of science & technology innovation and management innovation as well as the strengthening of the business functional construction and the corporate culture construction. Core values: Attaching equal importance to knowledge and achievement, being pragmatic and innovative, and adhering to integrity. Enterprise Spirit: Making every day counts, being serious about everything. Corporate mission: Constructing high-quality and beautiful environment of factories, and bringing benefits to the people and joy to their life. CBMI office building in Beijing Social responsibility concept and promotion CBMI accepts the social responsibility concept of Global Compact in terms of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption and so on, and converts the values of social responsibilities into the sustainable development capacity gradually. The Bulgaria DEVNYA project of CBMI actively performs the responsibility for innovation, promotes the localization operation, energy saving and environmental protection. In 2015, the project as a typical case, was successfully selected in the first Social Responsibility Report of China Building Material Industry (2014-2015) , and won the Award of Excellent Enterprise Case for Building Materials Industry for Social Responsibility Performance. CBMI won the Award of Excellent Enterprise Case for Building Materials Industry for Social Responsibility Performance Management performance I. Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development 1. Improve rules and regulations In 2015, CBMI strengthens the refined management, in accordance with the principles of clear responsibility and smooth workflow, it has revised, amended and improved nearly 200 sets of rules and regulations, which has further consolidated the foundation of company management. 2. Strengthen business construction Operation assessment and management In 2015, CBMI established the innovation evaluation mechanism, and developed Project Operation Index Calculation and Application Management Method , and Company Operation Index Calculation and Application Management Method , which links the performance salary of the employee and the company operation index and operation index, making the employee income and enterprise benefits and project benefits in synchronous changes. It strengthens the economic operation and cost management, and has completed the settlement and auditing of 21 projects, which saves 40.25 million Yuan and plays a positive role to reduce the operation cost of the company. QEOHS management system In 2015, CBMI further improved Project Quality Management and Evaluation Management Method , Regulations for Quality Control of Engineering Construction , and Inspection Regulations for Building Materials at Construction Site , and completed the preparation work of manuals of quality, environment, occupation health and safety. Asset and finance management In 2015, CBMI managed to reduce cost and enhance efficiency through strengthening management of capital, exchange rate, guarantees and controllable cost. It managed to ensure the long-term settlement of foreign currency hedging through long-term settlement business of foreign currency to respond to exchange rate fluctuations, in 2015 this business generated income of about 144 million Yuan; while locking the project cost and hedging against the exchange rate, the company has gained substantial direct economic benefits for the company. Audit and internal control management In 2015, CBMI had strengthened the risk management comprehensively, as well as its internal control audit and the ability to resist risks. The company tested its operation capital process, EPC contracting process, marketing process, procurement process, outsourcing and contract management 6 processes of the risk internal control system, and had completed the inner control audit of 7 projects, benefit audit of 8 projects and final benefit audit of 7 projects. Legal affairs management In 2015, CBMI had strengthened its legal work, it handled 10 various types of litigation and arbitration cases in total during the year, among which 5 cases are closed, 4 cases received the final victory and safeguarded the legitimate rights and interests of the company. Procurement management In 2015, CBMI revolved around the project execution to strengthen the cost control and plan management, to further improve the online bidding system and the comprehensive evaluation system, it renovated the organization of bidding management work, and pilot tested the responsibility system for project procurement; it strengthened the division of responsibilities, improved the procurement efficiency, the completion of the purchase totaled RMB 870 million Yuan, including 798 million Yuan for equipment procurement, and bulk materials procurement of 73 million Yuan. Logistics management In 2015, CBMI strengthened the supervision and control of cargo through the establishment of the logistics platform, reduced the volume-weight ratio , and reduced the transportation costs; it vigorously promoted the application of bar code system for dynamic control of shipment status. A total of 1131 shipping containers and22 bulk cargo ships were issued, the cumulative shipment reached 295,500 m3/118,500 tons, and completed the export volume about 358 million US dollar. Commissioning and production operation management In 2015, the commissioning of CBMI made its aim to serve the site and actively participate in the project construction, a total of 9 projects were completed in terms of the commissioning work. At the same time, Nigeria EDO cement plant and mine production and operation went on smoothly, which vigorously promoted the development of the company's diversified business. CBMI Quality System Training CBMI Equipment Cargo Logistics CBMI Project Ignition Feed Production CBMI Nigeria UNICEM Project CBMI Russia FER Project Test Run for Cement Packing Machine Central Control Room of CBMI Bulgaria Project 3. Promote anti-corruption construction In 2015, CBMI promoted the clean government and anti-corruption fight, established the discipline inspection and supervision department which is responsible for discipline inspection and supervision work and exercises the whole supervision process of tender and procurement work. It established and revised Company Discipline Inspection Work Principles , Implementation Measures of Responsibility System of Company Honest Administration , Management Rules for Leaders to Welfare and Business Expenditure and so on systems. It signed Responsibility Statement of Clean Administration for 2015 with the relevant responsible departments, to ensure the responsibility of the clean administration implemented in place. In 2015, the CBMI’s controllable cost totaled of 14.7573 million Yuan, a decrease of 29.95% over the previous year. CBMI’s leaders signed Responsibility Statement of Clean Administration for 2015 with the relevant responsible units 4. Deepen construction of enterprise culture In 2015, CBMI adhere to the core concept knowledge and practice of equal stress, pragmatic innovation, honesty-based, to deepen the construction of corporate culture. It revised and implemented CBMI Enterprise Image Recognition Handbook , which standardized the company image from the business concept, code of conduct, visual identification system and other aspects; it upgraded its website to show its international image; it edited and published 12 CBMI Construction Newsletter and 50 Weekly Project Review PPT. CBMI Handbook of Image Recognition CBMI Homepage of New Website Replay of Project Weekly Progress in the 1st Floor of CBMI Office Building in Beijing II. Strive for market expansion and strengthen diversified development In 2015, CBMI placed the marketing job in the top position among the key priorities while facing fierce competition in the market environment, it spared no efforts in the traditional market and the expansion of diversified market, the new contract amount reached about 3.865 billion Yuan, which has laid a solid foundation to enhance the company's competitive strength. CBMI at Egypt Cement Exhibition 1. Continuous development of cement projects In 2015, CBMI focused on the maintaining and continuous development of the traditional customer relationship and customers fostering in the new region and small customers development three key points, it strengthened customer relationship management, and continued the development of cement projects; despite the fierce competition, it managed to signed South Africa PPC 3000TPD project, Algeria BISKRIA 2×6000TPD project, Nigeria EDO 2# line 6000TPD project, installation of Tapai Jiaoling 10,000t line project, 4 contracts with contract volume amounting to approximately 3.47 billion Yuan. Cement Projects Signed by CBMI in 2015 Contract SN Project name Signing Date mode PPC (S. Africa) Slurry9 clinker 1 EPC 2015/5/8 line project BUA (Nigeria) EDO 2nd 6000tpd 2 EPC 2015/8/25 cement project Amouri (Algeria) Biskra 3 EPEC 2015/6/25 2x6000tpd cement project Tapai 2# line installation project 4 of 2x10000tpd cement production C 2015/9/23 line CBMI signed Algeria BISKRIA 2×6000TPD project CBMI signed South Africa PPC project 2. Vigorously develop diversified business In 2015, despite the adverse environment where the world sees sluggish growth in the global economy and trade, CBMI improved the institutions and enriched the resources, by relying on the general contracting management experience, it integrated the domestic related technologies and equipment resources, made full use of different advantages, and actively participated in international competition; it have signed Nigeria EDO #1 line mine operation contract, the earthwork project contract of Russia Hover, Suqian water supply project, hazardous waste solid treatment project of Hengyang, Changzhou, Saudi Arabia and so on 10 projects, the total contract sum reached nearly 400 million Yuan, which laid the further foundation for expansion of new business. At the same time, it increased capital investment, the Nigeria manufacture factory project had made substantial progress, Harbin Vein Industrial Park project made steady progress, it will become an important way for the transformation and development of company in the future by investment to drive the development of new business of the company . Diversified business project singed by CBMI in 2015 Contr SN Project name act Signing date mode 1 Water supply (2014-2015) project contract in Suqian PC 2015/1/8 2 Nigeria EDO mine operation project contract OM 2015/5/22 Contract for technical renovation project for burning process equipment and facilities of Hunan Hengxing 3 PC 2015/1/23 Environmental Protection Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd. Technical service contract for Hazardous waste treatment 4 line of Hunan Hengxing Environmental Protection E 2015/4/8 Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd. Masonry contract of Hunan Hengxing Environmental 5 C 2015/5/5 Protection Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd. Masonry contract of #2 chamber of incineration 6 workshop of Hunan Hengxing Environmental Protection PC 2015/7/1 Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd. Technical renovation contract for pyrolysis furnace 7 burning production line of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of EPC 2015/7/13 Changzhou Annaidi Waste Disposal Co., Ltd. Earthwork project contract of Russia Hover Vehicle 8 C 2015/9/22 Manufacture Co., Ltd. 9 EICO substation civil engineering project contract C 2015/10/27 Rotary kiln supply project contract for hazardous waste 10 P 2015/12/17 incineration of Jubail, Saudi CBMI signed the contract for Nigeria EDO mine operation project III. Innovation leading development to ensurequality service CBMITechnical Center CBMI scientific and technological achievements appraisal meeting Expert appraisal of CBMI scientific and technological achievements appraisal meeting CBMI project construction CBMI dimensional plant design CBMI dimensional plant design 1. Strengthen technological innovations Increase technical research and development In 2015, CBMI strengthened the subject research and technology innovation investment to actively promote the transformation and application of new technologies, 13 research projects were initiated with 2 patents and 1 utility model patent achieved. In the traditional cement engineering project, there are 16 projects (including projects of 2013 to 2015) which revolve around cement equipment, new technology process, new materials and intelligent control 4 areas passed the provincial scientific and technological achievements evaluation, among which 3 reached the international advanced level, 6 reached the domestic leading level, and 7 reached the advanced level. In the field of hazardous waste treatment, sewage treatment, power plants, waste heat power generation and other areas, the corresponding technologies were developed, which promoted the development of new business of the company. CBMI Patents Authorized or Acceptedby the State in 2015 Authorized Appl. No./Patent Project name Type or Accepted No. by Utility Flexible catch wheel device Authorized ZL 201420734510.7 model Full ceramic inner cylinder of Invention Authorized 201310363401.9 preheater Rotary kiln system capable of Invention Authorized 201410217896.6 burning waste tyre Appraisal Results of CBMI Scientific andTechnical Achievements in 2015 SN Project name Level Research and application of a new type of high efficiency combined powder Intern 1 selection machine--DSP1200 ational 2 Research and application of circular door of φ120m stacker & reclaimer ly advanc 3 Research and application of 4500t/d five-stage low nitrogen preheater ed (3) Research and application of large section cylinder and static pressure Domes 4 bearing tube mill tically Research and application of new technology for new tooth roller rake advanc 5 reclaimer ed (6) Development and application of stacking machine for high viscosity 6 materials 7 Application of non metallic expansion joint in cement tertiary air pipe 8 Research and application of bridge reclaimer for high viscosity materials Research and application of distribution and automation system in low 9 temperature environment 10 Design and application of two-gear rotary kiln with elastic support 11 Research and application of double plate structure of rotary kiln Research and application of the intelligent monitoring and fault diagnosis 12 system for the running state of vertical roller mill Domes 13 Research and application of ceramic inner tube of preheater in cement kiln tically advanc Research and application of processing and transportation technology for ed (7) 14 superfine pulverized coal ash Research and application of waste heat utilization of circulating cooling 15 water in cement plant 16 Research and application of online hot blast stove for material drying Design/technical service In 2015, CBMI followed the market trend to meet the regional design standards of states for different owners to provide suitable solutions and focused on fostering competitive advantages. In the traditional cement engineering area, it completed the construction drawing design of Algeria BISKRA and so on 3 projects and the ending design of Nigeria UNCIEM and so on 4 projects; for new business areas, it completed the design for technical renovation projects of two hazardous waste treatment projects in Hengyang and Changzhou. At the same time, it supported the market expansion and completed the tender design of 45 projects, of which there were 32 traditional cement projects, and 13 power plants, water treatment and other new projects. It completed 13472 construction design drawings and 5834 tender design drawings. In terms of technical design means, it continued to vigorously promote the 3D design, which effectively improved the design quality and design efficiency and had obtained high praise of the owners. 2.Innovation project management Project management bench-marking In 2015, CBMI actively carried out project management bench-marking, combined with the situation of its internal brothers companies and the domestic and international advanced enterprises which boosts for their advanced engineering management, and started from the project design, procurement, logistics, capital, exchange rate, cost, quality, safety and project management mode, construction organization design and so on in all-around manner, by learning their advanced aspects and strengths and avoid its own weaknesses, it effectively enhanced the company's project management level. CBMI Project Management Bench-marking Conference Innovation of construction method In 2015, the PM departments of CBMI actively carried out the construction techniques and craft innovation activities, especially the Algeria BISKRA project, Nigeria UNICEM project and so on projects under construction, innovations have been made as to the area of limestone shed, clinker silo sliding mode, preheater construction and so on, and favorable effects have been achieved in terms of improving project quality and construction efficiency, and reducing cost and shortening the construction period etc.. Nigeria UNICEM project uses sliding mode platform for jacking move construction method which completed the large diameter of the clinker silo Preheater construction innovation of Algeria BISKRA project, which created the new tower installation speed in the international contracting market 3. Ensure service quality Ignition ceremony of CBMI Tanzania TK2 project Strengthen project contract performance In 2015, CBMI focused on project management and strengthen the contract performance; it mainly strengthened the project schedule management, cost control, and execution of construction projects regarding duration, cost, quality and safety, and efforts have been made to enhance the contract performance capability and management level. The Algeria ZAHANA and Azerbaijan AKKORD got FAC certificates smoothly, Ecuador GU3, Bulgaria DEVNYA, Russia FER and other so on 7 projects have been granted with PAC certificates by the owners, Tanzania TK2 project were successfully ignited and put into operation, Hengqin Apartment, Suqian water treatment project, hazardous waste projects of Hengyang and Changzhou have been completed and delivered to the owners; Nigeria SKOTO and UNICEM, Algeria BISKRA, South Africa PPC, and installation project of Tapai 10,000t line went on smoothly and so did two contracts of EDO. Contract disclosure meeting of CBMI project Guarantee project quality In 2015, CBMI strengthened project quality management, amended and improved Project Quality Management and Evaluation Management Method , Regulations for Quality Control of Engineering Construction , and Inspection Regulations for Building Materials at Construction Site ; it strengthened the quality supervision and inspection of construction sites, and special quality inspections were carried out in Tanzania TCCL-TK2 and so on 7 projects. In 2015, CBMI pass rate of construction projects reached 100%, the rate of major quality accident is zero, and the owner’s complaint rate is zero. CBMI Azerbaijan Garadagh project IV. Stay people-oriented, and stress safe production 1. Improve safety management system In 2015, CBMI implemented the new Safety Production Law to perform the entity responsibility for enterprises, it chaired to revise the department functions and safety management system documents, involving a total of 12 sub-systems and 61 documents, which provided institutional guarantee for the company to further carry out safety production standardization management. The company signed a responsibility statement with 51 departments and units for the annual production safety responsibility with coverage rate reaching 100%. It did not have major injury or above level accident for whole year and the safety situation is generally stable. CBMI organized for learning and training of Safety Production Law CBMI Organizational Structure Chart of Safety Production Committee 2. Strengthen safe production management CBMI mobilization meeting for Safe production month in 2015 CBMI leaders went to the project site for safety inspection of production CBMI Nigeria SOKOTO project held fire drill CBMI Nigeria SOKOTO project held emergency rescue drills CBMI Nigeria UNICEM held scaffolding job training CBMI high rescue training of Heidelberg project in Indonesia Local outstanding security staff of CBMI Nigeria UNICEM project Safety supervision and inspection In 2015, despite the daily inspection, weekly inspection, monthly inspection and patrol inspection, CBMI’s PM departments strengthened special inspection or comprehensive safety inspection to eliminate safety hazards, more than 600 special or comprehensive safety inspections were carried out and 5845 problems of various types were found, and the correction rate reached 100%. Security information construction In 2015, CBMI further improved the information reporting system, to monitor the project information network, the coverage rate for safety standardization information platform reached 100%. It highlighted the safety training system for development and construction enterprises as the key points of the safety management work, and it developed the multimedia safety training toolbox jointly with the third party, and has been used in Algeria BISKRA project department. Safety material monitoring In 2015, CBMI enhanced the configuration for labor protection appliance and safety engineering equipment, standardized the safety supplies procurement and acceptance process, strengthened the supervision of the project safety, to guarantee project safety compliance, safety and practicality, and to ensure the safe and smooth ongoing of the projects. Safety training of all-staff In 2015, CBMI organized fire fighting lectures, Sanjin Fire Fighting Safety Cup competition for production safety law knowledge, and propaganda warning education for new Safety Production Law and so on at the headquarter, which enhanced the safety awareness and skills of the staff; 295 sessions of training related to safety education and aerial work, lifting hoisting, scaffolding, confined space operations and so special training were conducted in the project manager departments, a total of 9484 people were trained, which has improved the level of safety management. Safety production activities In 2015, CBMI took the safe production month as an opportunity to carry out production safety inspection and special safety inspection, to ensure the safety management and comprehensive supervision work in place; it carried out on-line knowledge contest for the new production safety law and other activities to enhance the company's legal level for production safety; it carried out special safety training, malaria lectures, first-aid training, fire-fighting and other activities, which has improved employee safety awareness and ability to resist risks. During the month, a total of 664 people participated in the knowledge contest of production safety month; a total of 32 safety education sessions were carried out, a total of 7200 people were trained; a total of 6 items were examined, and the correction rate of hidden hazards is 100%. Guard against safety risks In 2015, CBMI set the goal of ensuring the safety of personnel, and fully strengthened the social risk monitoring in countries of overseas projects, and timely released the warning information of infectious disease risks like, Middle East respiratory syndrome and so on, no deaths were reported for overseas projects throughout the year due to infectious diseases, social safety incidents. 3. Enhance safety culture construction CBMI Safety Brief In 2015, CBMI regularly issued Safety Brief to strengthen the publicizing of safety concept and promote the construction of safety culture. It comprehensively and strictly implemented Safety Signs Marking Standard for China International Construction Site . The Warning Record for Safety Production Accident was developed. The company also organized the staff to actively participate in the Wechat version National Competitions for Safety Production Law organized by State Administration of Work Safety Education Center and the photo shooting activity themed the country sees the production month everywhere through the WeChat platform. 4. Safety production cases In 2015, the Algeria BISKRA project department of CBMI issued a total of 17 management systems, signed 114 copies of Safety and Environmental Responsibility , actively carried out a variety of safety training activities, strictly executed the local laws and regulations. 39 site personnel obtained the qualifications for special operation through the local third party training, 31 passed the internal operation assessment of the normal equipment, and the total reached 70 people. In terms of punishment, BISKRA project department uses the illegal work as the main way of punishment for violating person, different individuals were given to different days of suspension penalties based on the violation degree, those would resume their work after a retraining in the safety department. In terms of reward for safety work, the outstanding performance crews and individuals in production safety will be rewarded with 880,000 dinars. Panorama of Algeria BISKRA project V. Advocate energy saving and environmental protection to build a green ecology Effect diagram of incineration system for hazardous waste disposal site Hubei sewage treatment plant Effect diagram of Hubei Sewage Treatment Plant CBMI Bulgaria project At the 2nd Sino-Russian Expo for environmental protection technologies CBMI actively promotes the environmental protection technologies 1. Revise and improve the system In 2015, CBMI adhered to the environmental outlook of adhere to the humanistic spirit and the consciousness of greenness to build our common homeland , in the management process, it strove to comply with the UNEP Declaration of Clean Production , Commerce Rules of International Chamber of Commerce and so on. In order to set up a good image of the company, to create the good office order and office environment, it prepared the Office Environment Management Method of CBMI Mansion in Yizhuang headquarter in Beijing; in order to regulate the operation of transportation for import and export of equipment and materials, prevent pollution to the environment during the transportation process, and guarantee the occupation health and safety of transportation personnel, it prepared and implemented the Management Measures for Environment, Occupation Health and Safety during Transport . 2. R &D of energy saving and environmental protection technologies In 2015, CBMI placed the research project of Rotary kiln system that can burn the city garbage and waste tire and low nitrogen decomposition furnace as the core, and was committed to the development and application of the system for hazardous waste treatment technologies; the preheater of full ceramic inner cylinder won the national invention patent, the achievement for research and application of waste heat in cement plant circulating cooling water reached the domestic advanced level. 3. Expand energy saving and environmental protection business In 2015, CBMI continued maintain well the cement EPC business, and actively expanded the energy saving business, it has signed the Harbin Vein Industrial Park project with Harbin Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau, and signed hazardous waste disposal projects in Hengyang and Changzhou with Beijing Enterprises Holdings Environment Technology Co., Ltd.. 4. Strengthen the propaganda for energy conservation and environmental protection In 2015, CBMI attended the 2nd session of the Sino-Russian Expo--Green Development and Cooperation Seminar that is Exhibition of Environmental Technologies between China and Russia, which highlighted the company’s achievements made in environmental protection technology and has attracted many guests to come to consult the relevant business. Smoking Control Regulations started to be implemented in Beijing City, CBMI promptly issued a Notice for No-smoking in Public Area of HQ and Proposal for Smoking Ban to call on the majority of employees to abide by the smoking control regulations, and strive to create a healthy and clean office environment . 5. Environmental production cases CBMI Russian FER Project Department prepared the Handling and Control Procedures for Safety and Environmental Accident , Identification and Evaluation and Control Procedures for Environmental Factors and other environmental management procedure documents. FER project made great break-through by design, energy consumption reduction and environmental indicators in Russia among similar cement projects, a reduction of 31% per ton of carbon emissions was achieved, the energy consumption was significantly reduced. Major highlights include: (1) Fuel: it designed the waste fuel crushing system, so that organic waste can be used as a supplementary fuel for production; (2) Power efficiency: the use of reactive power compensation, helped the power efficiency exceed 95%; (3) Discharge: the DGE bag dust was used, dust emissions < 20 mg/Nm3; the SNCR denitrification system was used, nitrogen emissions < 500 mg NO2/Nm3 ; carbon monoxide emissions< 500 ppm; sulfur emissions < 200 mg SO2/Nm3, the noise level of 500 meters away from the plant is less than 45 dB (A); (4) Sewage: the EcoSpring sewage treatment system was used, the design has achieved zero discharge of sewage. In 2015, Russia FER project was awarded the first prize for the 9th excellent EPC project award for building materials industry . CBMI Russia FER project VI. Care for the interests of employees and create a harmonious enterprise CBMI held Work Conference in 2015 CBMI HR department organized insurance lecture CBMI market department won the annual Advanced Collective Award CBMI Heidelberg Project Department arranged staff for physical examination Staff living environment of CBMI Tanzania MBE project Chinese New Year Party of CBMI in 2015 (Tangshan Office Area) CBMI Fitness month for welcoming new year for 2015 (Beijing headquarters) CBMI Fitness month for welcoming new year for 2015 (Overseas Project Department) 2015 New Year activities of CBMI Nigeria EDO project CBMI organized make-up knowledge lecture for Women's Day in 2015 1. Respect and protect the rights and interests of employees As of the end of 2015, CBMI has a staff of 1199 people, among which above 766 people own college degree which accounted for 63.89% of the total number of employees; it has 225 scientific research personnel, which covers 18.77% of the total number of employees; in 2015, the company added 21 employees, including hiring 4 college graduates and 17 social talents. In 2015, CBMI fully consider the interests of enterprises and employees during the management process of employees, and maintain a harmonious labor relation. The signing rate of labor contract was 100%, and the social insurance coverage rate was 100%. It developed new performance management methods, increased the proportion of employee performance among the salary. The employee income saw steady increase. 2. Organize professional training for employees In 2015, CBMI organized to implement 41 training programs, the total investment of training reached 148,800, a total of 532 people was trained. A total of 84 people had passed the professional and technical post qualification assessment over the year, including: 9 senior engineers and 3 senior economists. 1 people obtained the relevant registration qualification. 3. Solve the practical difficulties of employees In 2015, CBMI revised Charter of Love Fund , and improved the system of mutual protection and guarantee for workers. According to its regulations and the company's trade union, it issued about 140, 000 Yuan for those workers who suffered from serious illness, impoverished employees in the form of relief funds. The Love fund solved problems in timely manner for employees, which plays an important role in building a harmonious enterprise. 4. Care for employees' occupational health In 2015, CBMI organized all employees for regular physical examination, and analyzed physical examination results, in a timely manner it provided suggestions on improving the health status, and a total of 865 employees participated in the annual physical examination. 5. Enrich employees' leisure life In 2015, CBMI actively created favorable working and living environment for employees who are far away from the motherland working on overseas projects to enrich their cultural and spiritual life. The project department improved the working environment by increasing the greening scope and raising the level of office facilities. Nigeria SOKOTO project department built the table tennis table, football field and basketball field, configured the necessary stationary and sport goods, and organized various sports competitions and recreational activities from time to time, the Russian FER project department is equipped with TV and wireless network in the staff dormitory, employees can watch CCTV4 and so on domestic channels and surf on line at any time. The company headquarter staff organized a series of culture and sport activities for employees during major holidays, include: fitness month for welcoming spring festival activities, fun games for welcoming spring festival, make-up knowledge lecture for Women's Day, and Labor Day film-watching activities. VII. Strengthen the community joint construction and seek for common development 1. Improve the local living environment In 2015, in order to maintain the ecological environment, CBMI Nigeria UNICEM project department invested 500,000 Yuan to build one complete set of living water treatment system ensure no discharge of sewage. Nigeria factory set the water supply point, which offers drinking water for free to the residents; it repaired the road drainage system and improved the surrounding traffic and health conditions, which won the praise from the nearby community. CBMI Nigeria UNICEM donated the water treatment system for the locals 2. Promote community economic development In 2015, CBMI provided the locals with employment opportunities as much as possible in accordance with the overseas engineering construction conditions. Nigeria UNICEM project had solved more than 1500 jobs for the local area; Tanzania MBE project department provided average monthly jobs up to 1815 for local people; Indonesia Heidelberg project has a total of 14,642 people participated in the project construction, among which the local workers are 13,882, the local employment rate is as high as 95%. Indonesia's Heidelberg project department purchased construction materials and equipment required for construction from the local area in bulk, the purchase amount was about 33.7 billion of the Indonesian Rupiah, and trade is carried out with the local sub contractors. CBMI Nigeria SOKOTO project department recruited local staff Employees of CBMI Indonesia Heidelberg project department had a group photo with the hired local staff 3. Enhance community cultural exchange In 2015, while respecting the local customs in the project countries, the company took advantage of various chances for wide exchange and interaction activities. Nigeria SOKOTO project department cooperated with the local youth association, and invited the local young students to visit the site and learn, so that local students can understand the process of cement plant and the advanced engineering technologies. Indonesia Heidelberg project department strengthened commutation with the owners, subcontractors and local staff, and organized basketball and football match, and outdoor climbing activities, it held the Eid celebration and the National Independence Day celebration, and celebrated the spring festival with local staff together. Nigeria EDO project department exchanged gifts with local employees, and expressed their expressing good wishes. CBMI Nigeria SOKOTO project department donated gifts to the visiting students The CBMI PM department in Heidelberg, Indonesia organized to celebrate the Independence Day Exploration and development Regional companies operating moved ahead steadily In 2015, CBMI strengthened the coordination of regional resources sharing, information collection and marketing channel construction, improve efficiency in using regional resources, by taking the internationalization, diversification strategy as an opportunity, set up three regional management company in Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Algeria , the regional company operation went on steadily. 1. Thoughts, goals and tasks of regional company operation Thoughts To speed up the territorial management of international market , to achieve the transformation from going out to going in , to change from the project contractor in the international market to participants of economic construction and further promote the company's international development strategy. Target a.Focus on entity operation of regional companies, standardized management, to create a regional company's independence capacity, independent operating capacity and market development capabilities; b.The regional companies will be transformed into an operation center, management center, which share certain management functions of the headquarters properly to enhance the management and service capabilities of the project management department in the region. Tasks a.To accelerate regional company entity, to establish and improve the organization, to improve the management system, to build resource allocation and market management capabilities, to accelerate the transformation from production platform to business platform; b.To carry out the localization of business, to expand the territory market, to clarify the responsibility objectives, to increase the incentive assessment efforts, and to accelerate the pace of restructuring and diversified business development of the company; c.To enhance the company's overseas asset management level and to enhance the efficiency of assets through regional companies. External environment of Saudi branch company of CBMI Office environment of Saudi branch company of CBMI External environment of Nigeria branch company of CBMI Office environment of Nigeria branch company of CBMI External environment of Algeria branch company of CBMI Office environment of Algeria branch company of CBMI 2. Operating results of regional company In 2015, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Algeria these three areas based on the construction of the project and actively explored the market, the whole year saw the successful signing of 5 projects, of which there are 2 cement engineering contracting (EPC) projects and 3 diversified projects. The individual region achieved the coordinated allocation of manpower and equipment, resource sharing, which reduced the project cost. List of Major Projects in Saudi Arabia in 2015 Contract SN Project name Status type Contract of Civil engineering project of EICO company 1 C Newly signed in Saudi Arabia Supply contract of incineration rotary kiln for hazardous 2 P Newly signed waste in Saudi Jubail Under 3 Saudi Arabia UACC project EPC construction Under 4 Saudi Arabia UACC project EPC construction Under 5 Saudi Arabia EICO substation project C construction List of Major Projects in Nigeria in 2015 Contract SN Project name Status type Project of Nigeria EDO 2# line 6000TPD 1 EPC Newly signed production line 2 Nigeria EDO mine operation project OM Newly signed 3 Nigeria EDO installation project C Won PAC certificate 4 Nigeria UNICEM project EPC Under construction 5 Nigeria SOKOTO project EPC Under construction Nigeria EDO plant production and 6 O﹠M Running operation Nigeria EDO mine production and 7 O﹠M Running operation List of Major Projects in Algeria in 2015 Contract SN Project name Status type 1 Algeria BISKRIA 2×6000TPD project EPC Newly signed 2 Algeria BISKRA project EPC Under construction 3 Algeria ZAHANA project EPC Won PAC certificate CBMI Saudi Arabia UACC project CBMI Nigeria UNICEM project CBMI Algeria BISKRA project In 2015, CBMI actively exerted its oversea regional advantages in exploring the development of diversified industries; it invested a manufacture plant in Nigeria which mainly produces metal color stone tile, color coated plate, non-standard equipment and steel structure; on the one hand, it covers the project area and provide timely service, but also is a key move for the company endeavor in driving business transformation and deeply combining with the local economic development via overseas investment. At present, the first phase of Nigeria manufacturing plant has been completed and put into operation, the production and operation go on smoothly, it will play an important pilot role for the development of diversified business. Sales Revenue of Nigeria Manufacturing Company in 2015 Name Qty. Amount (Naira) Color steel plate 37629m 109,127,160 Metal colored stone tile 4860m² 9,747,370 Steel structure and equipment 4.5t 2,023,340 Machine processing 20.64t 14,300,070 Total: 135,197,940 Outdoor look of Nigeria Workshop equipment of Nigeria Manufacturing Company ManufacturingCompany --Slitting machine Product of Nigeria ManufacturingProduction and safety training ofNigeria Company --Color steel plateManufacturing Company Responsibility and performance 2015 annual key responsibility and performance In 2015, CBMI followed the detailed arrangement of the general plan and work meeting at the year beginning, itsticks to the strategy of internalization and diversified development, the whole stall had been united and arduously forged ahead, they successful completed the annual main tasks and objectives, the company continued to maintain a good and steady momentum of development. Economic Responsibility Index Index Value Business income (100 million Yuan) 26.13 Total Taxes (100 million Yuan ) 0.83 Rate of Value of State-owned Assets(%) 110.87 ROE(%) 14.87 Economic Value Added (100 million Yuan) 1.88 Gross Profit Rate(%) 16.4 Profits and Taxes Per Capita (10 thousand Yuan) 19.43 Amount of Newly Signed Contracts Annually (100 million Yuan) 38.65 Value of Exports (100 million US dollar) 2.33 Product Responsibility Index Index Value Number of Projects in Progress in 2015 29 Number of Completed Projects in 2015 2 Number of Projects Started in 2015 5 Number of Projects Obtaining PAC Certificate in 2015 7 Owner’s comprehensive satisfaction 89% Component Satisfaction of Clients(%) 87% Rate of Contract Execution(%) 100 Number of Patents Authorized by the State (item) 3 Number of Patents Granted in 2015 (item) 36 Number of Technology R&D Achievements (item) 16 Number of Enterprise Standards Newly Established and 197 Upgraded (item) SafetyResponsibility Index Index Value Coverage Rate of Safety Training(%) 100 Rate of Incidents Causing Serious Injuries or Even 0 Worse(%) Control Rate of Harmful Operating Sites After Treatment in 100 Labor Environment and Labor Conditions(%) Completion Rate of Potential Dangers Rectification(%) 100 Rate of Employment with Certificates of Special Operation 100 Workers(%) Environment Responsibility Index Index Value Rate of The Average Recovery of Hazardous 99 Waste(%) The Number of Complaints for Exceeded Noise in 0 Project Construction Publicity Rate of Energy-saving and Emission 100 cut(%) Employment Responsibility Index Index Value Total Number of Employees at the End of the Year 1199 Rate of Female Middle-level Managers(%) 4.55% Minorities Employees 36 Employees with Disabilities 5 Rate of Employees’ Participation in Labor 100 Union(%) Rate of Labor Contracts Signing(%) 100 Coverage Rate of Social Insurance(%) 100 Insured Employers’ Liability Insurance (person) 793 Payment Amount (10 thousand Yuan) 41.3 Insured Accident Insurance (person) 792 Payment Amount (10 thousand Yuan) 22.8 Total Investment in Training (10 thousand Yuan) 16.88 Percentage of Employees Receiving a Medical 100% Examination(%) Number of Labor Disputes 0 Ordinary Employees Income Increase over the 1.84% Previous Year(%) Prospective CBMIBulgariaProject Management development In 2016, the operation objectives of CBMI: to complete the operating income of 2.9 billion Yuan with total profit to reach 167 million Yuan; the new contract sum is to reach 3800 million Yuan. The company will adhere to the diversified development strategy of internationalization, and actively adapt to and grasp, lead the new normal economic development; it will further implement the market, restructuring, reform and innovation eight character principle, strive to create a new situation for the development based on the transformation and upgrading of the company, and strive to complete the annual work objectives, thus to create a good start for the company to achieve the 13th Five-Year plan. Management enhancement 2016 will be the key year for the transformation, upgrading, reform and development. While maintaining its cement engineering business and diversified business, it will actively rely on and win support from Sinoma Group and Sinoma International; at the early stage, with some small scale projects with risks controllable, to promote business transformation through investment. The reform should focus on the headquarter functions, (sub) branch company, project management and so on three aspects, with focus on quality enhancement, cost reduction, efficiency improvement, we will stimulate the vitality via the reform, and enhance the corporate soft power and competitiveness. We will combine the spirit of innovation in all aspects of the company's work, and comprehensively promote technical innovation, management innovation, model innovation, business innovation and mechanism innovation, thus to promote the development of the company's transformation move to a new level. Construction of corporate social responsibilities In 2016, CBMI will continue to strengthen the construction of corporate social responsibilities, and actively communicate with the global contract organizations, and earnestly fulfill the responsibilities and obligations as a member of the global contract organization. It will spread the global contract spirit throughout the company, combine the business development and personal growth and personal value increase to stimulate staff's work enthusiasm and creativity, which enables the company to become the destiny community and spiritual home, thus to achieve solidarity, harmony and win-win. It will further promote communication with stakeholders and expand the influence of corporate responsibilities. Evaluation on 2015 CBMI CSR Report As the member enterprise of UNGC, CBMI Construction Co., Ltd. (hereinafterreferredtoas “CBMI”) has long been committed to stick to sustainable development, seriously executed the Ten Principles of UNGC, thoroughly fulfilled the enterprise social responsibility, continuously optimized governance structure, continuously promoted scientific and technological innovation, and adhered to safety production and green ecological development, so as to create a harmonious enterprise and promote community building at the same time. 2015 CBMI CSR Report has thoroughly reflected the response of corporate to the national policy. Enterprises make full use of their own advantages, adhere to the development concept of Innovation, Coordination, Green, Openness and Sharing , achieve enterprises development, and make contributions to the national sustainable development. Meanwhile, based on the characteristics of their own international operations, the enterprises has made great contributions to the country in employment promotion, decent work, human rights improvement, environmental protection, and public welfare undertakings, etc. They can be indeed called as the models of Chinese enterprises which go out and achieve sustainable & responsible operation. Many projects of CBMI are located in the the Belt &Road countries and developing countries, and the implementation of these projects will help enhance the local infrastructure, promote local industrialization and urbanization, reduce poverty, and promote regional balanced development. On the basis of promoting common development and achieving common prosperity, they have made substantial contribution to the global sustainable development goals as described in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Report is rich in content, well-structured, flexible in the application of cases, data, charts and pictures, which not only ensures the substance and completeness of the report, but also maintains the objectivity, balance and readability. It is indeed an excellent social responsibility report. In the future CSR Report, I hope more time-oriented longitudinal comparative analysis could be contained, so as to have a better demonstration of the CBMI progress in the field of enterprise social responsibility and sustainable development. I hope CBMI continue to make persistent efforts so as to make greater achievements and continue to make contributions to the sustainable development of China and the world. Han Bin Executive Secretary General of Global Compact Network China Deputy Director of CEC Employer Department Reader’s Feedback Form We sincerely appreciate for your reading of the CBMI SOCIAL RESPONSBILITY REPORT 2014. To constantly boost the quality of the report and to better disclosure our CSR information, we expect comments and advice from you. Please fill out the questionnaire below, and send it back according to the contact information. We promise that all the information will be only used for analysis and improvement of the report. Basic Information Name Tel. E-mail address Employer Position Comments Please tick in the appropriate boxes. 1.Your overall evaluation of the report? □Great□Good□Moderate□Poor 2. What do you think of the clearness, accuracy and integrity of the disclosure information? □Great□Good□Moderate□Poor 3. Which part of the report interest you the most? □ Company Profile □ Concept and strategies □ Management performance □ Strengthen the enterprise management and lay solid foundation for development □Strive for market expansion and strengthen diversified development □ Innovation leading development to ensure quality service □ Stay people-oriented, and stress safe production □ Advocate energy saving and environmental protection to build a green ecology □Care for the interests of employees and create a harmonious enterprise □Strengthen the community joint construction and seek for common development □Exploration and development □Responsibility and performance □Prospective □Evaluation on 2015 CBMI CSR Report 4. What do you think of the extent of the information disclosure and the responses to the expectation of the interest parties? □Great□Good□Moderate□Poor 5. How is the readability of the report? □Great□Good □Moderate□Poor 6. How is the format design of the report facilitating your reading process? □Great□Good □Moderate□Poor Your advice for CBMI’s CSR work and compilation of CSR Report
