11297 Senda Luna Llena, Bldg. B San Diego, CA 92130 (858) 523-9733 translations@imanilee.com 2016 UNGC Communication on Progress Reporting Period: January 2016 – December 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Imani Lee, Inc. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this 2016 Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Lee E. Martin Chief Executive Officer Imani Lee, Inc. 11297 Senda Luna Llena, Bldg. B San Diego, CA 92130 (858) 523-9733 translations@imanilee.com I. Human Rights Assessment, Policy, and Goals Imani Lee is committed to respect for human dignity and treating all employees, contractors, and clients with fairness and equality. Implementation As an international company with employees and contractors located worldwide, Imani Lee has implemented a multi-step process to ensuring employee safety and satisfaction in our primary managerial office as well as in subcontractor locations. We follow international best practices for health and safety regulations, which are made known to all employees. Any updates are published for employees to review. Measurement of outcomes We have established protocol for whistleblowers and reporting of workplace violations. Our human resources policies reflect our commitment to human rights, and are reviewed on an annual basis. Each employee is also given an annual review, which fosters dialogue about any discrepancies in the workplace in a healthy manner. As a company with an international focus, we also help our clients maintain their high levels of commitment to global responsibility, global communication, and cultural sensitivity. II. Labour Principles Assessment, Policy, and Goals Imani Lee remains committed to proper labor standards and employee rights established by the state and federal government. As a corporation that depends on both employees and subcontractors for success, we are committed to international best practices regarding hiring, employment mobility, employee progression, and employment termination. All employees and global subcontractors are treated equitably, paid promptly, regardless of work level or citizenship. Implementation Imani Lee informs employees of all updates to state and federal labor regulations that will impact them directly (e.g. minimum wage updates, etc.) 11297 Senda Luna Llena, Bldg. B San Diego, CA 92130 (858) 523-9733 translations@imanilee.com It has maintained its background check policy regarding all workers. This works to ensure that the identities of internationally-based workers are confirmed, in addition to safeguarding payments made electronically. We test their skills and include the results in our database in order to help facilitate Imani Lee providing them with more work in the future. Imani Lee provides job training whenever necessary and legally allowed. We continually update employee hardware and software to ensure an optimal level of performance. In 2016, every employee at Imani Lee attended several meetings and conferences in order to further their professional development. All sensitive employee and client data, whether digital or physical, is treated with the utmost care. Imani Lee maintains an extensive archived database inside of its secure facility to ensure that employee and client data can never be mismanaged or misappropriated. Measurement of outcomes Imani Lee employees are encouraged to take an active role in their professional development. Opportunities to attend conferences, courses, and other similar educational outings are presented to employees several times a year. We encourage our employees to think about how they can further the company’s goals, whilst also furthering their careers and educational pursuits. Our CEO works in tandem with human resources as well as the executive team to ensure that all employees are being treated fairly in the workplace. III. Environment Assessment, Policy, and Goals As a global business, Imani Lee is committed to ensuring that its daily practices support its respect for the environment. Our clientele includes corporate businesses, state, federal, and foreign governments. Our project managers work to ensure that the manner in which projects are completed and delivered minimizes waste to the environment. Imani Lee’s health, safety, and environmental policies are reviewed on an annual basis, with any updates in policies being published for review by all employees. Implementation We have taken precautionary measures to decrease our environmental footprint such as: Consolidating office space Utilizing home-based subcontractors 11297 Senda Luna Llena, Bldg. B San Diego, CA 92130 (858) 523-9733 translations@imanilee.com Encouraging the use of public transportation by employees that work in our main corporate office Allowing clients to pay invoices online Utilizing internet resources such as Skype and GoToMeeting for meetings internally and with clients, as well as online resources for document-sharing to cut down on printing Digitalizing archives Implementing a company-wide recycling policy Measurement of outcomes We encourage all employees to self-manage their amount of environmental waste. The discussion is a line item subject in each employee’s annual review. IV. Anti-corruption Assessment, Policy, and Goals Imani Lee maintains a zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption, the mishandling of funds, or the mishandling of project data. Imani Lee is committed to the security and safety of all client and company data. Offenders to our anti-corruption policy are terminated immediately and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Implementation Project managers regularly meet with the executive team to discuss relevant client and project updates, including any problems that may have arisen. Most digital data items are password protected, and monitored by the executive team. Any suspected anti-corruption policy violations are investigated immediately. Measurement of outcomes All incidents and personnel suspected of potential violations are placed under immediate review. The Board of Imani Lee, Inc. reviews all reports regarding the company’s results, placing close scrutiny on anything related to this matter. These reviews are conducted annually, or as needed should a suspected violation arise.
