SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ITC LIMITED SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G4 COMPLIANT: IN ACCORDANCE COMPREHENSIVE ITC’s Sustainability Report can be downloaded from ITC’s corporate website, www.itcportal.com ITC’s Sustainability app can be downloaded from http://www.itcportal.com/app/itc-apps.aspx Follow ITC on Twitter @ITCCorpCom ITC Limited is a GRI Gold Community member and supports GRI’s mission to provide widely used standards on sustainability reporting. Contents 122 Category: Social 04 Chairman’s Statement Labour Practices & Decent Work and 124 Human Rights 10 Organisational Profile Occupational Health 132 and Safety Supply Chain 22 ITC’s Mission Sunehra 138 Certifications, Honours and Awards 26 Kal for Sustainable & Inclusive Growth 30 Stakeholder Engagement, Product Responsibility 160 Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis 168 GRI Index 46 Report Profile, Scope and Boundary 186 GRI-G4 Food Processing Sector 52 Governance Structure Supplement (FPSS) 60 Category: Economic Management Approach 62 Economic Performance 63 72 Category: Environment Management Approach 74 Energy 76 Air Emissions 84 Water Management 94 188 Alignment to BRR Waste Management 104 Principles Raw Materials 114 Biodiversity 118 189 Annexures Policies and Guidelines 189 Quantification Methodology: 190 Energy and GHG Emissions Memberships and Affiliations 191 193 Independent Assurance Statements 01 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Triple Bottom Line Performance ITC: Creating 6 Million Over the last twenty years: Revenue has grown tenfold Sustainable Livelihoods Profit Before Tax has grown 33 times Total Shareholder Returns has grown at a compound annual rate of 23.3% Environment Carbon Positive: 11 consecutive years Water Positive: 14 years in a row Economic Solid Waste Recycling Positive: For the last 9 years ITC has created multiple drivers of growth by Soil & Moisture conservation developing a portfolio covering nearly 2,70,000 hectares of world-class Indian ITC’s Watershed Development Programme businesses is designed to assist farmers in identified moisture-stressed areas. Diversified multi-business conglomerate spanning Increasing Renewable Energy FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards & Portfolio Packaging, Agri Business and Over 47% (last year – 43%) of ITC’s total Information Technology energy requirements was met from carbon neutral sources such as biomass, Vibrant portfolio of world-class wind and solar. Indian brands Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain Market capitalisation: $44 billion All ITC’s premium luxury Hotels are LEED® Turnover: Nearly $8 billion Platinum certified. ITC Group provides direct Over 2,25,000 hectares greened employment to more than under ITC’s Social and Farm 32,000 people Forestry Programme 02 Triple Bottom Line Performance Well-being Out of Waste (WOW) enterprises or assisted with loans to pursue income generating activities. The ‘Well-being Out of Waste’ initiative currently extends to 400 municipal Animal husbandry services for wards of Hyderabad, Chennai, over 13,00,000 milch animals Bengaluru, Coimbatore and several The Programme for genetic improvement towns of Telangana. It inculcates of cattle through artificial insemination the habit of source segregation to produce high-yielding crossbred and recycling. progenies is implemented through 238 Cattle Development Centres Social covering over 10,000 villages. ITC’s Social Investments Afforestation Programme Programme is spread over 26 generates over 100 million states covering 166 districts person-days of employment Primary Education Initiative: ITC’s Biodiversity Programme now covers nearly 4,000 hectares Benefitting 4,70,000 children The objective is to protect native During 2015-16, 45,823 children were flora and fauna and providing other covered under this initiative comprising ecosystem services. ‘Read India Plus’ programme and 176 Supplementary Learning Centres ITC’s Vocational Training to mainstream out-of-school children Programme Training nearly into regular schools. Till June 2016, 34,000 youth the total number of children benefitted is This Programme played an active role nearly 4,70,000. in building and upgrading skills of ITC e-Choupal: Empowering marginalised youth to better meet the 4 million farmers emerging needs of the job market. ITC’s globally acknowledged e-Choupal Figures in this section are as on June 2016. Figures in the rest of the Report pertain initiative is the world’s largest rural to the Financial year 2015-16. digital infrastructure benefitting over 4 million farmers. Over 50,000 sustainable livelihoods for rural women The Programme aims at economic mainstreaming of rural women including the ultra-poor by enabling them to earn independent incomes. These women were gainfully employed either through micro03 Chairman’s Statement It gives me immense pleasure to present the 13th Sustainability Report of ITC. This Report, as in earlier years, is a proactive disclosure of the Company’s Triple Bottom Line performance and is third-party assured. Once again, the Report conforms to the highest “In Accordance – Comprehensive” level of reporting prescribed in the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). I am also happy to reaffirm ITC’s commitment to the principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact. The Company’s large-scale sustainability programmes are in alignment with the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) commitments made by India to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Company’s social investment initiatives also make a meaningful contribution towards meeting the objectives set in the UN Sustainable Development Goals. A New Chapter in Global Sustainability In many ways, the year gone by marked the beginning of a new chapter in global sustainability. Led by the United Nations, the world adopted the Sustainable Development Goals, a bold new global agenda for ending poverty, fighting inequality and preserving the environment. In April this year, 175 nations converged in Paris to sign the historic UN Climate Agreement, pledging stringent measures to save the Earth from the disastrous consequences of global warming. While the agreement gave rise to new hopes for the planet and future generations, it was also clear that the world was in a race against time. A race to create sustainable livelihoods of an unprecedented scale before millions of jobless youth became a source of global social unrest. A race also to replenish the environment before its degradation chokes future progress and makes the Earth a barren planet. 04 Chairman’s Statement The UN has warned that the world would need to create at least 600 million jobs over the next decade. This would be critical to providing livelihood opportunities to new entrants as Once again, well as to those who have lost their jobs due to the impact of the recent economic crises. In the Report has addition, almost a billion people would need to be moved out of abject poverty. Therefore, achieved the the challenge today is not only to achieve higher rates of growth in a fragile global economy highest “In but to ensure that such growth is equitable and can also create livelihood opportunities. Accordance – This is indeed a tall task. Comprehensive” level of reporting Compounding the social challenges is the alarming pace of environmental degradation and prescribed in the G4 guidelines global warming. 2016 is slated to be the hottest year in the history of the planet. Extreme of the Global and erratic weather events like heat waves, intense storms, rising sea levels, successive Reporting cycles of droughts and floods, catastrophic loss of bio-diversity and top soil erosion have Initiative triggered widespread devastation. In India, a double whammy of heat waves and droughts have claimed thousands of lives in recent times. Experts have repeatedly warned that human influence is damaging the environment at a rate much faster than it can ever recover. India’s socio-economic context mirrors these global challenges. Undoubtedly, the country has made remarkable progress, poised as it is to become the world’s third largest economy in PPP terms by 2030. However, the scale and complexity of its sustainability challenges are daunting. Nearly 300 million people, who live in multi-dimensional poverty, still need critical support to live a life of dignity. What is of extreme concern is the fact that more than 10 million youth, who join the workforce annually, are unable to find gainful employment. 05 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS There is today growing realisation worldwide that such unemployed youth are extremely vulnerable, prone to be radicalised and drawn into criminal and violent activity. Unstable societies cannot foster sustainable economic growth. They negate society’s advancements and mire the world in conflict and uncertainty. Going forward, India will face larger challenges to ensure food, nutrition, water, energy, education and health security for the 1.5 billion people who are likely to inhabit the country by 2030. Already, environmental resources are under huge stress given the fact that with 17% of the world’s population, the country has only 2.4% of world’s land, 4% of global water resources and 1% of forest resources. The need to replenish our environmental resources on a colossal scale has never been more critical and urgent. The Role of Business Any sustainable solution to such monumental challenges requires the concerted efforts of all sections of society — government, business and members of the civil society. Businesses can indeed play a very meaningful role. With their diverse managerial capability, superior innovative capacity and entrepreneurial vitality, corporates can bring about transformational change in society through productive utilisation of scarce societal resources. The entrepreneurial capability that businesses employ to create winning products and services can be channelled to create larger societal value, enabling a multiplier contribution to sustainable and inclusive growth. I believe that these transformative energies of business can be unleashed when corporates redefine their value proposition by focusing on a larger purpose to contribute to societal value creation rather than shareholder value alone. It is this belief that helped ITC shape its Vision & Strategy in building a sustainable enterprise of tomorrow. ITC’s Sustainability Vision & Strategy Two decades ago when I assumed office as Chairman, we articulated a superordinate Vision to transform the Company into a vibrant engine of growth for the Indian economy by not only repositioning the organisation for extreme competitiveness but also by making societal ITC has over value creation a core purpose of business. We embarked on a mission to create an exemplary the years Indian enterprise that would live by its credo of putting Country before Corporation and designed and Institution before the Individual. implemented large-scale This mission to serve larger national priorities spurred innovative strategies that programmes orchestrated a symphony of efforts to address some of the most challenging issues to replenish facing Indian society — widespread poverty and income inequities on the one hand; and and enrich the environmental degradation and the impact of climate change on the other. Leveraging the environment, create Company’s enterprise strengths and its large presence in rural communities, ITC has over sustainable the years designed and implemented large-scale programmes to replenish and enrich the livelihoods, environment, create sustainable livelihoods, empower local communities and address the empower local challenges of climate change. These programmes are encapsulated in the various chapters communities of this Report. and address the challenges of It is a matter of great satisfaction for all our stakeholders that the Company is today climate change acknowledged as an exemplar in Triple Bottom Line performance. The choice of sustainable strategy and practices have enabled the Company’s businesses and value-chains to generate sustainable livelihoods for around 6 million people. ITC is today the only Company in the 06 Chairman’s Statement world of comparable dimensions to be carbon positive for 11 years, water positive for 14 years and solid waste recycling positive for the last 9 years. Embedding sustainability in the Company’s Integrated Approach DNA requires an integrated to Sustainability approach to ensure impactful outcomes. The Embedding sustainability in the Company’s DNA requires an integrated approach to ensure abiding Vision impactful outcomes. The abiding Vision to serve a larger national purpose continues to to serve a larger provide the inspiration for every thought and action. Innovative strategies have leveraged national purpose the Company’s core capabilities to address critical societal challenges identified through continues to extensive stakeholder engagement. As a result of these ground-up efforts, effective provide the programmes have been designed and implemented in close collaboration with local inspiration for communities ensuring more meaningful outcomes. every thought and action. Poverty and environmental degradation are inextricably linked, requiring comprehensive Innovative strategies have interventions that are also adaptive to the local environment and context. Often, such leveraged the societal challenges are addressed in isolation or in silos leading to sub-optimal solutions. Company’s core ITC’s efforts to align national priorities, needs of local communities and high-impact capabilities initiatives result in more sustainable and scalable solutions. This mosaic of comprehensive to address solutions includes the globally acknowledged ITC e-Choupal initiative, large scale critical societal afforestation and watershed programmes, animal husbandry and livestock development challenges initiatives, primary education, vocational training, women’s empowerment as well as health identified and sanitation programmes. These together make a meaningful contribution to improving through the quality of life of people in rural India whilst also enriching the natural resource base. extensive stakeholder In addition, as an environment steward, ITC strives to lower its carbon footprint at engagement all its operations through Greenhouse Gas Reduction programmes, efforts in renewable energy, construction of green buildings and interventions to reduce specific energy and water consumption. A comprehensive set of Board-approved Sustainability Policies has been adopted to guide pro-active action for superior Triple Bottom Line performance. ITC has also adopted a comprehensive CSR policy, outlining programmes, projects and activities that the Company plans to undertake to create a significant positive impact on identified stakeholders. A Board Committee on CSR and Sustainability has been in place for several years now to review, monitor and provide strategic direction to the Company’s sustainability efforts. In addition, the Corporate Management Committee of ITC is supported by a Sustainability Compliance Review Committee for regular monitoring of initiatives and evaluating compliance with the Sustainability Policies of the Company. To bring sustainability issues to centre-stage and rally industry to embrace the larger cause of societal value creation, ITC has joined hands with the Confederation of Indian Industry to establish the CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development as a focal point for thought leadership, building capacity, raising awareness, information dissemination and recognising exemplars in sustainability. Creating Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Social Investments Programme is aimed at economic empowerment of the most disadvantaged sections of society, especially in rural India, through grassroots capacity building. The Company has adopted a 360 degree approach to enrich rural eco-systems, 07 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS putting in place long-term drivers that progressively contribute to the national priorities of employment generation and inclusive growth. To secure livelihoods for the stakeholder communities not just for today but also for the future, ITC’s Social Investments Programme follows a two-pronged approach. On the one hand, it seeks to make today’s dominant sources of income sustainable by empowering rural communities to conserve and augment their social and environmental capital in order to secure agri production systems and thereby their current sources of livelihood. On the other hand, it aims at creating capabilities for income generation and employment for the future by helping the communities put in place the necessary socio-economic infrastructure to equip them to take advantage of emerging economic opportunities. ITC also considers the Union and State Governments to be important stakeholders as they play a vital role in helping amplify the scale of the Social Investments interventions through public-private people partnerships. Currently, the footprint of ITC’s Social Investments Programme is spread across 26 states covering 166 districts. Environmental Stewardship In line with the Company’s vision to pursue a low carbon strategy, ITC has adopted several initiatives to address the adverse impacts of climate change. Its large-scale afforestation interventions, climate-smart agriculture initiatives and watershed development programmes are complemented by the Company’s efforts to continuously enhance energy efficiency and conservation in its units as well as invest in cleaner and renewable energy sources. These initiatives support the INDC commitments made by India to the UN. A testimony to ITC’s commitment to reducing dependence on fossil fuels is the fact that today, over 47% of the Company’s total energy requirements is met from renewable energy sources such as biomass, wind and solar. ITC plans to scale this up to at least 50% by 2020. ITC also continues to focus on water stewardship and has started implementing a long-term strategy for water security for all stakeholders at identified high water stress areas. ITC has pioneered the movement for ’green buildings’ in India. Several of ITC’s properties are LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certified. All its premium luxury Over 47% of hotels have earned the LEED® Platinum certification, making ITC Hotels the “greenest the Company’s luxury hotel chain” in the world. The ITC Grand Chola is the world’s largest LEED® Platinum total energy certified green hotel. The ITC Green Centre in Gurgaon is the highest rated green building in requirements the world. The ITC Sankhya Data Centre in Bengaluru is the first such facility in the world to is met from receive LEED® Platinum certification. Several of ITC’s factories are LEED® certified as well. renewable energy The Company’s Solid Waste Management programme – christened ‘WOW Well-being out of sources. ITC Waste’ has provided effective solutions in several cities of South India, enjoying the support has pioneered of over 5 million citizens, 5,00,000 school children, 350 corporates, more than 1,000 the movement commercial establishments and around 200 industrial plants. This programme addresses for ’green buildings’ in the growing concern of post-consumer waste management. India. Several of ITC’s properties are LEED® Towards a New Paradigm of (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Responsible Competitiveness Design) As a Company deeply rooted in the country’s soil, ITC has aligned its sustainability initiatives certified to contribute to nation building and a secure future. The daunting challenges of social inequities and environmental degradation require growth that needs to go far beyond economic wealth creation alone, to embrace a much larger model of societal value creation. 08 Chairman’s Statement Undoubtedly, high growth rates are necessary, but that by itself may not be sufficient to ensure social equity or environmental replenishment. A new paradigm of growth is therefore ITC Life Sciences called for an integrated approach that builds extreme competitiveness whilst at the same and Technology time ensuring that the environment is nourished and not plundered, dignity of labour is Centre is driving preserved and sustainable livelihoods are created along the entire value-chain. I call this the Company’s agenda of paradigm of growth “Responsible Competitiveness”, which to my mind creates the winning creating enterprises of the future. intellectual capital for the It is my belief that enduring and responsible competitiveness of a Nation is strengthened by nation with its ownership of intellectual capital that creates, captures and retains larger value for the nearly 350 country. Ownership of intellectual property is manifest in brands that serve as a perpetual world-class source of value for the enterprise as well as the country they belong to. It is for this reason scientists. In that ITC has invested in creating world-class Indian brands, several of which are market a short span leaders in their categories. These brands also anchor sustainable value-chains that empower of time, over some of the weakest in rural India. In addition, ITC has significantly enriched and enlarged 480 patent applications its R&D capabilities with the establishment of the ITC Life Sciences and Technology Centre have been filed in Bengaluru. This Centre is driving the Company’s agenda of creating intellectual capital for the nation with nearly 350 world-class scientists. In a short span of time, over 480 patent applications have been filed. This effort is expected to accelerate in the coming years. The Company is also investing in physical infrastructure assets to contribute to the country’s competitive capacity. Currently, 65 projects are under implementation or in an advanced stage of planning. These together enlarge ITC’s capacity to contribute to national priorities and create sustainable livelihoods and environmental enrichment on a much larger scale. This journey has indeed been fulfilling, and the scale achieved immensely encouraging, though we recognise that there are miles to go. Yet, our success emboldens us to say that collectively, business and industry can indeed bring transformational change by pursuing a path towards Responsible Competitiveness. A paradigm shift will take place only when consumers, investors and civil society make an enlightened choice in favour of products and services by sustainable companies. This will unleash strong market drivers to support corporates that innovate to deliver larger sustainable and inclusive value. Preferential government policy and incentives in favour of such companies will lend even further support to multiply the efforts of such sustainability champions. It is with great pleasure that I dedicate this Report to our stakeholders, who have supported and encouraged us in this eventful journey. Indeed, these efforts would be worthwhile and fulfilling, if we bequeath a better and secure world for the generations to come. Y C Deveshwar Chairman, ITC Limited 09 Organisational Profile 10 Organisational Profile ITC’s Businesses FMCG Hotels Paperboards, Paper & Packaging Agri Business Information Technology 11 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Creating Enduring Value ITC Limited is one of India’s most valuable and admired corporations. Inspired by an abiding vision to sub-serve larger national priorities, ITC has pursued innovative strategies to synergise the creation of long-term shareholder value with the continuous enhancement of societal and environmental capital. Creating Multiple Drivers Creating World-Class Brands that of Growth Capture Value for India With a turnover of nearly $8 billion and a market ITC believes that it is of paramount importance to capitalisation of $40 billion, ITC’s aspiration build and nurture world-class Indian brands, which to create enduring value for the Nation and help create, capture and retain larger value for the its stakeholders is manifest in its robust and Indian economy, in addition to generating sustainable diversified portfolio of traditional and greenfield livelihoods. A successful brand is a badge of honour businesses. The competitiveness of ITC’s diverse for the country it belongs to, and a sustained source Businesses rest on the strong foundations of of wealth creation. Leveraging the Company’s core institutional strengths derived from its deep competencies, institutional strengths and internal consumer insights, cutting-edge Research & synergies, the new FMCG Businesses comprising Development, differentiated product development Branded Packaged Foods, Personal Care Products, capacity, brand-building capability, world-class Lifestyle Retailing, Education & Stationery Products manufacturing infrastructure, extensive rural and Matches and Agarbattis have gained significant linkages, efficient trade marketing and distribution market standing over the years. Within a relatively network and dedicated human resources. ITC’s short span of time, ITC has established vital brands, ability to leverage internal synergies residing across many of which are today market leaders in their its diverse Businesses lends a unique source of segments, or have garnered a significant share competitive advantage to its products and services. of consumer franchise. ITC’s bouquet of brands Today, ITC is the country’s leading FMCG marketer, includes ‘Aashirvaad’, ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’, ‘Sunfeast the clear market leader in the Indian Paperboard and Dark Fantasy’, ‘Sunfeast Dream Cream’, ‘Sunfeast Packaging industry, a globally acknowledged pioneer Delishus’, ‘Sunfeast Mom’s Magic’, ‘Sunfeast in farmer empowerment through its wide-reaching Yumfills’, ‘Sunfeast Bounce’, ‘Bingo!’, ‘Yumitos’, Agri Business, the second largest Hotel Chain in ‘YiPPee!’, ‘Candyman’, ‘mint-o’, ‘B Natural’, ‘GumOn’ India and a trailblazer in ‘green hoteliering’. ITC and ‘Kitchens of India’ in the Branded Packaged Infotech, a wholly-owned subsidiary is a specialised Foods space; ‘Classmate’ and ‘Paperkraft’ in global full service provider, led by Business and Education & Stationery products market; ‘Essenza Di Technology Consulting. This portfolio of rapidly Wills’, ‘Fiama Di Wills’, ‘Engage’, ‘Savlon’, ‘Shower growing Businesses considerably enhances ITC’s to Shower’, ‘Vivel’ and ‘Superia’ in the Personal Care capacity to generate growing value for the country. products segment; ‘Wills Lifestyle’ and ‘John Players’ in the Lifestyle Retailing Business; ‘Mangaldeep’ in Agarbattis and ‘Aim’ in Matches, amongst others. 12 Organisational Profile Building Natural Achievements and Social Capital ITC’s vision of sustainable and inclusive growth has ITC has received national and global recognition led to the adoption of a Triple Bottom Line approach for its multi-faceted achievements. It has been that simultaneously builds economic, social and ranked as ‘India’s Most Admired Company’ in a environmental capital. Its Social Investment survey conducted by Fortune India magazine and Programmes, including Social Forestry, Soil & Moisture Hay Group. ITC has also been rated as the world’s 8th Conservation, Sustainable Agriculture, Livestock largest ‘sustainable value creator’ among consumer Development, Biodiversity, Women Empowerment, goods companies globally, according to a report by Education, Skilling & Vocational Training and the Boston Consulting Group (BCG). As a testimony Health & Sanitation, have had a transformational to its exemplary Triple Bottom Line performance, impact on rural India. These Programmes strive to ITC has also been presented the World Business empower stakeholder communities to conserve, and Development Award at the historic Rio+20 UN manage and augment their natural resources, create Summit for its Social and Farm Forestry initiative. sustainable on and off-farm livelihood sources and ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar has been ranked the improve social infrastructure in rural areas. Through 7th Best Performing CEO in the world by the Harvard its Businesses and associated value chains, ITC Business Review in its January-February edition of has supported the generation of around 6 million 2013. Mr Deveshwar has also been conferred the livelihoods, touching the lives of many living at the margins in rural India. In line with its commitment Padma Bhushan, one of the country’s highest civilian to environmental goals, ITC has constantly strived honours, for his leadership in transforming ITC into to reduce the impact of its Businesses, processes, an organisation with a deep commitment to national products and services and create a positive footprint. priorities of sustainable and inclusive growth. ITC has adopted a low-carbon growth strategy through reduction in specific energy consumption and enhancing use of renewable energy sources. At the same time it seeks to enlarge its positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by expanding forestry projects in wastelands. Over 47% of the total energy requirement of the Company is today met from renewable sources, a testimony to its commitment to a low carbon growth path. This is indeed a remarkable performance, given the large manufacturing base of the Company. ITC also endeavours to reduce specific water consumption and augment rainwater harvesting activities both on site and off site at watershed catchment areas, as well as minimise waste generation, maximise reuse & recycling and use external post-consumer waste as raw material in its units. 13 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC’s Businesses Fast Moving Consumer Goods ITC straddles a range of Businesses within the FMCG segment, including Branded Packaged Foods, Personal Care Products, Cigarettes, Lifestyle Retailing, Education and Stationery Products, and Safety Matches and Incense Sticks (Agarbattis). Keeping pace with the rapid growth of the FMCG industry in India, ITC has significantly scaled up its presence in this segment. 14 Organisational Profile Branded Packaged Foods ITC’s Branded Packaged Foods Business is one of the fastest growing foods businesses in India. A spread of delectable offerings in Staples, Snacks & Meals, Confections and Beverages is available under the popular brands ‘Aashirvaad’, ‘Sunfeast’, ‘Bingo!’, ‘YiPPee!’, ‘Kitchens of India’, ‘mint-o’, ‘B Natural’, ‘Candyman’ and ‘GumOn’. In line with the Company’s strategic objective of being the leader in the premium segment, ITC Foods offers an array of top-end products like ‘Aashirvaad Select’, ‘Aashirvaad Atta with Multigrains’ and ‘Aashirvaad Atta with Methi’, ‘Aashirvaad Superior MP’; ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ ghee; ‘ITC Master Chef’ spices; ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Choco Fills’ and ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Choco Meltz’; ‘Sunfeast Delishus Nuts & Raisins’ and ‘Sunfeast Delishus Nut Biscotti’ biscuits; and ‘Yumfills Whoopie Pie’. During the year, the Business launched the ‘Sunfeast Delishus Gourmet cookies Chocolate Chip made with Ghana Cocoa’, ‘Sunfeast Farmlite Oats with Chocolate’ and ‘Sunfeast Marie Light Rich Taste’. The portfolio also includes the health biscuit, ‘Sunfeast Farmlite’ in two variants (Almonds and Raisins), and a range of cookies, ‘Sunfeast Mom’s Magic’ (Rich Butter and Cashew & Almonds). ITC also forayed into the Dairy category with the launch of ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ – Pure Cow Ghee in select markets. The Business recently launched a range of blended spices in select markets under the ‘ITC Master Chef’ brand. In Beverages, the ‘B Natural’ range of juices garnered impressive consumer traction in a relatively short span of time. 15 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Personal Care Products Specially crafted for Indian preferences, ITC’s personal care products portfolio offers a range of internationally benchmarked grooming and personal wash products. Anchored on extensive consumer and market research based product development, ITC’s personal care brands ‘Essenza Di Wills’, ‘Fiama Di Wills’, ‘Engage’, ‘Savlon’, ‘Shower to Shower’, ‘Vivel’, ‘Cell Renew’ and ‘Superia’ offer products with relevant, differentiated benefits to the discerning consumer. During the year, the Business launched several differentiated product offerings in the Soaps, Shower Gel, Skin Care and Deodorant categories under the ‘Fiama Di Wills’, ‘Vivel’, ‘Engage’ and ‘Superia’ brands, besides establishing presence in the Health & Hygiene category leveraging the recently acquired ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ brands. The Company entered the fast-growing Hand Wash category with the introduction of Savlon Hand Wash in three variants. Other launches include ‘Fiama Di Wills Double Moisturiser Bathing Bar’, ‘Vivel Neem’, ‘Superia Silk Cherry’ bar soaps and a regimen of skin care products such as ‘Makeup Cleanser’, ‘Clarifying Skin Toner’ and ‘Night Cream’ under the ‘Vivel Cell Renew’ brand. The Engage range of deodorants gained further momentum during the year and strengthened its No.2 position in the category. The portfolio was fortified during the year with the addition of ‘Engage Perfume Sprays’ in two variants each for men and women. Cigarettes ITC reinforced its leadership position in the cigarette industry by leveraging its comprehensive product portfolio and world-class execution capabilities. Lifestyle Retailing ITC’s Lifestyle Retailing Business continues to grow its market standing by investing in brand building, enhancing product vitality and supply chain capabilities; expanding its retail footprint across the country. Synonymous with Fashion and Elegance, the Wills Lifestyle range of apparels offers a premium lifestyle wardrobe for Indian men and women at over 100 exclusive 16 Organisational Profile specialty stores in 50 cities, 350 outlets in Saathi, a value brand of notebooks, is leading departmental stores and multi-brand targeted at smaller markets. The Paperkraft outlets and 6 exclusive boutiques across brand is the leading provider of premium ITC Hotels. With its high fashion imagery, executive & office paper stationery, including rich product mix and delightful shopping notebook ranges of Green Impression and experience, the brand offers a tempting Signature Series as well as an assortment choice of ‘Wills Classic’ formal wear, ‘Wills of premium pens. The Business recently Sport’ relaxed wear, ‘Wills Clublife’ evening launched several differentiated offerings wear and ‘Wills Signature’ designer wear. under the ‘Classmate’, ‘Classmate Pulse’, During the year, the premium imagery of ‘Paperkraft’ and ‘Saathi’ brands, including the ‘Wills Classic’ range was sharpened with products in innovative formats like Paperkraft the introduction of a finely crafted range of notebooks with unique covers and Classmate offerings under the ‘Luxuria’ and ‘Regalia’ Octane pens. Offering the greenest range of collection and natural-fibre products such as stationery products, supported by a green linens under the ‘Ecostyle’ collection. wood fibre value chain that creates largescale livelihoods in rural India, Classmate and ‘John Players’, which has emerged as a Paperkraft notebooks are an embodiment of leading brand in the ‘Youth fashion’ segment, the environmental capital built by ITC in its embodies the essence of the Indian youth that paper business. is free-spirited, playful and fashionable. The brand presents smart formals, trendy casuals Safety Matches and Incense and edgy denims incorporating an exciting Sticks (Agarbattis) mix of colours, patterns, styling and fits. John Players is present pan-India with over 400 ITC’s ‘Mangaldeep’ brand, offering a range flagship stores and 1200 outlets in leading of well-crafted products, is one the fastest departmental stores and multi-brand outlets. growing agarbatti brands in the country. ITC also enjoys leadership position in the Education and Stationery ‘Dhoop’ segment. Products While the Agarbatti industry in India ITC’s Education and Stationery Products primarily continues to import raw materials, Business offers consumers a wide range of resulting in loss of livelihood opportunities differentiated products under the brands for women and tribals in rural areas, ITC has ‘Classmate’, ‘Classmate Pulse’, ‘Paperkraft’ implemented several measures, including and ‘Saathi’. A clear market leader in the facilitating the mechanisation of agarbatti student notebooks segment, Classmate’s manufacturing at vendor locations and portfolio also includes writing instruments backward integration by vendors into raw (pens & pencils) and scholastic products batti manufacturing using indigenous (mathematical drawing instruments, scales, inputs, to enhance the competiveness of the erasers & sharpeners). ‘Colour Crew’, a sub domestic industry. brand of Classmate, offers an exciting range of superior quality student art materials ITC is also the leader in the Safety Matches which includes nontoxic oil pastels, plastic category with ‘Aim’ being the largest selling crayons, wax crayons and sketch pens. brand in the industry. 17 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Hotels With more than 100 hotels in over 70 destinations in the country, ITC Hotels has redefined the fine art of hospitality. ITC’s hotel group operates under 4 brands: ITC Hotel at the luxury end, ‘WelcomHotel’ in the upper-upscale segment, Fortune Hotels in the upscale & mid-market segment and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in the heritage & leisure segment. Embodying ITC Hotels’ credo of ‘Responsible Luxury’, all ITC luxury hotels are an archetype of the culture and ethos of the region they are located in, offering unique indigenous experiences, internationally acclaimed cuisines and spa, with globally benchmarked standards in accommodation, environment and guest safety. With a LEED® Platinum rating for all its luxury hotels, ITC Hotels is the ‘Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the World’. 18 Organisational Profile Paperboards, Paper & Packaging Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business is the leader in Product Range, Market Reach, Environmental Performance and in Value-Added Paperboards in India. The Business is also a leader in the sale of eco-labelled products, volumes of which doubled during the year. Providing internationally competitive quality and cost, the Business caters to a wide spectrum of packaging, graphic, communication, writing, printing and specialty paper requirements. The Business established the country’s first Elemental Chlorine Free fibre line with Ozone bleaching technology and is fully compliant with world-class environmental standards. It is also the first paper business in the country to be invited to be a member of the Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Committed to developing a sustainable raw material base, ITC’s pulpwood is largely sourced from renewable plantations under its Social and Farm Forestry programmes, which provide sustainable livelihood opportunities to tribals and marginal farmers. Packaging and Printing Business The Packaging and Printing Business provides contemporary and superior packaging solutions through its state-of-the-art technology and processes. With multi-locational manufacturing facilities in Chennai, Munger and Haridwar and a robust technology platform, the Business offers a diversified & value-added product range in packaging for cartons, flexibles and tobacco and caters to a wide range of customers in domestic and export markets. The Business supplies value-added packaging to ITC’s various FMCG Businesses. Its plant in Chennai is India’s greenest packaging facility. Backed by expertise in design, innovative product development and cutting edge technology, the Business has won several World Star awards for packaging excellence. The Business has also received appreciation and recognition from its customers for partnering and enhancing value through creative packaging solutions. 19 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Agri Business ITC is one of India’s largest integrated Agri Business enterprises with significant presence across every node of the agri value chain. The leadership position of ITC’s Agri Business is anchored in its strong and enduring partnerships with farmers across the country, which has revolutionised the agricultural sector in rural India. ITC Agri Business is one of the leading domestic players and exporters of numerous agricultural commodities. It works with farmers to improve the productivity and quality of various crops and sources the finest of Grains, Oil Seeds, Pulses and a range of value-added agri products such as Processed Fruits, Coffee and Shrimps across multiple geographies in India. Backed by decades of expertise, the Business deploys customised infrastructure and technology to supply these products to discerning customers in India and over 60 markets worldwide. ITC Agri Business’ unique strength is the extensive backward linkages it has established with the farmers. The pioneering ITC e-Choupal initiative is a powerful example of a development model that delivers largescale societal value by co-creating rural markets with local communities. A unique click-and-mortar channel, it facilitates the two-way flow of goods and services in and out of villages, transforming them into vibrant economic institutions. The initiative serves more than 4 million farmers in over 35,000 villages through a network of 6,100 Internet Kiosks spread across 10 states, 20 Organisational Profile making ITC e-Choupal the largest digital infrastructure in rural India. ITC’s spices business endeavours to provide food safe spices through quality differentiation across the value chain and leverage export opportunities in the US, EU and other South-East Asian countries. The Business has developed robust crop development programmes in chilli and cumin designed to ‘produce the buy’ on Integrated Crop Engagement practices coupled with IT driven traceability systems. The world-class processing unit in Guntur is certified to the highest level of global food safety standards under the British Retail Consortium Food certification regime while the analytical laboratory is certified to the ISO 17025 standard. The chilli sourcing and production value chain of the Business is Rainforest Alliance certified and continues to be leveraged for business growth. Information Technology ITC Infotech is a specialised global full service provider, led by Business and Technology Consulting. The company is focused on creating value through Domain, Data, Digital, Design and Differentiated Delivery for Supply Chain based Industries (CPG, Retail, Manufacturing, Hi-Tech) and Services Industries (Banking, Financial Services and Insurance, Airline, Hospitality), as a flexible, trusted and sustainable partner. It is engaged with over 250 global clients, based across 35 countries. The company has set up offices in 18 countries and established 10 global development centres. Leading companies have placed their trust in ITC Infotech; the company’s top 10 clients have been with ITC Infotech for over 10 years, a testament to ITC Infotech’s commitment to delivering enhanced business value. ITC Infotech won the 2015 European Outsourcing Award in the category “Value Creation in Outsourcing” in European Outsourcing and featured a “Major Contender” in the Everest Group IT Outsourcing in Banking – Service Provider Landscape with PEAK MatrixTM Assessment 2015. It also continued to be present in the Leader’s Category for the 2016 Global Outsourcing 100 by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals. 21 Supply Chain Management To formalise the sustainable procurement process, ITC has put in place Board approved Approach Policies which address the issues of labour practices, human rights, bribery, corruption ITC’s vision to serve larger national purposes and occupational health, safety & environment is intended to be realised by embedding in the supply chain. These policies, meant sustainability in its core business models. for Third Party Manufacturers (TPM), service Innovative strategies have therefore been providers including transporters, suppliers designed and implemented to create of agricultural & non-agricultural materials and capital goods, franchisees, dealers and sustainable value chains linked to its distributors collectively referred to as supply businesses. Dependent as the organisation is, chain partners, define the structure around on agricultural resources, these value chains which efforts are directed for continually encompass small and marginal farmers, who improving the sustainability performance constitute some of the most disadvantaged along the supply chain. A ‘Code of Conduct sections of Indian society. ITC recognises that for Vendors and Service providers’ details with an expanding and diversified portfolio of out specific requirements related to the businesses, the actualisation of its vision of aspects addressed in the policies and through sustainable development has to necessarily acceptance of this code by supply chain take into account the environmental and partners, ITC seeks their commitment to comply social impact within the supply chain. This with applicable laws, respect human rights and will ensure competitiveness through a contribute to environmental conservation. balance between creation of long-term social & environmental value and the economic Each ITC Business has its own road map viability of the businesses. for phase-wise implementation of the 22 Supply Chain sustainability policies and of its supply chain components within inclusion Sustainability in their overall sustainability management system in a progressive manner. Progress the Agri Supply of implementation of these road maps is Chain reviewed by the Sustainability Compliance Review Committee. Agri commodities ITC’s Agri Business operations span the As evident from the representation below of entire spectrum of activities starting from the generic material flow for ITC Businesses, agri-services/crop development to risk the supply chains of most of ITC’s Businesses are vertically integrated. Farmers are the key management, including sourcing, processing, suppliers for the majority of our Businesses supply chain, multi-modal logistics, stock as they are dependent on agri commodities, management and customer service. The and therefore constitute a vital part of ITC’s solutions offered are a combination of all or supply chain. Accordingly the Company has some of these interventions. The solutions focused on enhancing the sustainability of also offer the customers the flexibility in terms its agri supply chain, details of which are of quantity, product form, timing, as well as mentioned in the section that follows. packaging for delivery of the agri commodities. A simplified representation of the material flow in ITC’s Businesses is given below: ITC Businesses Farmers Other Suppliers (Agri-raw materials) Transporters (Other raw materials, service providers etc.) Leaf Packaging and Personal Care Agri Business Matches and Business Printing Products Agarbattis FMCG Paperboards and Foods Education and Cigarettes Specialty Papers Stationery Products Transporters Customers/ Consumers *The above diagram includes material flows only and does not include the service industries of Lifestyle Retailing, Hotels and ITC Infotech : Indicates Material flow within ITC 23 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS These solutions provide a competitive edge to supporting villages to become economically, customers whilst ensuring product integrity ecologically and socially sustainable. The and on-time fulfilment, but also create and objective is to drive smart & sustainable capture better value for other partners, development in villages by empowering especially farmers. Indian farmers through deployment of Good Agricultural Practices and agricultural ITC’s Agri Business has been continuously technologies which improves farm productivity, investing in strengthening capability through product quality, reduces cost of cultivation multiple sourcing models, customised and while protecting the natural resources. identity preserved supply chain infrastructure and network, processing and warehousing The interventions are focused towards tie-ups, technology enabled systems and deployment of high yielding varieties, processes and people capabilities. A hub promotion of intact root seedling production and spoke model has been built along with systems for lower mortality, dissemination the necessary physical infrastructure that of information and best practices on drip has enabled multi-level aggregation and irrigation and micro sprinklers for improved disintermediation where necessary. The yield and lower water consumption, energy Business also works closely with farmers to conservation initiatives to reduce fuel develop identified geographies for specific consumption, introduction of integrated varieties and for certified and organic crops, and pest management initiatives and customised promote adoption of sustainable agricultural crop advisory solutions. This ensures surplus practices. This unique approach to creating and income generation in villages, thereby driving enhancing value in the agri-supply chain has faster development in other areas like health, thus empowered millions of farmers. sanitation and education. These investments coupled with deep The efforts undertaken by the Division to make understanding of agriculture, the reach of tobacco production economically, ecologically the e-Choupal network and the ecosystem and socially sustainable, are recognised of partners provide the opportunity to offer and considered to be the benchmark in a wide range of reliable and consistent leaf tobacco industry in India and the solutions that are efficient and effective along same is verified periodically as part of the entire supply chain. Sustainable Tobacco Programme (STP) audit conducted by AB Sustain, an independent During the financial year, the Business third party reviewer. The verification which sourced over 20 lakh tonnes of agriensures best practices in tobacco farming commodities (Wheat, Soya, Coffee, Potato, and processing is conducted on behalf of key Fruits, Maize, Rice and Shrimps) from over global customers, covering all aspects of the 20 states to service a range of customers in tobacco leaf value chain. India and across several countries, including leading brand owners and bulk processors. Various initiatives pertaining to soil conservation, viz., promoting use of organic Leaf Tobacco amendments and techniques on soil fertility management aimed at reducing chemical Each ITC The ITC’s Leaf Tobacco Business has a longfertiliser use are propagated. Towards Business has its standing commitment to sustainability that’s sustainable fuel management, a three-pronged own road map focused on helping the Indian farmers produce approach (energy conservation – introduction for phase-wise more, enhance profitability and thereby of fuel efficient technologies, self-sustenance implementation improve livelihoods. A major differentiating through energy plantations and custody of of the factor that provides ITC a cutting edge over the fuel consumption) has been implemented in sustainability competition is our focused crop development tobacco farm value chain. Energy conservation policies and initiatives and extension services. Working measures such as Barn Roof Insulation, Turbo inclusion of its closely with the farming fraternity, ITC has Ventilators etc. proven to reduce about 30% supply chain constantly transferred technology from the of energy requirement during curing are components lab to the land with appropriate crop solutions. being deployed on a large scale in the states within their Enabled by a team of agronomists, agriculture of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Trials are overall experts, engineers and development in progress for development of fuel efficient sustainability managers, the sustainability initiative has technologies in tobacco curing. management helped in substantially improving the quality table of the Indian tobacco basket. With an objective of developing a selfsystem sustaining model for sourcing fuel wood, ITC ITC has been engaged in enhancing rural has developed energy plantations covering livelihoods through focused efforts by more than 10,000 hectares in 2015-16. 24 Supply Chain These plantations are expected to offset the efficiencies and consequent reduction total fuel requirements for tobacco curing in transportation costs/GHG emissions/ Since ITC is in our operating regions. Also, farmers are energy use. ITC will continue to work in this vertically encouraged to use alternate fuels for curing direction, in line with its Policy on Life-cycle integrated to a such as coffee husk, biomass briquettes etc. Sustainability, to identify the opportunities large extent, it for improvement in the value chain and take provides unique Going forward, we believe that our approach appropriate measures for optimisation. opportunities of creating sustainable rural livelihoods for establishing ensures surplus income generation to the In line with its commitment to extend the synergy farming community, which in turn will Triple Bottom Line philosophy along our and thereby minimise vulnerability of the community and supply chain, ITC, as a preliminary step in minimising drive overall village development. environmental 2013-14, started including the Notebooks impacts manufacturers of ESPB which contributes to For further details about our relationship with around 88% of the total business of ESPB, the agri-supply chain, please refer to ‘Social within the reporting boundary. The material Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal’ section in aspects of these exclusive Third Party this Report. Manufacturers (TPMs) are included in this Report. During the year, specific guidelines Sustainability in covering safety and environmental the Value Chain aspects have been prepared for TPMs of Notebooks and training programmes organised for enabling them to carry out Since ITC is vertically integrated to a large safety inspections/audits of their facilities extent, it provides unique opportunities for to ensure safe operations. On similar lines, establishing synergy and thereby minimising guidelines were drafted for TPMs of Agarbatti environmental impacts through optimum and Matches, to bring awareness on various utilisation of raw materials, reuse/recycling environmental and safety risks associated of wastes and optimum logistics. As explained with their operations, which will help them earlier, agri-commodities being the key raw in mitigating such risks. In addition, the materials for most of ITC’s Businesses, they 2-wheeler rider’s safety programme has been are accorded prime focus in the overall supply extended to train our wholesale distributors’ chain. ITC’s interventions in this domain along personnel in order to create awareness on with community development initiatives have safe road travel. Going forward, ITC will not only supported sustainable agricultural continue to support its supply chain members practices but also contributed to sustainable in these aspects. livelihood creation for farmers. Thus, material sustainability issues specific to environment In 2013-14, ATC Limited, an associate have been taken care of to a large extent. company had been brought within the reporting boundary, where support had Further, in line with the overall strategy to been extended in implementing systems embed principles of sustainability into the and processes to improve the sustainability various stages of product or service lifeperformance of its manufacturing cycle, ITC initiated life cycle assessments operations. Further, 2 TPMs of the Cigarettes (LCA) of its products & services in 2010 Business have also been included in with an objective to evaluate the impacts the reporting boundary and necessary and identify areas for improvement in the knowledge support is being provided value chain. So far, LCAs have been carried in specific areas like energy and water out for selected product categories from conservation, material utilisation, etc. Paperboards & Specialty Papers, Packaging & Printing, Lifestyle Retailing and Personal Care Products Businesses which have helped The Road Ahead in identifying broad areas for improvements within as well as beyond ITC’s boundary. ITC will continue to work along with the supply These assessments have been followed chain partners in line with its policies to up with detailed studies which in turn enhance their understanding and performance have provided concrete solutions towards on sustainability aspects and including their more efficient packaging designs, loading performance in the reporting boundary. 25 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Certifications, Honours and Awards Times. The Pune factory was the Winner in the ‘Information Technology Leadership’ category. ITC’s Paperboards Unit in Kovai became the first such unit to receive the CII GreenCo Platinum Rating. ITC’s Personal Care factory in Manpura got a ‘Gold rating’ from the Indian Green Building Council in the Green Factory category. The ITC factory in Munger received the 1st Major Awards prize at the FICCI Water Awards (Industrial Water Use Efficiency category) 2014-15. 2015-16 ITC’s Agri Business won 2 Gold ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was ranked awards for Best Exporter of Green Coffee 2nd among the Most Valuable CEOs of India and for exports to Europe from the India by Businessworld. He was also conferred Coffee Trust. the ‘Economic Times Smart Green Leader Lifetime Achievement Award’. Wills Lifestyle was conferred the “Super Brand” status for 2015. ITC’s Sankhya Data Centre, Bengaluru became the first data centre in the world to ITC’s Packaging and Printing Unit at get LEED® Platinum Certification from the Haridwar won the National Safety US Green Building Council. Council of India (NSCI) Safety Awards 2015, Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar, in ITC Grand Bharat, Gurgaon was ranked Best the manufacturing sector for the second in Asia and 4th in the world at the Condé Nast consecutive year. Traveller Readers’ Choice Awards, 2015. ITC’s factory in Bengaluru and ITC ITC won the Legal Era Award for the Maurya, New Delhi were conferred the ‘Best Compliance In-House Legal Team of ‘Concentrating Solar Technology and Solar the Year’. Cooker Excellence Award-2016’ by the Union Ministry of Power, Coal and New and ITC bagged four National Awards from the Renewable Energy. Public Relations Society of India. ITC’s Paperboards Unit in Bollaram received ITC’s production units at Bengaluru, the ‘Best Management Award for the Kolkata and Saharanpur received Year 2016’ from the Labour Department, the ‘Future Ready Factory’ Platinum Government of Telangana. Awards at the India Manufacturing Excellence Awards (IMEA) instituted ITC has won the Training & Development by Frost & Sullivan and The Economic Leadership Award in the ‘Training 26 Certifications, Honours and Awards Program for Change Management’ ITC Windsor has been awarded the category, organised by the World National Tourism Award for the Best HRD Congress. Eco Friendly Hotel 2013-14 by The Ministry of Tourism, Government of India. ITC’s Kolkata factory was conferred the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) ITC Factory, Bengaluru has been conferred Environment Excellence Award 2015 the Unnatha Suraksha Puraskara by for demonstration of excellence in the National Safety Council (NSC), Environmental Management Systems. Karnataka chapter. ITC Grand Bharat features in Robb Report’s ITC Factory, Kolkata was conferred ‘Best of the Best’ luxury list. It is the only the Safety Innovation Award 2015 hotel from India to feature in the list. at the National Safety Convention ITC Green Centre, Manesar has been 2015 organised by The Institution of awarded the First Prize in State-Level Engineers (India). Energy Conservation for the year 2013-14 under BEE star-rated buildings ITC Paperboards Unit in Kovai has bagged for the promotion of construction of BEE the ‘Excellent Energy Unit’ award at the star-rated buildings. 16th National Award for Excellence in Energy Management 2015, organised by ITC factory in Saharanpur was awarded the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). the National Award from the Employers’ Federation of India for strong commitment The Bengaluru factory was conferred the to employee relations. ‘Excellent Energy Efficient Unit’ award at 16th National Award for Excellence ITC Rajputana was awarded the Rajasthan in Energy Management 2015 by the Energy Conservation Award 2015 in the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). category of Buildings (Hotels). The Chirala unit of ABD-ILTD has received ITC’s Packaging and Printing Unit in the Best Management Award-2014 in the Tiruvottiyur has been conferred the large-scale industry category from the ‘Excellent Energy Efficient Unit’ award at Andhra Pradesh Labour Department in the 16th CII National Award for Excellence recognition of its exemplary employee in Energy Management 2015. relation practices and implementation of Labour Welfare measures. ITC’s Packaging and Printing Factory in Haridwar was conferred the 5S Excellence Award 2015 (runner up) for the Northern Region by CII. Major Awards ITC’s Packaging and Printing factory at over the Years Haridwar was conferred the ‘National ITC was ranked as ‘India’s Safety Award’ by the Directorate General, Most Admired Company’ in Factory Advice Service and Labour a survey conducted by Institutes (DGFASLI), Ministry of Labour & Fortune India magazine and Employment, Government of India. Hay Group (2014). The Karnataka Green Leaf Threshing Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar (KGLT) Unit at Mysuru was conferred was conferred the Padma the Prashamsha Suraksha Puraskara by the National Safety Council (NSC), Bhushan by the Government of Karnataka chapter. India (2011). ITC Paperboards Unit in Bhadrachalam Harvard Business Review has bagged the ‘Excellent Energy Efficient ranked ITC Chairman Unit’ award at the 16th National Award for Mr Y C Deveshwar as the 7th Excellence in Energy Management 2015, Best Performing CEO in organised by the Confederation of Indian the World in its JanuaryIndustry (CII). February 2013 edition. 27 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred ITC ranked 2nd among top companies in the Global Leadership Award by the US India India and 7th in Asia in the first of its kind Business Council of the US Chamber of Asian Sustainability Rating released by Commerce (2010). CSR Asia (2010). ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was ITC became the first Indian Company to conferred the Business Leader of the gain Membership with WWF-GFTN for Year Award by the All India Management Responsible Forestry (2010). Association (AIMA). ITC’s Chief Financial Officer, Mr Rajiv ITC was ranked the world’s 6th Tandon, was ranked the ‘Best Overall CFO’ largest sustainable value creator at the ‘Business Today-Yes Bank Best CFO among consumer goods companies Awards 2013’. He was also declared the according to a Report by Boston Consulting winner in the category of ‘Sustained Wealth Group (2010). Creation (large companies)’. ITC won the top UNIDO Award at the ITC was presented the World Business International Conference on Sharing and Development Award at the historic Innovative Agri Business Solutions at Rio+20 UN Summit for its Social and Farm Cairo (2008). Forestry initiative. ITC was conferred the Corporate ITC has been presented the AIM Asian Social Responsibility Crown Award for CSR Award by the Asian Forum on Water Practices from UNESCO and Water Corporate Social Responsibility (AFCSR), Digest (2008). in recognition of its contribution to the creation of sustainable livelihoods The Asian CSR Award for Environmental and fostering economic growth in rural Excellence, given by the Asian Institute of communities in India. Management (2007). ITC won the prestigious 12th Businessworld FICCI CSR Award in the ITC was the 1st Indian Company and 2nd in Large Enterprise category. The award the world to win the Development Gateway recognises the most socially responsible Award for its trail-blazing e-Choupal Indian corporates in CSR. initiative (2005). The FICCI Outstanding Vision Corporate Inaugural World Business Award by UNDP Triple Impact Award, presented by for ITC’s e-Choupal initiative (2004). the then Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh (2008). ITC e-Choupal won the Stockholm Challenge Award (2006). The FICCI Award for Outstanding Achievement in Rural and Community ITC was rated amongst Asia-Pacific’s 50 Development, presented by the biggest listed companies in ‘Asia Fab 50’ by then Finance Minister, Shri Pranab Forbes (2010). Mukherjee (2010). Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar received the All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels Business Person of the Year Award from UK accorded LEED® Platinum certification, Trade & Investment (2006). making ITC Hotels the ‘Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the World’ (2011). Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was awarded the SAM/SPG Sustainability Leadership ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Award in Zurich (2007). Units at Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai and Tribeni are FSC Chain of Custody The National Award for Excellence in certified (2011). Corporate Governance from the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (2007). ITC’s Unit in Bhadrachalam has ITC was ranked 2nd among top Indian been awarded the Forest Stewardship companies in the first of its kind Standard & Council Forest Management (FSC-FM) Poor Environmental, Social and Corporate certification by the SmartWood Programme Governance ratings (2008). of the Rainforest Alliance (2011). 28 Certifications, Honours and Awards EHS Certifications LEED® Platinum Rating by Indian Green Building Council ISO 14001: Environment – Green Factory Building Management System ITC’s Units at Saharanpur, Bengaluru, All manufacturing units (except newly Munger and Pune. commissioned unit of Foods Business in LEED® Platinum rating (core Munger), ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre at Bengaluru, ITC Gardenia, & shell) by Indian Green ITC Grand Central, ITC Grand Chola, Building Council and LEED® ITC Kakatiya, ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, Platinum rating (commercial ITC Maratha, ITC Rajputana, ITC Sonar, interiors) by US Green ITC Windsor, My Fortune Bengaluru, Building Council WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi, ITC Green Centre at Manesar. ITC Green Centre Gurgaon. Green Rating for Integrated OHSAS 18001: Occupational Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) Health & Safety Management by The Energy and Resources Systems Institute (TERI) and Ministry All manufacturing Units of ITC (except of New & Renewable Energy newly commissioned unit of Foods Business (MNRE), Government of India in Munger). 5 star rating for ITC Grand Chola. SA 8000: Social Accountability LEED® Gold rating by Indian Leaf processing plants at Chirala, Anaparti Green Building Council – Green and Mysuru, Cigarettes factories at Kolkata Factory Building and Munger, Packaging and Printing Units Packaging and Printing Unit at Haridwar, at Munger, Tiruvottiyur and Haridwar and Leaf Processing Plant at Mysore and ITC Infotech, Bengaluru. Personal Care Products Unit at Manpura. Food Safety: ISO 22000/HACCP BEE 5 Star rating by the Bureau Food Safety Management System of Energy Efficiency, Government ITC Gardenia, ITC Grand Central, ITC of India Grand Chola, ITC Kakatiya, ITC Maurya, ITC Green Centre at Manesar. ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, ITC Rajputana, ITC Sonar, ITC Windsor, My Fortune FOREST STEWARDSHIP TM Chennai, WelcomHotel New Delhi, and Chain of Custody Units of Foods Business in Haridwar, Pune And Controlled Wood by and Malur. Rainforest Alliance LEED® Platinum Rating by US Paperboards and Specialty Paper Green Building Council (Existing Units at Bhadrachalam, Tribeni, Kovai Building category)/Indian and Bollaram, Packaging and Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur. Green Building Council (New Construction category) BRC/ IOP Certification as per BRC ITC Maurya, ITC Windsor, ITC Maratha, Global Standard for Packaging and ITC Grand Central, ITC Mughal, ITC Packaging Materials Sonar, ITC Kakatiya, ITC Rajputana, ITC Grade “AA” for Paperboards and Specialty Gardenia, ITC Grand Chola, My Fortune Papers Unit at Bollaram and Grade “A” Bengaluru, ITC Grand Bharat and ITC for Packaging and Printing Units at Green Centre Gurgaon. Tiruvottiyur and Haridwar. 29 Stakeholder Engagement, Risks & Opportunities and Materiality Analysis Stakeholder Engagement In line with the Company’s Board approved policy on stakeholder engagement, ITC has a structured framework to engage with stakeholders and address their key concerns. The framework is based upon established long-term relationships with key stakeholders such as shareholders, farmers, customers, suppliers, employees, local communities, regulatory bodies and the media. With the firm belief that stakeholder engagement is an integral part of enriching and enduring partnerships, ITC has institutionalised these processes grounded on transparency and accountability. ITC’s Process of Stakeholder Engagement Addressing the Consultation with the prioritised concerns key stakeholders with Identification and needs in a Identification of due weightage given and prioritisation consistent and key stakeholders to each stakeholder’s of concerns and transparent manner. nature of engagement needs Timely reporting back to those consulted with the organisation on ITC’s action plan Periodical review of action taken Transparency and Accountability 30 Stakeholder Engagement Details of each of the above mentioned steps are elaborated below. Identification of Key Stakeholders Selection of stakeholder Identification and profiling representatives ensuring that of stakeholders, who are Stakeholders’ identification they genuinely represent the directly/indirectly impacted by guided by attributes such as views of their constituents, business activities as well as dependency, responsibility, and faithfully communicate directly/indirectly influence immediacy and influence. the results of the engagements business activities. with ITC, back to their constituents. Consultation with Key Stakeholders and Identification of Key Concerns Stakeholder Consultation Mechanism Key Issues Annual General Meeting Continued profitability and growth of the Exclusive section in Corporate Website on organisation ‘Shareholder Value’ which serves to inform Transparent and effective Providers and service shareholders of Financial communications Capital An exclusive e-mail id: isc@itc.in for direct interaction with shareholders Investor servicing Regular interventions with institutional Sound corporate governance investors mechanisms Regulatory compliance Sound corporate governance Government Representations on policy issues through mechanisms and industry associations and other bodies Tax revenues Regulatory Participation in policy advocacy discussions at Authorities various forums Resource efficiency Transparency in disclosures Livelihood generation Fair and competitive pricing Product/service quality and safety Market surveys Personal contacts/visits Product/service availability Customers Personalised lifestyle privilege programme Transparent communication Customer satisfaction surveys Adequate information on products Key account management Timely delivery of product/service Maintenance of privacy/confidentiality Caring and empowering work Induction programmes/training workshops environment Individual performance appraisal Personal development and growth Employees Employee engagement survey Employee safety Grievance handling processes Grievance resolution Trade union meetings Competitive compensation 31 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Stakeholder Consultation Mechanism Key Issues Inputs on agricultural best practices Know-how on improvement of productivity and profitability Easy, affordable and reliable access to inputs such as quality seeds, Regular formal/informal talks fertilisers, pesticides Farmer training programmes and workshops Capacity development for further Agreements for all procurement activities investment Farmers e-Choupal and Choupal Pradarshan Khets (demonstration farms) Sustainable & accelerated growth in livelihoods and farm incomes Participatory rural appraisals to identify needs and challenges Regeneration and replenishment of common property resources like water, village commons, biomass and biodiversity Consistent increase in income generation Knowledge and infrastructure support Regular communication and updates on business plans Inclusion of local medium and small Manufacturers’ meets scale enterprises in vendor base Supply Chain Vendor meets Competency development of Partners Pre-agreement negotiations local vendors Agreements for all procurement activities Stability/tenure of relationship Ordering and payment routines Purchasing prices Changes or cancellation of orders Community needs assessment activities Community development programmes undertaken in collaboration with independent based on local communities’ needs parties/Civil Society Organisations Strengthening of livelihood Formation and regular meetings of village opportunities Local institutions Communities Improvement of social infrastructure for Public hearings during greenfield/expansion projects hygienic and healthy living environment Assessment of direct and indirect impacts of Dignity of life through economic & ITC’s social investments on communities social empowerment One-on-one Media interactions Transparent and accurate disclosure to Press conferences/Press releases stakeholders Media Advertisements/Promotions Responsible Corporate Citizenship Interviews with Senior Managers Corporate Reputation Financial support for community development programmes Partnership in implementation of CSR Programmes under Mission Sunehra Kal Managerial support Civil Society Discussions on community issues with Civil Environmental pollution prevention Society Organisations Safe products and services Responsible Corporate Citizenship 32 Stakeholder Engagement Prioritisation and Addressal of Key Concerns The most The sensitivity of an issue to a stakeholder and to ITC, in terms of high/medium/ powerful low importance forms the basis of the materiality analysis which in turn leads to dynamic driving identification of material aspects, definition of management approach and specific action ITC’s Social plans for addressal. Investment Programme Please refer to the Materiality Analysis section for further details on ITC’s response to key is the fact that each one stakeholders’ concerns. is anchored in direct Insights into Local Community Needs community participation Since ITC’s holistic development approach demands an intensive and deep level of and rooted in engagement, it was necessary to identify and delineate core areas in the catchments choices made of our Agri Businesses and factories. Based on parameters relevant to businesses and shaped by and development indicators, current project areas were divided into core and nonthem core villages and clusters. Based on above filters, a total of 103 core clusters were demarcated comprising 902 villages/wards in 35 districts, which would form the nucleus of social investments in the coming five years. The most powerful dynamic driving ITC’s Social Investment Programme is the fact that each one is anchored in direct community participation and rooted in choices made and shaped by them. The identification and demarcation of core project areas was therefore followed by an exhaustive stakeholder engagement process to elicit their felt needs and aspirations to gauge the extent to which the current set of interventions were valued by the communities and evaluate if any course correction was required. A total of 483 Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA) were conducted covering more than half of the total core villages/habitations. Since PRAs are public meetings where the voices of marginalised communities and groups may not be heard, care was taken that separate PRAs were conducted with women and SC/ST households. The table gives an overview of the topmost priorities identified by our stakeholder communities from across all geographies. An aggregation such as this obviously flattens variations between regions and social groups. But it nevertheless is indicative of some of the foremost concerns troubling households in our core catchment areas. It is interesting to note that even though Stakeholders’ Priorities Rank a large proportion of households in the core areas are from rural regions, only Drinking Water 1 two of the top ten requirements relate to agriculture (highlighted in green). Internal Roads 2 The balance eight reflect a strong desire Employment 3 to lead a better quality of life today (shown in brown) or aspirations for Toilets/Sanitation 4 their children (indicated in blue). While Drainage Facilities 5 people aspire for an improvement in the quality of life today, they are equally School Infrastructure 6 concerned that their children grow into a healthy, educated and skilled resource Waste Management 7 with the capabilities to compete in the Water Resources employment markets of tomorrow. With 8 Development respect to implications for ITC, it is worth noting that barring public infrastructure Street Lights 9 works, our projects currently cover 6 of Cattle Development 10 the 10 needs listed above. 33 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Risks and Global Challenges Opportunities: According to the World Economic Forum Sustainability (WEF) Report on Global Risks 2016, largescale migration, extreme weather events, Challenges climate change, interstate conflict with regional consequences, water crises and Sustainability Risk Portfolio volatility in energy prices are amongst the top risks that plague the world today. As a diversified enterprise, ITC continues to focus on a system-based approach to Socio-Economic Risks business risk management. The Corporate Some of these topmost risks that endanger Risk Management Cell, through focused the world today are short-term and arise as interactions with Businesses, facilitates the a direct outcome of human action, including identification and prioritisation of strategic interstate conflicts, collapse of states, and operational risks, development of governance deficits, large-scale terrorist appropriate mitigation strategies and attacks and migration. In 2015, Europe conducts periodic reviews of the progress witnessed rising number of refugees and on the management of identified risks. migrants seeking asylums in the European The annual planning exercise requires all Union, from Middle East, Africa, South Asia Businesses to clearly identify their top and the Western Balkans, fleeing war and risks and set out a mitigation plan with persecution, poverty and lack of employment agreed timelines and accountability. The in their home countries. senior management of the Company also periodically review the risk management In addition to high refugee crisis, stability framework to keep it contemporary and within the European Union is further relevant so as to effectively address threatened by stagnating economies As a diversified the emerging challenges in a dynamic and growth of far-right political parties. enterprise, business environment. Other factors such as extreme energy ITC continues price volatility will further aggravate to focus on a Based on the ongoing risk assessments these stresses. system-based at Businesses level and aggregated at the approach to organisation level, ITC has classified its In addition, the world today faces the business risk sustainability challenges into two broad growing concern of unemployment and management categories – those that are influenced by underemployment contributing to rising global events, and challenges that are socio-economic inequality. This is reflected unique to India. in the fact that more than 45% of the global 34 Stakeholder Engagement household wealth is owned by less than 1% developed and developing countries are of the world’s adult population1. however vastly different, both in scale and scope. These differences are multi-layered Food crises is another challenge that and multi-faceted given the dimensions threatens the world today. While enough of the challenges and the socio-economic food is available for everyone on the planet, context in different countries. Countries like still 795 million people go to bed hungry India while cognising for the larger global every day as it is estimated1 that thirty challenges, will have to shape their own to fifty percent of all food produced gets sustainability agenda with focus on specific wasted due to inadequate storage and issues that have an immediate and direct transportation facilities. impact on the Indian society at large. Environmental Risks The Indian Context The list for long-term global risks is dominated by those related to physical While India echoes many of the global and environmental issues such as climate challenges, issues like poverty, social change and water security. The world inequities, unemployment, environmental will not be able to meet the sustainable degradation, water and food crises assume development challenges of the 21st century even more critical and multi-dimensional characteristics in India. Land pressure for — human development, livable cities, food instance, assumes greater significance in security and energy security — without India which is home to 18% of the world’s improving management of water resources population, with only 2.3% of the world’s and ensuring reliable access to water. land share. Population and economic growth have placed unprecedented pressures on water. Nexus of Social and Environmental Issues As per a World Bank Report, with current practices the world will face a 40% shortfall India Inc. is faced with serious challenges due between forecast demand and available to water crisis. While agriculture accounts supply of water by 2030. The potential for for around three quarters of all water used climate change to exacerbate water crisis in India, rapid urbanisation and increasing with impacts including conflicts and forced demand from commercial and industrial users migration has been highlighted in the WEF have placed undue stress on already fragile Global Risk Report 2016. water resources. According to the World Resources Institute estimate2, the national Global risks transcend borders and spheres supply of water is expected to fall 50% of influence, which require all stakeholders below demand by 2030. Despite substantial to work together. The anticipated and real rise in demand, India’s water supply remains impacts for the above issues amongst constrained owing to inefficient use of water, 1 The Global Opportunities Network Report 2015 2 Charting our water future, Water Resources group, 2009 35 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS overexploitation of ground water reserves Climate Change without adequate recharge and variations in With the United Nations Climate Change surface water availability because of erratic Conference of Parties-21 held in Paris rainfall patterns. (December 2015), a change in the global climate change politics is round the corner. Agriculture and allied activities remain India has submitted its Intended Nationally the major source of livelihood for nearly Determined Contribution (INDC) to United half of the Indian population. The share Nations Framework Convention on Climate of agriculture in employment was 48.9% Change (UNFCCC) stating its aim to cut of the workforce, while its share in the its greenhouse gas emissions per unit of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was 17.4% gross domestic product by 33 to 35% by in 2014-153. 2030 compared to 2005 levels. This in turn However, deteriorating natural resource would imply specific targets for progressive base, disconnected value chains, fragmented reduction in GHG emissions intensity for the and small-size landholdings, weak various industrial sectors of India. As sector infrastructure, inadequate knowledge and specific targets would become a reality multiple intermediaries are main reasons sooner or later, Indian industries need to for low income among the average farmers. revisit their individual GHG contribution Furthermore, around 55% of India’s total sown with representative projection till 2030 and area meets its requirements from rainwater adopt a low carbon growth trajectory. In alone. This assumes importance in the face addition, Indian industry sector would also of climate change related challenges of face the significant challenges due to price erratic rainfall leading to drought and floods. volatility in the global energy market, which A majority of the farmers are hence trapped may hamper investments into the renewable in a vicious cycle of low productivity. energy projects. Therefore there is a need to address these Social Infrastructure challenges by ensuring farming population’s sustainable access to water, knowledge As a growing economy, India has to deal and other necessary resources, whilst with the problems of rapid and unplanned simultaneously improving the productivity urbanisation. Increasing population, resulting in better income realisation. The higher consumption levels and inadequate surplus workforce from the agriculture sector infrastructure are putting a severe strain can be provided with adequate skill training on the ecology. A large amount of waste to enable them to join the manufacturing being generated today ends up in landfills, sector strengthening the Government of leading to serious concerns of public health India’s “Make in India” campaign. and sanitation risks as well as large-scale 3 Source : Economic survey 2016-17 36 Stakeholder Engagement environmental degradation. Negative Government of India, during the year 2014, impacts of urbanisation are also manifest there were around 4.89 lakh road accidents ITC’s operations in the pollution of almost all Indian rivers with about 1.4 lakh fatalities and injuring and markets are that have been absorbing domestic and more than 4.93 lakh persons in India. India centric and industrial sewage and agricultural wastes Such numbers strongly indicate not only the Company’s over the last few decades. Apart from posing the need for improving the emergency world-class a serious health problem to millions of medical aid and road infrastructures, but Indian brands also the need to spread mass awareness on ensure that people that continue to depend on polluted behavioural safety. larger value water from rivers, this also endangers the is created, biodiversity dependent on it. It is therefore captured and the need of the hour for the country to invest in basic infrastructure. This will further ITC Context retained in the country require enormous resources that can only be ITC’s operations and markets are India for national generated with a larger focus on livelihood centric and the Company’s world-class development creation and widening of the tax base. Indian brands ensure that larger value is and growth. created, captured and retained in the country Therefore the In the light of rapid urbanisation, road for national development and growth. organisation’s safety has also emerged to be a growing Therefore the organisation’s sustainability sustainability is and alarming national concern. Over the is closely driven by the country’s advantages closely driven years, the significant growth of vehicles on by the country’s and vulnerabilities. In line with the risks Indian roads has been the leading cause of advantages and and opportunities that may impact India’s vulnerabilities accidents resulting in deaths, disabilities and economic, social and environmental hospitalisations with severe socio-economic sustainability, ITC has mapped the key costs across the country. According to a challenges, risks and opportunities likely report by the Transport Research Wing of to impact its own long-term prospects and Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, those of its stakeholders. Post at ion co nsu put me Re rain -fe d ag r icultu rW e of ra at iv ity S us t a i nab l se ct ct of Na le Av or o or M Co o du t a as te rp r ura ila lR b ia se p dU m en e nd Low f I y an e s age Continued competitiveness t an ili ourc nd Social Inequ s t Sustainable Use ty a of Natural Resources r ity e Health and Safety v Po Dynamics of Government Policies and Regulations ite Human Capital and pu Lim lat oc Well-being ion fS ers Sa so Po tis ge d c al ar fac len tn Ca Lo P Chal ia pa Employability of a in tio n lM b ilit Ch ed ies o p ply mer f Small-Scal e S u o ia st Cu Own Operations Supply Chain Customer/Consumer Space Catchment Areas 37 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Challenges Risks and Opportunities Own Operations Continued RISKS Competitiveness The Company’s Cigarettes Business, the oldest in its business portfolio, is increasingly impacted by a high incidence of taxation and a discriminatory regulatory regime on the legal cigarette industry in India which have over the years led to a significant shift in tobacco consumption to lightly taxed or taxevaded tobacco products like bidi, khaini, chewing tobacco, gutkha and illegal cigarettes. OPPORTUNITIES ITC’s enterprise strengths such as deep consumer insight, cutting-edge Research & Development, strong rural linkages, superior agri-sourcing, world-class manufacturing, brand-building skills, culinary expertise, innovative consumer packaging, world-class human capital, digital technology and an effective trade marketing, distribution and logistics network and sustained investments in R&D, enable the Company to power its strategy of developing multiple drivers of growth through diverse Businesses. These enterprise strengths have helped in creating new FMCG Businesses, and fortified its traditional Businesses. Competencies developed have also lent support to its information technology business. Sustainable RISKS Use of Natural Increased water scarcity may directly impact ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business which Resources is relatively more water intensive in its operations compared to other ITC Businesses. With continuous decline in ground water and uneven supply of surface water, it may become even more challenging for businesses to meet their requirements. Disruptions in rainfall patterns will also impact water quality requiring additional treatment and costs before it can become usable. These challenges may bring about further regulatory pressure on water withdrawal. Challenges related to energy security due to volatile energy prices and inadequate infrastructure for capitalising on off-site renewable sources of energy in the country. Challenges related to achievement of target on energy efficiency improvement, increased electricity consumption from non-fossil fuel based energy resources that may arise owing to sectoral GHG emission reduction targets set aligned with Government of India’s commitment under INDC to UNFCCC. OPPORTUNITIES As part of its long-term strategy for water security at localised watershed level for the operating units and other stakeholders, ITC has already conducted comprehensive studies at selected sites and work initiated to address the identified water-related risks. Going forward with the learning from these detailed studies, ITC intends to consider and incorporate the aspects of water security for its upcoming projects right from the design stage and operating units in water-stressed areas. These risks provide an immediate stimuli to focus on energy conservation and maximising contribution from renewable energy sources. This should provide long-term advantages in terms of both reduced costs as well as reliability of support. ITC would also enjoy first mover advantage by developing internal systems and processes to operate in such a natural resource constrained environment. ITC’s responsible water stewardship initiatives such as Integrated Watershed Development Programme will help towards meeting the water security needs of all stakeholders at the watershed level. ITC has also collaborated with external experts for development of appropriate interventions. ITC has already adopted a low carbon growth path with goal set for 50% renewable energy share by 2020 as part of overall energy security strategy. While investments will continue to be made in renewable energy assets based on techno-commercial feasibility, focus is given on reducing the overall energy demand. This will not only reduce the carbon emissions but also help in cutting down the overall energy cost. Health and RISKS Safety While ITC is progressing steadily towards its target of zero accidents of employees within its premises, ITC cognises that accidents while traveling to and from the workplace are on the rise in India, given the steady proliferation of 2 wheelers, the poor conditions of roads and inadequate infrastructure. OPPORTUNITIES Safe work environment is critical in boosting employee morale and productivity. Apart from best-inclass infrastructure, ITC’s opportunity lies in its robust systems that have been developed over the years to ensure safety of employees within ITC premises as well as outside premises. ITC employees can also act as ambassadors for safety and play an individual role in creating awareness on this vital aspect. 38 Stakeholder Engagement Challenges Risks and Opportunities Health and Creating a culture of safety though appropriate behavioural interventions. Safety ITC has well established systems and processes to ensure that its products and services are delivered in compliance with national or international standards as relevant. For agri-products sourced under Agri Business division, stringent process control and quality inspection norms have been established to ensure utmost product safety. Manufacturing locations for branded packaged foods, including third party manufacturing units, are Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)/ISO 22000 certified, ensuring that products use the best quality ingredients and utilise the highest quality processes. In service sectors such as hospitality, these strengths have permitted ITC to leverage the market to its advantage. The well-established e-Choupal network coupled with the “Choupal Pradarshan Khet” programme facilitate small and marginal farmers in accessing customised knowledge on scientific farm practices, soil testing, balanced fertilisation, foundation seeds and seed treatment, water, weed, pest and post-harvest crops management and supply of quality inputs like drought resistant seeds to improve farm competencies. Dynamics of RISKS Government Regulatory framework such as the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act and the Agricultural Produce Policies and Market Committee (APMC) Act were framed at a point of time in the past to curb excessive speculation Regulation in agri commodities and to allow farmers efficient access to the market without the exploitation of intermediaries. But such regulations today limit flexibility for farmers and deprive them of full value of their produce. In addition, regulations like the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), which impose stock limits and restrict movements from time to time, create uncertainty in business viability for organisations like ITC with significant dependence on agri raw material. This acts as a huge deterrent to long-term investments required to build infrastructure like climate-controlled storages and transport facilities to prevent wastage. The Cigarette industry had to contend with a steep increase in Excise Duty for 4 years in succession along with discriminatory and punitive increases in Value Added Tax (VAT) rates by some States. Recently, the Government has issued notification increasing the size of graphic health warnings from 40% of the surface area on one side of the cigarette package to 85% of the surface area of both sides of the package. Such measures, including the tax increases and excessive regulatory regime provide a large arbitrage to tax-evaded and contraband suppliers. As a result, the share of legal cigarettes has reduced from 21% in the 80s to 11% today, while at the same time illegal and contraband cigarettes have proliferated exponentially, making India one of the largest markets for contraband products. These policies have led to a significant shift in tobacco consumption to lightly taxed or tax-evaded tobacco products like bidi, khaini, chewing tobacco, gutkha and illegal cigarettes, which presently constitute over 89% of total tobacco consumption in the country. OPPORTUNITIES ITC engages with industry associations, organisations and other appropriate forums in line with its Policy of Responsible Advocacy. This is aimed to help the formulation of a balanced and pragmatic policy framework that addresses the concerns of the industry. ITC has created strong Indian brands in the cigarettes segment, in the absence of which, the domestic market would have been more vulnerable to the onslaught of smuggled and tax-evaded cigarettes. Raising the awareness of policy makers and civil society on the menace of illegal and contraband cigarettes, which impact both revenue and livelihoods of farmers, would help in enhancing enforcement as well as stemming the rapid increase of the illegal industry. This will lead to eliminating losses to the exchequer as a result of tax-evaded cigarettes, and help in ensuring that livelihoods of farmers and others in the value chain are not lost. 39 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Challenges Risks and Opportunities Human Capital RISKS and Well-being ITC operates in a diversified, ever-changing, highly competitive global landscape. This necessitates the development of a strong, customer responsive world-class human capital base. The challenge of meeting the growing needs of an organisation with the requisite skills co-exists with the challenge of attracting and retaining the best talents given the multitude of options available to skilled professionals. There is also a need to nurture harmonious employee relations to enable smooth functioning and productivity enhancement to be able to support the organisation’s growth and progress. OPPORTUNITIES In order to sustain growth and to continue to deliver value for stakeholders, it is necessary for organisations to recognise human capital as a critical resource base. The over 100-year-old brand value of ITC provides an opportunity to attract talent from premier institutions. Retention of such a talent pool is in turn facilitated through a talent management strategy focused upon building a high quality ‘future-ready’ pool of managers, specialists and business leaders, supported by significant investments in learning and development and backed by a culture of care and concern. Catchment Areas Sustainable RISKS Availability and Rapid growth in population and unplanned urbanisation has led to consumption of natural resources Use of Natural at a rate far higher than the Earth’s capacity to regenerate. Sustainable availability of resources for Resources industrial use as well as domestic consumption could therefore be a risk in the catchment areas of ITC. OPPORTUNITIES ITC’s deep rooted stakeholder centric approach and understanding of interdependence of social and environmental aspects have enabled ITC to be a pioneer in identifying sustainability issues beyond the horizon and taking necessary actions. This is manifested in integrated watershed development as well as afforestation programmes undertaken by ITC more than a decade ago for ensuring augmentation of natural resources and enable higher productivity, create a green cover and restore soil health. Employability RISKS of Local Lack of proper education and inadequate availability of requisite skills in local population, especially Population from disadvantaged sections of society in the catchment areas is a challenge faced by most of ITC’s manufacturing units. This points to the compelling need to create a large pool of skilled human resources from among the local populace. OPPORTUNITIES ITC’s deep engagement with rural communities, which has been enhanced by the co-creation of economic opportunities, has helped in forging strong relationships. This provides an opportunity to enhance gainful livelihoods of local population. ITC’s partnership with local Industrial Training Institutes and agencies that impart vocational training on skills related to sales & distribution, hospitality, construction and technology acts as an opportunity to enhance the employability of youth from disadvantaged sections of society in the catchment areas of ITC operations. Poverty and RISKS Social Inequity Nearly 700 million people living in rural India, with low adaptive capacities, have a direct and symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive sectors (agriculture, forest and fisheries) and natural resources (water, biodiversity, mangroves, coastal zones and grasslands) for their subsistence and livelihood. The limited options of alternative off-farm employment, combined with endemic poverty, continue to imperil the livelihood of millions of small and marginal farmers with fragmented landholdings, mainly in rain-fed agriculture regions, where the production regime is inherently fragile and getting more so due to a number of factors. OPPORTUNITIES ITC’s innovative development models based upon the foundation of its deep rooted stakeholder centric approach, provide the opportunity of simultaneous generation of sustainable livelihood as well as creation of positive environmental footprint. Such models unleash strong drivers for achieving development with social equity. The Company’s approach to develop the competitiveness of value chains of which it is a part, enables the creation of long-term drivers that address the problem of social inequities. 40 Stakeholder Engagement Challenges Risks and Opportunities Supply Chain Low productivity RISKS of rain-fed ITC operates across the agri value chain of 19 crops and is present in 17 states with substantial agricultural investments in resource intensive models that entail heavy capital infrastructure. Since around 55% sector of India of India’s total sown area meets its requirements from rainwater alone, climate change generated environmental challenges aggravate the risks of low productivity of the agricultural sector of India, in turn impacting sustainability of agri based businesses. Low productivity risks are compounded by absence of focused incentivisation of precision farming, micro-irrigation, watershed development and power-efficient farm mechanisation. There are inadequacies in the policy framework required to boost the provision of rural infrastructure so that wastage can be eliminated and farmers can receive better returns. Furthermore, absence of crop and weather insurance reduces the risk-taking capability of the small-scale farmers for investment in infrastructure improvement. OPPORTUNITIES Owing to long standing presence in the agri-commodities market of the country, ITC has created a rich knowledge pool of agri-based interventions in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, price discovery, market access and farm productivity. ITC’s close connect with the grassroots level and effective dissemination of critical information provide opportunities for ITC to address the challenges in its agri-value chain. Limited RISKS Capabilities ITC’s supply chain comprises of a large number of small-scale partners many of whom operate under of Small Scale limiting circumstances in terms of their ability to invest in efficient technologies and their necessity to Supply Chain rely on labour intensive practices. Partners OPPORTUNITIES ITC’s long presence in the Indian market has helped in understanding the pulse, strengths, weaknesses and concerns of its supply chain partners, especially the rural population. This in turn has helped in forging strong relationships with supply chain partners and in capacity building of these partners for overcoming their own limitations and maximising value. Customer/Consumer Space Post-consumer RISKS Waste Average per capita waste generation of India is lower than that of OECD countries or even other Asian Management countries. However, the Indian industry is facing increasing pressure on packaging waste, which highlights the need for more effective solid waste management. Inadequate solid waste management systems result in a large amount of wastes being generated today to end up in landfills. Heaps of unattended waste, foraged by cattle and rag-pickers alike, have become a common sight both in urban and rural areas of the country. New regulations in this area are not only putting additional pressure on industry to work out alternate product packaging options but also demanding to develop adequate waste management system based on Extended Producer Responsibility. OPPORTUNITIES ITC’s deep rooted stakeholder centric approach and understanding of interdependence of social and environmental aspects have enabled ITC to be a pioneer in identifying sustainability issues beyond the horizon and taking necessary actions. This is reflected in the fact that fibre for the Kovai Unit of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business of ITC is sourced from recycled waste. Given ITC’s century-old significant presence in the country and its close connect with the grassroots level change makers, ITC has the opportunity to propagate waste segregation at source at all levels of society and to facilitate effective collection mechanism whilst generating livelihood for rag-pickers. ITC has already initiated collaborations with government, municipal corporations, NGOs, communities and other stakeholders to tackle the issue of plastic packaging waste. ITC is devising a multi-pronged approach not only to ensure waste segregation at source and improve the reuse/recycle rate by raising mass-level awareness and incentivising informal sector to collect all types of plastic packaging, but also to enhance the economic value of plastic waste through engaging with regulatory authorities and industry institutions. 41 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Challenges Risks and Opportunities Corporate RISKS Reputation Inadequate information or misrepresentation, especially in the media, can impact corporate reputation. Adverse coverage or feedback on ITC’s Brands and Businesses can impact brand salience in the minds of the consumer/customer. OPPORTUNITIES ITC’s structured media engagement plan comprises an array of activities including press releases/ statements, media interviews by top management, media coverage of important corporate and business milestones and regular presentations to senior media editors. In addition, presentations are also made to key stakeholders backed by publications on various issues. These provide an opportunity to the senior management team to effectively engage with stakeholders on issues relating to ITC’s products, services, initiatives and business practices. Social Media RISKS The explosion of Social Media channels like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, which allow individuals to form virtual communities of common interest and link up with people across the globe to share news, views, visuals and videos, is posing a new challenge to organisations. Being unregulated, social media allows instant dissemination of information globally without any mechanism to verify or authenticate the flow of information. This creates the possibility of spreading misinformation that can impact consumer behaviour as well as corporate reputation. OPPORTUNITIES ITC has created its own presence in social media leveraging publicly available web applications as well as creating dedicated branded web applications to disseminate information about the organisation and its brands in the digital space. ITC’s corporate Twitter handle, @itccorpcom provides an opportunity to engage in the social media space. In addition, ITC has created customised apps for mobile phones to provide superior and transparent access to information to its stakeholders. ITC’s Facebook page for engagement with potential employees, Hub and Scope, is an example of the Social Media interaction. Several ITC brands like Bingo!, Yippee!, Wills Lifestyle and Engage have a social media presence to constantly interact with their respective target audiences. Customer RISKS Satisfaction Customer feedback is one of the vital inputs for any organisation to modify or update the product/ service in order to better address the requirements and sentiments of its customers. Growing options for customers, increased customer awareness on quality, health and safety, consumers’ expectation on continual innovation and aggressively low price offer from competition, are some of the key challenges encountered by businesses today in achieving and maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction. OPPORTUNITIES A regular customer feedback system forms an integral part of ITC’s Businesses where there is direct interface with customers. In the case of FMCG products, consumers are provided several communication channels like e-mail, telephone number, website address and feedback forms to enable them to contact the relevant Business. Processes are laid down to ensure that consumers are provided with responses on their feedback in a timely manner. Customer feedback for B2B businesses like Agri Business and Packaging & Printing, is obtained through different activities e.g. pre-season engagement with customers (in case of Agri Business), client visits and engagement of the Divisional Management Committees with major customers. In the Information Technology Business, the Customer Service Satisfaction Survey is an annual check on the robustness of the engagement, culminating in a Customer Experience Index. For Hotels Business, WOW ratio – a Guest Satisfaction Index is continuously monitored and used for benchmarking and performance improvement. 42 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Analysis ITC’s Materiality matrix enabled the design of the content of this Report so as to provide a reasonable and balanced picture of the organisation’s Triple Bottom Line impacts and its performance. ITC’s materiality analysis is based upon the following three pronged approach: Relevance of GRI G4 defined aspects in terms of boundary Identification of impacts of material Cognition of Sector Specific Issues aspects Evaluation of relevance to stakeholders Analysis of high, medium or low importance of a particular aspect based on stakeholder engagement Evaluation of the stakeholder’s perception of ITC’s impact with respect to that material aspect Prioritisation Significance of a material aspect to a particular ITC business based on ITC’s Corporate Strategies, policies, risks and opportunities for the business Corporate level aggregation of material aspects by Corporate EHS Review by various Corporate Functions Validation Final review and approval by Sustainibility Compliance Review Committee on the material aspects 43 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Materiality Matrix Economic Performance Increasing influence on stakeholders’ assessment and decisions Health and Safety High Local Community Sustainable Climate Development Livelihoods Change Sustainable Management of Natural Resources Sustainable Supply Chain Learning and Product Packaging Development & Labelling Medium Anti-corruption Human Rights Statutory Marketing Compliance Communication Customer Privacy Employee Engagement Sustainable Low Forest Management Public Policy Advocacy Transportation Low Medium High Increasing significance of ITC’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts Economic Environmental Social Environmental & Social The matrix above depicts the material aspects based on their influence and significance on stakeholders’ perception and ITC’s impacts. The categorisation under low, medium & high demonstrates the relative importance of aspects and does not necessarily depict that a particular aspect rated as ‘low’ has low impact or relevance. 44 Stakeholder Engagement Disclosure on Material Aspects Sl. Material Aspects Details Available in Sections No. 1 Economic Performance Economic Performance Economic Performance 2 Sustainable Livelihoods ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable & Inclusive Growth Energy 3 Climate Change Air Emissions Energy Sustainable Management of Water Management 4 Natural Resources Waste Management Raw Materials Product Packaging & Product Responsibility 5 Labelling Waste Management Energy 6 Transportation Air Emissions Sustainable Forest Raw Materials 7 Management Biodiversity 8 Sustainable Supply Chain Supply Chain 9 Statutory Compliance Product Responsibility Labour Practices & Decent Work and 10 Learning and Development Human Rights Labour Practices & Decent Work and 11 Employee Engagement Human Rights Labour Practices & Decent Work and 12 Human Rights Human Rights Economic Performance Local Community 13 ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable Development & Inclusive Growth 14 Anti-corruption Governance Structure 15 Public Policy Advocacy Responsible Advocacy Occupational Health and Safety 16 Health and Safety Product Responsibility 17 Marketing Communication Product Responsibility 18 Customer Privacy Product Responsibility 45 Report Profile Scope & Boundary The 13th Sustainability Report of the considered while reporting on the Foods Company, headquartered at Virginia House, Business performance. 37 J.L. Nehru Road, Kolkata, 700 071 (India), covers the sustainability performance for This Report highlights those Triple Bottom the period April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016. Line dimensions that either indicate ITC reports its performance on an annual the organisation’s material economic, basis and the last Sustainability Report was environmental and social impacts, or published in June 2015. substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. The contact point for any clarifications on the Report or for requesting additional copies of ITC’s Businesses/Units continue to this Report is the Corporate Communications proactively engage with key stakeholders, Department at the above address or e-mail: who either have a major interest or are enduringvalue@itc.in. significantly affected by the Company’s operations, products or services. The details The reporting principles and methodology on stakeholder engagement are covered are in accordance with the “Comprehensive” elsewhere in the Report. option of the fourth generation Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability In line with ITC’s Policy on Responsible Reporting Guidelines and the Reporting Sourcing, the Company continues its Principles, Standard Disclosures and efforts to influence sustainability practices Implementation Manual of GRI-G4 Reporting along the value chain with the intent to Guidelines have been followed. The progressively cover all significant supply relevant aspects/indicators from GRI-G4 chain partners. In the current year, ITC has Food Sector supplement have also been incorporated the performance of 20 exclusive 46 Report Profile Scope & Boundary Third Party Manufacturers (TPMs) catering and conformance with ‘in accordance’to the Notebooks segment of Education and comprehensive requirements of the GRI-G4 Stationery Products Business and 2 TPMs guidelines has been provided by M/s Ernst of Cigarettes Business and ATC Limited, an & Young (EY), an independent third party associate company of ITC. assurance provider. They have provided the assurance engagement as per the The economic performance reported International Standard for Assurance here is excerpted from the Company’s Engagements (ISAE) 3000 at a ‘reasonable Report & Accounts (R&A) 2016, audited by level’, the statement of which forms a part independent External Auditors – M/s Deloitte of this Report. The assurance statement Haskins & Sells. by M/s EY covers the summary of the work performed, the manner in which the The data in the environment & social sections assurance engagement has been conducted, of the Report is based on actual performance the extent to which ITC has applied GRI-G4 of the various businesses, factories, hotels Guidelines and the conclusions on the Report. and large offices of the Company, TPMs and subsidiary companies as detailed in the reporting boundary. An Integrated Reporting Sustainability Data Management System established in the Company to collect, Boundary collate and analyse environmental and social ITC Head Office: Kolkata (West Bengal) data, along with strong internal controls, support overall integrity and credibility of the Trade Marketing and Distribution disclosures in the Report. (TM&D) In order to obtain an objective and impartial TM&D Headquarters: Kolkata (West Bengal) assurance on the Report, ITC has obtained District Offices: Kolkata (West Bengal) independent third party assurance for all Mumbai (Maharashtra) its Sustainability Reports since it started reporting in 2004. In the current year, Warehouses: Ambernath (Maharashtra), authenticity of the data and systems Hyderabad (Telangana) disclosed in the Sustainability Report 2016 and Malur (Karnataka) 47 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS FMCG Education and Stationery Cigarettes Business Products Business Divisional Headquarters: Chennai Divisional Headquarters: Kolkata (Tamil Nadu) (West Bengal) Third Party Manufacturers of Notebooks – Units at: 20 nos. Kolkata (West Bengal), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Munger (Bihar), Saharanpur Matches and Agarbatti (Uttar Pradesh) and Pune (Maharashtra) Business Third party manufacturers – 2 nos. Divisional Headquarters: Chennai (Tamil Nadu) FMCG Others Hotels Foods Business Divisional Headquarters: ITC Green Centre, Divisional Headquarters: Bengaluru Gurgaon (Haryana) (Karnataka) Units at: Hotels: ITC Maurya (New Delhi) Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Pune ITC Maratha (Mumbai) (Maharashtra), Malur (Karnataka) and ITC Grand Central (Mumbai) Munger (Bihar) ITC Sonar (Kolkata) ITC Mughal (Agra) Personal Care Products ITC Grand Bharat (Gurgaon) Business ITC Windsor (Bengaluru) Divisional Headquarters: Kolkata ITC Gardenia (Bengaluru) (West Bengal) ITC Rajputana (Jaipur) ITC Grand Chola (Chennai) Units at: My Fortune, Chennai Haridwar (Uttarakhand) and Manpura My Fortune, Bengaluru (Himachal Pradesh) WelcomHotel Sheraton, New Delhi 48 Report Profile Scope & Boundary Leaf Tobacco Business Lifestyle Retailing Business Divisional Headquarters: Guntur and Others (Andhra Pradesh) Lifestyle Retailing Business Headquarters: ITC Green Centre, Manesar (Haryana), Units at: ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre, Anaparti (Andhra Pradesh), Chirala Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Central Projects (Andhra Pradesh), Mysuru (Karnataka) and Organisation, Bengaluru (Karnataka) Research Centre, Rajahmundry (Andhra Pradesh) Subsidiaries Agri Business ITC Infotech India Limited Divisional Headquarters: Hyderabad Units at: (Telangana) Bengaluru (Karnataka), Kolkata Paperboards and Specialty (West Bengal), Pune (Maharashtra) and Papers Business Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala) Divisional Headquarters: Hyderabad Technico Agri Sciences Limited (Telangana) Units at: Chandigarh and Manpura (Himachal Pradesh) Units at: Tribeni (West Bengal), Bhadrachalam Srinivasa Resorts Limited (Telangana), Bollaram (Telangana) and Hotel: ITC Kakatiya, Hyderabad (Telangana) Kovai (Tamil Nadu) Bay Islands Hotels Limited Packaging and Printing Hotel: Fortune Bay Islands Resort, Port Blair Business Landbase India Limited Divisional Headquarters: Chennai Hotel: Classic Golf & Country Club, Gurgaon (Tamil Nadu) Associates Units at: Munger (Bihar), Tiruvottiyur (Tamil Nadu) ATC Limited and Haridwar (Uttarakhand) Unit at Hosur (Tamil Nadu) 49 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS The following subsidiaries included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements are not included in the Sustainability Report 2016. Names of Subsidiaries Remarks Fortune Park Hotels Limited * Surya Nepal Private Limited * MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited @ (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Investments & Holdings Limited) Russell Credit Limited @ Greenacre Holdings Limited @ (a 100% subsidiary of Russell Credit Limited) Wimco Limited * Prag Agro Farm Limited * Pavan Poplar Limited * Technico Pty Limited * Technico Technologies Inc. * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited) ITC Infotech Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) Pyxis Solutions, LLC. * (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc.) Gold Flake Corporation Limited @ King Maker Marketing, Inc. @ WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited * ITC Investments and Holdings Limited @ North East Nutrients Private Limited * 50 Report Profile Scope & Boundary The following Jointly controlled entities (incorporated Joint Ventures) included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements are not included in the Sustainability Report 2016: Names of Joint Ventures Remarks Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited # Espirit Hotels Private Limited # Logix Developers Private Limited # ITC Essentra Limited # (a joint venture of Gold Flake Corporation Limited) The following Group’s Associates included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements are not included in the Sustainability Report 2016: Name Remarks Gujarat Hotels Limited # International Travel House Limited # Russell Investments Limited @ Divya Management Limited @ Antrang Finance Limited @ * ITC is currently in the process of defining the system for inclusion of these entities in the Sustainability Reporting boundary. Going forward, the performance of these entities against identified material aspects will be reported in a progressive manner. # These entities will be progressively included within the reporting boundary, as part of ITC’s supply chain, based on identified material aspects. @ These entities primarily invest in financial market instruments and do not have any material sustainability impacts. 51 Governance Structure The Company’s Corporate Governance processes are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them. The practice of Corporate Governance at ITC takes place at three interlinked levels. Strategic supervision by the Board of Directors (Board) Strategic management by the Corporate Management Committee (CMC) by the Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Chief Executive management Executive assisted by the respective Divisional/SBU Management Committee 52 Governance Structure BOARD OF DIRECTORS CSR AND NOMINATION & CORPORATE SECURITYHOLDERS INDEPENDENT AUDIT COMPENSATION MANAGEMENT RELATIONSHIP SUSTAINABILITY DIRECTORS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL/SBU CORPORATE FUNCTIONS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Corporate Functions include: Divisional/SBU Management Planning & Treasury, Accounting, Committees, each headed by a Taxation, Risk Management, Legal, Divisional/SBU Chief Executive Secretarial, Internal Audit, EHS, Human Resources, Corporate Businesses include: Communications, Corporate FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Specialty Affairs, Research & Development, Papers & Packaging, Agri Business Central Projects Organisation and and Information Technology IT Support Services The role, powers and composition of the Board, Board Committees and CMC are available on the Company’s corporate website. Board Of Directors and diversity of perspectives appropriate to the Company. The Articles of Association The ITC Board is a balanced Board comprising of the Company provide that the strength Executive Directors and Non-Executive of the Board shall not be fewer than five Directors, including Independent Directors. nor more than eighteen. Selection of Directors Directors are appointed/re-appointed with the approval of the Shareholders for The Nomination & Compensation Committee a period of three to five years or a shorter of the Board has approved the criteria duration, in accordance with retirement for determining qualifications, positive guidelines as determined by the Board attributes and independence of Directors from time to time. The initial appointment as required under the Companies Act, 2013 of Executive Directors is normally for a and the Rules thereunder. The Governance period of three years. All Directors, other Policy of the Company also, inter alia, than Independent Directors, are liable requires that Non-Executive Directors, to retire by rotation unless otherwise including Independent Directors, be drawn approved by the Shareholders or provided from amongst eminent professionals with under any statute. experience in business/finance/law/public administration & enterprises. The Board The Independent Directors have confirmed Diversity Policy of the Company requires the that they meet the criteria of ‘Independence’ Board to have balance of skills, experience as stipulated under the statute. 53 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Composition of the Board The strength of the Board as on 31st March, 2016 was fifteen; the composition of the Board, including other Directorship/Committee membership of Directors was as follows: No. of Membership(s)/Chairmanship(s) No. of other of Audit Committee/Stakeholders Director Directorship(s) Relationship Committee of other Indian public limited companies Executive Directors Y. C. Deveshwar 6 Nil N. Anand 7 Nil S. Puri 3 Nil R. Tandon 10 6 [including 5 as Chairman] Non-Executive Directors – Independent Directors A. Baijal 6 3 [including 2 as Chairman] S. Banerjee Nil Nil A. Duggal 6 5 [including 1 as Chairman] S. B. Mathur 10 6 [including 1 as Chairman] P. B. Ramanujam Nil Nil S. S. H. Rehman Nil Nil M. Shankar 2 1 Non-Executive Directors – Others A. V. Girija Kumar 1 Nil R. E. Lerwill 4 Nil S. B. Mainak 2 Nil K. Vaidyanath Nil Nil Note: On demise of Mr. S. H. Khan, Independent Director, on 12th January, 2016, the Board of Directors appointed Ms. N. Rao as Additional Independent Director w.e.f. 8th April, 2016, subject to the approval of the Shareholders. ITC’s Governance Policy requires the Board to meet at least six times in a year. During the year, six meetings of the Board were held. Board Committees Currently, there are five Board Committees – the CSR and Sustainability Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Compensation Committee, the Securityholders Relationship Committee and the Independent Directors Committee. CSR and Sustainability Committee The CSR and Sustainability Committee presently comprises the Chairman of the Company and five Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Directors. The Chairman of the Company is the Chairman of the Committee. 54 Governance Structure The CSR and Sustainability Committee, Chairman of the Committee is a Noninter alia, reviews, monitors and provides Executive Director. strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices towards fulfilling its Independent Directors Triple Bottom Line objectives. The Committee Committee seeks to guide the Company in integrating its social and environmental objectives The Independent Directors Committee with its business strategies and assists in comprises all Independent Directors crafting unique models to support creation of the Company. of sustainable livelihoods. The Committee formulates & monitors the CSR Policy and Chair of the Highest recommends to the Board the annual CSR Governance Body Plan of the Company in terms of the statute. The Committee also reviews the Business The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the Responsibility Report of the Company. Company. He is the Chairman of the Board and the CMC. His primary role is to provide The CMC has constituted a Sustainability leadership to the Board and the CMC for Compliance Review Committee, which realising Company goals in accordance with presently comprises seven members one the charter approved by the Board. CMC member and six senior members of management. The role of the Committee, ITC has a diversified business portfolio, which inter alia, includes monitoring and evaluating demands that the senior leadership has compliance with the Sustainability Policies of in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Company and placing a quarterly report the functioning of the Company, so as to thereon for review by the CMC. enhance the value-generating capacity of the organisation and contribute significantly Audit Committee to stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. The Chief Executive Officer of The Audit Committee presently comprises the Company is therefore generally chosen five Non-Executive Directors, four of whom from amongst the executive management of are Independent Directors. The Chairman of the Company. The current Chief Executive the Committee is an Independent Director. Officer of the Company is also the Chairman The Executive Director & Chief Financial of the Board. Officer, the Head of Internal Audit and the representative of the Statutory Auditors are Invitees to meetings of the Audit Committee. Avoidance of The Head of Internal Audit, who reports to the Audit Committee, is the Coordinator, and Conflict of Interest the Company Secretary is the Secretary to In terms of the ITC Code of Conduct, Directors, The CMC has the Committee. The representatives of the senior management and employees must constituted a Cost Auditors are invited to meetings of the avoid situations in which their personal Sustainability Compliance Audit Committee whenever matters relating interests could conflict with the interests Review to cost audit are considered. of the Company. This is an area in which it Committee. is impossible to provide comprehensive The role of the Nomination & Compensation guidance but the guiding principle is that Committee Committee conflicts, if any, or potential conflicts, must includes be disclosed to higher management for monitoring The Nomination & Compensation Committee guidance and action as appropriate. and evaluating presently comprises four Non-Executive compliance Directors, three of whom are Independent The Directors and key managerial with the Directors, and the Chairman of the Company. personnel are required to disclose to the Sustainability Board whether they, directly or indirectly Policies of Securityholders Relationship or on behalf of third parties, have material the Company Committee interest in any transaction or matter and placing a quarterly report directly affecting the Company. Senior The Securityholders Relationship Committee management is required to confirm on an presently comprises four Directors. The annual basis that no material transaction 55 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS has been entered into by them which a manner that fulfils stakeholders’ aspirations could have potential conflict with the and societal expectations. In pursuit of this, interests of the Company at large; such the Directors of the Company are updated confirmations are placed before the on changes/developments in the domestic/ Board. All transactions of the Company global corporate and industry scenario with related parties, or their subsequent including those pertaining to statutes/ modifications, are required to be legislations & economic environment approved by the Audit Committee. Further, and on matters affecting the Company, transactions with related parties which to enable them to take well informed and are not in the ordinary course of business timely decisions. The Directors are also kept or not on arm’s length basis would also abreast on all business related matters, risk require the approval of the Board or assessment & minimisation procedures, and Shareholders, as applicable. new initiatives proposed by the Company. The Company has a code of conduct for The Nomination & Compensation Committee prevention of insider trading in the securities has approved the Policy on Board evaluation, of the Company. The ITC Code of Conduct for evaluation of Board Committees’ functioning Prevention of Insider Trading 2015, inter alia, and individual Director evaluation. In keeping prohibits purchase or sale of securities of the with ITC’s belief that it is the collective Company by Directors and employees while effectiveness of the Board that impacts in possession of unpublished price sensitive Company performance, the primary evaluation ITC’s information in relation to the Company. platform is that of collective performance of remuneration the Board as a whole. Board performance is strategy is assessed against the role and responsibilities market led, Performance of the Board as provided in the statute read leverages performance of the Highest with the Company’s Governance Policy. The parameters for Board performance evaluation and takes into account the Governance Body have been derived from the Board’s core role of trusteeship to protect and enhance Company’s ITC believes that a Board, which is well shareholder value as well as fulfil expectations capacity to pay informed/familiarised with the Company of other stakeholders through strategic and its affairs, can contribute significantly to supervision of the Company. Evaluation of effectively discharge its role of trusteeship in functioning of Board Committees is based on 56 Governance Structure discussions amongst Committee members and Remuneration includes salary, performance shared by the respective Committee Chairman bonus, allowances & other benefits/ ITC’s Code with the Board. Individual Directors are applicable perquisites except contribution of Conduct evaluated in the context of the role played by to the approved Group Pension under the is anchored each Director as a member of the Board at its defined benefit scheme and Gratuity Funds in three core meetings, in assisting the Board in realising its principles and provisions for leave encashment which role of strategic supervision of the functioning good corporate are actuarially determined on an overall governance, of the Company in pursuit of its purpose and Company basis. The term ‘remuneration’ good corporate goals. Visits to Company facilities are also has the meaning assigned to it under the citizenship organised for Directors. Companies Act, 2013. Stock Options have and exemplary been granted to the Directors and Employees personal The Board determines the remuneration of conduct in under the Employee Stock Option Schemes the Chairman and other Executive Directors, relation to the of the Company at ‘market price’ [within the on the recommendation of the Nomination & Company’s meaning of the erstwhile SEBI (Employee Compensation Committee; remuneration of business and Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock reputation the Directors is subject to the approval of the Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999]. The shareholders. Such remuneration is linked Company has not incurred any expenditure to the performance of the Company in as for this purpose which can be ascribed to any much as the performance bonus of Executive Director or Employee. Directors is based on various qualitative and quantitative performance criteria. Such criteria also include the Company’s contribution with respect to sustainable Ethics and Integrity development of the society/nation & social ITC believes that every employee is a trustee investments and sensitivity to environment. of its stakeholders and must strictly adhere to a Code of Conduct and conduct himself/ Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors herself at all times in a professional and is by way of commission for each financial ethical manner. Integrity is a core value year; such commission is determined by and forms the basis of the Company’s the Board within the limit approved by the organisation culture. shareholders. Their remuneration is based, inter alia, on Company performance and ITC’s Code of Conduct, has been in place since regulatory provisions and is payable on a 1996. The Code is anchored in three core uniform basis to reinforce the principle of principles good corporate governance, good collective responsibility. Non-Executive corporate citizenship and exemplary personal Directors are also entitled to sitting fees conduct in relation to the Company’s business for attending meetings of the Board and and reputation. The Code clearly spells Committees thereof, the quantum of which is out guidelines for employees on dealing determined by the Board. with people in the organisation, ensuring a gender friendly workplace, relationships with Remuneration and suppliers and customers, legal compliance, Incentives health & safety, avoidance of conflict of interest, transparency and auditability in ITC’s remuneration strategy is market led, all their actions, protection of confidential leverages performance and takes into information, leading by example etc. account the Company’s capacity to pay. The remuneration package is competitive and is The ITC Code of Conduct is displayed on the designed to attract and retain quality talent. Company’s corporate website and is shared with employees at the time of their induction The ratio of remuneration of the highest into the Company. A system has also been paid employee to the median remuneration put in place to get employees to read and for the year 2015-16 was 435:1. The total sign-off ITC’s Sustainability Policies and the remuneration of the highest paid employee has ITC Code of Conduct. Any violation of the ITC decreased by 2% and the median remuneration Code of Conduct by an employee renders has increased by 1% in FY 2015-16. him/her liable for disciplinary action. 57 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS A Whistleblower Policy is in place and has their effective implementation across The management been displayed on the Company’s corporate ITC and independent monitoring and of risk is website and has also been appropriately reporting by Internal Audit. embedded in communicated to all employees. the corporate The Risk Management Committee, strategies of developing a Risk Management constituted by the Board, monitors and reviews the strategic risk management portfolio of plans of the Company as a whole and world-class As a diversified enterprise, ITC continues businesses that provides necessary directions on the to focus on a system-based approach best match same. to business risk management. The organisational management of risk is embedded in the The Corporate Risk Management Cell, capability with market corporate strategies of developing a through focused interactions with opportunities portfolio of world-class businesses that businesses, facilitates the identification best match organisational capability with and prioritisation of strategic and market opportunities, focusing on building operational risks, development of distributed leadership and succession appropriate mitigation strategies and planning processes, nurturing specialism conducts periodic reviews of the progress and enhancing organisational capabilities on the management of identified risks. through timely developmental inputs. Accordingly, management of risk has always A combination of centrally issued policies been an integral part of the Company’s and divisionally-evolved procedures brings ‘Strategy of Organisation’ and straddles robustness to the process of ensuring that its planning, execution and reporting business risks are effectively addressed. processes and systems. Backed by strong internal control systems, the current Risk Appropriate structures are in place to Management Framework consists of the proactively monitor and manage the following key elements: inherent risks in businesses with unique/ relatively high risk profiles. The Corporate Governance Policy and the Risk Management Policy approved by A strong and independent Internal Audit the Board, clearly lay down the roles and function at the Corporate level carries out responsibilities of the various entities in risk focused audits across all businesses, relation to risk management covering a enabling identification of areas where range of responsibilities, from the strategic risk management processes may need to to the operational. These role definitions, be strengthened. The Audit Committee of inter alia, provide the foundation for the Board reviews Internal Audit findings, appropriate risk management procedures, and provides strategic guidance on internal 58 Governance Structure controls. The Audit Compliance Review in agri-commodity trading as part of its Committee closely monitors the internal Agribusiness. ITC has a comprehensive risk control environment within ITC including assessment framework and well laid out implementation of the action plans policy to manage the risks arising out of emerging out of the internal audit findings. the inherent price volatility associated with such commodities. This includes robust At the Business level, Divisional Auditors mechanisms for monitoring market dynamics continuously verify compliance with laid on an ongoing basis towards making informed down policies and procedures, and help sourcing decisions, continuous tracking of plug control gaps by assisting operating management in the formulation of control net open positions & ‘value at risk’ against procedures for new areas of operation. approved limits, use of futures contracts to hedge commodity price risk as applicable, A robust and comprehensive framework hedging associated foreign exchange risk of strategic planning and performance through appropriate instruments, assessment management ensures realisation of of country risk and counter-party exposure business objectives based on effective for suitable mitigation plans. Additionally, strategy implementation. The annual ITC’s strategy of backward integration in planning exercise requires all businesses to areas such as sourcing of agri-commodities clearly identify their top risks and set out a e.g. wheat, potato, fruit pulp and leaf tobacco, mitigation plan with agreed timelines and in-house manufacturing of paperboards, A robust and accountability. Businesses are required to paper and packaging (including pulp comprehensive confirm periodically that all relevant risks framework production and print cylinder making have been identified, assessed, evaluated of strategic facilities) facilitates access to critical inputs planning and and that appropriate mitigation systems at benchmark quality and competitive cost performance have been implemented. besides ensuring security of supplies. Further, management During the year, the Risk Management each of ITC’s businesses continuously focuses ensures Committee was updated on the status and on product mix enrichment towards protecting realisation effectiveness of the risk management plans. margins and insulating operations from spikes of business in input prices. objectives based The Audit Committee was also updated on on effective the effectiveness of ITC’s risk management The combination of polices and strategy systems and policies. implementation processes as outlined above adequately ITC sources several commodities for use as addresses the various risks associated with inputs in its businesses and also engages ITC’s businesses. 59 Economic Performance Management Approach Goals and Performance Economic Performance 60 Economic Performance ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations and has consistently featured over the last twenty years, amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation and profits 61 Disclosure of the Company are aimed at strengthening the mechanisms of engagement with key Management stakeholders, identification of material sustainability issues and progressively Approach (DMA) monitoring and mitigating the impacts along the value chain of each Business, Inspired by the opportunity to sub-serve wherever relevant. larger national priorities, the Company redefined its vision to not only reposition the With Sustainability at the heart of the organisation for extreme competitiveness Company’s corporate strategy, it aims to but also make societal value creation the create growing value for the Indian society bedrock of its corporate strategy. This through its ‘Triple Bottom Line’ strategy superordinate vision spurred innovative that synergies creation of social and strategies to address some of the most environmental capital with the generation of challenging societal issues including shareholder value. widespread poverty, unemployment and environmental degradation. The Company’s sustainability strategy aims at creating Goals and significant value for the nation through superior ‘Triple Bottom Line’ performance Performance that builds and enriches the country’s At the enterprise level, the Company’s economic, environmental and social capital. goals include: The sustainability strategy is premised on the belief that the transformational capacity of Sustaining ITC’s position as one of India’s business can be very effectively leveraged most valuable corporations. to create significant societal value through a spirit of innovation and enterprise. Achieving leadership in each of the business These sustainability policies adopted by segments within a reasonable time frame. 62 Economic Performance Achieving a Return on Capital Employed operating segments was rendered extremely (ROCE) in excess of the Company’s cost of challenging during the year in the wake capital, at all times. of unprecedented pressure on the legal cigarette industry due to the cumulative Please refer to the ‘Report of the Directors impact of steep increase in taxation and and Management Discussion and Analysis’ regulatory pressures, sluggish demand section of the Report and Accounts 2016 and price deflationary conditions in the (available on www.itcportal.com) for a FMCG space, and start-up costs relating detailed discussion on the Company’s market to new products/categories especially standing in each of the business segments, in the non-cigarette FMCG segment. as well as the business environment, The business environment in the Hotels opportunities, key challenges, etc. pertaining industry also remained challenging with the to each of the Company’s Businesses. overhang of excess room inventory exerting pressure on pricing apart from which the Economic Business had to absorb the gestation Performance costs of new properties. Agri exports from India were impacted during the year due to higher crop output and steeper currency The global economy remained lacklustre in depreciation in competing origins. The 2015 with growth slowing down to just 3.1% Paperboards, Paper and Packaging segment compared to 3.4% in 2014 (as per latest IMF also had to contend with a weak demand and estimates). This marks the slowest pace of pricing environment. expansion since the global financial crisis in 2009 and the fourth successive year that the Despite the challenging business environment global economy has grown at a rate lower as aforestated, Gross Revenue for the than its long-term average of 3.6% p.a. year grew by 3.2% to `51,582.45 crores. Net Revenue at `36,475.27 crores grew by The Indian economy also witnessed another 1.1% primarily driven by a 7.7% growth in challenging year growing by 7.5% in real the non-cigarette FMCG segment and 6.2% terms during the first nine months of 2015growth in the Cigarettes segment. Excluding 16 representing a marginal improvement exports of agri commodities, Gross Revenue over 2014-15 (7.2%). However, there was and Net Revenue for the year grew by 6.4% a marked decline in Nominal GDP growth, which stood at 8.1% for the period April 2015 to December 2015 as compared to 11.4% for the corresponding period in the previous year. Other economic indicators also suggested tepid performance across consumption, private investments and exports which have contracted significantly against the backdrop of a soft global demand environment. The performance of the Industry sector also remained subdued as reflected by the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) which grew by just 2.6% during the period April 2015 to February 2016. This was reflected in the performance of capital markets as well, with the Sensex declining by 9% during the year (after rising 25% in FY15), reflecting the sluggish business environment, slower than expected progress on the reforms agenda and muted growth in corporate earnings. Given the macro–economic scenario, the business landscape in the Company’s 63 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS and 5.5% respectively. Profit Before Tax For the year ended 31st March, 2016, the registered a growth of 6.9% to `14,958.39 Company has declared a Dividend of `8.50 crores while Net Profit at `9,844.71 crores per share (including a special dividend increased by 2.5%. Earnings Per Share for the of `2.00) per Ordinary share of `1/each year stood at `12.26 (previous year `12.05). (previous year `6.25 per share) and has also Cash flows from Operations aggregated recommended issuance of 1 bonus share `14,079.07 crores compared to `13,534.65 for every 2 existing ordinary shares held by crores in the previous year. Members on record date. Direct Economic Impact ` Crores Key Economic 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 CAGR Indicators* Gross Revenue 34872 41810 46713 49965 51582 10% Net Revenue 24798 29606 32883 36083 36475 10% Exports 2315 3474 4046 4511 3279 9% Contribution to 18006 22343 25669 27546 30750 14% Government/Exchequer Cost of Bought out 14255 17031 18391 19764 18955 7% Goods and Services Employee Benefits 1258 1387 1608 1780 1884 11% Expense Payments to Providers 5669 6800 7977 8645 8501 11% of Capital Interest and Dividend 3596 4235 4775 5067 6889 Retained Profits 2073 2565 3202 3578 1612 * Detailed Financial Performance available at www.itcportal.com 64 Economic Performance Revenue and Profit Before Depreciation Interest and Tax (PBDIT) ` Crores Year 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 CAGR Gross Revenue 34872 41810 46713 49965 51582 10% PBDIT 9674 11566 13562 15017 16042 13% Total Assets and Returns during the year under review, ITC continued to make significant investments in the Indian ITC’s diversified portfolio of businesses, economy across its business domains. spanning FMCG, Paperboards & Packaging, Agri Business and Hotels enables it to Hence, while the net capital employed has have significant presence in all the three expanded at a compound rate of 15% over sectors of the economy, namely, agriculture, the previous five years to reach `34,807 manufacturing and services, providing crores as at 31st March, 2016, returns on the Company the unique opportunity to net capital employed (Profit before interest contribute meaningfully to the growth and and taxes) have increased during this period development of the country. Despite the from `8,975 crores to `15,008 crores, extremely challenging business environment a compound rate of 14%. Net Capital Employed and PBIT 16000 15008 36000 15000 14055 12662 14000 31000 13000 12000 10771 26000 11000 8975 10000 21000 9000 8000 16000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net Capital Employed PBIT 65 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Market Capitalisation & Earnings Per Share ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations and has consistently featured over the last twenty years, amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation and profits. It is amongst the most influential stocks in the Indian equity market. 1996 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CAGR Market Capitalisation 5571 100476 140408 177360 244245 280708 260864 263989 21% (` Crores )* Adjusted EPS (`)** 0.35 5.31 6.45 7.88 9.39 11.05 11.99 12.23 19% *Market Capitalisation based on year-end closing prices quoted on the Bombay Stock Exchange **EPS adjusted for impact of Corporate Actions to facilitate like to like comparison Analysis of Value Added While profit growth moderated during the year especially in comparison with the Company’s own track record, it is pertinent to note that Value-Added by the Company, i.e. the value created by the economic activities of the Company and its employees, grew by 8% over last year to `41,135 crores. The Company’s Contribution to Exchequer during the year stood at `30,750 crores representing a growth of 12% over last year and stand at 75% of the total value addition made by the Company. Distribution of Value Added 100% 23% 22% 22% 23% 21% 80% 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% 60% 40% 20% 72% 73% 73% 73% 75% 0% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Exchequer Employees Providers of Capital 66 Economic Performance Contribution to the National Exchequer The Company remains amongst the Top 3 Indian corporates in the private sector in terms of Contribution to Exchequer. Contribution to Exchequer 33000 ` Crores 29500 26000 30750 27546 25669 22500 22343 19000 15500 12000 18006 8500 5000 1500 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dividend Payout For the year ended 31st March, 2016, the Company has declared a Dividend of `8.50 per share (including a special dividend of `2.00) per Ordinary share of `1/each (previous year `6.25 per share). Dividend Paid (incl. Dividend Distribution Tax) 8000 1937 7000 6000 6030 ` Crores 5000 5583 6296 4853 4000 4089 3000 2000 1000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ordinary Dividend Special Dividend Local Based Suppliers The Hon’ble Prime Minister’s vision to build a dynamic, progressive and self–reliant India through impactful programmes such as Make in India, Skill India, Digital India and Raw Materials, Stores & Spares Consumed 12000 10000 8000 ` Crores 6000 4000 6826 8018 9165 9630 9888 2000 1067 1138 1335 1589 1415 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Imported Indigenous 67 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Swachh Bharat, resonates deeply with and small scale enterprises that are the Company’s efforts to create a national proximate to its manufacturing locations. institution of pride. About 86% of raw Wherever appropriate, vendors are provided materials and stores & spares have been technical support and managerial inputs locally procured during the year. to enable them to move in tandem with the Company’s business plans. With a view to The Company’s suppliers, both local widespread the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ strategy and international, constitute one of its of the Company, vendors/service providers important stakeholder groups. Supplier and large outsourced manufacturing engagements are founded on a positive facilities are encouraged to adopt procurement culture supported by policies, management practices detailed under the processes and best practices to ensure that international standards such as ISO 9001, procurement activity is conducted in an ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 etc. open, transparent and non-discriminatory manner. In order to strengthen sustainable Financial Assistance from procurement processes, Policies on Government ‘Responsible Sourcing’ and ‘Human Rights Consideration of Stakeholders beyond the The Company had availed the incentives Workplace’ have been adopted to address offered by the States of Andhra Pradesh issues of labour practices, human rights, and Tamil Nadu, by way of deferment of bribery, corruption, occupational health, Sales Tax, which are repayable over a period safety and environment. ranging from 10 to 14 years. The outstanding amount of such assistance in the form of ITC’s The Company actively encourages competency Deferred Sales Tax due to be repaid by the sustainability development among local vendors and its Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division strategy aims vendor base includes numerous medium (PSPD) is given below: at creating significant Deferred Sales Tax value for the ` Crores nation through 100 superior ‘Triple 86 Bottom Line’ 78 80 performance 66 that builds and enriches 60 51 the country’s 39 economic, 40 environmental and social 20 capital 0 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 68 Economic Performance 1800 1600 1400 1200 ` Crores 1000 1024 1112 1331 1505 1559 800 600 400 179 200 128 148 162 167 106 127 115 108 171 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Contribution to Provident Workmen & Salaries & Wages & Other Funds Staff Welfare Engaging Talent, Local Hiring a dedicated and high-quality human resource pool. It has continuously invested in the and Senior Management human resource capital as seen above. Human Resource Management systems and The Company has Policies on Human processes in the Company are aimed at creating Rights applicable to its employees and a responsive, market-focused, customerits value chains. The Policies and their centric culture and enhancing organisational vitality, so that each business is internationally implementation are directed towards competitive and equipped to seize emerging adherence to applicable laws and to uphold market opportunities. The Company believes the spirit of human rights, as enshrined that the robustness and adaptability of its in existing international standards such Human Resource systems and processes are as the Universal Declaration and the critical for an organisation to remain relevant Fundamental Human Rights Conventions of and competitive in today’s highly dynamic and the International Labour Organisation (ILO). rapidly evolving business landscape. The Company introduced systems to ensure sound implementation of ITC’s Sustainability Towards this end, five capability platforms Policies specifically with respect to Human relevant to making businesses futureRights and Decent Workplace. A system ready have been identified – Strategic, for employees to read and sign-off the Value Chain, Leadership, Innovation and Sustainability Policies including Policies on Human Resources Development. These Human Rights and ITC’s Code of Conduct ITC believes that platforms are also designed to strengthen was rolled out across Divisions. During the its competitive organisational systems to facilitate speedy year, 8587 employees across the Company capability and competitively superior responses to have been covered amounting to 94% of the to build market opportunities. managerial workforce. future-ready businesses The Company is dedicated to nurturing The employees are also entitled to retirement and create sustainable Employee Relations and benefit schemes which include employee enduring value continues to leverage the ‘Good Employee pension, provident fund and gratuity. for stakeholders Relations’ approach in ensuring responsive All statutory payments, as applicable, is enriched by a manufacturing, flexible work systems and, e.g., Provident Fund and Family Pension dedicated and at the same time, maintaining a cost and high-quality contributions, are deposited with the human resource environment conscious ecosystem in all Units. Government in a timely manner. pool ITC believes that its competitive capability to build future-ready businesses and create The pension plans and other applicable enduring value for stakeholders is enriched by employee benefits obligations are 69 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Contribution to Provident & Other Funds 240 200 160 171 ` Crores 120 127 115 80 106 108 40 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 determined and funded in accordance especially in rural India, through economic with independent actuarial valuation. The empowerment based on grassroots capacity assets of these trust funds are managed building. Towards this end, the Company in accordance with the prescribed has adopted a comprehensive CSR policy statutory pattern. The assets of the trust outlining programmes, and plans to funds are well diversified and investments undertake projects and activities to create are made with the objective of protecting a significant positive impact on identified capital and optimising returns within stakeholders. All these programmes fall acceptable risk parameters. The funds are within the purview of Schedule VII of the consistently sustained to meet requisite provisions of Section 135 of the Companies superannuation commitments. Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. The footprint of the Company’s Social Corporate Social Responsibility Investments Programme (SIP) projects is spread over 26 states covering 166 districts. ITC’s overarching aspiration to create significant and sustainable societal The Company’s stakeholders are value is manifest in its Corporate Social confronted with multi-dimensional Responsibility (CSR) initiatives that embrace and inter-related issues, at the core the most disadvantaged sections of society, of which is the challenge of securing ITC’s overarching aspiration to create significant and sustainable societal value is manifest in its CSR initiatives that embrace the most disadvantaged sections of society, especially in rural India 70 Economic Performance sustainable livelihoods. Accordingly, Continue to work with key stakeholders interventions under the Company’s SIP with whom the Company has ITC’s are appropriately designed to build their enduring partnerships comprising stakeholders capacities and promote sustainable (a) rural communities in the Company’s are confronted livelihoods. The key elements of the Agri Business operational areas and with multiCompany’s CSR interventions are to: (b) communities residing in close dimensional and proximity to the Company’s production inter-related Strengthen and empower Community issues, at the units. Within these groups, specially target Based Organisations for long-term core of which is poor and marginalised communities/ sustainability of interventions. the challenge groups to ensure inclusive development. of securing Ensure behaviour change through Remain contemporary by accessing sustainable focus on demand generation for all knowledge/technical know-how through livelihoods interventions to ensure ownership, participation and contribution. collaborations. Continue to strive for scale in the core Various CSR activities in which the Company operational geographies by leveraging has been engaged during the current year government partnerships. are listed below: ITC’s interventions Areas listed under Schedule VII of the (including through Companies Act, 2013 Trusts established by the Company) (i) Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, promoting healthcare including preventive Health & Sanitation, healthcare and sanitation including contribution Drinking Water and to the Swachh Bharat Kosh set-up by the Central Eradicating Poverty Government for the promotion of sanitation and making available safe drinking water. (ii) Promoting education, including special education Education, Vocational and employment enhancing vocation skills specially Training, Livestock among children, women, elderly, and the differently Development and abled and livelihood enhancement projects. Generation of Livelihoods (iii) Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up old age homes, day care Women Empowerment centres and such other facilities for senior citizens and measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially and economically backward groups. (iv) Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance, protection of flora and fauna, animal Environmental welfare, agroforestry, conservation of natural Sustainability, Soil & resources and maintaining quality of soil, air Moisture Conservation and water including contribution to the Clean and Wasteland Ganga Fund set-up by the Central Government for Development rejuvenation of River Ganga. (v) Protection of national heritage, art and culture, including restoration of buildings and sites of Protection of National historical importance and works of art, setting up Heritage, Art and Culture public libraries, promotion and development of traditional arts and handicrafts. (vi) Rural Development Projects. Agri Development The expenditure incurred under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 on CSR activities amounted to `247.50 crores (2015 `214.06 crores). 71 Environmental Performance 72 Environmental Performance Management Approach Energy Air Emissions Water Management Waste Management Raw Materials Biodiversity 73 Management Approach According to the World Economic Forum waste generation, etc. An organisation-wide (WEF) Report on Global Risks 2016, the integrated sustainability data management evolving risk landscape indicates a wide system supplemented by standard operating range of environmental risks such as procedures for measurement and recording climate change, water crises, etc. The provides the platform to monitor the data of challenges related to environment and each business on resource utilisation and ecosystems especially due to climate change environmental impact vis-à-vis production. are complex, long-term and inter-related, especially in terms of its impact on water and In addition, ITC also constantly endeavours availability of other natural resources. to create a positive environmental footprint. Large-scale Social and Farm Forestry, In order to address these challenges, Integrated Watershed Development and environmental best practices have been Sustainable Agriculture Practices, among integrated into ITC’s operations on the basis others, are a few examples of extensive of which, the Company strives to maximise initiatives in this direction. the efficiencies of natural resource usage across its Businesses. Furthermore, for ITC’s Board approved Policies such as continuous improvement on environmental those on Environment, Health and Safety, performance, ITC’s Businesses have set Life-Cycle Sustainability of Products and voluntary targets on key performance Services and Responsible Sourcing, provide indicators such as specific energy reduction, the necessary framework to address the specific water intake reduction, specific direct impacts of the Company’s own 74 Environmental Performance operations as well as progressively extend ITC’s Corporate Environment, Health & the efforts along the supply chain (Please Safety (CEHS) Department is responsible for Environmental refer to Policies available at www.itcportal. reviewing and updating Corporate Standards, best practices com). Businesses are progressing in the verifying compliance, providing guidance have been phase wise implementation of these policies and support as required. Compliance and integrated into ITC’s operations as per a defined roadmap. progress based upon the roadmap defined on the basis by each Business is regularly reviewed of which, the It is the overall responsibility of the by the Sustainability Compliance Review Company strives Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Committee (SCRC) constituted by the to maximise the Chief Executives, to ensure implementation Corporate Management Committee (CMC). efficiencies of of relevant policies and standards on natural resource environmental performance through the The following sections outline the challenges usage across its members of the respective Management being faced by ITC on material environmental Businesses Committees, General Managers and aspects within as well as outside the Unit Heads. This also includes institution boundary of its operations, the strategy for of various committees and designating addressing each of these challenges and specific responsibilities. performance for 2015-16. 75 Energy Management help of transfer of technology and low cost international finance including from Approach Green Climate Fund (GCF). The world today is witnessing a shift in Creating an additional (cumulative) the global climate change politics and carbon sink of 2.5–3 GtCO2e through additional forest and tree cover by 2030. policies and a significant impact in global energy scenario is anticipated in near In order to meet the commitments made future due to 2015 United Nations Climate under INDC to UNFCCC, India’s postChange Conference of Parties held in 2020 climate action plan is focused upon Paris in December 2015. India has promotion of clean energy, enhancement already submitted its Intended Nationally of energy efficiency, development of less Determined Contributions (INDCs) to United carbon intensive and resilient urban centres, Nations Framework Convention on Climate promotion of waste to wealth, safe, smart and Change (UNFCCC) with the key aims of: sustainable green transportation network, abatement of pollution and enhanced carbon Reducing the emissions intensity of Gross sink through creation of forest and tree Domestic Product (GDP) by 33% to 35% by cover. All these in turn would imply targeted 2030 below 2005 levels. interventions from the various industrial sectors of India. Increasing the share of non-fossil based energy resources to 40% of installed Apart from the impending stringencies electric power capacity by 2030, with in Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) and 76 Environmental Performance Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) biggest developmental challenges for India Mechanisms driven by the committed INDC in the context of energy. Extreme volatility of Government of India, the nationwide in energy prices, one of the top global risks thrust for low-carbon economic growth is as identified in World Economic Forum (WEF) expected to lead to an increased carbon tax Report on Global Risks 2016, will further on select energy intensive industries and/ aggravate stresses on developing economies. or products in order to incentivise energy efficient production. Furthermore, energy Based on existing as well as the evolving security, energy equity i.e. the accessibility energy scenario, ITC has mapped its and affordability of energy supply across challenges and has strategised its response the population continue to be amongst the as follows: Challenges ITC Strategy ITC’s Sustainability Policies Volatility in energy prices. Adopting a low carbon growth path. providing Existing regulatory requirements Goal set for 50% renewable energy framework such as the Perform, Achieve and share by 2020. for relevant Trade (PAT) and Renewable Energy actions Energy conservation through audits, Certificate (REC) schemes. benchmarking and target setting for Future regulatory pressures in line progressively reducing specific energy with India’s commitment under INDCs consumption (energy per unit of to UNFCCC. product/service). Investment risks involved in off-site Investment in renewable energy assets renewable energy investments weak based on techno-commercial feasibility. infrastructure linkages, restrictions Continuous monitoring and review of Policy on on inter-state wheeling/banking of performance through an organisationEnvironment, electricity, open access etc. wide data management system. Health and Increasing competition for biomass. Safety Lack of viable alternatives for fossil fuel to meet thermal energy requirements. Life-cycle assessment based Policy on approach embedded in the design and Life-cycle development of products and services. Sustainability Accounting of energy footprint along the value chain and identification of Policy on Reducing energy costs and footprints opportunities for improvement. Responsible across the value chain of products and services which are beyond Sourcing Engagement with supply chain operational control. members for monitoring and improvement of energy performance. Progressive inclusion of energy performance of supply chain partners within the sustainability reporting boundary. Reduction of energy consumption in transportation of raw materials, finished goods and wastes. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 77 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Reporting ITC’s Facilities of Technico Agri Sciences Ltd. (a subsidiary of ITC) at Chandigarh Performance and Manpura The concerted efforts on energy conservation Energy Consumption within implemented across several ITC units have the Organisation helped in restricting the increase in ITC’s total energy consumption to 0.8% only, In 2015-16, ITC Units consumed 21,946 despite considerable growth in most of ITC’s Terra Joules (TJ) of energy as compared to Businesses and expansion of the reporting 21,777 TJ in 2014-15. This marginal increase boundary as explained above. of 0.8% in total energy consumption is directly attributable to significant growth in Energy from Renewable Sources majority of ITC Businesses. Bhadrachalam Break up by Sources Unit of Paperboards and Specialty Paper 0.2% Business that accounts for over 77% of 4.7% energy consumption in ITC, has recorded an increase of 2.1% in its production as compared to previous year. Similarly, Foods Business and Hotels Business Divisions that together contributes to 5.3% of ITC’s energy consumption, have recorded an increase of 6.5% and 8.5% in their respective outputs. Sources of 21,946 TJ of Energy in ITC in 2015-16 3.1% 95.1% Biomass Wind Solar 49.6% 47.3% Energy Directly from Fossil Fuels Break up by Fuel Types 1.8% 8.9% Energy directly from Fossil Fuels Energy purchased from utilities Energy from Renewable Sources In addition, the reporting boundary in 2015-16 has also been expanded to include the following units that have caused an increase of 23 TJ (0.1%) in ITC’s total energy consumption: 89.3% Dairy unit at Munger District offices (Kolkata and Mumbai) and warehouses (Ambernath, Hyderabad Solid fuels and Malur) of Trade, Marketing & Liquid fuels Distribution Function Gaseous fuels 78 Environmental Performance Energy Consumption within ITC across Businesses Energy Consumption % of ITC’s % Renewable Businesses in TJ Total Energy Energy Share Consumption 20142015201420152014-15 2015-16 15 16 15 16 Paperboards and 19,503.95 19,580.02 89.6% 89.2% 44.9% 49.3% Specialty Papers Hotels 642.11 668.78 2.9% 3.0% 34.8% 33.4% Foods 419.56 501.44 1.9% 2.3% 33.2% 33.6% Leaf Tobacco 414.55 406.26 1.9% 1.9% 11.1% 23.9% Cigarettes 362.69 320.45 1.7% 1.5% 26.8% 41.5% Packaging and Printing 277.52 302.64 1.3% 1.4% 31.4% 22.2% Personal Care Products 50.23 51.18 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.1% Others* 106.11 115.45 0.5% 0.5% 39.4% 36.4% *Others include Agri Business, ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre, ITC Infotech, Classic Golf Resort – a subsidiary unit in Gurgaon and large office complexes. In 2015-16, additional units that have been added in ‘Others’ are district offices & warehouses of Trade Marketing & Distribution Fuction, facilities of Technico Agri Sciences Ltd. (a subsidiary of ITC) at Chandigarh and Manpura. 79 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Renewable Energy Utilisation in ITC 12000 47.3 50 43.1 45 41.2 38.5 38.1 10000 35.3 40 30.9 35 8000 30.6 Energy in TJ 30 Percentage 26.3 24.1 6000 25 20 4000 15 10 2000 5 3437 3571 5909 6622 7957 8133 8802 8175 9392 10375 0 0 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total Renewable Energy (TJ) Percentage of Total Energy (%) Primary reasons for the increase in renewable Installation of additional solar energy utilisation from 9392 TJ in 2014-15 to energy based photovoltaic systems in 10375 TJ in 2015-16 are as follows: Munger and Saharanpur Units of Cigarettes Business. The Paperboards Unit at Bhadrachalam utilised increased quantity of wood, and Utilisation of electricity from wind in turn produced more virgin pulp leading for the entire year in Anaparti to reduced dependence on imported and Chirala Units of Leaf Tobacco pulp. This in turn enhanced availability Business, as compared to around and utilisation of black liquor for steam 8 months during 2014-15. generation and consequentially led to lesser coal consumption. Increased utilisation of purchased steam Higher consumption of chip/saw generated from biomass in Pune Unit of dust, deoiled bran and charcoal at the Foods Business and Bengaluru Unit of Paperboards Unit in Kovai. Cigarettes Business. 80 Environmental Performance Energy Savings within ITC also being incorporated into existing hotels, manufacturing units, warehouses and office Substantial improvements in specific complexes during retrofits. energy performance were achieved at many of the Units by a focused approach Targets and Performance on energy conservation through rigorous In order to continually improve on our energy third party audits and implementation of performance, ITC Businesses have set the viable recommendations, coupled with voluntary specific energy reduction targets. better capacity utilisation. As a result of Accordingly targets have been set at the Unit implementation of energy conservation level for maintaining this performance. measures, a total saving of 102.3 TJ in energy consumption has been achieved in 2015-16. Since the three Units (Bhadrachalam, Kovai and Tribeni) of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division (PSPD) together account for 89% of ITC’s total energy consumption, Total greater focus is directed towards the energy Energy performance of each of these Units. The Savings of share of these Units in ITC’s total energy 102.3 TJ consumption is shown below: Unit-wise Contribution of Total Energy Consumption of ITC Direct Indirect Energy Energy Savings of Savings of PSPD Bhadrachalam 85.7 TJ 16.6 TJ Reduction in Specific Energy Consumption by 2.5% as compared to previous year 10.9 PSPD Kovai % The LEED® Platinum rating accorded to all of ITC’s luxury hotels, making it the 77.3% Increase in Specific Energy 5.5% greenest luxury hotel chain in the world, Consumption by 18.1% as compared to previous year % implies a significant reduction in specific 6.3 as explained in the table on energy consumption with respect to the next page conventionally designed hotels. ITC Hotels are not only energy efficient by design but PSPD Tribeni also conserve fossil fuels – with several of Reduction in Specific Energy ITC’s hotels sourcing more than 50% of their Consumption by 1.6% as compared to previous year electrical energy requirements from wind All Other ITC Units farms. In order to continually reduce our Improvement in Specific Energy Consumption in most environmental footprint, green features are other Business Units integrated in all new constructions and are 81 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Performance of these three Units of Paperboard and Specialty Papers Division against the targets are as follows: Specific Energy Consumption Unit of Paperboards Comparison Comparison and Specialty Actual Target Actual against against last Primary Factors Papers for for for target year Division 20142015201515 16 16 (GJ/T) (GJ/T) (GJ/T) Installation of automated controls & sensors in power generation system for better monitoring & control and thereby minimising the losses. 2.5% Bhadrachalam 31.4 30.8 30.6 0.6% lower Energy conservation decrease initiatives like optimisation of vacuum pumps, retrofitting measures and replacement of fans, pumps, etc. with higher energy efficient equipment. Due to grid non-availability, there was a reduction in the utilisation of generated wind power. This had to be compensated by electricity generated in18.1% house (with attendant Kovai 11.6 11.0 13.7 24.5% higher increase auxiliary consumption and conversion loss from fuel to energy). Reduction in boiler efficiency due to change in fuel . Reduction in specific energy consumption was limited to 1.6% as compared to the target of 5%, primarily due 1.6% Tribeni 38.0 36.1 37.4 3.6% higher to changes in specifications decrease and quantities of product orders from what were considered during target setting. For computation methodology of energy consumption within organisation, please refer to Quantification Methodologies: Energy and GHG Emissions. 82 Environmental Performance Energy Consumption Outside of the Organisation During 2015-16, ITC has expanded the upstream boundary of energy accounting. Accordingly 2731 TJ of energy consumed outside of the organisation has been accounted for during the year. Energy Consumption Exclusive Third Party Manufacturers (TPMs) catering to Local road notebooks segment Inbound Outbound of Education and Employee travel by transportation transportation Employee Stationery Products business Hotels of raw of products commuting Business; travel by air Business materials and wastes guests 2 exclusive TPMs of Cigarettes Business; ATC Limited (an associate company) For computation methodology, please refer to Annexure Quantification Methodologies: Energy and GHG Emissions. The boundary of accounting will be progressively expanded in the years to come, based on deepening of our engagement with the supply chain members. With an objective to evaluate the impacts in the value chain and to identify additional areas for improvement, ITC continued with the life-cycle assessment (LCA) studies for its products. Having developed internal competencies in this area, life-cycle assessments of the products from Personal Care Products Business and Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business were carried out during the year which have helped in identifying areas for improvements in packaging, energy & water use, etc. Going forward, ITC intends to undertake more LCA studies for evaluating further opportunities for optimisation in the value chain of its products and services. The Road Ahead Moving towards 50% renewable energy Addressing impacts in the Value Chain share by 2020 1. Continuation of the management approach 1. Progressive accounting of energy footprint in terms of of goods and services along the value chain within the sustainability reporting boundary. Energy audits, benchmarking and target setting for progressively 2. Maintain ITC’s status of 50% renewable reducing specific energy consumption energy share with increasing reporting (energy per unit of product/service). boundary Investment in renewable energy assets Engagement with supply chain based on techno-commercial feasibility. members for improvement of energy performance. Continuous monitoring and review of performance through Integrated 3. Reduction of energy consumption in Sustainability Data Management transportation of raw materials, finished System (ISDMS). goods and wastes. 2. Redesign of strategy if warranted according to the dynamics of the economy. Life-cycle assessment studies for identifying opportunities to minimise environmental impacts across the value chain of products/services. 83 Air Emissions Management water resources, Himalayan region, coastal regions, health and disaster management Approach have been identified as focus areas in addition to reduction in emissions intensity The adverse impact on the environment due and increasing renewable energy share and to air emissions is multifaceted and longcarbon sinks. term. Evidence of the impacts due to climate change caused by Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Recognising the fact that it is necessary to emissions is already being witnessed in the play an active role in addressing the impacts changing precipitation patterns across the due to climate change, ITC has focused on globe including in India, thereby disrupting progressively improving specific energy yields in primarily rain-fed Indian agriculture. consumption, reducing its dependence on Since most of ITC’s businesses depend fossil fuels by increasing renewable energy significantly on agri-inputs, disruption in share and enhancing sequestration of CO . 2 crop yields and consequent competition for agricultural commodities, can have Another aspect linked with rapid implications on ITC and its stakeholders. As industrialisation and urbanisation is the per India’s Intended Nationally Determined problem of air pollution in terms of emissions Contributions (INDCs) submitted to of SO , NO and particulate matter that has 2 x United Nations Framework Convention on become a very serious health issue across Climate Change (UNFCCC), development almost the entire urban landscape of India. programmes in sectors vulnerable to This not only has huge adverse impacts climate change, particularly agriculture, on health of human beings but also on the 84 Environmental Performance biodiversity of a region. ITC has continued to ITC has mapped the various challenges arising invest in reducing air emission levels through from GHG and other air emissions that may focus on cleaner technologies/combustion impact its own operations or its stakeholders efficiency improvement while simultaneously and implementing appropriate strategies reducing specific energy consumption and that are guided by Board approved policies increasing ITC’s renewable energy share. addressing the various dimensions involved. Challenges from GHG and ITC Strategy ITC’s other Air Emissions Sustainability Policies Extreme weather events posing a major Reinforcing the protection of our assets in threat to ITC properties in coastal areas coastal areas. providing – disruption in operations, rail and road Developing appropriate contingency framework traffic links, in turn affecting supply of and insurance plans for uninterrupted for relevant essential raw materials and finished goods. production and delivery, in situations of actions Future regulatory pressures – carbon extreme weather events. tax or additional requirements under Adopting a low carbon growth path – Target the Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) of achieving 50% renewable energy share and Renewable Energy Certificate (REC), by 2020. in line with India’s commitments under INDCs to UNFCCC. Energy conservation through energy audits, benchmarking and target Air pollution in terms of emissions of setting for progressively reducing specific SO2, NOx, particulate matter etc. from energy consumption (energy per unit of combustion of fuels. product/service). Severe changes in precipitation patterns Investment in renewable energy assets owing to climate change could significantly based on techno-commercial feasibility. Policy on disrupt rain-fed agriculture. Continuous monitoring and review of Life-cycle Disruption in crop yields leading to performance through an organisation-wide data management system. Sustainability increased competition for agricultural commodities due to: Continued investment in reducing air emission levels through adoption of Policy on Adverse impact on water availability cleaner technologies/fuels, monitoring of in snow-fed rivers owing to retreating Environment, combustion efficiencies and investment glaciers in state-of-the-art pollution control Health and equipment. Safety Increased temperatures impacting productivity Ensuring the sustainability of agriculture Policy on through integrated watershed development Responsible and soil and moisture conservation Sourcing projects. Evaluating agricultural productivity/ adaptation issues related to climate change and providing support to farmers. Enhancing GHG sequestration through afforestation programmes. Life-cycle based approach embedded in the design and development of products and services: Progressive inclusion of performance of supply chain partners within the sustainability reporting boundary Reduction of GHG emissions in transportation of raw materials, finished goods and wastes Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 85 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC has mapped its climate change risks, their impacts & mitigation plans and also organisation specific opportunities, as detailed below: Risks from Climate Change Potential Impacts Management Method For reduction of energy as well as GHG emissions intensity aligned with INDCs Adoption of a low carbon Additional growth path through to UNFCCC, regulatory investments reduction in specific energy market-based instruments Energy to improve consumption and enhancing in India like Renewable Regulation specific energy use of renewable energy Energy Certificate (RECs), and enhance sources, while enlarging Renewable Purchase renewable positive carbon footprint Obligation (RPO) and energy share. through increased carbon Perform Achieve and Trade (PAT) mechanisms likely to sequestration. get more stringent. Effective measurement, Nationwide thrust for lowrecording and reporting carbon economic growth of relevant data in line expected to lead to an with Standard Operating increased carbon tax on Increase in Procedures developed as per Fuel/energy select energy intensive manufacturing International best practices. taxes and industries and/or products cost which could Continuous monitoring Regulations in order to incentivise energy lead to higher and review of performance efficient production. The pulp product cost. through organisation-wide & paper sector likely to be data management system. subjected to these taxes in the near future. Significant spends are made regularly by the businesses on strengthening measures Extreme weather events covering ITC manufacturing Disruptions in raw units located in the Extreme posing a threat to ITC materials supply, coastal areas. weather properties that are in coastal production as events areas and possibly lead to well as delivery disruption in manufacturing Business continuity plans are of product. and logistics. in place to compensate any interruption of production by a manufacturing facility due to extreme weather events. Belief that the performance The low-income of business enterprises must section of Socio-economic inequality be measured in terms of the population would is one of the major risks value they create for society. be worst affected that plague the world today. ITC’s development models by climate change Increased difficulty in based upon the foundation of which may achieving equitable growth its deep rooted stakeholder further aggravate and development in a large centric approach, provide the the issue of Fluctuating and diverse country like opportunity for generation of socio-economic SocioIndia. sustainable livelihoods. Such inequality. Economic models unleash strong drivers Businesses having Conditions for achieving development with Coupled with huge disparity dependence on social equity. With initiatives in incomes and rising agriculture sector, like Sustainable Agriculture, irregularities, a period of which is a source Soil & Moisture Conservation, significant socio-economic of livelihood for etc., ITC has been working to turbulence is foreseen. nearly half of the develop climate-smart villages. population, may For details on ITC’s Social face challenges Investments Programmes, in their supply please refer ‘Mission Sunehra chain. Kal’ section of this Report. 86 Environmental Performance Potential Opportunities from Climate Change Management Method Implications Continue to expand our initiatives towards sustainable growth Increasing awareness Major clients and maintain transparency in towards climate change of our B2B disclosures. to have an impact on businesses like consumer behaviour Paperboards drive for a product which Developing products/services and Specialty is not only cost effective that take into account the climate Papers and Leaf but also eco-friendly change related parameters like Changing Tobacco already across the supply chain. LEED® certification of all its Luxury Consumer seek disclosures Hotels, FSC certified wood and ECF Behaviour on sustainability technology for paper production. An opportunity to grow issues. Meeting businesses catering to the customers’ these demands by being requirements Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies a pioneer in the field of and for selected products/services sustainability. expectations, to evaluate their environmental enhances the impacts along the value chain and brand value. take necessary steps to make our products/services more benign to the environment. ITC’s Performance ITC has computed its greenhouse on Greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory, including GHG Gases emissions, biogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and GHG removals, in accordance with ISO 14064:2006, Based on applicability, ITC has accounted which is the latest international for the following gases in its GHG inventory: standard specifying principles and Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), requirements at the organisation level for quantification and reporting Nitrous Oxide (N2O), Hydrofluorocarbons of GHG emissions and removals. The (HFCs), Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and 2015-16 GHG inventory has been Sulphur Hexafluoride (SF6). Provided below verified by EY at the “Reasonable is a comparison of ITC’s GHG inventory Assurance” level. for 2015-16 with that for 2014-15: 6000 5122 4896 5000 4000 3000 2000 1519 1476 1143 1059 860 962 1000 183 187 193 230 0 Direct GHG CO2 Emissions Energy Other Total GHG GHG Emissions from Indirect GHG Indirect GHG Emissions Removals (Scope 1) combustion of Emissions Emissions (excluding CO2 (Scope 2) Emissions from biomass combustion of biomass) 2014-15 2015-16 All above figures are rounded off and are in kilotonnes. 87 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Difference in GHG emissions between 2015-16 and 2014-15 are primarily attributable to the following factors: Decrease in Direct GHG (Scope 1) emissions Decrease in fossil fuel utilisation due to increased availability of biomass as fuel in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business (Please refer to “Energy” Section for further details). Increase in CO2 emissions from combustion of biomass Increased utilisation of biomass as fuel in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Units and purchased steam generated from biomass in Pune Unit of Foods Business and Bengaluru Unit of Cigarettes Business. Increase in Energy Indirect GHG (Scope 2) emissions Inclusion of additional Units/activities into the reporting boundary as detailed in “Energy” section of this Report. Increase in Other Indirect GHG (Scope 3) emissions Inclusion of GHG emissions due to employee business travels by air, in the reporting boundary. Procurement of raw materials for Agri Business Division from distant geographies as per the availability of materials with required quality. ITC’s continual efforts in energy reduction and increasing renewable energy shares across various Units have helped control GHG emissions. In 2015-16, 13,083 tonnes of GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) were avoided by the implementation of energy conservation measures leading to savings in both direct and indirect energy. 88 Environmental Performance Carbon Positive 32,222 hectares Total plantations 51,21,855 ITC Carbon of plantations as on March 31, tonnes of CO2 Positive for 11 added during 2016 at 2,25,293 sequestered in years in a row 2015-16 under hectares this year Social and Farm Forestry Initiatives GHG Emissions and CO2 Sequestration 6000 5122## 4896 # 5000 4785 4380 4529# 4011* 4000 3695 3690** 3000 2638 2025 1058 1202 2000 1013 2046 1709 1572 1564 1613 1000 1475 1519 1352 1476 1244 1143 906 0 311 839 742 860 962 200320042005200620072008200920102011201220132014201504 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 CO2e Emission (Scope 1, 2 CO2 Sequestered CO2e Emissions from Combustion of Biomass & 3) in kilotonnes in kilotonnes in kilotonnes (computed since 2012-13) All above figures are rounded off * Dip in CO2 sequestration in 2010-11 caused by reduced productivity of Eucalyptus plantations due to infestation in some areas and lesser incremental addition of plantation area. ** Dip in CO2 sequestration numbers in 2012-13 is primarily due to the revision in methodology of computing CO2 sequestration in order to comply with ISO 14064:2006 requirements. # Increase in CO2 sequestration in 2013-14 and 2014-15 is primarily due to increase in planted area of Subabul and Casurina species as compared to the previous year. ## Primary reason for the increase in CO2 sequestration in 2015-16 as compared to the previous year is increase in planted area of Eucalyptus and inclusion of planted area of Poplar species. Targets and Performance In order to continually improve upon GHG emissions performance, some of ITC’s Businesses have voluntarily set specific GHG emissions reduction targets at the Business/Unit levels. 89 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Since the three Units (Bhadrachalam, Kovai and Tribeni) of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business together accounts for around 79% of ITC’s total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, main focus has been directed at setting reduction targets for these Units on specific GHG emissions (including Scope 1 and 2 emissions). As explained in the table below, there has been a significant increase in utilisation of biomassbased fuels in Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units based on the market scenario during 2015-16, which had not been cognised for while setting the target for the year. Specific GHG Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) Paperboards and Specialty Comparison Comparison against target against last Primary Factors Papers Actual for Target for Actual for year actual Business 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 (TCO2e/T) (TCO2e/T) (TCO2e/T) Increased production of in-house pulp to reduce dependency on imported pulp, which led to 8% increase in the generation of black liquor (a biomass8.3% based fuel) and thus Bhadrachalam 1.56 1.53 1.43 6.5% lower reduce consumption decrease of coal. Energy conservation measures that have contributed to reduce the specific energy consumption by 2.5% (as explained in ‘Energy’ section’). Change in fuel mix resulting in an increase in utilisation of biomass-based fuels 19.0% (saw dust, de-oiled Kovai 0.79 0.77 0.64 16.9% lower decrease bran and charcoal from sustainable sources) and reduced dependency on fossil fuel (lignite). Energy conservation measures that have 2.2% contributed to Tribeni 3.70 3.63 3.62 0.3% lower decrease reduce the specific energy consumption by 1.6% 90 Environmental Performance Impacts in the Value Chain ITC’s accounting of Scope 3 GHG emissions included monitoring and reporting of emissions from sources as depicted below. Scope 3 GHG Emissions Exclusive Third Party manufactures (TPMs) Inbound Outbound Employee Pick-up Catering to notebooks segment of transportation transportation Employee business and drop of Education and Stationery Products of raw of products commuting travel by guests in business; materials and wastes air ITC Hotels 2 exclusive TPMs of Cigarettes Business; ATC Limited – an associate company ITC’s efforts to optimise distribution logistics of finished goods for its FMCG Businesses have helped control GHG emissions in 2015-16. Specific Scope 3 emissions due to transportation of FMCG products (Cigarettes, Personal Care and Foods) in 2015-16 have reduced by around 24% (tonnes of CO2e emission/tonne of product transported) as compared to the previous year for the same product categories. This has been achieved by improvement in vehicle utilisation capacity and use of higher capacity vehicles across the supply chain and extensive network de-layering in order to increase direct shipments to destination warehouses, thereby avoiding intermediate movements. The standards, methodologies, tools and assumptions used for quantification of the GHG emissions and removals by various sources, have been explained at length in the Annexure – Quantification Methodologies: Energy and GHG Emissions. ITC’s Performance on Other Significant Air Emissions All ITC Units monitor significant air emission parameters, such as Particulate Matter (PM), Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) and Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) on a regular basis to ensure compliance with internal norms that are more stringent than regulatory requirements. ITC’s Other Significant Air Emissions 1400 1200 1000 800 2014-15 600 2015-16 400 *NOx and SO2 emissions re1033* stated for 2014-15, due to an 200 592 639 843* 920 1239 error in computation of emissions (i.e. emission values in ppm 0 not converted to mg/nm3) for Particulate Nox (tonnes) SO2 (tonnes) Paperboards and Specialty Papers Matter (tonnes) Unit at Kovai. The increase in the total emissions over last year was primarily due to the increase in production/service of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business, Packaging and Printing Business, Foods Business and ITC Hotels, and low grade quality of coal used for generation of direct energy in Paperboards and Specialty Papers Unit at Tribeni. 91 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Snapshot of Bhadrachalam Unit’s performance Owing to the energy conservation initiatives 1.8 1.54 undertaken as cited in the Energy section 1.6 in this Report, there has been a consistent 1.32 1.4 decrease in specific air emissions in terms 1.2 1 0.96 0.97 of particulate matter, NOx and SO2 emissions 1 for the Bhadrachalam Unit. 0.8 0.66 0.66 (i) Particulate Matter 0.6 Particulate matter emission for 0.4 Bhadrachalam has remained the same 0.2 (0.66 kg/BDMT of production) in 2015-16 as 0 compared to the previous year. As per the Particulate Matter (in kg/BDMT of Production) Centre for Science & Environment (Source : All About Paper – The life cycle of Indian Pulp 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 and Paper Industry, Green Rating Project, 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2004), the average particulate emission by 2015-16 large scale Indian Mills is 3.8kg/BDMT. (ii) NOx and SO2 Emissions 0.9 0.79 0.8 0.74 0.7 0.61 Specific 0.6 0.53 0.51 NOX Emissions 0.5 0.6 (in kg/tonne) 0.58 0.36 0.4 0.33 0.3 0.46 0.35 0.2 0.33 Specific 0.1 0.16 0.15 SO2 Emissions 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 (in kg/tonne) Standards for NOx (kg/tonne) Standards for SO2 (kg/tonne) Sweden 1.2-2.4 0.5-1.4 EU 1.0-1.8 0.1-0.5 EU-BAT* 1.0-1.5 0.2-0.4 Reported Values CEPI* * 0.73 0.157 Sources 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large-Scale Pulp & Paper Mills study by CPPRI, published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT: EU Norm Best Available technology 2. ** CEPI – Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) Sustainability Report 2005 reported the average specific SO2 and specific NOx values for European Paper Industries in 2002; CEPI Sustainability Report 2013 indicated the reduction in specific SO2 and NOx values for European Paper Industries from 2002 to 2012. (iii) Hydrogen Sulphide Emissions Hydrogen Sulphide The primary source of hydrogen sulphide 10 emissions in the integrated pulp and paper mill at Bhadrachalam is the soda recovery 4.21 boilers in which black liquor is used to 3.18 produce steam and recover chemicals. In 2015-16, hydrogen sulphide emissions for the 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Unit have decreased by 24% in comparison to mg/nM 3 2014-15 primarily due to improved operating parameters and optimisation of equipment. Regulatory Norm 2014-15 2015-16 92 Environmental Performance Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) ITC’s ODS Phase-out Plan Replacement of Recovery of Procurement of new Monitoring all the existing all the ODS from equipment which are free and reducing equipment using the equipment of Chlorofluorocarbons consumption ODS well before being replaced for (CFC), Halons and Methyl of ODS the stipulated recycling or safe Chloroform (MCF) phase-out period disposal In 2015-16, the total consumption of ODS by all our Units was 90.1 kg of CFC-11 equivalent. Responsible Management of Chemicals, Oils and Fuels All ITC Units manage chemicals, oils and fuels as per norms defined by the Company, which take into account all statutory requirements and international best practices. These norms are taken into consideration right from the design stage and include measures for leakage/spillage prevention, provisions for containment, impervious flooring, leak detection system as well as all requirements as per Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for hazardous chemicals. To avoid any incidence of uncontrolled spills or leakage, ITC has instituted safe work practices on handling and storage, procedures for leak detection & spill control and preventive maintenance. The effectiveness of these measures is checked on a regular basis. The Road Ahead Reduction in GHG Emissions Reduction in Other Air Emissions Impacts within Boundary Moving towards 50% renewable energy share by 2020 by continuing with the strategy of: Energy audits, benchmarking and target setting for progressively reducing specific energy consumption (energy per unit of product/service) Investment in renewable energy assets based on techno-commercial feasibility Continuous monitoring and review of performance Representative projection of energy consumption scenario based on Company’s growth plan and development of way-forward aligned with guidelines and mandates defined by Government of India Continue to focus on: Improvement of combustion efficiencies of fuels State-of-the-art pollution control equipment Impacts in Value Chain Continue to focus on optimising the logistics network to reduce the environmental impacts due to transportation of raw materials, finished goods and wastes Enhancing CO2 sequestration through afforestation programmes, details on which are provided in “Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal” section Encouraging supply chain partners for reduction of GHG emissions Life-cycle assessment studies for identifying opportunities to minimise environmental impacts across the value chain of products/services 93 Water Management Management from rainwater alone2, the agri-sector is specially vulnerable to climate change, which Approach may lead to considerable adverse impacts on agricultural yields. Agriculture being the Global water requirements are projected to primary contributor to water consumption, exceed available sustainable water supplies focused efforts must be made towards efficient by 40% within 20301. The issue of water crisis irrigation practices and bringing down the plagues large parts of the world including overall water demand for this sector. On the Africa, parts of North America and Asia. supply side, India’s water resources remain According to a 2030 Water Resources Group constrained due to inefficient use of water, Report1, in India, the aggregate gap between overexploitation of ground water reserves demand and supply of water is expected to be without adequate recharge and variations in 50% of the demand in 2030. Also, the report surface water availability because of erratic projects that increasing population and rise rainfall patterns. in demand for food/feed crops will lead to ITC has sought to engage actively with multiple agricultural demand doubling in comparison agencies to share experiences and also with 2005. improve understanding of the complex social It is important to note that in India agriculture and technical issues related to water. ITC has which is largely rain-fed, accounts for around actively supported the development of the three quarters of all water consumption India Water Tool as a working group member, (surface and sub-surface) at the local an activity coordinated by the World Business watershed level. With around 55% of net Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). sown area meeting its water requirements This tool permits a first level analysis of water 1 Charting our Water Future, Report by 2030 Water Resources Group, 2009 2 Prioritisation of rainfed areas in India, Planning Commission Report 94 Environmental Performance risks across the country and maps water risk its Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business for individual locations to prioritise siteUnit at Bhadrachalam. The recommendations specific water-management improvements, an of the report are now being implemented in the issue that is becoming increasingly real in the watershed area towards ensuring improved Indian context. ITC has been actively engaged water security for all stakeholders. with the Alliance for Water Stewardship in the development of the International Water Learning from these experiences and its Stewardship Standard, which lays out the extensive work on integrated watershed framework for sustainable water management development, ITC has evolved a long-term and what it takes to achieve water strategy for water security at the local stewardship. Based on this understanding, watershed level for all stakeholders and ITC had partnered with International Water is in the process of doing the same for its Management Institute (IWMI) to carry out a operating units located at identified high water security study at the watershed level for water stress areas. Challenges from Water Stress ITC Strategy ITC’s With continuous decline in ground Conducting water audits, benchmarking Sustainability water and uneven supply of surface and implementation of best practices Policies water, it may become even more for reducing water intake. Addressing challenging for businesses to meet Progressively reducing specific these their requirements. water intake (water per unit of product/service) through continuous Challenges Limits on water withdrawal exerting monitoring of performance and pressure on industries to continually management review through reduce the water intake. Integrated Sustainability Data Management System (ISDMS). Treating effluent so as to ensure Largely rain-fed farming in India, that discharge quality is better than with around 55% of net sown area statutory requirements and progressing meeting its water requirements from towards recycling/reusing of all treated rainwater alone and agriculture effluent within or outside ITC premises. providing employment to over 48.9% Evaluation of water availability/stress Policy on of the workforce. across ITC Units. Environment, Due to absence of adequate irrigation Engagement with external stakeholders infrastructure support, any significant Health and for assessment and mitigation of water Safety disruption in rainfall patterns resulting related risks at the local watershed level. from climate change may lead to Life-cycle based approach for considerable adverse impacts on Policy on understanding impacts across the agricultural yields. value chain. Life-cycle Water availability especially critical for Ensuring the sustainability of agriculture Sustainability ITC, as most of its businesses depend through integrated watershed significantly on agri-inputs. development including rainwater Policy on Impact on water quality and availability harvesting, soil and managed aquifer Responsible recharge projects, moisture conservation owing to disruptions in rainfall Sourcing projects particularly in regions from patterns. where ITC sources its raw materials. Declining groundwater tables due to Grassroot capacity building for proper non-sustainable extraction against governance of water in agricultural increasing demand. water usage. Deteriorating water quality requiring Enhancing ITC’s water positive footprint additional treatment and additional through rainwater harvesting, both expenses before it can become usable. within our own Units and across different watershed areas. Responsible water stewardship actions – working towards meeting the water security needs of all stakeholders at the local watershed level. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 95 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Our Performance water intake of ITC, greater efforts have been focused on the performance of the Units (as given in the following section) Water Withdrawal under this Business. In 2015-16, ITC Units withdrew 33.8 million Total Water Intake of Paperboards kilolitres (kl) of water, a decrease of 2% over and Specialty Papers Business and the previous year (34.48 million kl in 2014-15) the Rest of ITC (in million kl) despite an increase in production for most businesses. This performance is primarily attributable to the on-going initiatives 3.63 undertaken towards water conservation across ITC Units. Of the 33.8 million kl of total water withdrawn, 77.8% of water resources were sourced from rivers, 19.8% from ground water sources and only 2.4% from municipal and other water sources. 30.17 Sources of 33.8 million kl of Total Water withdrawn by ITC in 2015-16 2.4% PSPD Rest of ITC Total Water withdrawal in million kl (PSPD Units) 19.8% 25.34 77.8% 3.68 1.14 0.02 Surface water Ground water Bhadrachalam Tribeni Kovai Bollaram + Municipal water & Others Divisional Head Office During the year, focused efforts by all Units to reduce intake by conducting water audits, benchmarking and adopting leading practices facilitated the reduction Paperboards Unit at of specific water intake as illustrated in the Bhadrachalam following sections. India’s largest integrated paper and In order to maintain its performance, ITC paperboards mill accounted for 75% of the Businesses have set voluntary specific total fresh water intake in ITC. In 2015-16, water intake reduction targets at the Unit/ the Bhadrachalam Unit’s fresh water intake Business level. was 41.4 kl/tonne of product, a reduction of 2.8% over the previous year’s 42.6 kl/tonne, Considering the fact that three Units of primarily due to various water conservation Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business initiatives undertaken by the Unit, which together accounted for around 89% of total include increased recycling of effluent in 96 Environmental Performance process areas. The persistent efforts of the Unit towards water conservation are evident in the consistently decreasing trend of specific water intake as depicted below. However, specific water intake target for 2015-16 could not be achieved due to higher water consumption in Paper Machine (#7) and less backwater utilisation in the Pulp Mill during specific product category runs. Proposed National Productivity Council (NPC) Benchmark Standard of 63 kl/tonne for large scale integrated pulp and paper mills (Reference: Final Report on Development of Guidelines for Water Conservation in Pulp and Paper Sector by NPC, New Delhi, March 2006.) 70 60 54.67 50.47 48.22 Specific water intake (in kl/tonne) 46.39 45.07 50 42.63 40.5 41.44 40 30 20 10 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Target for 2015-16 2015-16 Specialty Papers Unit at Tribeni ITC’s Unit at Tribeni manufactures specialty paper, which is a water intensive process. The Unit has achieved around 23.6% reduction of specific water intake during the reporting period over the previous year primarily due to process improvements, increased use of recycled treated effluent for boiler make-up, cleaning, etc. The specific water intake target for 2015-16 could not be achieved due to delay in execution of some water conservation proposals like installation of second set of tertiary filtration for increased usage of treated effluent, which would deliver the water saving benefits in the coming year. 140 116.59 124.24 115.88 107.76 114.55* 107.76 64.66 82.31 Specific water intake (in kl/tonne) 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Target for 2015-16 2015-16 *Increase of 6.3% in 2013-14 over the previous year was primarily due to the commissioning activities of the new power plant at Tribeni. Note: There is no specific NPC benchmark standard for Tribeni 97 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Paperboards Unit at Kovai Water conservation measures including the arrest of losses in intake pipeline undertaken by the Unit led to the reduction in specific water intake from 11.6kl/tonne in 2014-15 to 11.19 kl/tonne in 2015-16. The specific water intake target for 2015-16 could not be achieved due to unforeseen machine stabilisation issues between September to November, 2015. Proposed NPC Benchmark Standard of 19 kl/tonne for recycled fibre based paper mills 20 Specific water intake (in kl/tonne) 18 16 16.65 15.94 14 13.97 13.75 12 13.09 10 11.6 11.19 10.44 8 6 4 2 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Target for 2015-16 2015-16 Effluent Discharge Treated Effluent Discharged by Destination Municipal Common Sewers Effluent 0.5% Treatment Plant 0.2% Total volume of 24.45 million kl of treated effluent was discharged outside Surface Irrigation the premises by Water outside ITC Units Bodies premises 27.0% 72.3% 98 Environmental Performance All ITC Units covered in the boundary of this Report met the regulatory requirements of discharge quality and quantity in 2015-16. The two Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni accounted for 98.9% of total treated wastewater discharged outside Unit premises in ITC, out of which 72.5% was utilised for irrigation purpose. Therefore specific focus has been accorded to the performance of these 2 Units in terms of treated effluent discharge volume as well as quality. 100 NPC benchmark standard** of 50 kl/tonne NPC benchmark standard absent for for integrated pulp and paper industry Specialty Papers Industry 80 60 40 20 59.1 63.9 59.6 48.0 44.9 45.0 43.4 41.8 40.4 39.10 63.0 63.7 74.4 68.5 72.5 71.1 59.8 59.2 66.7 64.6 0 Bhadrachalam Tribeni 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Bhadrachalam Unit has been reaping the benefits of initiatives undertaken towards recycling of treated effluent as is evident from the continually decreasing trend of specific treated effluent discharged. For Tribeni Unit, the specific treated effluent discharged has decreased from 66.7 kl/tonne in 2014-15 to 64.6 kl/tonne in 2015-16. Since 2010-11, the wastepaper-based pulp and paper mill at Kovai has not discharged any treated effluent outside its premises. The quality of the treated effluent from Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units was far better than the stipulated standards in India: Treated Effluent Quality: Annual Average (2015-16) Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units 250 Treated effluent quality (in mg/l) 157 104 100 22 30 42 41 32 4 6 8 BOD COD TSS Bhadrachalam Tribeni Kovai National Standard 99 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS In addition, the quality of the treated effluent from Bhadrachalam Unit was comparable with European standards: Bhadrachalam (kg/tonne of European Paper Industries# Parameters finished product) (kg/tonne of finished product) BOD 0.87 0.816 COD 6.14 5.713 # Reference: Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) Sustainability Report 2005 and 2013. The level of adsorbable organic halides (AOX) generated during the bleaching process is another critical parameter applicable only to ITC’s Bhadrachalam Unit. These compounds are formed as a result of reaction between residual lignin from wood fibres and chlorine compounds used for bleaching. Depicted below is the specific AOX level for Bhadrachalam Unit for the year 2015-16 showing that the level is well below the norm stipulated by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) as well as national and international benchmarks. Specific AOX Level (Kg/tonne Reference of finished product) Bhadrachalam Unit 0.0088 MoEFCC standard 1 Average as per Comprehensive Industry Indian Paper/ Document for Large-Scale Paper Mills, 0.46-0.8 Paperboard mills study conducted by Central Pulp and Paper Research Institute, 2007 Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) Sustainability Report 2005 reported the average specific AOX value for European European Paper Paper Industries in 2002; CEPI Sustainability 0.019 Industries Report 2013 mentioned the reduction in specific AOX value for European Paper Industries from 2002 to 2012 International Finance ‘Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines 0.25 Corporation (IFC) Pulp and Paper Mills’, IFC Standard 100 Environmental Performance ITC is committed to achieving zero effluent issues involved. The study included basin discharge through treating and recycling of level water accounting & budgeting within all wastewater. Along with this, harvesting of a defined catchment boundary, detailed rainwater within its properties not only reduces hydrogeological mapping covering the water intake but also maximises groundwater use of ground water as well as surface recharge and reduces run-off. In 2015-16, water resources, aquifer recharge, Mureru the following Units achieved the goal of zero river health restoration programme to effluent discharge outside the premises. address basin level risks, etc. Based on the recommendations of the study, a detailed Cigarette Factories at Bengaluru, long-term plan has been drawn up to help Munger, Saharanpur & Pune, Leaf achieve water security for all stakeholders in Processing Units at Anaparti, Chirala the catchment and appropriate interventions & Mysuru, Packaging & Printing Unit at watershed level are being implemented at Tiruvottiyur and Munger, Snacks through the Social Investment Programme of and Noodles Unit at Malur and Pune, ITC. The study report is proposed to be shared Dairy Unit at Munger, Life Sciences with government agencies for participative & Technology Centre at Bengaluru, implementation of recommendations with Research Centre at Rajahmundry, key stakeholders. Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Units at Kovai and Bollaram, ITC has also initiated work on water security Personal Care Products Business Unit studies for two other river basins (Ghod river, at Manpura, Lifestyle Retailing Business Maharashtra and Bhavani river, Tamil Nadu) Headquarters at Manesar, ITC Green towards sustainable water stewardship. The Centre at Gurgaon, Hotels ITC Maratha objective is to create an ecosystem with all and ITC Grand Central in Mumbai, ITC stakeholders being aware of the competing Rajputana in Jaipur, ITC Grand Bharat in demands and future risks of available Gurgaon and ITC Mughal in Agra. resources. The basin level security plan would involve development of framework in ITC is committed coordination with various stakeholders to to achieving Water Security in mitigate identified risks. zero effluent discharge Catchment Areas through treating With the Bhadrachalam experience, similar and recycling of With the intent of progressing towards water studies have been completed at ITC’s all wastewater stewardship, ITC had carried out a pilot water two other Units located in water stressed security study at Bhadrachalam in order to areas to help achieve water security for develop a comprehensive understanding of all stakeholders in the catchment area. 101 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS The recommended interventions include more of them for evaluating opportunities The total augmenting rainwater harvesting systems for improvement in the value chains of its rainwater in the catchment areas by measures like products and services. harvesting rejuvenation of traditional cascading tanks potential and village ponds, mapping of appropriate Enlarging Water Positive created by ITC Footprint recharge areas for the local aquifers, so far is over three times community-level initiatives to promote sustainable irrigation practices to reduce The Company’s continued interventions in the net water consumption water use, move to less-water intensive rainwater harvesting both in the Company by ITC’s crops without impacting the economic premises and socially relevant watershed manufacturing benefits, etc. Phase-wise Implementation of areas have enlarged our water positive operations these interventions has been planned in the footprint. Details on these interventions subsequent years. are available in the “Social Investments – Mission Sunehra Kal” section of this Report. Going forward with learning from these detailed studies, ITC intends to make As on March 31, 2016, ITC’s Integrated water security assessment an integral Watershed Development Projects, covering part of greenfield/brownfield project 2,59,050 hectares of land, support the design and development. Water Positive status of the Company for the 14th year in a row. Due to focused efforts on Impacts in the Value Chain reducing net water consumption through various water conservation initiatives In line with the Board approved Policies on across the Businesses and increasing the Life-cycle Sustainability and Responsible total rainwater harvesting potential created Sourcing, in 2014-15, ITC had initiated the within the Units and through watershed process of accounting for water intake of development initiatives, the rainwater supply chain members. In 2015-16, the total harvesting potential created is now over water intake for ATC Limited (an associate three times of the net water consumption by Company), and two exclusive third party ITC’s manufacturing operations. manufacturers for the Cigarettes Business, together was 28,801 kl. ITC has completed 6 For the watershed structures outside LCA studies till date and intends to undertake ITC Units, the ‘RWH potential’ figures from Water Balance Million kl 30 28.18 25.84 25.63 25 23.59 23.27 19.6 19.93 20.6 19.89 21.05 21.47 20 16.06 16.86 15 12.74 10 9.49 8.44 9.83 10.24 9.35 5 8.54 8.2 9.26 6.21 6.55 7.15 6.22 5.43 4.62 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 -03 -04 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 -16 Net water consumption (=Fresh Total RWH potential created for the year (= RWH potential Water Intake Treated Effluents created within ITC Units + RWH potential created through Discharged) watershed projects cumulative for that year) 102 Environmental Performance 2008-09 account for silt deposits the adjustments are based on actual sample measurement & the extent of silt deposit depends on the age & location of a structure. The Road Ahead While continuing its integrated watershed management programme, ITC will be guided by the principles of water stewardship to ensure water security for all stakeholders across all our operating Units. Ensuring that responsible Addressing shared water stewardship actions Mitigation of Water Risks to water challenges in the are taken to minimise Own Operations catchment negative impacts and maximise positive impacts 1. Identification of key 1. Identification of water 1. Continue to address water performance indicators security issues at the security issues in regions (KPIs) and setting targets local watershed level, to where ITC sources its agri for continual improvement be progressively made an commodities from. based on internal as well as integral part of greenfield/ external benchmarking. brownfield project design 2. Integrated watershed and development. development and soil and 2. Monitoring and review of moisture conservation performance against KPIs 2. Measures initiated to projects in those regions. and targets set through achieve water security for integrated sustainability all stakeholders with review 3. Capacity building of farmers data management system. and public reporting of to ensure self-sustenance performance. of the watershed development programmes. 4. Expand coverage of water security projects in identified production units exposed to water units. Life-cycle assessment studies for evaluation of the opportunities for improvement in the value chain of products/services and implement appropriate interventions. 103 Waste Management Management water and air, which eventually has an adverse effect on the quality of life. The recently notified Approach Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016 and Plastic Waste Management (PWM) Rules, Over the last few decades, the amount of 2016 come as an effort towards addressing waste generated has gone up considerably as the issue of waste management, which has a direct consequence of increasing population, assumed critical dimension in our country. rapid & unplanned urbanisation and higher consumption levels. Around 62 million1 tonnes As per several reputed studies, MSW typically of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) is being consists of organic compostable matter generated across urban India every year, (40% by weight), ash, stones & debris (40%), with large metros such as Mumbai alone glass, paper, metals, textile & leather (13%) generating over 7000 tonnes a day. However, and plastic wastes (7%). A 2016 Report by we as a country are struggling to provide Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce efficient waste management services and Industries (FICCI) on the Plastic Industry and adequate infrastructure to attend states plastic consumption in India as 12.8 the increasing quantum of waste, with million tonnes per annum, which translates continued and indiscriminate dumping of to generation of approximately 5 million waste at open sites. While unavailability of tonnes of plastic wastes per annum. Plastics recyclable/reusable waste adds burden on today are an integral part of modern life and natural resources to meet the fresh demand, have made it possible for the benefits of inappropriately managed waste dumped at development to reach the poorest and needy. landfill sites also cause contamination on land, Their economic and environmental utility 1 Report of the Task Force on Waste to Energy, Planning Commission 104 Environmental Performance in providing insulation benefits, protecting system through their own distribution product integrity when used as packaging, channel or through the local body concerned. etc. have been transformational and gaps ITC believes that the approach to address in the MSW management system should not the issue of collection, segregation and colour public perception about the utility of management of plastic waste needs to be plastics. Plastic wastes, although smaller in integrated with the overall MSW management overall composition, have tended to attract system. Such an effort will avoid duplication greater public concern due to their visibility. of systems not only between MSW and In most municipalities, contractors engaged in plastic waste management streams but also collection and transportation are paid for the between different Producers, Importers volume of waste dumped at the landfill sites, and Brand Owners, which, otherwise, will which in a sense incentivises landfilling and significantly add to the existing challenges discourages waste segregation. of cost-effectiveness of MSW management PWM Rules 2016 adopt the concept of system. Also, in the Indian context, where Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) for the unorganised sector has significant scale plastic packaging and Producers, Importers and contributes to 2/3rd of the Fast Moving and Brand Owners who introduce products Consumer Goods (FMCG) sector volumes of with plastic packaging in the market are now post-consumer packaging, effectiveness of an responsible for working out a waste collection EPR approach modelled on an isolated waste 105 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS collection system is unlikely to be effective. direct experience in MSW management as its The key to success of a comprehensive MSW Well-being out of Waste (WOW) programme, management system is the ability to collect has been operating as a CSR initiative for and segregate different post-consumer waste over a decade. streams, which is fundamental to achieve WOW initiative is focused on creating scalable value realisation from each waste stream and solutions to collect, segregate & recycle/ prevent littering/landfilling. reuse different streams of municipal solid waste, and providing sustainable livelihoods Within the boundary of ITC Units, focused for people working as rag pickers. efforts are made towards resource conservation by minimising waste generation Based on learning from own experience, ITC and improving efficiencies in waste has crafted the following approach on the segregation & recycling/reuse. ITC also has aspect of waste management. Challenges of Waste Management ITC Strategy ITC’s Sustainability Waste generation from processes CREATING A POSITIVE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Policies affecting overall efficiency and product competitiveness. Providing Resource Conservation Framework Inadequate waste segregation Reducing specific waste generation at source, leading to inefficient for Relevant at all ITC Units through constant recoveries and more waste diverted monitoring and improvement of Actions to landfills. efficiencies in material utilisation. Substituting multi-layer packaging Segregation at Source with alternative material while ensuring similar insulation properties Ensuring maximum reuse and recycling and product shelf life. of wastes by following ‘segregation at source’ approach. Towards 100% Recycling Inadequate infrastructure and Policy on unorganised waste collection processes. Tracking of each category of waste to Environment, ensure that it can be reused wherever Regulations on “extended producer possible, and if not, recycled. This Health and responsibility” related to generation and ensures that almost no waste from Safety management of plastic packaging waste. ITC’s Businesses lands up in municipal Inadequate awareness and absence or private landfills. Policy on of incentives/penalties necessary to Use of Waste as Raw Materials Life-cycle change behaviour of people to promote ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Sustainability reduce-reuse-recycle of waste. Units are encouraged to increase the utilisation of post-consumer waste as Policy on a source of fibre instead of virgin fibre. Responsible Research on Alternatives to Plastic Sourcing Packaging Engagement with Central Institute of Corporate Plastics Engineering and Technology Social (CIPET) for research on options for Responsibility bio-degradable packaging material. Policy “WOW”: Well-being Out of Waste Promote a clean and green environment and create sustainable livelihoods for rag pickers and waste collectors, by developing a scalable business model for post-consumer waste recycling in collaboration with local municipal corporations. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary 106 Environmental Performance Our Performance low ash content, which led to reduction in fly ash in Bhadrachalam Unit of the Paperboards Waste Generation and Specialty Papers Division(PSPD). This Unit, which accounted for 79.8% of the total waste In 2015-16, ITC Units generated 7,45,149 tonnes of waste (7,91,227 tonnes in 2014-15). This generated in ITC during 2015-16, reported 5.8% decrease in total waste generated over a decrease of 5.7% in waste generation as last year was primarily due to use of coal with compared to previous reporting period. Business-wise break-up of wastes generated in ITC: 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 Business Tonnes Tonnes % of total waste Paperboards and 7,21,211 6,76,498 90.8 Specialty Papers Leaf Tobacco 22,198 23,114 3.1 Packaging and 19,455 20,514 2.7 Printing Foods 12,035 9,569 1.3 Cigarettes 9,417 8,554 1.1 Hotels 5,315 5,200 0.7 Personal Care 1,335 1,347 0.2 Products Others* 263 353 0.1 Total 7,91,227 7,45,149 * Includes ITC Head Office at Kolkata, ITC Infotech, ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon, Life Sciences & Technology Centre, Lifestyle Retailing and Classic Golf & Country Club. All of the above figures have been rounded off to the nearest digit Contribution of PSPD Units in ITC’s Total Waste Generation PSPD Bhadrachalam Reduction in Specific Waste Generation by 7.7% as compared to previous year PSPD Tribeni 9.6% Reduction in Specific Waste Generation by 18.5% as compared to previous year 79.8% 3.4% PSPD Kovai % Increase in Specific Waste Generation by 7.1 19.3% as compared to previous year All Other ITC Units 107 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS In order to continually improve performance on resource conservation, all ITC Units have developed systems to track and monitor the specific waste generation (waste generated per unit of product/service). Considering the three Units of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business contributed around 90% of the total waste generated by ITC (given in the table below) specific focus has been laid on monitoring the performance of these Units. Specific waste generation of these Units are as follows: Specific Waste Generation (kg/tonne) Comparison Comparison Unit against against last Reason Target target year Actual Actual for 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 2.8% Availability of low Bhadrachalam 1,171.1 1,112.5 1,081.2 7.7% lower decrease ash content coal. Increased usage 25.6% 19.3% of charcoal Kovai# 210.2 199.7 250.8 increase higher resulting in higher generation of ash. Tribeni 2,055.6 1,952.84 1,674.7 14.2% 18.5% Availability of low decrease lower ash content coal. # Normalisation of moisture content in ETP sludge and mixed plastic waste has been done, as significant difference in moisture content over the last year was reported. The significant variation in the specific waste generation as indicated above is primarily due to the ash quantity owing to the availability of type of fuel for a particular Unit. Specific Waste Generation of Bhadrachalam (kg/tonne of paper and paperboard) Average generation of 1200 kg of solid waste per tonne of product for similar integrated pulp and paper mills** 1400 1200 1116 1127 1111 1171 1030 1044 1081 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Specific Waste Generation (kg/tonne of paper and paperboard) **Reference: Centre for Science and Environment Report, ‘All About Paper’ (2004) 108 Environmental Performance Historically, due to limited options for recycling of lime sludge (a waste generated from chemical recovery process in Bhadrachalam Unit), some amount was being utilised by cement plants, with the major quantity stored in lagoons within the premises, incorporating adequate precautions to prevent adverse impacts on soil and ground water. In 2014-15, the Unit tied up with cement plants for disposal of lime sludge and post disposal of 14,000 tonnes through this arrangement, around 2.5 lakh tonnes of lime sludge was estimated to be still accumulated in these lagoons. In 2015-16, another 67,000 tonnes of waste was recycled through cement plants. The balance quantity in the lagoons is estimated to be 1.8 lakh tonnes and it is expected that the entire amount of accumulated lime sludge will be disposed within the next 3 years. Similarly, around 4,900 tonnes of historically generated mixed plastic waste, generated during pulp recovery from waste paper, was stored in-house at Kovai Unit and was disposed to cement plants during the current reporting period. As on date, there is no on-site storage of plastic waste and the Unit has tied up with cement plants for all such plastic wastes generated in the Unit. Segregation of Waste and its no other hazardous wastes were transported Destination between locations owned or managed by the organisation. Of the total waste generated by ITC in 201516, only 3.2% by weight can be categorised The table below depicts the final destinations as hazardous waste as per Indian statutes. of the total hazardous wastes generated 91.7% of this hazardous waste was recycled during 2015-16: by authorised external agencies, and the Total hazardous waste and its destination (2015-16) balance 8.3% was disposed of or stored completely in accordance with applicable Total hazardous waste generated 23,902 statutes. All ITC Units have established systems and procedures to verify the relevant Hazardous waste carried over from authorisations and licenses of agencies 65 previous year and disposed in 2015-16 used for transporting, recycling or disposing the hazardous wastes, in compliance with Recycled 21,981 applicable regulations and norms. Further, Corporate EHS periodically verifies the Incineration + Landfill 1,944 compliance in each of the ITC Units. During 2015-16, apart from hazardous wastes On-site storage 42 transported to external treatment sites by authorised transport agencies as applicable, (All values in Tonnes) 109 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Non-hazardous Quantity of Generated Waste destination waste category generation (Tonnes) Units of Paperboards & Specialty Fly ash generated from Used by cement and Papers and Leaf Tobacco Businesses 3,40,836 coal-fired boilers brick manufacturers Utilised by in-house Bhadrachalam Unit of Paperboards & Lime sludge 2,20,972 lime kiln as well as by Specialty Papers Business cement manufacturers Used for brick Bottom ash from coalUnits of Paperboards & Specialty manufacturing and 39,695 fired boilers Papers and Leaf Tobacco Businesses filling of low-lying areas Wood waste from Bhadrachalam Unit of Paperboards & Used as a fuel in an in26,749 chipping operation Specialty Papers Business house boiler During 2015-16, out of the total nonto eliminate the creation of waste in hazardous waste generated in ITC Units, the first place thereby reducing waste 99.91% waste was reused/recycled. The generation. Since generation of waste details of the destination for the major cannot be completely eliminated due to waste categories, which contributed to limitations in processes and technology, more than 85% of the total non-hazardous all ITC Businesses/Units endeavour to work waste generated in ITC Units in 2015-16, towards 100% recycling of generated waste. are given above. ‘Segregation at source’ along with focused attention on identifying and tracking of all Waste Recycling waste streams till its final disposal have ITC strives to maximise resource efficiency helped us to recycle 99.7% of the total waste encouraging all its Units to take steps generated within the Units, during 2015-16. Progress on Waste Recycling 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.8 99.9 99.8 99.7 98.9 98.8 900 100.0% 800 98.0% 700 96.0% 600 94.0% 500 791 92.0% 712 748 400 682 90.0% 638 663 300 579 88.0% 490 200 353 86.0% 100 84.0% 0 82.0% 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total Waste Generation (kilo tonnes) Waste Recycling % 110 Environmental Performance Units that recycled more than 99% of waste generated Cigarette factories at Bengaluru, Leaf Tobacco processing Units at Munger, Saharanpur, Kolkata and Pune. Anaparti, Chirala and Mysuru. Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units ILTD Divisional Head Office at Bhadrachalam, Kovai and Bollaram. in Guntur. Personal Care Business Units at ITC Green Centre Haridwar. at Gurgaon. Foods Business Units at Haridwar Hotels: ITC Maurya, ITC Maratha, ITC (Snacks, Noodles and Biscuits) and Grand Central, ITC Grand Bharat, ITC Pune (Snacks and Noodles). Windsor, ITC Gardenia, ITC Grand Chola, ITC Sonar, ITC Rajputana, ITC Kakatiya, My Fortune, Bengaluru and Classic Golf & Country Club WelcomHotel Sheraton, New Delhi. Waste Used as Raw Materials with utilisation of externally generated To further expand the Company’s waste waste paper as a source of fibre in the above recycling footprint, the Paperboards mentioned Paperboards and Specialty and Specialty Paper Units at Kovai and Paper Units, have helped the company to Bhadrachalam use post-consumer waste maintain its solid waste recycling positive as raw materials. Efforts at ITC Units to status for the 9th consecutive year (refer to recycle the entire waste generated along the table below). 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 -16 Total Waste generated 3,52,970 4,90,180 5,78,865 6,38,405 6,63,796 6,82,405 7,11,887 7,91,227 7,45,149# (tonnes) Waste recycled 3,49,264 4,84,287 5,77,766 6,37,452 6,62,978 6,81,129 7,11,033 7,89,720 7,42,635 (tonnes) % Recycled 98.90 98.80 99.80 99.80 99.90 99.80 99.90 99.80 99.70 Un-recycled 3,706 5,893 1,099 953 818 1,276 854 1,592 2,606 waste (tonnes) External wastes used as 1,63,245 1,25,337 1,25,931 1,19,002 1,15,414 1,18,462 1,09,998 1,14,563 1,13,213 raw materials (tonnes) Waste recycling 145 124 122 119 117 117 115 114 115 footprint (%) * # 92 tonnes of waste, carried over from previous year was disposed in 2015-16 but not included in ‘total waste generated’ * Waste Recycling footprint (%) = (Waste recycled + external waste used as raw material) *100 /Total waste generated in ITC 111 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS The WellITC has also been collaborating with local municipal agencies to work on sustainable The Road Ahead being out of management of community waste. “Wealth In context of PWM Rules 2016 and the adopted waste (WOW) Out of Waste (WOW)”, a recycling programme concept of EPR on plastic packaging, Industry movement today initiated in April 2007 by the Paperboards and has a critical role to play in providing a holistic extends to 400 Specialty Papers Business of ITC, has evolved solution to MSW management. An effective municipal wards into a corporate level programme with scope EPR model needs to be complemented of Hyderabad, enhanced to “Well-being out of waste”. with a national level accounting of plastic Chennai, packaging introduced into the market by a Bengaluru, The WOW movement today extends to 400 Coimbatore and Producer, Importer or Brand Owner, against municipal wards of Hyderabad, Chennai, some towns which the integrated MSW and plastic Bengaluru, Coimbatore and some towns of of Telangana waste management programmes should be Telangana covering over 5 million citizens covering over 5 rolled out to off-set the plastic packaging and now manages municipal solid wastes for million citizens over 11,00,000 households. The Programme used against the plastic wastes recycled or used for energy recovery as per approved creates sustainable livelihood for 10,000 rag methodologies, in a phased manner. pickers and waste collectors by propagating source segregation at each of the households. With learning from our direct experience Similar programmes are operational in 9 on MSW management, we strongly believe districts of Saharanpur, Hooghly, Kolkata, that the following elements are essential Munger, Guntur, Madurai, Pune, Thiruvallur for a comprehensive solution to MSW and Haridwar also. The primary focus is on management: door-to-door collection of household waste, segregation at site in order to re-cycle and a) Public-Private Partnership (PPP) minimise the load at municipal landfills. programmes on MSW management should be rolled out across the country, Waste from Supply initially in urban centres, that integrates MSW and plastic wastes management. Chain These PPPs must be driven to primarily meet the interests of the unorganised ITC intends to continually expand its coverage waste picker communities and and include its supply chain members into all incomes generated should be the reporting boundary. With this intent, ITC channelised towards betterment of their started accounting for the waste generated livelihoods. from the operations of exclusive third party manufacturing (TPM) Units catering to the b) A significant portion of plastic wastes in notebook segment of ITC’s Education and India constitute multi-layered laminates Stationery Product Business as well as and light weight plastics, which represent ATC Limited, ITC’s associate Company from the visible part of plastic wastes getting 2013-14. TPM Units for Cigarettes Business littered or ending up in landfills, as low have also been included in the reporting realisation from these categories of boundary from the year 2014-15. Performance plastics do not make it viable for waste of these Units is detailed below. pickers to collect and segregate them. Total Waste Generated Supply Chain Members % Recycled (in tonnes) Exclusive TPM Units for 2798 87.1 Notebook segment Exclusive TPM Units for 1174 99.9 Cigarettes Business ATC Limited 1297 99.9 112 Environmental Performance Energy recovery from these plastic d) Land, transportation and other wastes can be achieved by using them infrastructure support should be as an alternative fuel (replacing coal/ provided by Urban Local Bodies for coke) in sectors such as the cement, collection, sorting and pre-processing of steel and power. While use in the cement different waste categories. sector is an established practice, this e) Behavioural change at the individual end-of-life treatment option will become waste generator level for waste financially viable and sustainable only segregation at source requires sustained when these plastic wastes also obtain engagement and regulatory backing. value realisation based on their quality and calorific value. While Industry can facilitate setting up of MSW management systems through capacity c) Wet organic waste should be processed building, knowledge sharing and initial setfor production of bio-gas, with manure up support, the system itself must operate as a by-product. By and large, municipal on a business for profit model, with all value wet organic waste in India remains created going to the stakeholders running under-exploited barring some isolated the system. In our opinion, financial viability small scale efforts at composting or of integrated MSW and plastic wastes gasification. We are convinced that the management models is what will drive its technology for large scale gasification uptake across the country and determine its of these wastes for conversion to fuel scalability. is matured and the business model is viable. Solid residues, post gasification ITC is fine-tuning its strategy for tackling the of wet organic wastes also serve as issue of post-consumer waste management manure which creates one more potential through collaboration with government, revenue stream, thereby improving municipal corporations, NGOs, communities financial viability and independence of and other stakeholders within a boundary the integrated model. where significant influence can be exercised. 1 Focus on waste collection and segregation at source Public-Private Partnership (PPP) programs for integrated MSW management 2 Financial viability of MSW management model Responsible advocacy for Encouraging usage of multi-layered plastic/light-weight plastic waste in industries where it can be used as an alternate fuel for cement manufacturing, etc Awareness creation through industry associations 3 Mass Awareness Programmes Leading campaigns to educate and encourage waste generators and other stakeholders (e.g. waste pickers) on source segregation 4 Research and Development (R&D) Investment in R&D and implementation in pilot projects for recycling technologies of multi-layered plastic packaging waste 5 Life Cycle Assessment LCA studies for identified products/services to evaluate the opportunities for improvement and enhance the resource efficiency in value chain 113 Raw Materials Management the direction for sustainable sourcing of raw materials to ensure their long-term Approach availability. Please refer to “Supply Chain” section of this Report for further details. All ITC Units continue to pursue efficient use of raw materials through focused efforts on waste elimination/reduction. Moreover, as most of ITC’s Businesses are vertically integrated, this provides the Company unique opportunities for exercising greater control over optimum utilisation of raw materials, recycling/reuse of wastes as well as efficient logistics. For addressing the impacts outside the boundary of operations, life-cycle assessment study of ITC’s products are progressively being taken up with the objective of making such studies an integral part of product design and development. In addition, Board approved policies of ITC supplemented by a ‘Code of Conduct for Vendors and Service providers’ provide 114 Environmental Performance Challenges from Materials ITC Strategy ITC’s Sustainability Sustainability Policies Increased competition for resources, Maximise resource use efficiency through rigorous process controls. providing technology barriers, need for capital investments and maintaining cost framework competitiveness. for relevant Life-cycle assessment studies sections Due to absence of adequate for identifying broad areas for infrastructural support, any significant improvements and expand these disruption in rainfall patterns resulting studies to all other products and from climate change may lead to services (Please refer to “Supply considerable adverse impacts on Chain” section of this Report for agricultural yields. further details). Climate change aggravates the risks of Ensuring the sustainability of low productivity of agricultural sector agriculture through integrated watershed development projects Policy on of India, impacting sustainability of agri based businesses. including rainwater harvesting and soil Environment, and moisture conservation projects Health and Focusing on long-term sustainability particularly in regions where ITC goals while operating in an environment sources its raw materials from. Safety where both market dynamics as well as regulatory framework are focused on Grassroots capacity building for proper governance in agricultural water Policy on the short-term. usage, self-sustenance of integrated Life-cycle Low productivity as an outcome of watershed development programmes, Sustainability increasingly small farm-plot holdings, infrastructure improvement etc. inadequate access of farmers to (Please refer to “Social Investments – knowledge and technology. Mission Sunehra Kal” of this Report for Policy on Agricultural procurement and further details). Responsible sourcing policies in India come from ITC, through industry associations, and Sourcing a controlled market philosophy other appropriate forums engages with shaped by circumstances of postpolicy makers to discuss these issues. independent India. For a new India, where agri-productivity has to be maximised while also ensuring social equity, a new framework of laws and regulations is necessary. Furthermore, absence of crop and weather insurance reduce the risktaking capability of the small farmers for investment in infrastructure improvement. Within Boundary Beyond Boundary ITC’s Performance 3. SERVICES Hoteliering and Information Technology. ITC’s products and services can be broadly classified into the following categories: Flow of materials into ITC 1. FMCG (B to C) PRODUCTS As explained in ‘Supply Chain’ section, most Cigarettes, Branded Packaged Foods, of the ITC Businesses largely depend on agroPersonal Care Products, Education based raw materials. In 2015-16, ITC processed and Stationery Products, Matches 20,52,892 tonnes of materials, out of which and Agarbattis. 95.3% (19,56,089 tonnes) were from renewable sources like agriculture and forestry. 2. INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES AND EXPORTS Paper, Paperboards, Packaging, Leaf The Paperboard and Specialty Papers Tobacco, etc. Business contributes to over 80% of the total 115 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS raw materials procured by ITC. 16,47,645 wood remains a critical challenge and is a Approximately tonnes of materials were processed by the serious sustainability concern, especially in 74% of the fibre Paperboard and Specialty Papers Business a country with limited natural resources and produced in in 2015-16, out of which 99.6% were acute income inequities. Bhadrachalam renewable. Leaf Tobacco and Agri Business is from wood Divisions which together account for around Approximately 53% of the total fibre sourced from 10% of total raw materials procured by requirements of ITC’s Paperboards and ITC’s Social and Specialty Papers Division (PSPD) is met by ITC, processed 1,96,278 tonnes of raw Farm Forestry pulp manufactured at Bhadrachalam, another materials in 2015-16 and all of these raw Initiatives materials were renewable in nature. Foods 19% comes from recycled fibre, processed at Business processed 1,44,836 tonnes of raw Kovai and Bhadrachalam and the balance materials (7% of ITC’s total raw materials) 28% is imported pulp used at Bhadrachalam out of which 81.3% were renewable. In the and Tribeni Units. Approximately 74% of the above analysis, only those raw materials fibre produced in Bhadrachalam is from wood have been considered which constitute sourced from ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry more than 10% of the total, consumed in Initiatives. All the fibre used for operations at any manufacturing Unit or have significant the Kovai Unit is either recycled/reclaimed environmental importance. fibre. 100% of the fibre used by ITC PSPD is of known and legal origin. ITC’s initiatives in promoting sustainable practices in its supply chain have been High yielding, site specific, disease resistant detailed out in “Social Investments: Mission eucalyptus and subabul clones have been Sunehra Kal” and “Supply Chain” sections of developed by in-house R&D. ITC distributed this Report. 132.21 million high quality saplings to farmers which resulted in increasing the Responsible Sourcing of area under social and farm forestry by 32,222 Wood Fibre hectares in 2015-16. Wood is a major source of fibre for the paper Apart from the obvious benefits of increasing and paperboards industry. Availability of the green cover, plantation on degraded 116 Environmental Performance wastelands under the Social Forestry respected certification amongst forest Programme also directly contributes to in product certification schemes. ITC PSPD situ moisture conservation, ground water can supply FSC certified paper/paperboard recharge and significant reduction in from all its four manufacturing Units, i.e. topsoil losses caused by wind and water Bhadrachalam, Kovai, Tribeni and Bollaram. erosion. In addition as a result of leaf litter The FSCTM logo on the product assures from multi-species plantations and the customers that the material is from legal, promotion of leguminous intercrops, soils sustainable and well managed sources. are constantly enriched. FSCTM certification for ITC PSPD illustrates Forest Stewardship Council TM the organisation’s continued commitment Certifications to sustainable business practices and to the building of an inclusive and secure future Further consolidating ITC’s Triple Bottom for its stakeholders and the society at large. Line performance, ITC PSPD achieved the The business is the largest seller of FSCTM prestigious Forest Stewardship CouncilTM certified grades of paperboards and paper in (FSCTM) Chain of Custody Certification in the country. 2009, which is valid till 2020. To ensure responsible wood, all domestic wood procurement sources have been certified The Road Ahead as per standards of FSC TM Controlled Wood and nearly 30,000 hectares have In the coming years, ITC plans to carry been covered under the FSCTM Forest out more life-cycle assessment studies Management Certification. of products/services to evaluate the environmental impact at various FSC is an independent, non-governmental, TM life-cycle stages, which would help in ITC is the largest not-for-profit organisation established to identifying opportunities for further seller of FSCTM promote the responsible management of the improving their environmental attributes. certified grades world’s forests and is recognised as the gold In line with the Board approved Policies of paperboards and paper in the standard in wood certification for ethical on Life-Cycle Sustainability and country and legal sourcing. The FSCTM is represented Responsible Sourcing, formal systems in more than 107 countries around the and procedures will be progressively world and is the most widely accepted and implemented across ITC Businesses. 117 Biodiversity Management The long-term sustainability of ITC’s agribusinesses depends on natural capital, Approach which includes land, underground and surface water and biodiversity. A ‘sustainable Given the essential ecosystem services agriculture area’ incorporates ecological and that nature provides, especially to rural biodiversity concerns and supports livelihood households, ITC recognises that the improvements. ITC has, accordingly, taken preservation and nurture of biodiversity is up biodiversity conservation as a major crucial for the long-term sustainability of intervention in its operational areas through farming communities. In agro-ecosystems, various initiatives. This will not only preserve biodiversity provides varied ecosystem the nation’s rich biodiversity, but also ensure services including recycling of nutrients, a sustainable future for communities residing control of local micro-climate, regulation of in the Company’s catchment areas. local hydrological processes, regulation of the abundance of undesirable organisms, and detoxification of noxious chemicals. Biodiversity Decoupling of agro-ecosystems from ecosystem services rendered by biodiversity Conservation may result in overdependence on external Progress inputs and ever-increasing economic and environmental costs, as well as impacting ITC has successfully implemented the nutrition and health of consumers at various programme to establish biodiversity trophic levels. conservation plots in the process of Natural 118 Environmental Performance Resources Management to enhance floral by our Agri Business across our crop growing and faunal biodiversity as well as ensure regions covering Karnataka (Mysuru district) ITC recognises adequate livelihood and employment and Andhra Pradesh (West Godavari, that the generation to local communities. The Prakasam and Guntur district). Over the preservation objective of the programme has been past two years, it has helped the Business in and nurture to motivate the communities to make of biodiversity building strategy and action plans to embed productive use of degraded common lands is crucial for biodiversity conservation in agriculture the long-term through biodiversity conservation. Till now, practices. The BROA tool provides a method sustainability under this programme, ITC has developed to identify impacts and dependencies of of farming 139 biodiversity plots involving farmers and business operations on biodiversity of a communities. community members covering a total area given agricultural landscape, followed by of 3,942 hectares in 14 districts. The initiative an assessment of the various risks and has also helped in conserving thousands opportunities that emerge, based on which of species of flora and fauna, including plans are made and actions undertaken to birds, butterflies, reptiles and amphibians. address them. Regular biodiversity indexing is also being carried out in biodiversity conservation The Division’s aim on biodiversity plots, to measure the extent of success of management is on embedding biodiversity the programme in terms of enhancing the conservation across its business value species diversity and dominance. chain and helping the farmers to adopt best agricultural practices for sustainable Biodiversity agriculture. For us the focus is not just Conservation in on species conservation for addressing biodiversity concerns, but the identification Agriculture of any potential negative impact on ecosystem services and mitigate them The Biodiversity Risk and Opportunity in agriculture. Following from this, the Assessment (BROA), is being implemented following key initiatives were implemented 119 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS by the Division in 2015 towards biodiversity centres are scientifically disposed and conservation in agriculture practices. safely incinerated at the state pollution approved facilities. Soil Conservation: The Business provides inputs to farmers on sustainable agriculture techniques that address Mainstreaming physical, chemical and biological health of the soil in order to protect Biodiversity valuable soil resources. In 2015 around Conservation at 7,000 hectares was covered under soil conservation programme covering the landscape level states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Apart from biodiversity conservation in Telangana and Rajasthan. selected plots, ITC has embarked on a watershed level biodiversity conservation Water Conservation: Drip irrigation was aimed at improving biodiversity in a larger implemented in 700 hectares of land in Apart from area. Assessment of current status and Andhra Pradesh covering tobacco and biodiversity plans for improvement was completed in conservation chilli crop, saving almost 900 million litres Ravandoor tank cascade of Mysore district in selected of water. which is spread over 2,300 hectares. This plots, ITC has embarked on a Toxic Waste Management to Protect assessment was done by Kalpataruvu, a watershed level Ecosystem: Farmers were educated on non-profit organisation with technical biodiversity safe disposal of empty pesticide containers support from University of Agriculture and conservation by setting up toxic waste collection Horticulture Shivmogga, Karnataka. Based aimed at centres in villages. In 2015 the Company on the study recommendations, a biodiversity improving had established around 70 toxic waste conservation action plan was initiated and biodiversity in a collection centres in 70 villages (Andhra work was completed in 130 hectares. This larger area Pradesh and Karnataka) by involving work included activities such as large scale local community, village panchayat and awareness generation and community farmers. The toxic wastes collected in the participation, protection and conservation 120 Environmental Performance of existing old trees in the area, plantation of 1 In agro-ecosystems, biodiversity performs varied native species on farm-field bunds and in-situ ecosystem services including recycling of nutrients, control of local microclimate, regulation of local hydrological conservation of commons. Similar studies processes, regulation of the abundance of undesirable have been initiated in Nanjanayakanahalli organisms, and detoxification of noxious chemicals and Kothegala cascades in the same district spread over across 4,000 hectares area. Going forward, ITC will partner with International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in Munger district of Bihar aimed at restoration of ecosystem services for the benefit of agriculture through biodiversity conservation. As part of the collaboration, IUCN will develop an Agriscape Tool, which will enable understanding of the status of natural landscape around farms and ecosystem services being provided. This will enable the program to design suitable interventions to promote crop productivity, simultaneously maintaining farm productivity, soil fertility as well as various other ecosystem services1. The analysis undertaken will help in identifying the missing links/gaps in important ecosystem services identified for agriculture and allied livelihoods. 1 In agro-ecosystems, biodiversity performs varied ecosystem services including recycling of nutrients, control of local microclimate, regulation of local hydrological processes, regulation of the abundance of undesirable organisms, and detoxification of noxious chemicals 121 Social Performance 122 Social Performance Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights Occupational Health & Safety ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable & Inclusive Growth Product Responsibility 123 Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights Management Objectives Approach The Company’s primary objectives in this area for the next five years are to ensure that: ITC operates in a diversified, ever-changing, highly competitive global landscape. All ITC’s operational units are and will This necessitates the development continue to remain fully compliant with ITC is committed of a strong, customer responsive the Company’s Policies, premised on a to conducting world-class enterprise premised on a zero tolerance guiding principle towards business in commitment to employee well-being violations in this regard. accordance that goes beyond just conforming with with the All investment decisions will integrate highest ethical relevant local laws to incorporating the Human Rights and Decent Labour standards. It best of global standards. Practices considerations into the expects its decision-making process. employees ITC is committed to conducting business and business in accordance with the highest ethical All ITC’s Business partners and supply partners to standards. It expects its employees chain members will follow and adhere subscribe and and business partners to subscribe and to the Human Rights Policies that the adhere to this adhere to this philosophy, which honours philosophy Company upholds. all pertinent laws and upholds the spirit of human rights as enshrined in existing Accordingly, the Company has put in place international standards. Board approved Policies covering crucial 124 Social Performance aspects of employee engagement and human rights. Building Business Implementation Leaders The Company’s talent management All ITC Units have instituted appropriate programme strives to deliver its promise systems and processes to ensure of ‘Building Winning Businesses. Building compliance with these Policies and with Business Leaders. Creating Value for India.’ statutory provisions, including processes ITC is guided by a holistic approach centred on to redress grievances. The implementation multiple elements rather than on individual of these Policies is ensured by Divisional/ elements that impact talent. These include Strategic Business Unit Chief Executives, talent sourcing, work design, performance through members of the respective management and remuneration, individual Management Committees. Compliance growth and development, as they relate to is regularly monitored and evaluated by talent management. the Sustainability Compliance Review Committee (SCRC). The report of the SCRC Leadership development is considered is reviewed by the Corporate Management integral to talent management. ITC’s Committee every quarter. ‘strategy of organisation’ – creating multiple drivers of growth through a diverse Outcomes portfolio of businesses, each with its own independent leadership team – serves as ITC’s commitment to its employees and their an excellent platform to build distributed well-being is reflected in its compliance with business leadership. An equally important all its stated Policies, as demonstrated by the dimension of building leadership is ITC’s performance data presented in this section. strategic learning and development agenda. Human Resource ITC has made significant investments in enhancing the organisation’s recruitment Strategy and selection skills and performance management processes, which will positively In order to sustain its position as one of impact its talent management programme. India’s most valuable corporations, ITC remains relentlessly customer-focused, competition-differentiated, performancePerformance driven and future-capable. A vital Awareness & Sensitisation element in preparing ITC for the future is to build today’s capabilities to enable Specific actions were undertaken during the best response to tomorrow’s market the year to ensure compliance with Policies opportunities. Five capability platforms on human rights and labour practices. relevant to making businesses future These include: Five capability ready have been identified – Strategic, platforms Value Chain, Leadership, Innovation and Sensitisation training on ITC’s approach relevant Human Resources Development. These to Human Rights and on Prevention of to making platforms are also designed to strengthen Sexual Harassment at the Workplace was businesses organisational systems to facilitate speedy undertaken and covered 183 employees future ready and competitively superior responses to across businesses as well as 77 members have been market opportunities. of Internal Complaints Committees identified that have been constituted in line with – Strategic, ITC follows two approaches to build critical The Sexual Harrassment of Women at Value Chain, capabilities in these identified areas. The Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Leadership, first is to energise the organisation for Redressal) Act, 2013. Innovation change by building capability in its people and Human through information, knowledge and skills. Roll-out of the Grievance Redressal Resources The second is to guide continuous learning Procedure for all managers and office Development and performance improvement in all associates in ITC’s Businesses and functions and businesses. Corporate Head Office. 125 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Awareness building among vendors and work for any reason whatsoever in any of service providers through the introduction ITC’s Units. of ITC’s Code of Conduct on this aspect, which has been accepted by identified Employee Well-being vendors/service providers. Nurturing quality talent and caring for the Employees well-being of its employees are integral to ITC’s work culture. The organisation’s During the year under Report, the number approach focuses on creating a conducive of full-time direct employees was 32,138 of work environment that combines the need which 1,581 employees in the Leaf Tobacco to focus on performance and results with Business were engaged on a seasonal a caring and compassionate work ethos to basis due to the nature of the business. deliver winning performance. The health of Of the total number of employees, 3,490 its employees is a vital area of concern for were women. The number of new appointees ITC and periodic preventive health checkfor the reporting period was 5,884 of which ups/medical camps, awareness programmes 21% were women. on a healthy lifestyle and the development of wellness plans are organised across In addition, 20,135 employees of service units. Permanent employees of ITC receive providers were engaged during the benefits such as periodic preventive health same period. check-ups, medical assistance (including ITC’s approach hospitalisation), group accident insurance, focuses on 11,592 direct employees are members of annual leave along with leave encashment creating a various unions. The Company continues and retirement benefits, among others. In conducive work to invest in its time-tested approach to addition, most units have a wellness centre environment progressive employee relations characterised and a resident doctor. that combines the need by the core principles of trusteeship, fairness to focus on and equity, industrial democracy and In 2015-16, 100 employees availed maternity performance partnership with enlightened trade unions. leave. In FY 2014-15, 135 employees had and results with ITC was able to sustain its excellent record of availed maternity leave of which 85 have a caring and industrial harmony, highlighted not merely by continued working after a year, resulting in compassionate the absence of strife, but by the more positive a return-to-work rate of 63%. work ethos to outcome of effective performance in terms of deliver winning high productivity and superior quality. ITC Hotels offers its employees a confidential performance counselling service so that they can seek During the year, employee relations were professional help in a safe and secure handled well and there was no stoppage of environment in dealing with issues such 126 Social Performance as developing coping skills to meet life retirement, termination and abandonment challenges, making important decisions or of services) in the Company, including ITC ITC believes exploring new avenues for change and growth. Infotech, for 2015-16 was 19%, across that diversity at management and non-management the workplace To drive employee engagement and wellemployees. The attrition for management positively being, ITC’s Businesses have promoted level employees was 17%. The attrition for impacts work diverse interventions ranging from employee non-management employees was 20%, performance contests to generate innovative ideas to 81% of which happened in ITC Hotels and and the work communication and “connect” processes, ITC Infotech Limited. Gender-wise attrition environment like town-hall meetings, local intranets and was at 17% and 33% for male and female through superior fun@work events as well as business specific employees, respectively. The attrition of consumerrewards and recognition programmes. female employees in ITC Infotech and ITC centricity, innovative Sports programmes and recreational events Hotels is an area of focus for the Company, ideas and better that encourage the creative talents of both and efforts are on to identify and resolve the employee employees and their families are organised key dissonance factors. engagement periodically, and in some units participation is extended to employees of service providers. Diversity and Equal To capture ‘employee voice’, most units Opportunity conduct periodic employee engagement surveys wherein employees share their views ITC believes that diversity at the workplace on the workplace. To promote mental and positively impacts work performance and spiritual well-being, employees also have the work environment through superior the opportunity to volunteer for a variety of consumer-centricity, innovative ideas and social programmes. better employee engagement. Employees with diverse cultural backgrounds bring Attrition their own unique experiences, perceptions, knowledge and skills, which when harnessed, ITC has ensured attraction and retention of strengthen the organisation’s productivity quality employees as a result of its talent and ability to proactively respond to changing management strategy of offering diverse conditions. Equally, exposure to new ideas, experiences and challenges across varied cultures and perspectives encourages the business contexts, investments in the personal growth of employees. development and growth of employees, as well as a market-driven and competitive ITC’s Policy on Diversity and Equal remuneration policy. The overall attrition Opportunity (please refer to Policies on (comprising voluntary separation, ITC’s Corporate website, www.itcportal. 127 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS com) and its implementation is focused on resolution in a fair and just manner. During ITC’s fostering meritocracy in the organisation, the year, 8 complaints of sexual harassment recruitment which promotes diversity and offers equal were received, 6 of which have since been and selection opportunity to all employees. The intent is resolved and 2 are in the process of reaching processes are to ensure that there is no discrimination a resolution. geared towards in compensation, training and employee enabling benefits, based on caste, religion, disability, ITC’s Hotels Division has been proactively representation creating awareness on the opportunities for gender, sexual orientation, race, colour, from across employing people with disabilities among regions, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious or union organisation potential employers. It has prepared two ethnicities, religions and or majority/minority group. Given the handbooks to guide industry action in this different social socio-cultural diversity of our country, ITC’s endeavour – ‘ITC Hotels Disability Handbook strata recruitment and selection processes are for Industry’ and ‘A Guide to Universal geared towards enabling representation Design in Built Environments: A Guide for from across regions, ethnicities, religions Creating Accessible Building Infrastructure and different social strata. for Persons with Disability’. Presently there are 71 differently abled employees working ITC’s Company culture ensures that in ITC, the majority of whom are employed by aspects of work-life balance for employees, the Hotels Business. especially for women, are suitably addressed. ITC demands, demonstrates ITC encourages local employment in and promotes professional behaviour and its manufacturing units and hotels, treats all employees with equal respect. depending on the availability of requisite In this regard, ITC has put in place suitable skills. Some ITC Units partner with local processes and mechanisms to ensure that Industrial Training Institutes to provide issues relating to sexual harassment are vital inputs to the management of these effectively addressed. In line with The institutions. ITC has also partnered with Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace National Skill Development Corporation (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) (NSDC) empanelled agencies to impart Act, 2013, Internal Complaints Committees market linked vocational training on skills have been constituted in all units. These including sales & distribution, hospitality, Committees are intended to facilitate electrical maintenance, automobile repairs, open and structured discussions on sexual beautician and garment manufacturing with harassment complaints and to ensure their the objective of enhancing the employability of youth from disadvantaged sections of society. During 2015-16, over 12,667 students were enrolled in Company promoted vocational training programmes of which 34% were women and 40% were Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe candidates. ITC Units also provide apprenticeship training opportunities to a large number of youth. Committed to employing youth from disadvantaged communities, ITC has enlarged its impact by increasing the talent pool of youth from these communities by equipping them with the necessary skills or qualifications to make them more employable in the formal sectors of the economy. ITC places equal emphasis on strengthening the economic portfolio of poor households belonging to marginalised groups through initiatives aimed at natural resource management and creation of off-farm opportunities to create sustainable livelihoods. 128 Social Performance During the year, the Company’s affirmative ITC has a multi-pronged approach to action initiatives have had a direct learning, with focused interventions in and tangible impact on the lives of core and functional areas, customised 23,749 Scheduled Caste/Scheduled business specific and organisation-wide Tribe beneficiaries. strategic interventions, as well as threetiered leadership development programmes. Based on the premise that action learning Learning and Development will lead to better skill development, the programmes emphasise workplace projects ITC’s Capability Development Agenda flows and demonstrated leadership behaviours from its Vision, Mission, Strategic Agenda and on the job rather than classroom learning, its 3-Horizon Growth strategy (sharpening/ making them more in the nature of long-term expanding capabilities and leadership in its journeys rather than short-term events. current portfolio of businesses, blending competencies residing in these businesses Multiple forums for learning include to create new engines of growth, creating classroom training, on-the-job training, capabilities for new future businesses). All inclusion in taskforces and projects, Learning and Development initiatives offered mentoring and deploying organisation-wide during 2015-16 were aligned to this agenda. portals to enable sharing of best practices. 129 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Employee training at the factory level crores were invested on new factories, ITC recognises focuses on continuous skill upgradation hotels and modernisations. its responsibility on the basis of skill-gap assessment and to proactively planned technology induction. In 2015-16, All large contracts in ITC, for the construction encourage high 1,49,264 person-days of formal training were of hotels, factories, and significant standards of organised for employees at various levels. In upgrades, have incorporated environment, human rights addition, on-the-job learning opportunities health, safety and human rights clauses across its supply covering decent place of work, and beyond were provided to a cross section of employees chain compliance labour practices. supported by inputs from peers and superiors. ITC’s Performance Management System All large projects were managed and supervised by ITC managers, who also also plays a pivotal role in charting out the ensured compliance to relevant laws. development agenda of employees in the management cadre. In 2015-16, all eligible Systems have been established to ensure managers underwent performance reviews. compliance of our Policies and Standards, through rigorous audits by Corporate The ‘Gurukul’ – ITC’s state-of-the-art technical Internal Audit. training facility located in Ranjangaon – is a significant milestone in its skilling journey. Human Rights: Supply Chain The first integrated facility catering to all the Company’s FMCG Businesses, Gurukul offers As a large multi-business enterprise with both short-term (1 to 2 weeks) and integrated products that are benchmarked nationally long-term (1 year) programmes to enhance and internationally, ITC recognises its shop floor skills. responsibility to proactively encourage high standards of human rights across its supply Human Rights chain. The Company’s approach to managing human rights in the following distinct categories is described below: Human Rights: Significant Investments ITC’s Businesses are vertically integrated across several Divisions, all of which ensure During 2015-16, nearly `899 crores adherence to ITC’s Human Rights Policies. out of total capex cash flow of `2,167 crores was incurred on machinery and ITC procures inputs for the Company’s technology, sourced from reputed global agri-based businesses entirely from state suppliers/vendors. Approximately `760 controlled trading platforms and the open 130 Social Performance market. The process is designed to ensure Prohibiting Child Labour and transparency and best prices even for small Preventing Forced Labour at and marginal farmers. the Workplace ITC ensures that all its employees and all During 2015-16, there were no incidents service providers operating within Company of child labour or forced labour within establishments adhere to its Policy on ITC establishments. The process of Human Rights, Labour Practices and Decent strengthening systems to educate, mandate Work Environment. ITC has zero tolerance and thereafter track adherence to ITC’s for non-compliance in this area. Policy on Human Rights in the Supply Chain As a first step in ensuring a high degree has started with the sharing of the ‘ITC Code of awareness and emphasising ITC’s of Conduct for Vendors and Service focus on Human Rights and EHS in its Providers’. This process should be well extended supply chain, the ‘ITC Code established over the next four years, of Conduct for Vendors and Service beginning with capacity building of vendors Providers’ has been shared with supply chain and service providers on Human Rights to partners and accepted by identified vendors/ be followed up with encouraging the supply service providers. chain partners to undertake social audits. During 2015-16, there were 1,790 service Grievance Redressal Process The process of providers of which 1,454 operated within the strengthening Company’s premises and 336 worked off-site. A Grievance Redressal Procedure for nonunionised employees has been implemented systems to 99% of service contracts with these service educate, providers include clauses in line with ITC to address concerns of internal stakeholders mandate and Human Rights Policies and EHS guidelines. pertaining to Labour Practices and Human thereafter track Rights violations. Aspects of employment adherence to No contracts were cancelled during the year including compensation, working hours, ITC’s Policy on as a result of non-compliance with ITC’s disciplinary practices, maternity protection, Human Rights Human Rights Policy. occupational health & safety, training & in the Supply education, diversity & equal opportunity, Chain has Freedom of Association equal remuneration for men and women started with as well as concerns in the area of Human the sharing of During 2015-16, no incidents of violation Rights, if any, will be addressed through this the ITC Code of Freedom of Association were reported mechanism. of Conduct either at the concerned units or to statutory for Vendors authorities. Within ITC’s operations, there During the year, 309 grievances were received and Service are no areas that present risks to the right from workmen on matters pertaining to Providers to exercise Freedom of Association and welfare, facilities and administration and 227 Collective Bargaining. of them have since been resolved. 131 Occupational Health and Safety ITC believes its workforce is a key asset continued investments in state-of-the-art contributing to the Company’s long-term technology and quality human resources. standing as one of India’s most admired organisations. The Company believes that As a first step, EHS requirements are a safe and healthy work environment is a integrated at the design stage itself for all basic requirement for ensuring employee new investments in the built environment. well-being and that best practices in The design reviews cover building & occupational health and safety enhance the structural stability, fire & life safety Company’s overall performance. This helps measures, electrical systems, segregation of man-material movements, work place in attracting and retaining quality talent, lighting, ventilation & hygiene requirements, and enhances the equity of the Company as noise & dust controls, water and energy use a responsible Corporate. optimisation, traffic safety, etc. The process of incorporating EHS at the design stage not The ITC Approach only helps in eliminating/reducing hazards but also optimises the overall infrastructure ITC’s approach towards best-in-class as well as operational costs. occupational health and safety standards is articulated in the Board approved As a next step, compliance with EHS Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy standards during the construction phase that emphasises on continual improvement is ensured by implementing appropriate and is based on an EHS management system project EHS management systems. This developed in accordance with internationally includes adequate training of all employees recognised standards, supported by including service providers’ employees, 132 Social Performance ensuring usage of safe equipment/tools/ to occupational hazards, undergo periodic tackles, development of and adherence to medical check-ups. safe work procedures/method statements, observance of good housekeeping & storage Compliance is monitored through internal practices and usage of personal protective audits by CEHS across ITC establishments equipment. Pre-commissioning audits of all on a periodic basis and forms part of the large projects are carried out by Corporate report back to CMC (monthly) and the Board EHS (CEHS) to ensure that all equipment and (quarterly), together with accident statistics, systems have been procured and installed in their investigation and subsequent closure. conformance with agreed standards and a In addition, Business units adhere to formal clearance is required to be provided international standards such as OHSAS before the project can be operationalised. 18001 and ISO 14001. At the operational stage, all ITC factories, The EHS resources of the Divisions provide hotels, warehouses and offices have the support necessary to ensure proper established EHS management systems implementation of the ITC EHS policy, with designated roles and responsibilities while the Unit Heads and the Divisional and competent resources to comply with Management Committees are responsible Corporate EHS Guidelines. Each ITC and accountable for ensuring compliance. Unit has EHS Committees to promote The CEHS function is responsible for active participation of employees in EHS reviewing and updating standards and management. The EHS Committee meets at guidelines on EHS policies, for providing least once every quarter to review the EHS guidance and support to all concerned performance of the Unit. Health and safety and for monitoring compliance at the topics are also covered in the long-term corporate level. agreements with trade unions. During 201516, 2 such agreements had been signed. On-site Safety ITC Corporate EHS Guidelines also require Performance raising of awareness amongst employees, their families and surrounding communities In 2015-16, the total number of on-site regarding off-the-job safety aspects such Lost Time Accidents (LTA) in ITC was 18 as home safety, safe use of LPG in kitchen, (against 11 in 2014-15). All of these 18 HIV/AIDs, hepatitis, dengue, malaria and accidents occurred to male employees and road safety. As part of ITC’s preventive out of these 5 occurred to ITC employees medical programme, various categories of and 13 to employees of service providers, as employees based on their age and exposure depicted below. Lost Time Accidents (LTA) ITC believes that a safe and 40 37 healthy work 35 environment 30 is a basic requirement 25 23 for ensuring 20 20 employee 16 15 1616 15 14 13 well-being 15 12 and that best 10 10 7 7 practices in 4 5 occupational 5 health & safety 0 enhance the 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 20122013 2014 2015-05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 13 -14 -15 16 Company’s overall ITC Employees Employees of Service Providers* performance LTAAn accident where the injured does not return to work in the next scheduled shift * ITC started reporting on the accident performance of its service providers’ employees from 2012-13. 133 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Lost Day Rate ITC Employees 28.4* 25.3* 24.3* 30 25 20 15 6.5 5.5** 10 3.5 3.1 2.2 2.2 1.9 1.1 5 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 -16 * Increase in lost day rate in 2009-10, 2011-12 & 2015-16 attributable to one fatal accident in each of these years, wherein a loss of 6000 mandays is required to be accounted for as per IS 3786:1983. ** Increase in comparison to 2013-14, due to an accident wherein the injured suffered amputation of the right thumb for which a loss of 1800 mandays is required to be accounted for as per IS 3786:1983. Though there has been reduction in the There were two very unfortunate fatal on-site accidents of ITC employees over accidents during 2015-16, one involving the years, the on-site accidents of service an ITC employee and other to an employee providers’ employees increased to 13 from of service provider. In the first case, an 4 in 2014-15. Analysis of root causes of the ITC employee got exposed to toxic gases accidents shows scope of improvement in (generated from manufacturing process) supervision of service providers’ employees while carrying out maintenance of a gas and system of risk identification & control. handling system. The other fatal accident Accordingly, necessary actions have been happened in a construction site of an implemented across the Units. In addition, upcoming ITC Unit wherein an electrical appropriate interventions have also been panel fell upon an employee of service taken at multiple Units in line with ITC’s provider while he was shifting the same. overall approach to inculcate a sense of ownership at all levels and create an Detailed investigations were carried out to organisation-wide safety culture. identify the root causes and accordingly, appropriate interventions had been made to avoid similar incidents in future. These interventions included refining the risk assessment process, improving emergency response system and strengthening of supervision of service providers’ employees. Lost day rate, defined as the number of days lost due to accidents for every 2,00,000 person hours worked, for ITC employees over the years is depicted above. Injury rate, defined as the frequency of injuries in relation to total time worked, for ITC employees also shows a significant improvement. Since 2004-05, there has been a substantial reduction in the injury rate from 0.21 to 0.01 in 2015-16 (an improvement of 95%). 134 Social Performance Injury Rate ITC Employees 0.21 0.25 0.2 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.15 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.1 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.05 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 -16 This year onwards, ITC has started reporting on the safety performance (lost day rate and injury rate) of its service providers’ employees working within ITC premises. In 2015-16, the lost day and injury rates for employees of service providers were 40.0 and 0.05 respectively. Zero Accident Units The following ITC units achieved ‘Zero On-site Accident’ status in 2015-16: Manufacturing Units Hotels Offices and others Cigarette Units at Munger, ITC Maurya ITC Head Office, Kolkata Kolkata, Bengaluru, ITC Mughal Research Centre at Saharanpur and Pune Rajahmundry ITC Grand Central Leaf Threshing Units at ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon Chirala, Ananparti and ITC Rajputana Mysuru Divisional Headquarters of ITC Maratha Cigarettes Business, Agri Packaging & Printing Units at ITC Sonar Business, Leaf Tobacco Haridwar and Munger ITC Windsor Business, Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business, Paperboards and Specialty ITC Grand Chola Packaging & Printing Papers Units at Bollaram Business, Foods Business, ITC Gardenia Foods Units at Haridwar and Personal Care Products, ITC Grand Bharat Matches & Agarbattis and Munger My Fortune, Chennai Education and Stationery Personal Care Products Units Products Business My Fortune, Bengaluru at Manpura ITC Green Centre, Manesar WelcomHotel Sheraton, New Delhi Technico, Chandigarh & Manpura ITC Kakatiya Fortune Resort Bay Island Classic Golf & Country Club, Gurgaon Over the years, the number of Units delivering “zero on-site lost time accidents” performance has progressively increased and more importantly, have held on to their performance. Out of the above 44 Units, 28 Units have been consistently achieving “zero lost time accidents” status for the last 3 years. 135 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Off-site Safety The total off-site lost time accidents in 2015-16 were 24 including 3 accidents Performance to women employees. Out of these 24 accidents, 22 were road accidents and In line with its commitment to ensure the 15 accidents involved 2-wheeler riders. safety of employees, ITC has also initiated This year also witnessed 3 accidents to adequate measures for its employees working 4-wheeler users. During 2015-16, ITC off-site. In ITC, off-site is defined as all places developed a user interactive training module, other than the premises where posted, while specifically for 4-wheeler users. on official duty, including commuting to and from residence to place of work. Since over the years the majority of the road Occupational accidents have involved 2-wheeler riders, Health a user interactive 2-wheeler rider’s safety programme was developed and rolled out A healthy workforce is an important in 2011-12, which has now been translated contributor to ITC’s competitiveness into Hindi and other vernacular languages to and sustainability. All Units maintain a extend its reach. This programme, in 2015conducive work environment meeting 16, has also been rolled out amongst supply Indian/International standards on hygiene, chain stakeholders, by imparting this training lighting, ventilation and effective controls to wholesale dealer personnel connected to on noise and dust. Units are provided with ITC’s Trade Marketing & Distribution vertical. occupational health centres with adequate Road Accidents Trend 30 25 25 20 22 20 15 17 13 10 10 5 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 136 Social Performance medical staff to monitor occupational health behavioural architecture techniques. In line and provide immediate relief, when required. with the Company’s EHS policy, the approach Based on the In addition, at least 2% of total employees is to institutionalise safety as a value-led root-cause are professionally trained as first aiders. concept with focus on inculcating a sense of analysis of ownership at all levels, leading to the creation accidents over Identified medical examinations are conducted the years, the of a safety culture. Periodic reviews are at specified intervals for various categories of approach to undertaken to ensure that training and other employees based on age as well as exposure safety has been communications are relevant and take into redefined with to occupational hazards. Accordingly in 2015account the local socio-economic context the focus now 16, 14,486 employees underwent preventive to ensure the transition from “awareness on fostering a medical examinations and there were no developed” to “changed behaviour”. During culture of safety occupation related illnesses identified in any 2015-16, the safety culture initiative has been of ITC’s Business Units. further extended to 4 more manufacturing Units. In addition, the initiative has also been HIV/AIDS and rolled out in the Divisional Head Quarters Other Serious (DHQ) of Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business with an objective to develop a Diseases cohesive safety culture across factories and offices. Continuing this approach, ITC has ITC remains committed to protecting its plans to extend this initiative in the Corporate employees from the threat posed by various Head Office. serious diseases including HIV/AIDS. During 2015-16, the awareness/counselling While ITC will continue to focus on sessions conducted for the employees and strengthening the engineering control communities around ITC’s Units covered a measures through ‘design for safety’, pretotal of 11,708 people, out of which 10,408 commissioning/operational audits and were employees of the Company, while the training interventions, based on the remaining were local community members. encouraging results achieved, ITC plans to expand the coverage of behavioural based The Road Ahead safety and custom-made risk based training programmes to other units. This approach Based on the root-cause analysis of accidents which combines empowerment and over the years, the approach to safety has ownership with targeted interventions and been redefined with the focus now on strict accountability should help ITC in its fostering a culture of safety and the use of journey to achieve the “Zero Accidents” goal. 137 ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable & Inclusive Growth Management These programmes fall within the purview of Schedule VII of the provisions of Section Approach Society 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility ITC believes that the performance of business Policy) Rules, 2014. The Policy was adopted enterprises must be measured in terms of in 2014-15 and continues in its original form the value they create for society. Enterprises since there have been no developments that embed sustainability in their business in the external or internal environment to strategies can deliver substantial stakeholder prompt a review. value through innovative development models that simultaneously create livelihood Commitments opportunities and a positive environmental footprint. The Company firmly believes that Statement of Intent: ITC’s Social Investments such an approach unleashes strong drivers Programme (SIP) aims to transform the lives for achieving development with social equity. of even the most marginalised amongst its stakeholder groups to live a life of dignity. Policy Our way of grassroots empowerment, based on knowledge and technology transfer, The Board of the Company has approved confronts livelihood challenges of today and a CSR Policy that covers the programmes, tomorrow through a holistic approach to projects and activities that the Company create a prosperous, healthy, educated and plans to undertake to create a significant skilled community which looks to the future positive impact on its identified stakeholders. with confidence and determination. 138 Social Performance In order to actualise this intent, the Company partnerships through crop development is committed to ensure the following: and procurement activities. While such ITC’s Social economic linkages have generated wealth Investments Continue to strive for scale in the core for rural households on a sustained basis for Programmes operational geographies and remain decades, they also look to the Company to accesses contemporary by leveraging government help find viable solutions to combat extreme knowledge/ partnerships and accessing knowledge/ weather episodes that impose a threat to technical know technical know-how. their production system. how, leverages Strengthen and empower Community government Communities residing in close proximity partnerships Based Organisations in all our project areas to our production units: Situated in and focuses on for participatory planning, ownership and urban and semi-rural hinterlands, these core operational long-term sustainability of interventions. communities derive considerable benefits geographies Move beyond mere asset creation to from the multiplier effects arising from to promote behaviour change through focus on demand the operations. Nevertheless, there is an all-inclusive expectation that the Company will aid in development. generation for all interventions to ensure creation of the necessary socio-economic The initiatives ownership, participation and contribution. infrastructure, thus contributing to human aim at creating Specially target poor and marginalised and social capital. “Adarsh” communities/groups in our catchments habitations Core Operational Areas: Our commitment to ensure inclusive development and aligned to to transformational change in the lives of thus impact human development national our stakeholders demands a very intensive priorities indices significantly. and deep engagement. It was necessary and goals therefore to rank all current locations of Goals & Targets SIP’s interventions in an order of priority to delineate those which are of prime Context: In line with the Company’s CSR importance to concerned businesses. Based Policy, the key stakeholders, based on the on parameters relevant to businesses (given material aspects of our Businesses, comprise: in the table below) and in consultation Rural communities with whom ITC’s Agri with them, core villages and clusters were Businesses have forged long and enduring identified during the year. Business State & Districts Logic for Core Areas Andhra Pradesh Prakasam, Nellore, West Godavari & Guntur All Adarsh Gram Villages identified by ILTD the Division Karnataka – Mysuru Madhya Pradesh Sehore, Vidisha, Guna & Ashoknagar Wheat crop areas with high procurement ABD & higher presence of poor and Uttar Pradesh Chandauli & Allahabad marginalised communities Rajasthan Kota, Baran, Jhalawar & Bundi Villages with significant area under plantations with high future potential PSPD Telangana – Khammam within a radius of 50 kms in Khammam district Prakasam, East Godavari, Khammam, Chennai, Krishnagiri, Coimbatore, Mysuru, Villages/municipalities within 5 kms Factories Bengaluru, Kolar, Pune, Saharanpur, radius plus any other locality Haridwar, Baddi, Munger, Kolkata, Howrah, recommended by the factory Hooghly, Kamrup, Darrang, Kapurthala 139 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Based on these parameters, a total of 103 core clusters have been demarcated comprising 902 villages/wards which would form the nucleus of the 2 Horizons suite of interventions in the coming years and therefore require a significantly larger outlay of Social Investments. Dominant Profile of Core Areas: In order to design a well-targeted programme, it was also necessary to identify some of the main demographic and agro-ecological characteristics of the core areas. Data for this was captured through household questionnaire surveys covering 1.16 lakh households, which formed 22% of the total households in the core areas. The accompanying table provides a glimpse of some of the important indicators that would have a bearing on our work. Stakeholder Profile 5 lakh households 1/3rd Poor 24 lakh population 30% of population 5% women headed 23% SC/ST < 14 years 25% of population Fragmented landholding Arable area 2.13 lakh ha between 14-25 years 1 ha average size 60% rainfed agriculture of age 60% small & marginal Insights: The information from the needs assessments combined with the survey data of households provides important inputs into the nature of the development challenges faced by our stakeholder communities: Poverty remains a challenge in the core areas, and is endemic to both rural and urban populations. Stunted growth and infant and maternal mortality are cause for concern in some states. Going forward there is urgent need to focus on the poor, the marginalised and women headed households. Farming remains the mainstay of nearly half of the households, which is dominated by small holder agriculture. Clearly, the focus of future interventions in rural areas must be to sustain smallholder dynamism through integrated farming systems to drive agricultural growth. It is equally important, in their context, to augment and sustainably manage common pool resources since poor rural households are crucially dependent on them to meet several subsistence needs, especially that of fuelwood and fodder. Like the rest of India, more than half of agriculture in our core area is rainfed. Since inception, ITC’s Social Investments Programmes had identified development of water resources as a major priority area. Going forward, it is proposed to align watershed plans to geo-hydrological mapping of the project areas to ensure maximum aquifer recharge and work at a sub-basin revival to ensure year-round environmental flows. 140 Social Performance Off-farm opportunities are circumscribed workforce, evident from its large-scale in the project areas. Reduction in youth education initiatives. unemployment has also emerged as a priority to end extreme poverty and boost Two Horizons Approach: ITC’s stakeholders are confronted with multiple, but inter-related sustainable economic growth in India. ITC issues, at the core of which are the twin recognised the social risks of having large challenges of securing sustainable livelihoods numbers of uneducated, unemployed today and tomorrow for both rural and urban and untrained youth, evident from the households, calling for a 2-horizon perspective: significant boost given to vocational training in 2014-15. Horizon 1: Making today’s dominant source(s) of livelihoods sustainable; and One possible explanation for availability Horizon 2: Creating capabilities for wealth of low quality skills is the poor state generation and employment for tomorrow. of primary education in the country. ITC has always believed that universalisation This obviously calls for an integrated approach of primary education is vital for to development, comprising several layers of developing a productive and skilled interventions that are summarised below: Horizon Objectives Initiatives & Interventions ON-FARM: Natural resource management & sustainable Horizon 1: Enable the poor to farm practices to strengthen agriculture Making today’s manage and reduce risks dominant source(s) of in their current portfolio livelihoods sustainable of economic activities OFF-FARM: Create non-farm livelihood opportunities, especially for women Improve habitats to reduce morbidity Invest in social infrastructure and ensure a healthy Horizon 2: community Creating capabilities for tomorrow Invest in education to Focus on quality learning in schools enable young people to develop skills for gainful employment Align skills training with market demand 141 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Desired Outcomes – Adarsh Habitations: Indices benchmarked to the national If such a holistic approach is followed, we will MDG goals are given in the table establish enabling conditions for the emergence below along with the range of baselines of “Adarsh” habitations with indicators aligned for each of the indicator. Quite to national priorities and goals, whether in the obviously, the attainment of national area of protection of natural resources or the benchmarks are long-term goals with a development of human capabilities. 5-year time horizon. Long-term Outcome Indicators Baseline Desired Outcome Indicator Benchmark Best Worst Sustainable 1.19% 0.40% Soil Organic carbon 0.75 1 % Agriculture (Mangaldoi) (Kapurthala) Ground water SAFE Over Exploited Water Security Safe Category recharge (Pune) (Kapurthala & Kolar) Fuel & Fodder 33% of total 59% 0% Area under biomass Security geographical area (Baran) (Kapurthala) 100% 60% Universal Primary Enrolment 100% (Coimbatore & Education (Kolkata) Darrang) Maternal mortality National MDG goal 36 366 ratio 109* (Krishnagiri) (Mangaldoi) Improvement in Health Status 14 76 Infant mortality National MDG goal ratio 27** (Coimbatore) (Saharanpur) Prevalence of 2% 40% Eradicate Extreme National MDG goal under-weight Poverty & Hunger 26% (Prakasam) (Sehore & Saharanpur) children * Deaths per 1 lakh live births ** Deaths of infants less than 1 year old per thousand live births 142 Social Performance Targets & Timelines Based on the 2 Horizons strategy, a number of specific interventions have been put in place in order to achieve the desired goals. These are detailed in the table below along with the estimated time it would take to achieve these targets. LongAchieved Balance Timeline* Objective Initiatives UoM term to date Target (years) target Horizon I Sustainable Livelihoods Today De-risk poor rural households Social Hectares 2,27,560 87,674 1,39,886 10 by diversifying farm portfolios Forestry through the promotion of tree-based farming Agro-forestry Hectares 95,065 24,566 70,499 10 Integrate diverse elements of the rural portfolio of Sustainable Hectares 11,78,518 58,105 11,20,413 15 initiatives into a Climate agriculture Smart Village approach Watershed Hectares 9,09,960 2,59,050 6,50,910 10 Area Ensure water security for all stakeholders through Structures Nos. 27,299 7,998 19,301 10 watershed development & managed aquifer recharge Biodiversity Hectares 23,332 3,943 19,389 10 Conservation Actively promote non-farm livelihood opportunities to Women Nos. 1,50,014 51,027 98,987 13 diversify income portfolios of covered poor households Horizon II Creating Capabilities for Tomorrow Ensure that every child is Children Nos. 7,13,446 4,60,967 2,52,479 10 in school and learning well covered through improvement in pedagogy and the learning Schools environment Nos. 1,491 1,322 169 10 covered Align skills training to market demand to maximise Youth Nos. 2,82,060 31,367 2,50,693 15 employment of youth from enrolled our core areas Toilets Nos. 1,31,100 15,429 1,15,671 14 Reduce morbidity, especially constructed amongst women and children, by promoting a clean and SWM healthy environment households Nos. 2,60,176 42,159 2,18,017 15 covered * Timeline from base year of 2016-17 143 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Responsibilities Board’s approval, the SIP Plan outlining the interventions to be carried out during the Consultations on the annual plans take place financial year and the specified budgets at two levels: (1) Annually, with the relevant therein. The Board deliberates and approves business managers where the projects are the CSR Plan with modifications that may located. The objective is to get a business be deemed necessary. The Company’s perspective on community issues faced Corporate Management Committee (CMC) by them and which they would like to be reviews the implementation of the SIP and addressed; (2) Assessment of the problems issues necessary directions from time to time and needs of the community through to ensure efficient and effective execution detailed Need Assessment surveys normally of SIP in accordance with this Policy. In done once in five years for on-going projects addition, the CMC provides a status update to or at the start of each new intervention/entry the CSR and Sustainability Committee on the into a new location. progress in implementation of the approved CSR Programmes. The CSR and Sustainability The two perspectives are then mapped to Committee reviews such reports and keeps find a common ground and the Company’s the Board apprised of the implementation view is shared with the NGOs to ensure status of the same. that both stakeholders develop and work towards a common set of goals and agenda. Specific Actions Annual plans are thereafter finalised in consultation with programme implementing ITC’s Social Investments Programmes access agencies (NGOs) and the community based knowledge/technical know-how, leverage institutions, keeping the Company’s focus government partnerships and focus on areas, emerging needs of the catchment and core operational geographies to promote funds available on the radar. all-inclusive development. The initiatives The projects aim at creating “Adarsh” habitations aligned promoted under These plans are then aggregated and to national priorities and goals, both in the the Social presented to the Management Committee of area of protection of natural resources and Investments the Social Investments Programmes which development of human capabilities. Programmes are scrutinises the proposals and forwards it spread over in to the Corporate Management Committee Coverage 166 districts in for its approval during the annual business 26 states plan presentations. These proposals are The projects promoted under the Social then presented to the CSR/Sustainability Investments Programmes are spread over Board Committee which tables for the 166 districts in 26 states. 144 Social Performance Horizon I: The e-Choupal network also provides onfarm agri extension services. Reaching ITC e-Choupal Sustainable Livelihoods Today the fruits of scientific and technological has triggered research to the farmer, demonstration farms a virtuous called Choupal Pradarshan Khets have been cycle of higher ITC’s e-Choupal set up to propagate best practices, while productivity, field schools enable transfer and adoption higher incomes The ITC e-Choupal initiative is a powerful of knowledge. The programme offers other and enhanced example of a development model that delivers capacity for services like consultation and supervision by large-scale societal value by co-creating rural farmer risk experts, soil testing, balanced fertilisation, markets with local communities. Recognising management, foundation seeds and seed treatment, larger the various challenges faced by farmers, like water, weed, pest and post-harvest crops investments fragmented farms, weak infrastructure and management and supply of quality inputs and higher involvement of numerous intermediaries, ITC like drought-resistant seeds to improve quality and designed e-Choupal to deliver enhanced value farm competencies. productivity to all participants in the value chain, especially farmers. With a judicious blend of click & mortar ITC e-Choupal enhances the ability of capabilities, ITC e-Choupal has triggered a farmers to take informed decisions, aligns virtuous cycle of higher productivity, higher their farm output with market demand and incomes and enhanced capacity for farmer risk ensures higher quality and productivity. management, larger investments and higher The aggregation of demand for farm inputs quality and productivity. from individual farmers gives them access to high quality inputs from established The initiative has enhanced the manufacturers at fair prices. competitiveness of Indian agriculture by leveraging the power of Information Launched in June 2000, ITC e-Choupal is Technology to empower small and marginal today the largest initiative among Internetfarmers. Village internet-kiosks managed based interventions in rural India. Its services by farmers themselves, called “sanchalaks”, reach out to more than 4 million farmers in facilitate access to information to other over 35,000 villages through 6,100 kiosks farmers, in their own local language. Realspread across 10 states. time information on weather forecasts and market prices, customised knowledge The intervention is an important component on scientific farm practices and risk of ITC’s multi-dimensional Integrated Rural management are supplemented by the Development Programme that has evolved availability of quality farm inputs and price from its deep understanding of the challenges discovery of farm produce within the village. and opportunities inherent in the farm sector. 145 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS The Farm and Social Forestry programmes have greened nearly 225,293 hectares of area that generated over 101 million person-days of employment Social Forestry During the year, 142,539 MT of wood was harvested leading to a total wealth The programme is aimed at providing food, generation of `63.82 crores for poor and fuel and fodder security through plantations marginal farmers. Of this 6,754 tonnes was by enabling financial, technical and marketing FSC certified wood which again benefited support to small and marginal farmers. farmers in the form of premium payment. Commencing in 2001-02, the programme To meet the increasing demand, sapling stock has covered nearly 64,795 hectares under was augmented by leveraging four women pulpwood plantation and 22,879 hectares run nurseries. These nurseries, managed under energy plantation. To date, the Farm by 106 women, supplied 34 lakh saplings of and Social Forestry Programmes have greened nearly 225,293 hectares of area Agro Forestry Area (Ha) that generated over 101 million persondays of employment. The area under Agro 10,655 Forestry (AF) that facilitates cultivation of 9,241 trees along with crops on continuous basis has been given a major emphasis in recent years evident from the rapid increase in area shown in the chart. 3,848 Social Forestry Coverage 492 2014 2015 Cum to 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Activity -15 -16 2015-16 Coverage Economic Retuns from Social Forestry Activity 2014-15 2015-16 No. of new 1,284 813 4,533 villages Harvest No. of new Area (Ha.) 2,000 3,060 17,397 15,634 85,701 beneficiaries Farmers (No.) 3,533 3,290 Plantation Area Volume harvested (MT) 1,21,498 1,42,539 Pulpwood (Ha.) 10,109 10,081 64,795 Total Income (` Lakhs) 6,078 6,382 Energy (Ha.) 10,246 10,056 22,879 Repayment to Saplings committee/NGO 24.17 34.67 Planted 1,078 785 4,800 (` Lakhs) (Lakhs) Earnings/Household (`) 1,72,036 1,93,967 Agro Forestry 9,241 10,655 24,566 Area (Ha.) Earnings/Hectare (`) 3,03,902 2,08,546 146 Social Performance Findings from Studies of Agro Forestry Projects Recently conducted studies on Agro Earning per acre from Agro Forestry Forestry by independent agencies plots were found to be 25% higher than highlight several interesting findings: pure block plantation of trees and 18% Agro Forestry is preferred by small and higher than only field crops. marginal farmers compared to large The model is especially attractive for farmers since it is important for them to resource starved small-holders on maximise annual incomes. Diversifying into tree crops also emerged as an account of lump-sum earnings every important risk mitigation strategy for four years from wood harvest, which are this group. invested in productive assets or towards improving the HDI of households. Some Agro Forestry did not constrain farmers major investments made by households from the choice of their intercrop, were on agricultural improvement, though commercial crops were the most irrigation, household assets, health preferred, with cotton emerging as the dominant crop in rainfed fields within and education, all critical for setting in this category. motion a virtuous cycle of growth. eucalyptus and subabul for the Social Forestry farmers. The focus of these demonstrations Programme worth `68 lakh, thus becoming an was on sustainable farm practices like important source of livelihoods for them. moisture conservation, promotion of bio-fertilisers, zero-tillage, prophylactic Sustainable Agriculture pest management, etc. Sustainable agriculture aims to improve In addition, 764 Farmer Field Schools (FFS) productivity and profitability of agriculture disseminated know-how on advanced through low-input based agricultural agri practices to over 16,969 farmers production systems and by promoting small through 2,464 demonstration plots under land-holder friendly mechanisation. different crops. 228 Agri Business Centres rendered extension services, promoted best Choupal Pradarshan Khets promoted practices, arranged agri credit linkages and field demonstrations of seed varieties established collective input procurement and and production practices for improved agricultural equipment on hire. In pursuit of yield and quality in soybean, wheat, rice, our long-term objective of increasing soil summer pulses and horticultural crops in organic carbon, 7,314 compost units were Choupal more than 5,000 villages covering around constructed during the year thus taking the Pradarshan 64,000 hectares and more than 60,000 cumulative total to 30,868. Khets promoted field demonstrations of seed varieties and production practices for improved yield and quality in soybean, wheat, rice, summer pulses and horticultural crops in more than 5,000 villages covering around 64,000 hectares and more than 60,000 farmers 147 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Adoption of Zero Till Zero tillage method of wheat cultivation was promoted on 44,274 hectares during the year to reduce requirement of water, labour, cultivation costs, and improve organic carbon content of soil. In addition to its continuation in existing areas, it was newly introduced in 3 districts of UP and Bihar. Based on secondary research it is found that farmers can derive the following benefits from the widespread adoption of this practice: Improvement of organic carbon content in soil; Reduction of methane gas emission; Increase in biomass coverage through year round crop development programme; and Prevention of soil damage and protection of soil health through zero tillage practice. Sustainable Agriculture Coverage Cum to Activity 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 Minor Irrigation Group Irrigation (Nos.) 58 138 808 Sprinklers (Nos.) 879 581 2,649 Sustainable Agriculture Demonstration plots (Nos.) 7,736 2,464 36,542 Area under Demonstration Plots (Ha.) 2,717 1,133 12,975 Compost Units (Nos.) 3,668 7,314 30,868 Farmer Field Schools (Functional Nos.) 521 764 764 Farmer Field Students (Functional Nos.) 21,064 16,969 16,969 Agri Business Centres No of ABCs (Functional Nos.) 137 228 228 Farmers Serviced (Nos.) 15,454 18,987 18,987 To give a boost to inclusion of women in agriculture, 50 women led FFS were formed with 1,250 women farmers in Rajasthan, MP, Bihar, Maharashtra & Karnataka and 5 women owned custom hiring centres were launched in Rajasthan. Soil & Moisture Conservation towards Water Security The programme promotes local management of water resources by facilitating communitybased participation in planning and executing watershed projects in 10 states and 42 districts. This initiative has covered over 58,800 hectares area in 2015-16 thus taking the total area under soil and moisture conservation to over 2,59,000 hectares. 7,998 water harvesting structures have been constructed so far thus contributing to fresh rainwater harvesting potential of 3.57 million CuM. For maintenance of these structures over 385 Water User Groups were formed during the year. 148 Social Performance Watershed Development Coverage Cum to Activity 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 Water-harvesting Minor Structures (No.) 1,159 1,186 5,321 Major Structures (No.) 331 348 2,677 Total Structures 1,490 1,534 7,998 Watershed Area Area Treated (Ha.) 32,644 41,694 1,72,663 Critical Irrigation Area (Ha.) 18,753 17,169 86,387 Total Watershed Area 51,397 58,864 2,59,050 Water Storage Capacity (Million CuM) 3.22 3.57 27.34 Direct Beneficiaries (No.) 32,960 44,287 2,05,418 Employment mandays (Lakhs) 7.15 4.76 52.09 Public Private Partnership for Watershed Development The total target area under PPP projects, in partnership with NABARD and the governments of MP, Rajasthan and Maharashtra is over 1.58 lakh hectares. The largest partnership is with MGNREGA (68,114 ha) followed by NABARD (43,450 ha) and IWMP (46,691 ha). IWDP/IWMP Coverage Area in PPP Projects by Source 14,372 32,319 IWDP/IWMP NABARD MGNREGA 30% 27% 23,107 45,007 NABARD 43% 38,151 5,299 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% MGNREGA Actual Balance 149 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Animal Husbandry Services milch animals and genetically upgrade lowThe Animal yielding indigenous stock through artificial Husbandry The Animal Husbandry Programme unveils insemination to produce cross-bred progeny Programme opportunity for farmers to convert an existing with much higher milk yields. unveils asset into a substantial supplementary opportunity income with the potential of growing into Initiated in 2003-04, there are currently 238 for farmers a sustainable source of livelihood. This Cattle Development Centres (CDCs) spread to convert an programme provided extension services, across 24 districts. During 2015-16, 2.29 existing asset including breeding, fodder propagation lakhs Artificial Inseminations (AIs) were into a substantial and training of farmers to increase farm performed that has led to birth of 91,850 supplementary incomes through enhanced productivity of cross-bred progeny. income with the potential Animal Husbandry Coverage Cattle Development Centres of growing into a sustainable Cum source of Activity 2014 2015 to Andhra livelihood -15 -16 2015 Pradesh, 29 Telengana, -16 8 Maharastha, 42 Karnataka, CDC Centres 36 (Functional 256 238 238 No.) Breed Improvement No. of AIs 2.24 2.29 17.91 (Lakhs) No. of pregnancies 1.04 1.21 8.48 (Lakhs) No. of calfing 0.80 0.92 5.70 (Lakhs) Madhya Uttar Pradesh, 72 Pradesh, 46 Vaccination Odisha, 5 & Health 0.43 0.84 6.31 (Lakhs) Learning from the Impact Assessment of the Livestock Programme in Madhya Pradesh A study on the animal husbandry clearly need to provide superior quality programme in MP found that: of service, better response time and an integrated package of practices as Prima facie, the data did not show compared to other service providers. that yield impacts in ITC project areas were significantly higher than others. According to the report, significant It was certainly striking against nonproductivity gains can be had with descript animals, but not so for control 4 interventions: farmers using AI services of other agencies. Increase coverage of nutrient mixture Evidently, other service providers have also and supplements to more than 90% started using equally high quality semen. of beneficiary households, from the The programme progenies are realising current 72%. only 70-80% of their potential milk yield, Significantly increase in area per which definitely needs to be maximised. household under green fodder. The solution seems to lie in what the Deworming every 3 months. beneficiaries themselves pointed out consistently about the programme: we Timely vaccination. 150 Social Performance Women’s Economic marginalised women towards their socioEmpowerment economic mainstreaming. The Programme is currently operational in 7 districts of Bihar, This initiative specifically targets poor West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, women to provide them a range of gainful Rajasthan and Assam. employment opportunities supported with financial assistance by way of loans and Over 350 Self Help Groups (SHGs) were grants. Wherever feasible, market linkages formed during the year and 3,800 members have also been created for long-term joined these groups. Members of SHGs and sustainability. other institutions were linked to individual bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Initiated in 2014, a holistic intervention Jan Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha currently supports 10,200 ultra poor and Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Ultra Poor Women Progress Beneficiaries 2015-16 Women Selected 10,200 Women Trained 10,200 ITC’s Women’s Economic Women Provided Assets 10,200 Empowerment Initiative Enterprise (Asset distribution) specifically targets poor On-Farm Assets 4,799 women to provide them a Off-Farm Assets 4,199 range of gainful Mixed 1,202 employment opportunities Social Security supported with financial Women having Savings Account 6,281 assistance by way of loans Women able to write names and numbers 6,712 and grants Women with access to formal health services 3,582 151 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJY). 55,925 beneficiaries (men and women) were covered under the PMSBY, 26,867 members under the PMJJY and 39,105 under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Case Study of Subhashini, Ultra Poor Beneficiary, Tribeni, Hooghly I am a resident of Bishpara village under Chandrahati-I GP of Chinsurah Mogra block, Hooghly district. 10 years back when I was abandoned by my husband, I and my 4 year old daughter went back to my maternal house as a primary shelter. I then started working as housemaid to earn my own livelihood with a meagre amount of `700 per month. In January 2015, I got selected as a beneficiary under ITC’s THP programme after completion of their Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) exercise. I was given handholding support to write my name, recognise and write digits and numbers. I was also helped to open a savings bank account, which got linked to the Pradhan Mantri Surakshya Bima Yojana. Then I got trained in entrepreneurial skills which instilled confidence and faith in me to set up and run my own business in a small scale. I got assets and fixed capital to set up my flour making business. Now this business fetches me an average monthly income of `4,000 and I have plans to buy a kiosk to put up in front of school for selling eatables. Horizon II: Hygiene (WASH) practices in schools/ anganwadis in a manner where operations Creating Capabilities for and maintenance become sustainable. Tomorrow Primary Education Coverage Primary Education Cum Activity 2014 2015 to ITC’s Education Programme aims to -15 -16 2015 provide weaker sections of society access -16 to education with focus on learning Education outcomes and retention. Another area of focus is development of ‘child friendly Govt Schools schools’ through strengthening of school Infra support 147 164 1,322 infrastructure (boundary walls, additional (Nos.) classrooms, sanitation and drinking water Children facilities, furniture and electrical fittings) covered in and introducing Water Sanitation and Pratham’s Read 0.54 0.46 NA India Plus Programme (Lakh) Supplementary Learning Centres Spread Himachal Pradesh, 4 West Andhra Bengal, 31 Pradesh, 43 Uttar Pradesh, 20 Uttarakhand, 10 Telangana, Tamil Nadu, 35 8 Karnataka, 25 152 153 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Vocational Training construction, computer skills, security skills, bedside nursing and retail. Initiated in 2001, ITC’s Vocational Training Programme the Programme has impacted over 31,367 focuses on building market relevant skills so youth in 31 districts of 15 states. Of the as to make potential job seekers industrytotal enrolled, 41% were from the SC and ST ready and employable in the manufacturing communities and 36% were female students. or service sectors. Skill training is offered 68% of the students trained in 2015-16 have in trades including hospitality, tailoring, been placed at salaries ranging from `3000 beautician, automotive, electrical, to `11,000 per month. The company continues to work with the Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration (WGSHA) together with Dr. TMA Pai Foundation to cater to the ever growing need for professionally trained human resources in the hospitality industry. WGSHA has been recently rated by CEO World Magazine amongst the top 50 hospitality schools in the world. In addition, since the inception of ITC Culinary Skills Training Centre, Chhindwara in 2014, 41 trainee chefs in three batches have successfully completed the 6-months Programme wherein cooking skills are imparted to youth from the lower economic strata. Trade-wise Coverage in Skilling Enrolment Till 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Cum to date All Trades 6,315 13,180 11,872 31,367 Hospitality 1,489 3,252 3,361 8,102 Electrical 341 1,915 1,960 4,216 Soft Skills Retail/Marketing/Spoken English/ 968 1,484 1,748 4,200 Technician Course Tailoring & Beautician 776 2,357 741 3,874 Computer Skills 757 1,765 351 2,873 Automobile 337 1,144 1,238 2,719 Garment Manufacturing/Industrial Sewing Machine 662 254 565 1,481 Operations (ISMO) Bedside Nursing 654 1,219 1,873 Driving 838 838 Security 66 28 94 Printing and Packing 316 110 426 ITeS/Data entry operator 230 230 Material Handling 150 150 Fitter and welding 101 101 Construction 81 11 92 BPO 55 55 Others 43 43 154 Social Performance Sanitation Water Purification Plant and it is maintained by the community thereby making it a selfIn order to promote overall health and reduce sustainable model. The beneficiaries pay for incidence of water-borne diseases through the water, which provides the revenues for prevention of open defecation, ITC has the running and maintenance of the plant. promoted low cost toilets on a cost sharing 37 RO plants were established in 2015-16 to basis, coupled with high impact awareness provide safe drinking water to about 31,450 campaigns directed at the community rural people in the state of Andhra Pradesh. to bring higher levels of ownership and behavioural change at the grassroots level. The Company continued its work on creating awareness on maternal and child health Operational in 10 states, the year 2015-16 through a network of 285 women VHCs who recorded construction of 7,175 household covered nearly 1 lakh women and adolescent toilets, which is the highest since inception children. Swasthya Choupal, the Company’s – 5,231 were constructed through e-Choupal Rural Health initiative, is direct Company contribution and 1,944 operational in 7 districts of Uttar Pradesh constructed through convergence with and 3 districts of Madhya Pradesh. government funds. The Programme has been equally focused on interventions to enhance awareness and impact behaviour change on WASH through Community Led Total Sanitation (CLTS) programmes to mobilise communities to completely eliminate open defecation. In addition, it targets direct beneficiary contribution, loans and leveraging of government funds under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to construct toilets. To make hygienic and healthy water available to the local communities in Nellore, Prakasam and Guntur districts, Reverse Osmosis Water purification plants were set up in villages where typically the existing water source is of poor quality. The water project employs a communitybased operating model involving the Village Panchayat and the local communities. An operational assistant is employed for each Individual Household Toilets (IHHT) Spread and Trends Maharashtra, Himachal Uttarakhand, 171 Pradesh, 40 644 Madhya 8000 7,175 Tamil Nadu, Pradesh, 55 583 6000 3,578 4000 Karnataka, 957 Andhra 2000 829 Bihar, 905 Pradesh, 1,676 283 275 352 Telangana, 200 0 10-11 11-12 12-13 13-14 14-15 15-16 155 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Solid Waste Management selected wards of Bengaluru with the support of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara ITC’s Waste Recycling programme, ‘WOW Palike (BBMP), now covers 400 municipal – Well Being Out of Waste’, inculcates wards of major municipal corporations of the habit of source segregation and Southern India. The Programme creates recycling among school children, sustainable livelihoods for 10,000 housewives and general public as well rag pickers and waste collectors by as industries and business enterprises. propagating source segregation at each of Its aim is to promote a clean and green the households and facilitating effective environment and providing a sustainable collection mechanisms in collaboration source of livelihood for rag pickers and with municipal corporations. It has also waste collectors. The WOW movement created over 50 social entrepreneurs for today extends to Hyderabad, Chennai, sustaining the initiative. Bengaluru, Coimbatore and some towns of Telangana. The Programme covers Similar programmes are operational ITC’s Waste over 5 million citizens, 500,000 school in 9 districts of Saharanpur, Hooghly, Recycling children, 350 corporates, more than 1,000 Kolkata, Munger, Guntur, Madurai, Pune, programme, commercial establishments and around Thiruvallur and Haridwar. The primary ‘WOW – Well 200 industrial plants. A novel pilot focus is on door-to-door collection of Being Out of programme, initially launched in twelve household waste against a household Waste’, covers over 5 million citizens, Impact Evaluation of SWM Project in Saharanpur 500,000 school children, 350 A recently conducted independent study households, though source segregation corporates, of Saharanpur SWM programme shows is still an area of improvement. There more than 1,000 significant reduction of waste burden at was also zero open dumping of garbage commercial dumping sites, which is an outcome of in the project area. The study also establishments behavioural change in the communities. recommended mechanisation along with and around 200 The project has delivered well in improving manual waste collection to cope up with industrial plants cleanliness, positively impacting air the increasing household base and burden quality and sanitation as per the surveyed of waste. 156 Social Performance Solid Waste Management Coverage Particulars 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Households Covered 8,189 9,365 9,702 27,164 42,159 Total Waste Collected (MT) 1,076 1,498 2,201 2,717 3,975 Waste Composted (MT) 569 843 1,516 1,914 2,656 Waste Sold as Recyclable (MT) 332 371 380 385 397 Waste going as Municipal 16% 19% 14% 15% 23% Dump(%) Revenue (` lakhs) 38.33 43.91 53.29 67.07 66.77 levy, segregation at site in order to earned approximately `5.56 lakhs per re-cycle and compost so as to minimise month as revenue which went towards the load at municipal landfills. meeting part of the administration and overhead costs. Women-driven The projects together covered over waste management initiatives were 42,000 households and handled 3,975 scaled up in Tribeni and Munger MT of waste during the year. Only factory catchment in partnership 23% of the total waste collected is with cluster SHGs and respective being dumped untreated. The Projects Gram Panchayats. 157 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Responsible with the Government and policy makers to promote sustainable development and Advocacy inclusive growth through corporate action. ITC believes that it is necessary to represent to and engage with authorities Creating Enduring on matters concerning the various Institutions sectors in which it operates. The Board approved Policy on Responsible Advocacy CII-ITC Centre of Excellence provides the framework for the necessary for Sustainable Development interface with Government/Regulatory Authorities. ITC works with apex industry The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for institutions that are engaged in policy Sustainable Development, established advocacy, like the Confederation of Indian by ITC in collaboration with the Industry, Federation of Indian Chambers Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) of Commerce and Industry, Associated in 2006, continues its endeavours to Chambers of Commerce and Industry of promote sustainable business practices India and various other forums including among Indian enterprises. The centre regional Chambers of Commerce. ITC’s is steered by its Advisory Council, engagement with the relevant authorities headed by Mr. Y C Deveshwar, Chairman, is guided by the values of commitment, ITC Limited, and comprises members from integrity, transparency and the need to industry, civil society and academia. The balance interests of diverse stakeholders. Council provides strategic direction to the organisation. The Company, for its social development projects, organises meetings with the local The Centre celebrated its tenth year with its administration and state governments to annual Sustainability Summit in September seek their participation and involvement. 2015. Experts and participants from across Their expert advice and counsel are also the country deliberated on a wide range sought and approvals obtained, where of sustainability topics at the two-day required, for the planned interventions. summit. The year also marked a decade of The Company also engages in publicthe CII-ITC Sustainability Awards, instituted private-partnerships (PPP) with the state to reward and recognise outstanding governments for such projects. contributions made by corporates in the field of sustainability. Over the past 10 years, the The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Awards have set benchmarks of excellence Sustainable Development also interacts in sustainable business in India. Mr Suresh 158 Social Performance Prabhu, Union Minister for Railways, gave Climate Change held in Paris in the winter away the CII-ITC Sustainability Awards to 26 of 2015. The climate negotiations was of winners across various categories in 2015. great significance since a legally binding agreement, which will become operational On the International Day for Biological in 2020, was to be finalised at the event. Diversity on May 22, the India Business & As India prepared for COP21, the Centre Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI), launched by engaged with the MoEFCC on drafting India’s the Centre in 2014, released the publication, Intended National Determined Contributions ‘Bridging Business and Biodiversity: (INDC). It mobilised inputs from key industry Innovative Approaches’. The publication, segments, ensuring that industry was released in association with the Union fully aligned with the Government on the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate implementation of the INDCs. Change (MoEFCC), highlights the concept of natural capital and its relation to biodiversity The ITC Sangeet Research and ecosystem services. Academy During the year, the Centre also launched The ITC Sangeet Research Academy the Annual CSR Tracker, based on an analysis (ITC-SRA), which was established in 1977, of CSR disclosures of companies. The tracker continues to be a true embodiment of ITC’s analysed 1,181 BSE-listed companies with sustained commitment to a priceless national respect to the amount of funds spent, CSR heritage. The Company’s pledge towards activities, geographical areas targeted and ensuring enduring excellence in Classical committees & policies instituted. The Centre Music education has helped ITC-SRA adhere also launched the Siemens Integrity Initiative to the age-old ‘Guru-Shishya Parampara’. (SII), a project aimed at creating awareness The Academy has eminent musicians on responsible business practices. imparting quality Hindustani classical music to its scholars. Its list of Gurus includes living The Centre continued to work with the legends like Padma Vibhushan Vidushi Girija MoEFCC on various legislations and policies Devi, Padma Bhushan Buddhadev Dasgupta, concerning business and environment. It Padma Shri Ulhas Kashalkar and Padma provided inputs for the draft “Guidelines on Shri Ajoy Chakrabarty. The focus of the private sector participation for afforestation Academy is on nurturing exceptionally gifted on degraded forests land”, “Use of Multistudents, carefully hand-picked across India, layered packaging under Draft Plastic Waste who receive full scholarships to reside and Management Rules 2015”, and the draft pursue music education in the Academy’s Environment Laws Amendment Bill 2015. campus. This has provided opportunities to young talent to train under the tutelage of The Centre participated in the 21st session the country’s most distinguished stalwarts of the Conference of Parties (CoP) to the and has helped create the next generation of United Nations Framework Convention on musical masters. 159 Product Responsibility Management ITC’s commitment towards ensuring compliance with relevant standards of health Approach and safety commences at the design stage. Appropriate health and safety elements Customer Health and Safety across procurement, manufacturing and delivery are identified and evaluated, based Our uncompromising commitment in on which control measures are implemented providing world-class products and services as necessary. Global developments in health to satisfy customers on a consistent basis and safety are also reviewed constantly is rooted in respect for our customers/ to provide appropriate insights. This is consumers. Given ITC’s presence in the supported by comprehensive research and FMCG and Hospitality sectors, its products testing facilities at the ITC Life Sciences and services reach out to a large number & Technology Centre, whose laboratories of consumers. The Company has stringent conform to ISO/IEC 17025 and are certified processes and systems to ensure that all by National Accreditation Board for Testing products and services are in compliance and Calibration (NABL). Manufacturing units with relevant regulatory requirements. In and hotels have state-of-the-art facilities addition, product and service attributes are and technology as well as internationally constantly evaluated against international benchmarked quality management systems. standards and best practices. This is an These are constantly reviewed to keep them integral part of the Company’s approach and contemporary and relevant. The quality all efforts are made to ensure that there is no performance of third party manufacturing deviation on this account. facilities is also monitored on a daily basis. 160 Social Performance The summary of systems and initiatives across some of ITC’s Businesses is presented below: Business Measures undertaken Agri The Business primarily engages in sourcing of agri-commodities like Wheat, Business Coffee, Potato, Shrimps, Soya, Pulses, Rice, Maida and Processed Fruits. These commodities are sourced and supplied based on customer requirements of quality, quantity and packaging. Stringent process control and quality inspection norms have been established to ensure compliance with customer requirements. Systems and processes are in place to ensure the hygiene of the stored stocks. Products are shipped after meticulous testing either in-house, or at accredited labs or agencies, if required by the customers. For organic and sustainable farm practices in the processed fruits business catering to specific customer segments, the Business has received the following international certifications: Fairtrade certification endorsing that its products meet certain environmental, labour, and developmental standards. Demeter Certification for Biodynamic Farming, a holistic method of agriculture. USDA Organic and India Organic Certifications for Organic Farming. Bio-Suisse Certification for Organic Farming. Branded 63 out of 72 manufacturing locations, including third party manufacturing units, Packaged Foods which accounted for 93.3% of total production volume in 2015-16, are Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)/ISO 22000 certified, ensuring that products use the best quality ingredients and utilise the highest quality processes. The objective is to continuously provide consumers with products that not only “Taste Good” but also “Do Good”. Consequently, large investments have been made in R&D to deliver relevant functionalities based upon specific formulations for identified health needs, like reducing salt, sugar and oil across all products. R&D team has already come up with reduced fat biscuits and low sodium potato chips that have undergone successful consumer research feedback and are ready for launch. None of the Snacks products has added Trans Fat. Sucrose free products, wherein no sucrose is added, to offer healthier alternatives have also been launched. Initiative has been taken to replace refined wheat flour by whole wheat flour to make the products healthier and new products are being developed incorporating healthier multi grain cereals, wheat bran, wheat fibre, etc. Some of these developments are in an advanced stage and will be launched in near future. Cigarettes The Business uses proprietary software to regularly monitor and review product specifications of all raw materials. With consistent focus on product innovation, new product development in the Business involves consideration of Indian and global developments and is supported by comprehensive research and testing facilities at the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre. Leaf Product integrity, quality and hygiene standards in tobacco cultivation are accorded Tobacco the highest importance. Accordingly, awareness among tobacco farmers on the importance of sustainably producing residue-free quality tobacco is constantly reinforced during field-level trainings and seminars in ITC’s operating regions. For frequent assessment on product integrity, farm-level and packed-level toxicant audit studies are undertaken wherein all leaf samples from farmlands and packed cases of finished products are closely monitored for toxic residues. Several additional measures were implemented across the value chain during the year towards minimisation of Non Tobacco Related Matter. 161 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Business Measures undertaken Personal Care The Business follows a comprehensive approach for improving the health and safety Products impacts of its products in each of the life-cycle stages including R&D, certification as well as manufacturing and production. All safety tests from prototype development to final product are conducted in accordance with standard international guidelines. Ingredients used in products undergo rigorous analysis, based on existing scientific literature, for their toxicity and skin sensitisation prior to clearance for use in product development. Product safety and efficacy are certified through external accredited laboratories. Products are manufactured in a highly automated environment under strict hygienic conditions. Documented Quality Management System, including procured material checks, in-process checks and finished goods quality checks, ensures that the manufactured products are consistent and of high quality. Hotels ITC Hotels have established food safety management systems certified as per HACCP/ISO 22000. In addition, ITC Hotels R&D endeavours to adhere to GHP & GMP (Good Hygiene Practices & Good Manufacturing Practices). The Hotels Business also conforms to relevant applications of PAS 220 (Prerequisite programmes on food safety for food manufacturing). ITC has elaborate fire safety guidelines which all hotels comply with. These guidelines are based on National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Codes and other international best practices. They supplement the general EHS Guidelines applicable to all ITC Businesses, the compliance of which is audited by the Corporate EHS Department on a regular basis. Education and The Business employs multiple process control measures through third party Stationery certifications, inline and final quality checks across the entire chain of manufacturing Products to ensure that their safety is not compromised. The Business uses only approved nonhazardous materials like Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) paper, ink, dyes, etc. in the note books. Since the primary consumers of these products are children, stringent processes and quality control measures are in place to ensure their safety. Pencils and art stationery items are in compliance with the European Standard EN 71. Lifestyle All raw materials and garments are tested at the NABL accredited in-house laboratory Retailing for post usage experience and conformance to quality standards. The standards and product specifications are periodically validated by international testing agencies. Quality is monitored through an internal Product Quality Rating System (PQRS) together with the external Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) norm that is followed internationally by apparel businesses. The Wills Lifestyle range (excluding the Wills Signature garments) has received the “Oeko-Tex” certification (w.e.f. January 2012), becoming the first brand in the domestic apparel retail segment in India to obtain such a recognition. The certification has been conferred by Hohenstein Textile Testing Institute GmbH & Co. KG, Germany. It guarantees that the products are free from more than 100 harmful substances and ensures that Wills Lifestyle garments are completely safe for consumers, without compromising on relevant style quotient of its products. Packaging Various initiatives have been undertaken in developing packaging solutions that and Printing use environment friendly raw materials such as water-based varnishes and reduced material usage in terms of mass and thickness of products. The Business engages with customers on a continuous basis to provide solutions that help protect functional needs like product integrity and visual imagery, whilst providing scope for use of alternate materials. While the paperboard packaging is already being done with nontoluene based inks, the business encourages its customers for use of toluene-free and ketone-free inks in flexible packaging. The Business has also been filing patents related to operational excellence in packaging every year arising from high skill in packaging design backed with state-of-the-art converting technology. In order to strengthen the health & safety requirement of products (Quality and Hygiene), all key operations at Haridwar and Tiruvottiyur factories have been certified as per British Retail Consortium (BRC) Global Standard for Packaging and Packaging Material. 162 Social Performance Business Measures undertaken Paperboards ITC has been the pioneer in manufacturing Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp in and Specialty India. This ensures that the levels of dioxins and furans in the pulp are less than Papers 1 PPT (Parts Per Trillion). The global migration test is conducted periodically on all food-grade paper and paperboards for compliance with the US FDA standards and to adhere to prescribed limits for presence of heavy metals. All manufacturing ingredients for applications involving direct/indirect food contact are procured from reputed suppliers and conform to US FDA and equivalent standards. The Business ensures that the components of food allergens listed in the EC directive 2003/89/EC and the US FDA Act are not used in any virgin grade boards and papers. All food-grade papers and paperboards are periodically tested for compliance with European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS). The Bollaram Unit and relevant production lines in Bhadrachalam Unit that manufacture food grade board for direct/indirect food contact, are ‘third party’ certified in accordance with BRC/IoP (British Retail Consortium/Institute of Packaging) standards. Matches Chemicals approved by IFRA (International Fragrance Resource Association, Geneva) and Agarbatti are used to prepare fragrances, which are required in the manufacture of dipped Mangaldeep agarbattis. The manufacturing processes of the Matches and Agarbatti Business are designed to ensure product safety and consistency. Technico Technico Agri Sciences Limited is in the Agricultural Bio-Technology business Agri Sciences of growing and selling TECHNITUBER® seed potatoes and field generated seed Limited potatoes. TECHNITUBER® seed potato technology is a scientifically advanced process of producing large volumes of miniature seed potatoes from virus and pathogen-free nucleus materials. Company’s facility to maintain germplasm of seed potatoes has been accredited by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of India and is regularly inspected by Central Potato Research Institute (CPRI), Shimla. The Company follows Potato Tissue Culture Raised Mini Tubers (PTCMT) standards for certification for TECHNITUBER® Seed as well as early generation seed potatoes as laid down by Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. 163 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Product like email, telephone number, website address and feedback forms to enable them to contact Information and the relevant Business. Processes are laid down to ensure that consumers are provided Labelling with responses on their feedback in a timely manner. For food products, all information ITC’s Business operations are committed about ingredients and nutrition of products to comply with relevant laws of the is published on the product packaging as per nation and systems are in place to ensure relevant statutory requirements. compliance before the launch of any new category or product. In the Information Technology Business, formal mechanisms are in place to measure A regular customer feedback system forms customer experience. The Customer Service an integral part of ITC’s Businesses where Satisfaction Survey is an annual check on the there is direct interface with customers. The robustness of the engagement, culminating process followed by ITC’s Hotels Business in a Customer Experience Index. The survey with respect to consumer feedback is is conducted amongst Chief Executives illustrated below. and Senior Management, and is based on In the case of FMCG products, consumers are a structured questionnaire customised for provided several communication channels the stakeholder. Multiple parameters and Reports Monitored Analysed and Verified Improvements Identified and Implemented Scores are generated Scores are monitored for the hotel and the to ensure that individual departments corrective action has Data is analysed been effective to identify areas of improvement Scores are Audits are conducted compared against to check efficacy of targets set the changes 164 Social Performance business outcomes are measured including satisfaction, loyalty, advocacy and value for money. The outcomes and insights from the survey drive customer engagement and service delivery improvement initiatives at the organisation, geography, business unit and account level. Customer feedback for B2B businesses like Agri Business and Packaging and Printing, is obtained through different activities. For example, Agri Business has pre-season engagement with customers, client visits and engagement of the Divisional Management Committees with major customers. Given the nature of the Business, claims due to rejections on account of quality are a valuable indicator of customer dissatisfaction. During the year under review, no such claims were made to the Business. Products sold by the Agri Business division on a B2B basis are labelled as per the customer requirements on quality, shipping marks or importing country labelling requirements. Business also provides phytosanitary certificates, surveyor quality and quantity reports, Chamber of Commerce certificates, etc., as necessary. Traceability in the Foods Supply Chain supply chain and also the sustainability aspects therein, which are detailed in the Board approved policies of ITC supplemented “Supply Chain” section of this Report. In by a ‘Code of Conduct for Vendors and Foods Business, over 90% of the vendors Service providers’ provide the structure for processed raw materials like flavours, for addressing traceability within the seasoning, colour, emulsifier and other special ingredients have already accepted the ‘ITC Code of Conduct for Vendors and Service providers’ demonstrating their commitment to comply with applicable laws and contribute to sustainable development. In Foods Business, wheat constitutes around 49% of the total raw material procurement value and is sourced through the e-Choupal platform of ITC’s Agri Business thereby ensuring 100% traceability to the origin. Marketing A regular Communications customer feedback All Businesses/Divisions of ITC have system forms an established rigorous systems, procedures integral part of and review mechanisms to identify and ITC’s Businesses comply with the laws and regulations where there is concerning marketing communications. In direct interface addition, ITC has put in place a dedicated with customers consumer response cell in order to answer any queries on products. 165 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC follows standard operating procedures practices. The Business has drafted a privacy to ensure that its marketing communications policy in line with the IT Act, 2000, that covers are in accordance with voluntary codes all aspects of data privacy with respect to adopted by each business as well as sensitive information. The Business has also applicable statutes. These are vetted by formulated an Information Management the internal legal team and compliance is policy, which caters to the IT security aspects ensured by the internal audit department. of the ISO 27001 ISMS framework. The IT operations arm of ITC Infotech Limited is ISO Marketing and Advertising Communications 27001 certified for its business processes to of all ITC’s Businesses are subjected to deliver IT services and projects. Documented stringent internal checks by the Legal procedures are available and practised Department. The Company’s consumer to grant physical access to information, goods Businesses adhere to voluntary and e.g. the defined and restricted access rights legal codes of conduct and follow the ASCI to IT Room/Server Room and User Access (Advertising Standards Council of India) Management based on ISO 27001 and as Code for all marketing communications. agreed with customers. The Business has also Marketing communications for ITC’s Hotels put in place measures at various control areas Business is governed by self-regulation and in order to meet customers’ requirements for ITC follows guided by the Indian Society of Advertisers data security. These include desktop access, standard (ISA) rules and guidelines. server access, network access, operating operating system, application security, data transfer, procedures to ensure that Customer Privacy penetration testing, etc. Clear guidelines are its marketing provided for data backup, retention periods, communications Maintenance of customer privacy is relevant the media on which backups have to be are in primarily for ITC’s Information Technology maintained and storage at remote location. accordance with and Hotels Businesses, both of which have voluntary codes well established systems and procedures for In addition, stringent risk assessments are adopted by each ensuring zero non-compliance. carried out to identify vulnerabilities and business as well threats to assets and the controls that need as applicable Network Architecture and Information to be put in place. statutes security controls of the Company’s Information Technology Business under ITC ITC’s Hotels and Information Technology Infotech Limited are driven by industry best Businesses received no complaints regarding 166 Social Performance breach of customer privacy or loss of customer data in 2015-16. For the year the The Road Ahead Recognising average WoW Ratio (Guest Satisfaction Recognising the unique construct of ITC in the unique Index) for the Hotels Business was 90.34%. terms of its strong presence in agriculture, construct of ITC in terms of its Branded Packaged Foods and Personal Care strong presence Compliance Products Businesses, a convergence of R&D in agriculture, capabilities is being leveraged to deliver Branded All Businesses/Divisions of ITC have well future products aimed at nutrition, health Packaged Foods established systems, procedures and review and well-being. In this context, Life Sciences and Personal mechanisms to identify and comply with the & Technology Centre (LSTC) has established Care Products laws and regulations concerning its products a Biosciences R&D team to design and Businesses, a convergence of and services. Particular care is accorded to develop several long-term research R&D capabilities tobacco products, taking into account the platforms evolving multi-generation product is being regulatory framework. concepts and associated claims that are leveraged to fully backed by scientific evidence for the deliver future ITC has established systems wherein every Branded Packaged Foods and Personal products aimed Business and Corporate Department has to Care Products Businesses. Multiple value at nutrition, submit a periodic statutory compliance report propositions have been identified in the health and to the CMC/Board on all business regulatory, area of functional foods, which are being well-being product specific, finance/revenue related, progressed to products of the future with personnel related, technical/process related strong scientifically validated claims via and environment related statutes and other clinical trials. Similar advances have been applicable laws and regulations. This is done made in the area of personal care products. on the basis of updated checklists that have to In addition, LSTC has evolved a strategy in be mandatorily maintained by each reporting building a new value chain called, ‘Nutrition’ Unit/Business/function as well as monitoring with a special focus on ‘Indianness’ and and control systems that the Business/ ‘health and well-being’ founded on the Corporate function must have in place. basis of Value Added Agriculture (VAA) and Medicinal and Aromatic Plants. The As per this system, no incidents of noninitial activities related to VAA have already compliance were reported during 2015-16. commenced with a focus on soya. 167 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation of Explanation Section Indicator Description Principles Reference STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of Yes/ the organisation about the Statement of Independent G4-1 relevance of sustainability 04-09 continuing support Assurance to the organisation and the Statement organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability Description of key impacts, G4-2 * 34-42 risks, and opportunities ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation * 12 Primary brands, products, and G4-4 * 14-21 services Location of the organisation’s G4-5 * 46 headquarters Number of countries where G4-6 * 12 the organisation operates Nature of ownership and legal Report and G4-7 * form Accounts 2016 G4-8 Markets served * 12 G4-9 Scale of the organisation * 12 Details on workforce broken Outcomes from down by gender, employment G4-10 implementation of 126 contract, employment type Principle 6 etc. Percentage of total employees Outcomes from G4-11 covered by collective implementation of 126 bargaining agreements Principle 3 168 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Actions and General Standard Disclosures Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Description of the G4-12 * 22-25 organisation’s supply chain Significant changes during the reporting period G4-13 regarding the organisation’s * 12-25 size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain How the precautionary Actions taken G4-14 approach or principle is to implement 58-59 addressed by the organisation Principle 7 United Nations Global Compact Externally developed (UNGC) This economic, environmental and Sustainability social charters, principles, or G4-15 Report is used 04 other initiatives to which the to communicate organisation subscribes or progress on which it endorses implementation of UNGC Principles Memberships of associations and national/international advocacy organisations in G4-16 which the organisation holds * 191-192 a position on the governance body and participates in projects or committees IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the Yes/ organisation’s consolidated Independent G4-17 financial statements with * 46-51 Assurance indication of coverage in Statement the report Yes/ Process for defining the Independent G4-18 report content and the * 43 Assurance Aspect Boundaries Statement Yes/ Material Aspects identified Independent G4-19 in the process for defining * 44-45 Assurance report content Statement Description of Aspect Yes/ Boundary within the Independent G4-20 * 46-49 organisation for each material Assurance aspect Statement 169 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles 22-23, 30-33 Description of Aspect Yes/ 46-47, 83, 87-88, Boundary outside the Independent G4-21 * 91, 93, 101-102, organisation for each material Assurance 112 aspect Statement Explanation of the effect Yes/ of any re-statement of Independent G4-22 * 91 information provided in the Assurance earlier Reports Statement Significant changes from Yes/ previous reporting periods in Independent G4-23 * 46-49 the Scope and Assurance Aspect Boundaries Statement STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Yes/ List of stakeholder groups Sharing COP with Independent G4-24 31-32 engaged by the organisation Stakeholders Assurance Statement Yes/ Basis for identification and Sharing COP with Independent G4-25 selection of stakeholders with Stakeholders 30-31 Assurance whom to engage Statement Yes/ Sharing COP with Organisation’s approach to Independent G4-26 Stakeholders 30-32 stakeholder engagement Assurance Statement Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Yes/ Sharing COP with stakeholder engagement, Independent G4-27 Stakeholders 31-32 and how the organisation Assurance has responded to those key Statement topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting Period * 46 Date of most recent previous G4-29 * 46 Report G4-30 Reporting cycle * 46 Contact point for questions G4-31 regarding the report or its * 46 contents 170 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles G4-32 GRI Content Index * 168-187 Organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report; relationship with the assurance providers; G4-33 * 47 the highest governance body’s involvement in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organisation; committees Yes/ Actions taken responsible for decisionIndependent G4-34 to implement 52-55 making on economic, Assurance principles 1 -10 environmental and Statement social impacts Process for delegating authority for economic, Yes/ environmental and social Actions taken Independent G4-35 topics from the highest to implement 54-55 Assurance governance body to senior principles 1 -10 Statement executives and other employees Executive-level positions with Yes/ Actions taken responsibility for economic, Independent G4-36 to implement 52-55 environmental and Assurance principles 1 -10 social topics Statement Processes for consultation Yes/ between stakeholders and Actions taken Independent G4-37 the highest governance body to implement 54-55 Assurance on economic, environmental principles 1 -10 Statement and social topics Yes/ Composition of the highest Actions taken Independent G4-38 governance body and its to implement 54-55 Assurance committees principles 1 -10 Statement Function of the Chair of the highest governance body Yes/ Actions taken within the organisation’s Independent G4-39 to implement 55 management and the reasons Assurance principles 1 -10 for his arrangement as an Statement executive officer 171 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Nomination and selection processes for the highest Yes/ governance body and its Actions taken Independent G4-40 committees; the criteria used to implement 53-55 Assurance for nominating and selecting principles 1 -10 Statement highest governance body members Processes for the highest governance body to ensure Yes/ Actions taken conflicts of interest are Independent G4-41 to implement 55-56 avoided and managed; Assurance principles 1 -10 disclosure of conflicts of Statement interest to stakeholders Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and Yes/ updating of the organisation’s Actions taken Independent G4-42 purpose, value or mission to implement 54-55 Assurance statements, strategies, policies, principles 1 -10 Statement and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest Yes/ Actions taken governance body’s collective Independent G4-43 to implement 56-57 knowledge of economic, Assurance principles 1 -10 environmental and Statement social topics Processes for evaluation of the highest governance Yes/ body’s performance with Actions taken Independent G4-44 respect to governance of to implement 56-57 Assurance economic, environmental and principles 1 -10 Statement social topics; actions taken in response to evaluation results Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of Yes/ economic, environmental Actions taken Independent G4-45 and social impacts, risks, and to implement 58-59 Assurance opportunities; use of principles 1 -10 Statement stakeholder consultation for supporting the process Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the Yes/ effectiveness of Actions taken Independent G4-46 the organisation’s risk to implement 58-59 Assurance management processes for principles 1 -10 Statement economic, environmental and social topics 172 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Actions and General Standard Disclosures Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Frequency of the highest Yes/ governance body’s review Actions taken Independent G4-47 of economic, environmental to implement Once in a quarter Assurance and social impacts, risks, principles 1 -10 Statement and opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and Yes/ Actions taken approves the organisation’s 43 Independent G4-48 to implement sustainability report and 54-55 Assurance principles 1 -10 ensures that all material Statement Aspects are covered Yes/ Process for communicating Actions taken Independent G4-49 critical concerns to the to implement 43 Assurance highest governance body principles 1 -10 Statement Nature and total number of critical concerns that were Actions taken communicated to the G4-50 to implement 32-42 highest governance body and principles 1 -10 the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives; how Yes/ performance criteria in the Actions taken Independent G4-51 remuneration policy relate to implement 57 Assurance to the highest governance principles 1 -10 Statement body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives Process for determining G4-52 * 57 remuneration How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken Report and G4-53 * into account regarding Accounts 2016 remuneration Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid G4-54 individual to the median * 57 annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid individual to the G4-55 * 57 median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) 173 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Organisation’s values, Yes/ principles, standards and Actions taken 57 Independent G4-56 norms of behaviour such as to implement 189 Assurance codes of conduct and codes principles 10 Statement of ethics Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Yes/ Actions taken advice on ethical and lawful Independent G4-57 to implement 57-58 behaviour, and matters Assurance principles 10 related to organisational Statement integrity Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Actions taken concerns about unethical or G4-58 to implement 57-58 unlawful behaviour, principles 10 and matters related to organisational integrity SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA Actions and External and Outcomes on Page Number/ Description Omissions Assurance Indicators Implementation of Explanation Principles CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Generic Disclosures on G4-DMA * 62 Management Approach (DMA) Direct economic value G4-EC1 * 63-67 generated and distributed 174 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Evaluation of financial implications of the risk and opportunities due to climate change is in progress. This will be Financial implications and reported as other risks and opportunities Action taken on part of 2016 G4-EC2 for the organisation’s Principle 7 Climate activities due to Change climate change Questionnaire of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which will be available on their website in October 2016. Coverage of the G4-EC3 organisation’s defined benefit * 69 plan obligations Financial assistance received G4-EC4 * 68 from government MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 70-71 Development and impact of G4-EC7 infrastructure investments * 71 and services supported Significant indirect economic G4-EC8 impacts, including the extent * 138-157 of impacts MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 67-68 Proportion of spending on G4-EC9 * 67-68 local suppliers 175 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Generic Disclosures on Actions taken G4-DMA Management Approach 74-75 principles 7, 8, 9 (DMA) MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 114-115 principles 7,8 Yes/ Materials used by weight or Outcomes from Independent G4-EN1 115-116 volume Principle 7,8 Assurance Statement Percentage of materials Outcomes from G4-EN2 used that are recycled input implementing 115-116 materials Principle 8 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 76-77 principles 7,8,9 Yes/ Energy consumption within Outcomes from Independent G4-EN3 78-82 the organisation Principle 7,8 Assurance Statement Energy consumption outside Outcomes from G4-EN4 83 of the organisation Principle 8 Yes/ Outcomes from Independent G4-EN5 Energy intensity implementing 82 Assurance Principle 8 Statement Yes/ Reduction of energy Outcomes from Independent G4-EN6 81 consumption Principle 8,9 Assurance Statement Reductions in energy Outcomes from G4-EN7 requirements of products and implementing 81-82 services Principle 8,9 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 94-95 principles 7,8 176 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Yes/ Total water withdrawal by Outcomes from Independent G4-EN8 96 source Principle 7,8 Assurance Statement Water sources significantly Outcomes from G4-EN9 affected by withdrawal of implementing 101-103 water Principle 8 Yes/ Percentage and total volume Outcomes from Independent G4-EN10 102 of water recycled and reused Principle 8 Assurance Statement MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 118-119 principles 8 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or G4-EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity None of ITC’s value outside protected areas operational Description of significant sites are impacts of activities, owned, leased, products, and services on managed in, or G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected are adjacent areas and areas of high to, protected biodiversity value outside areas and protected areas areas of high biodiversity Habitats protected or value, G4-EN13 restored therefore, Total number of IUCN Red these are not List species and national applicable. conservation list species with G4-EN14 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 84-85 principles 7,8,9 Yes/ Independent Assurance Outcomes from Statement; Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN15 Principle 7,8 87-88 Independent emissions (Scope 1) Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory 177 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Yes/ Independent Assurance Energy indirect greenhouse Outcomes from Statement; G4-EN16 gas (GHG) emissions implementing 87-88 Independent (Scope 2) Principle 7,8 Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Yes/ Independent Assurance Other indirect greenhouse Outcomes from Statement; G4-EN17 gas (GHG) emissions implementing 87-88 Independent (Scope 3) Principle 7,8 Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Yes/ Independent Assurance Statement; Greenhouse gas (GHG) Outcomes on G4-EN18 90 Independent emissions intensity Principle 8 Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Yes/ Independent Assurance Outcomes on Statement; Reduction of greenhouse gas G4-EN19 Principle 8,9 88 Independent (GHG) emissions Assurance Statement on GHG Inventory Emissions of ozone-depleting Outcomes on G4-EN20 93 substances (ODS) Principle 7,8 Yes/ NOX, SOX, and other Outcomes on Independent G4-EN21 91-92 significant air emissions Principle 7,8 Assurance Statement MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 104-106 principles 8 Yes/ Total water discharge by Outcomes from Independent G4-EN22 98-100 quality and destination principle 8 Assurance Statement 178 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Yes/ Total weight of waste by type Outcomes from Independent G4-EN23 107-110 and disposal method principle 8 Assurance Statement Total number and volume of Outcomes from G4-EN24 93 significant spills principle 8 This standard disclosure is Weight of transported, not applicable imported, exported, or treated as there was waste deemed hazardous no transport, under the terms of the Basel Outcomes from import, export or treatment of G4-EN25 Convention Annex I, II, III, implementing waste deemed and VIII, and percentage of principle 8 hazardous transported waste shipped under the terms internationally of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Outcomes from G4-EN26 habitats signifcantly implementing 101-103 affected by the organisation’s principle 8 discharges of water and runoff MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Extent of impact mitigation Outcomes from G4-EN27 of environmental impacts of implementing 81 products and services Principles 7,8,9 We have used 1,13,213 Tonnes of post-consumer waste paper/ paperboard which contributed to 19% of total Percentage of products Outcomes from fiber demand of sold and their packaging G4-EN28 implementing our Paperboards materials that are reclaimed Principle 8 and Specialty by category Papers Business. However, we are not able to correlate the post-consumer waste coming from the consumers of our products. 179 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspects Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles MATERIAL ASPECT: SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT Actions taken 114-115, 117, DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 118-119 principles 7,8,9 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Yes/ Outcomes from non-monetary sanctions Independent G4-EN29 implementing 167 for non-compliance with Assurance Principle 8 environmental laws and Statement regulations MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Outcomes from 87-88 G4-EN30 and materials for the implementing 91 organisation’s operations, Principles 8 and transporting members of the workforce CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-Category: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Actions taken to implement G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 124-125 Principle 3,4,5,6 Total number and rates of Yes/ Outcomes from new employee hires and Independent G4-LA1 implementation of 126-127 employee turnover by age Assurance Principle 6 group, gender and region Statement Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary or G4-LA2 127-129 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention Outcomes from G4-LA3 rates after parental leave, by implementation of 126 gender Principle 6 180 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspects Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Minimum notice periods Minimum notice periods regarding regarding operational Outcomes from operational G4-LA4 changes, including whether implementation of changes these are specified in Principle 3 form part of collective agreements long-term agreements with employees. MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 132-133 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health G4-LA5 and safety committees that * 133 help monitor and advise on occupational health and saftey programs Type of injury and rates of Yes/ injury, occupational diseases, Independent G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, * 133-136 Assurance and total number of workStatement related fatalities Workers with high incidence G4-LA7 or high risk of diseases * 137 related to their occupation Health and safety topics G4-LA8 covered in formal agreements * 133 with trade unions MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Yes/ Average hours of training per Outcomes from Independent G4-LA9 year per employee by gender, implementation of 129-130 Assurance and by employee category Principle 6 Statement Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the G4-LA10 * 129-130 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 181 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspects Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Percentage of employees receiving regular Outcomes from performance and career G4-LA11 implementation of 129-130 development reviews, by Principle 6 gender and by employee category MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Outcomes from G4-LA12 category according to gender, implementation of 54, 131 age group, minority group Principle 6 membership, and other indicators of diversity Sub-Category: HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken 124-125 G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 130-131 Principles 1,2,4,5 MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION Total number of incidents of Outcomes from G4-HR3 discrimination and corrective implementation of 131 actions taken Principle 6 MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 124-125 G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 131 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Outcomes from association and collective G4-HR4 implementation of 131 bargaining may be violated Principle 3 or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Outcomes from G4-HR5 of child labour, and measures implementation of 131 taken to contribute to the Principle 5 effective abolition of child labour 182 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Outcomes from G4-HR6 labour, and measures to implementation of 131 contribute to the elimination Principle 4 of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Sub-Category: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Actions to G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA implement 138-141 Principles 1 Percentage of operations Yes/ with implemented local Outcomes of Independent G4-SO1 community engagement, implementation of 143-157 Assurance impact assessments, and Principle 1 Statement development programs Yes/ Operations with significant Outcomes of Independent G4-SO2 actual and potential negative implementation of 143-157 Assurance impacts on local communities Principle 1 Statement MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 57-59 Principle 10 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Outcomes of G4-SO3 risks related to corruption implementation of 57-59 and the significant risks Principle 10 identified Communication and training Outcomes of G4-SO4 on anti-corruption policies implementation of 57-59 and procedures Principle 10 Outcomes of Confirmed incidents of G4-SO5 implementation of 57-59 corruption and actions taken Principle 10 MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 158 Principle 10 183 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Total value of political Outcomes of G4-SO6 contributions by country and implementation of Nil recipient/beneficiary Principle 10 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive G4-SO7 behaviour, anti-trust and * 167 monopoly practices and their outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for * 167 non-compliance with laws and regulations Sub-Category: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 160, 167 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health G4-PR1 * 161-163 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the G4-PR2 * 167 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 164-165 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures Yes/ for product and service Independent G4-PR3 information and labelling, * 164-165 Assurance and percentage of significant Statement product and service categories subject to such information requirements 184 GRI-G4 Content Index UNGC COP # GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspects Actions and Outcomes on Page Number/ External Omissions Implementation of Explanation Assurance Indicator Description Principles Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Yes/ regulations and voluntary Independent G4-PR4 * 167 codes concerning product Assurance and service information and Statement labelling, by type of outcomes Yes/ Results of surveys measuring Independent G4-PR5 * 164-165 customer satisfaction Assurance Statement MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Sale of banned or disputed G4-PR6 * 165-167 products Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 166-167 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR8 * 166 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with G4-PR9 laws and regulations * 167 concerning the provision and use of products and services * No direct requirement by UNGC COP # UNGC COP United Nations Global Compact Communication of progress 185 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI-G4 Food Processing Sector Supplement (FPSS) Material Aspects Page Number/ Reasons for External Description DMAs and Explanation Omissions Assurance Indicators Aspect: Procurement / Sourcing Practices Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) Protecting Natural DMA 74-75 Resources DMA Minimising Toxicity 114-117, 160-163 All of ITC’s trading partnerships are conducted DMA Fair Trade in compliance with applicable legislations Fair Compensation for DMA 127-128 Labour DMA Traceability 165 Aspect: Procurement / Sourcing Practices Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) ITC Foods Business does not use Genetically Modified DMA any GMOs in Organisms (GMOs) manufacturing its products DMA Biofuels 76-77, 83 Aspect: Procurement / Sourcing Practices – Indicators Percentage of purchased Reporting on energy, GHG Yes/ volume from suppliers emissions, water and waste Partially reported Independent FP1 compliant with performance of Foods Business 22-23, 165 Assurance company’s sourcing third party manufacturing units Statement policy (TPMs) is intended to be done in a progressive manner. We had planned to include the Percentage of purchased performance of the joint venture volume which is North Eastern Nutrients Private verified as being Limited (NENPL) in Sustainability Yes/ in accordance with Partially reported Report 2016. However, this Independent FP2 credible, internationally 22-23, 165 could not be done due to plant Assurance recognised responsible commissioning and stabilisation Statement production standards, activities in 2015-16. It is proposed broken down by standard to include the material aspects of NENPL within next 2 years. 186 GRI-G4 Food Processing Sector Supplement Material Aspects Page Number/ Reasons for External DMAs and Description Explanation Omissions Assurance Indicators Aspect: Labour/Management Relations DMA 124-125 Yes/ Percentage of working time lost due Independent FP3 to industrial disputes, strikes and/or 126 Assurance lock-outs by country Statement Aspect: Healthy and Affordable Food Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that promote access to healthy DMA lifestyles; the prevention of chronic 160-161 disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need Aspect: Customer Health and Safety DMA 160-161 Percentage of production volume Yes/ manufactured in sites certified by an Independent FP5 independent third party according 161 Assurance to internationally recognised food Statement safety management system standards Percentage of total sales volume Yes/ of consumer products, by product Independent FP6 161 category, that are lowered in saturated Assurance fat, trans fats, sodium and sugars Statement Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product Yes/ category sold, that contain Independent FP7 161 increased fiber, vitamins, minerals, Assurance phytochemicals Statement or functional food additives Aspect: Product and Service Labelling Policies and practices on communication to consumers DMA 164 about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements Aspect: Animal Welfare Not material as none of our businesses are involved in activities related to animal welfare 187 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Alignment to Business Responsibility Report Principles Linking Sustainability Report 2016 to Business Responsibility Report Principles to assess compliance with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) norms. Business Responsibility Report Principle Principles to assess compliance with Coverage in Section of Sustainability Report 2016 ESG norms Businesses should conduct and 1 govern themselves with Ethics, Governance Structure Transparency and Accountability Energy Air Emissions Water Management Businesses should provide goods and Waste Management services that are safe and contribute 2 Raw Materials to sustainability throughout their life-cycle Supply Chain ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable & Inclusive Growth Product Responsibility Businesses should promote the wellLabour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights 3 being of all employees Occupational Health and Safety Economic Performance Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive Stakeholder Engagement, Risk & Opportunities and 4 towards all stakeholders, especially Materiality Analysis those who are disadvantaged, Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights vulnerable and marginalised ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable & Inclusive Growth Businesses should respect and 5 Labour Practices & Decent Work and Human Rights promote human rights Energy Air Emissions Water Management Business should respect, protect, Waste Management 6 and make efforts to restore the environment Raw Materials Biodiversity ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable & Inclusive Growth Businesses, when engaged in Responsible Policy Advocacy influencing public and regulatory Stakeholder Engagement, Risk & Opportunities and 7 policy, should do so in a responsible Materiality Analysis manner Memberships and Affiliations Economic Performance Businesses should support inclusive 8 ITC’s Mission Sunehra Kal for Sustainable growth and equitable development & Inclusive Growth Businesses should engage with and Stakeholder Engagement, Risk & Opportunities and 9 provide value to their customers and Materiality Analysis consumers in a responsible manner Product Responsibility 188 Annexure Annexure ITC’s Vision, Mission, Core Values and Policies & Guidelines ITC’s Vision Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s most valuable corporations through world-class performance, creating growing value for the Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders. ITC’s Mission To enhance the wealth generating capability of the enterprise in a globalising environment, delivering superior and sustainable stakeholder value. ITC’s Core Values ITC’s Core Values are aimed at developing a customer-focussed, high-performance organisation which creates values for all its stakeholders. ITC’s Core Values encompass the principles of Trusteeship, Customer Focus, Respect for People, Excellence, Innovation and Nation Orientation. Please check the following link for details: http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/values/core-values.aspx Corporate Governance at ITC http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/values/corporate-governance.aspx ITC’s Code of Conduct and Policies are available at the Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com. Please check the following links for details: ITC’s Code of Conduct http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/values/code-of-conduct.aspx ITC’s Sustainability Policies http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/sustainability-policy.aspx ITC’s CSR Policy http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/corporate-social-responsibility-policy.aspx ITC’s Food Products Policy http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/itc-food-product-policy.aspx ITC’s E-Waste Policy http://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/itc-it-e-waste-policy.aspx 189 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Annexure Quantification Methodologies: Energy and GHG Emissions To set organisational boundaries for consolidated GHG Efficiency Study (India)–2005. Emission factors for emissions, ITC has utilised the operational control employee commuting by means of company owned/ approach for the various entities covered under the hired vehicles and transportation due to guest pick-up in Report. ITC’s accounting of Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG emissions ITC Hotels are based on a report by Automotive Research is based on the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Association of India. Reporting Standard’ and the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Rail – Emission factors are calculated based on the Standard’ issued by the World Resources Institute information available from the Indian Railways Annual (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable report 2013-14, Indian Railways Statistics 2013-14. Development (WBCSD). Air/Ship – “Guidelines to DEFRA/DECC’s GHG Conversion 1. Stationary Combustion Factors for Company Reporting – Freight Transport 2011” developed by the Department of Energy and Climate Emission factors provided in the IPCC Guideline for National Change (DECC) and the Department for Environment, Greenhouse Gas Inventories of 2006 were used to calculate Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), U.K. GHG emissions from stationary combustion sources. 4. Minor Sources Activity data (quantity of fuel consumed) is multiplied with the respective default energy factor or actual The quantification of GHG emissions from minor* sources measured Net Calorific Value (NCVs) to arrive at the is based on a robust process of data collection at Unit/ energy consumption values, which is multiplied by the Division level and emission factors taken from recognised emission factor to quantify the direct emission from global sources, such as IPCC guidelines and assessment stationary combustion sources. reports; GHG Protocol HFC Tool v10 developed by GHG Protocol initiative, WRI & WBCSD; Pulp and Paper Tool2. Purchased Energy 2005; UNFCCC approved methodologies. The sources that have a minor contribution to ITC’s overall GHG The quantification of indirect GHG emission due to emissions are listed below: purchased electricity is based on activity data (Electricity consumption in kWh) multiplied by emission factors 1. Air-conditioning specified in the ‘CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power 2. Process Emissions Sector User Guide’, (version 10.0, December 2014) issued by Central Electricity Authority, Government of India. 3. Company owned vehicles 4. SF6 release from power distribution system The quantification of indirect GHG emissions for purchased steam is based on activity data (energy 5. CO2 release from fire protection system consumption in GJ) multiplied by the applicable 6. Gas cutting/ welding emission factors provided in the IPCC Guideline for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories of 2006. 7. Waste water treatment 8. GHG emissions from composting of waste inside 3. Transportation the unit premises The energy consumption outside of the organisation 9. GHG emissions from fertiliser application in due to road transportation is quantified by using energy forestry project conversion factors based on the Report by World Bank on 10. GHG emissions due to employee air travel Road Transport Service Efficiency Study (India)–2005. 5. GHG Removals The modes of transportation used in ITC, for raw materials, finished goods & wastes, employee commuting by means GHG removals from plantations have been calculated of company owned/hired vehicles, transportation due to based on the approved methodology used in ITC’s guest pick-up in ITC Hotels and sources for calculation of UNFCCC registered CDM project ‘2241: Reforestation emission factors are as follows: of severely degraded landmass in Khammam District of Andhra Pradesh, India under ITC Social Forestry Project.’ Road – Emission factors for trucks are calculated based * The Frequency of quantification of GHG emissions from minor on the Report by World Bank on Road Transport Service sources is once in three years. 190 Memberships & Affiliations 2016 Annexure Memberships & Affiliations – 2016 Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Coimbatore Productivity Council Corporation of India Limited Cooperation Centre for Scientific Research Agricultural & Processed Foods Export Relative to Tobacco Development Authority Confederation of Indian Industry All India Food Processors Association Ecotourism Society of India All India Management Association Employee Federation of South India Andhra Chamber of Commerce Employers’ Association of Northern India Asian Packaging Federation Export Inspection Council of India Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry Fairtrade International (FLO), Germany Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers Associated Chambers of Commerce and of Commerce and Industry Industry of Uttar Pradesh Federation of Biscuits Manufacturers Bangalore Chamber of Industry Association of India and Commerce Federation of Hotels & Restaurants Bihar Chamber of Commerce Association of India Bihar Industries Association Federation of Indian Export Organisations Bihar State Productivity Council Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry Bombay Management Association Federation of Industries and Commerce of British Safety Council North Eastern Region Bureau of Indian Standards Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce & Industry Central Food Technology Research Institute Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce & Industry Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry Chemicals & Plastics Export Council Guwahati Management Association of India Hotel Association of India Coal Consumers Association Indian Association of Tour Operators Cochin Chamber of Commerce & Industry Indian Beauty and Hygiene Association Coffee Board Indian Chamber of Commerce Calcutta Coffee Exporters Association Indian Chamber of Commerce and Coimbatore Management Association Industry, Coimbatore 191 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Indian Coffee Trade Association Pacific Asia Travel Association India Convention Promotion Bureau PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry Indian Flexible Packaging & Folding Protein Food and Nutrition Development Carton Manufacturers Association Association of India Indian Institute of Packaging Ranjangaon Industries Association Indian Merchants’ Chamber Retailers Association of India Indian Paper Manufacturers Association Seafood Exporters Association of India Indian Printing Packaging and Allied Solvent Extractors Association of India Machinery Manufacturers Association Soyabean Processors Association of India Indian Pulp & Paper Technical Association Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers Indian Tobacco Association Association Indian Wind Power Association The All India Association of Industries Indo American Chamber of Commerce The Bengal Chamber of Commerce Indo German Chamber of Commerce & Industry Industrial Waste Management Association The Central Organisation for Oil Industry and Trade International Chamber of Commerce The Clothing Manufacturers Association International Flexible Packaging Network of India International Life Science Institute The Energy and Research Institute International Packaging Group The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India Karnataka Planters Association The Indian Society of Advertisers Leatherhead Food International, UK The Utkal Chamber of Commerce Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry & Industry Madras Management Association Travel Agents Association of India Madras Printers and Lithographers Association United States Tour Operators Association Maharashtra Economic Development US Food and Drug Administration Council US Green Building Council Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture Western UP Chamber of Commerce & Industry Marine Products Export Development Authority World Business Council for Sustainable Development National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Limited World Travel & Tourism Council India Initiative National Safety Council World Wide Fund Global Forest and Oil Technologists’ Association of India Trade Network 192 Independent Assurance Statements 193 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS 194 Independent Assurance Statements 195 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS 196 Independent Assurance Statements 197 FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS 198 Independent Assurance Statements 199 Snapshot of ITC’s Sustainability Initiatives: Select Media Coverage 200 ITC: Transforming Lives and Landscapes ITC’s e-Choupal ITC’s Afforestation Programme Empowering 4 million farmers Greening more than 2,25,000 hectares ITC’s Watershed Development Programme ITC’s Livestock Development Initiative Providing Soil & Moisture conservation to Providing animal husbandry services for nearly 2,70,000 hectares of drylands nearly 13,00,000 milch animals ITC’s Women Empowerment Initiative ITC’s Primary Education Initiative Creating over 50,000 sustainable livelihoods Benefitting nearly 4,70,000 children for women ITC’s Health & Sanitation Programme ITC’s Skilling & Vocational Training Initiative Nearly 16,000 low-cost sanitary units Nearly 34,000 youth trained constructed ITC is the only enterprise in the world of comparable dimensions to be Carbon Positive, Water Positive and Solid Waste Recycling Positive. ITC’s businesses and value chains support over 6 million sustainable livelihoods Figures in this section are as on June 2016.
