PIONEER LOGISTICS CORPORATION 鹏 远 新 和 国 际 物 流 有 限 公 司 1 Communication on Progress 2015 报告说明 REPORT INSTRUCTION 报告内容说明 Report Content 报告包含鹏远新和国际物流有限公司在人权、劳工、环境、反腐败等 方面的可持续发展责任。 报告范围 Report Range This report covers topics concerning the sustainable responsibility of 本报告以鹏远新和国际物流有限公司为主体，涵盖总公司及子公司。 Pioneer Logistics on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 报告时间范围：2015 年 1 月 1 日至 2015 年 12 月 31 日。 报告指代说明 Report Reference This report covers the practice of sustainable development of Pioneer Logistics (including the headquarters and all branches) from January 1, 2015 文中出现的“鹏远新和”、“鹏远物流”、“公司 ”以及“我们”均代表鹏远新 to December 31, 2015. 和国际物流有限公司。 报告编制原则 Report Formation “CPL”, “the company“, “us” or “we” all refer to Pioneer Logistics. 本报告参照全球报告倡议组织《可持续发展报告指南 4.0》、联合国全 报告发布形式 Report Issuance 球契约十项原则及联合国全球契约年度进展报告实践指南等标准要求 报告语言为中文和英文两种，在对两种文本理解上发生歧义时，请以 编写。 中文文本为准。 This report is formed in accordance with GRI 4.0, The UN Global Compact's This report is issued in two versions, Chinese and English. In the event of any ten principles, and COP formation guidance. dispute or misunderstanding as to the interpretation of the language or terms, the Chinese version shall take control. 2 Communication on Progress 2015 总经理致词 GM’S 切实关爱员工 Respect for Staff STATEMENT 过去的一年中，我们认真履行对员工的责任，继续为员工发展创造良 好环境。在积极拓展原有综合供应链以及票务服务业务的同时，鹏远 2015 是“十二五”收官之年，也是“十 新和的主营业务已有效延伸至旅游等产业链上下游板块，为员工在企 三五”布局之年。一年来，鹏远新 业内部的持续发展提供了良好的成长沃土；与此同时，企业搭建形成 和在 2014 的基础之上加快调整转型， 内部培训体系，形成与客户业务技能联动交流机制，全员能力和综合 积极贯彻“十三五”创新、协调、绿 素质在教学互长的环境中不断得到提升。在新的一年，鹏远新和也将 色、开放、共享五大发展理念，掀 持续改善办公环境，丰富员工业余生活，为员工营造健康、舒适、安 开了发展的崭新篇章。在以市场为 全的工作环境。 导向、以客户为中心的基础上持续 发展的同时，鹏远新和积极履行经 In the past year, we earnestly fulfill the responsibilities for our staff and keep on creating & sustaining a better environment for their developments. 济、环境和社会责任，切实维护企 While we continue to penetrate our market in Integrated Supply Chain 业的可持续发展。 Service and Ticketing Service, we have also extended our core business along the upstream and downstream of our existing services such as tourism, 朱明奇 Steve Zhu 2015 is the ending year of the “12th which will also assist the continuous development of our own employees in 鹏远新和国际物流有限公司总经理 Five-Year Plan of China”, and also different fields. Meanwhile, we strengthened the inner training programs General Manager of Pioneer Logistics Pty the paving year for 13th Five-Years’ Ltd. and by building interactive learning channel for the employees between CPL structure and organization”. During and our customers’ company, which significantly raised the professional the past year, Pioneer Logistics moved onto a new chapter on development, skills and comprehensive quality for all employees involved. CPL will sped up the pace of adjusting and upgrading core business on the basis of continue to provide our employees with better office environment and the 2014, positively implemented the core development concept of enriched leisure life, and create a healthy, comfortable and safe working “Innovation, Coordinate, Green, Openness, Sharing” initiated on “13th Fiveenvironment. Year”. With the development of the core concept of “customer-focused & market-oriented business ” , we actively fulfill the requirement of our economic, environmental and social responsibilities, effectively protected the sustainable development of CPL. 3 Communication on Progress 2015 绿色发展 贡献生态文明建设 Green Development friendly society, building a ‘resource saving, environmentally friendly” enterprise. 当今世界，绿色发展已经成为重要趋势，节能减排更是可持续发展的 可持续发展没有止境，履行社会责任没有终点。在新的一年里，鹏远 具体目标。鹏远新和以“绿色生活倡导者、绿色产业引领者、绿色服务 新和将继续支持联合国全球契约关于人权、劳工、环境及反腐败方面 提供者、绿色发展先行者”的绿色战略为引领，把生态文明、低碳经济 的十项原则，并履行好自身肩负的责任和义务，实现经济、社会、环 建设作为推动企业可持续发展的重要战略，助力生态文明建设。截至 境的协调发展，成为更负责任的优秀“企业公民”。 2015 年底，鹏远新和累计节油约 0.2 万吨，降低二氧化碳排放约 0.63 Pioneer Logistics pledges to fulfill their social responsibility in the coming 万吨，相当于 250 亩森林一年的二氧化碳吸收量。2015 年，鹏远新和 year and continues to support the United Nations Global Compact in the 完成国内室内 78%办公区域及 84%静态仓储区域绿化改造，持续推进 areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We constantly developing new practices in order to promote sustainable 信息化建设，有效推进无纸化办公，着实推进“绿效企业”建设进展,持 development, whilst meeting the requirements of our economic 续推进生态文明建设，努力构建“资源节约型、环境友好型”企业。 environmental and social responsibilities. Nowadays, Green development becomes an important global trend, in which energy saving and emission reduction becomes one of the most important specific goals. Lead by the green strategic goals of “Advocate Green Life, Lead Green Industry, Provide Green Service, Be the Pioneer of Green Development “, we Pioneer Logistics have been setting the Construction of Ecological Civilization & Low Carbon Economy as the core strategy for continuous development. By the end of 2015, CPL achieved the goal of 2,000 tons of gasoline saving, reducing the carbon dioxide emission of approximately 6,300 tons which equals to the CO2 absorption for 42 acre forests per year. During this period, we promoted our “Green Effect Enterprise” project by achieving 78% areas greening in our office zone, as well as 84% areas greening within our warehouse, enhancing paperless 总经理 office by updating informatization construction. Through various channels we have been advocating for the construction of an environmentally General Manager of CPL 4 Communication on Progress 2015 报告说明 REPORT INSTRUCTION ................... 1 以人为本 People-Oriented ....................... 16 总经理致词 GM’S STATEMENT...................... 2 助力员工成长 Career Development ........ 17 切实关爱员工 Respect for Staff ..................2 多元化与机会平等 Diversification and Opportunity Equality ................................. 18 绿色发展 贡献生态文明建设 Green Development ...............................................3 劳工篇 LABOR............................................. 19 公司概况 COMPANY PROFILE ....................... 5 职业健康与安全 OH&S ............................ 19 资质 Qualification ........................................5 福利待遇 Welfare ..................................... 20 业务领域 Business Profile ...........................6 平衡工作和生活 Work-Life Balance ......... 20 目录 公司网络 Company Network ....................10 服务客户 Customers .................................10 供应商资质评估 Supplier Quality Assessment ................................................ 22 CONTENTS 战略与管理 STRATEGIES AND 环境篇 ENVIRONMENT ............................... 23 ADMINISTRATION ....................................... 11 提高能效 Enhance Energy efficiency ........ 23 企业愿景 Vision ........................................11 反腐败篇 ANTI-CORRUPTION ..................... 24 可持续发展责任 Sustainable Development 与所有供应商签订反商业贿赂条款 Responsibility .............................................12 External Mechanism .................................. 24 管理团队 Management Team ...................13 内部廉洁自律制度设立 Internal SelfDiscipline ................................................... 24 利益相关方 Parties of Interest..................13 展望 OUTLOOK ........................................... 25 社会参与 Community Involvement ...........16 人权篇 HUMAN RIGHTS .............................. 16 5 Communication on Progress 2015 资质 Qualification 公司概况 COMPANY PROFILE 鹏远新和是由商务部批准的国际货物运输代理企业，也是首批经中国 鹏远新和国际物流有限公司（以下简称鹏远新和）成立于 1993 年，是 民用航空总局和民航华北管理局批准的兼有航空运输一类客、货和二 一家创新型、综合性专业第三方物流企业，致力于为客户提供新型供 类客、货销售代理业务资质的航空运输销售代理人。而在国内综合物 应链一体化解决方案，整合采购、进出口代理和报关、仓储、包装、 流方面，鹏远新和拥有完善的道路运输资质以及独立运输车队，并且 配送与售后等服务，形成一站式的供应链管理，与多家著名企业建立 长期与铁路运输部门保持紧密的合作关系。公司利用完善的第三方物 长期战略合作关系。人才专业化、管理系统化、服务规范化、物流网 流和仓储管理信息系统以及 GPS 定位跟踪系统，针对中国物流企业的 络化，使鹏远新和倍受国内外客户的信赖，并且多次获得各合作航空 实际运作特点不断开发、创新。 公司及物流业界的奖项和好评，在中国物流行业享有较高声誉。 我们关注客户需求，及时提供专业解决方案，为持续增加客户价值承担责任。 We focus on customers’ wants and needs, provide professional solutions on timely basis, and are responsible for enhancing customer value consistently. Pioneer Logistics (CPL) was founded in 1993 and is an innovative and 鹏远新和有以下主要会员资质： professional third-party logistics enterprise. CPL is committed to provide advanced integrated supply chain solutions such as integrated procurement, • 联合国全球契约成员（UNGC） import and export, customs clearance, warehousing, packaging, distribution, customer service and more for its customers. Specialized employees, • 中国国际运输代理协会（CIFA） systemized management, standardized service and well-networked logistics enable CPL to be a reliable partner and have helped CPL receive a good • 北京报关协会（BCB） reputation from customers in and outside China! • 国际航空运输协会（IATA） • 中国航空运输协会（CATA） • 世界货物运输联盟 （WCA） 6 Communication on Progress 2015 • 中国货代联盟（CCA） 业务领域 Business Profile • 中国物流与采购联合会汽车物流分会（CALA） 公司主营业务有国内综合物流、国际货运代理及其它航空咨询、国际 Pioneer Logistics is an international forwarding company approved by the 包机与旅游服务等。 Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MFTEC), and an air transportation sales agent, one of the first agents with Class-A passenger The business profile of Pioneer Logistics covers domestic integrated logistics, and cargo sales certificate by CAAC. PL has grown into a leading provider in international freight forwarding and charters, aviation consulting and other the domestic logistics industry. Its truck fleet equipped with GPS, related services. warehouses, distribution centers and state-of –the –art IT system, that enhance productivity and ensure we continue to be a leading company. Furthermore, we keep close partnership with railway operations, which are advantageous additions to our business category. Pioneer Logistics obtained membership in the following organizations: • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • CIFA China International Freight Forwarders Association (CIFA) • Beijing Customs Brokers Association (BCB) • International Air Transport Association (IATA) • China Air Transport Association (CATA) • World Cargo Alliance (WCA) • China Cargo Alliance (CCA) • China Automobile Logistics Association of CFLP (CALA) 7 Communication on Progress 2015 除了公司的主营业务以外，鹏远新和还提供电气工程与安装服务、供 国内综合物流业务 Integrated Logistics 应链综合管理咨询、以及酒店票务服务等物流相关增值服务 与配套产品，凸显了鹏远新和如下几方面优势：  增加了公司各产品之间的融合性和弹性。  完善的配套支持服务，可满足相关附加服务要求， 给客户提供一揽子服务与一站式解决方案。  强大的综合物流平台可迅速响应客户的需求和变 化，灵活调配服务团队和硬件/软件资源，定制高效 节能的优质服务。 In addition to the company’s primary logistics services, we provide services such as transportation and accommodation bookings, packaging services as well as electrical engineering and installation services. Which highlights the following advantages of CPL: 鹏远新和通过整合多种运输资源形成了覆盖全国约 3,500 个节点和地区  Integrated product packages 的物流网络，并在全国范围内拥有约 15,000 平米的集货室内操作平台。  Supportive resources to fulfill additional service requirements of 凭借完善的运输网络和多年的操作经验，鹏远新和可为客户提供全国 our customers and provide one-stop solutions 范围内的门到门限时运输服务、区域性及城市配送业务、仓储管理及  Strong integrated logistics platform capable of quickly respond to customer's needs and changes, flexible deployment of service 供应商库存管理业务、展览运输业务、供应链综合管理和咨询业务等。 team and hardware / software resources, customized efficient Pioneer Logistics has a strong capacity in the land transportation market in and quality services. China. We can provide door-to-door time-efficient transportation, regional 8 Communication on Progress 2015 and urban distribution, warehousing management and vendor managed  生鲜蔬菜 Perishables inventory. Our extensive operation services include transportation business, supply chain management and consulting based on our well-developed  活体动物 Live Animals transportation networks. 主要航线 Main Flight Lanes 国 际 代 理 业 务 International Freight Forwarding Business 鹏远新和凭借强大的国际网络支持和对中国航空货运市场的精通以及 国内专业的操作能力，在国际进出口运输行业、报关清关领域以及海 陆空多种方式联运领域赢得了良好的口碑和美誉，并维持了较高的客 户满意度和广阔的客户群。 Depending on the support of powerful international networks, the profound understanding of airfreight market in China and the its professional operation capacity, PL has earned an excellent reputation and customer loyalty in the industry of international and domestic import & export transportation as well as in the fields of custom clearance and multimodal transportation. As a professional logistics company subordinate to CAAC, PL posses’ unique advantages in developing chartered business in the international and domestic market. 包机租船业务 Air and Ocean Charters  普货 General Goods 鹏远新和多次承接国家重要的政治性客包机项目的运输服务，目的地  危险品 Dangerous Goods 远至非洲和中东，并且具有丰富的商业性包机运作经验，与多家国内 外航空公司建立了良好的关系，可在最短的时间内根据客户需求拟定  快件 Parcel 最安全经济的包机航班计划，并可提供点对点客包机业务。作为中国  花苗/鲜花 Flowers & Seedlings 民航下属的专业物流公司，鹏远新和在国际、国内市场上发展包机租 船业务具有得天独厚的优势。 9 Communication on Progress 2015 Pioneer Logistics has taken several tasks of important governmental 航空售票业务 Flight Ticket Business passenger charters, with the destination ranging to Africa and the Middle East; we have sufficient commercial charters operation experience. We 鹏远新和是经民航总局和民航华北地区管理局批准的一类航空客票代 maintain a good relationship with many airlines, which we could design an 理，是民航总局（CAAC）指定的航空票务代理机构，是国际航空运输 economical and provide safe air charter solutions for the customers, 协会（IATA）和航空运输销售代理人协会注册会员，是专门从事国际、 including door to door air charter. 国内机票代理销售业务及旅行、酒店预订及相关经济信息咨询服务的 专业服务公司，在北京拥有正式销售代理机构。 Pioneer Logistics is the class-A ticket agency approved by CAAC, the appointed air ticket agency by CAAC and the member of IATA and Aviation Transportation Sales Agency Association. We specialized in international and domestic tickets sales agencies business, hotel reservation and economy information consulting services. We also own our formal sales agencies institution in Beijing. 10 Communication on Progress 2015 公司网络 Company Network service for customers. And in terms of its global network, PL is leading the way in lines to Europe, The Middle-East, North America, South America, Oceania, Japan and South East of Asia. 鹏远新和总部设在北京。目前国内在天津、广州、上海、沈阳、长春、 秦皇岛、大连、深圳、武汉、合肥、厦门、珠海、成都等地设立了 25 个分公司、 36 个操作中心和 198 个操作点，服务网络遍布全国 60 多 个城市，依靠专业、健全的操作网络为客户提供安全、快捷、高效的 物流服务。在海外已形成了以欧洲、中东、北美、南美、澳洲、日本 及东南亚为重点的国际业务网络。 服务客户 Customers 我们致力于与全球各大企业间的交流和合作，主要客户分布在电力、 汽配、化工、电子、药品、食品、会展等领域，包括 Schneider、ABB、 Siemens、Hyundai、Toyota、以及最新合作伙伴 Bosch、Honeywell、 京东等。正是结合了对各行各业物流需求的研究和实际操作经验，鹏 Pioneer Logistics is based in Beijing, owning 25 branches, 36 operation 远新和摸索出了完备有效的为不同需求客户量身定做的物流操作体系， centers and 198 operation stations around China, our services networks 并且在实际运作中快速调整，最大化地满足客户高质低耗的物流需求。 spread all over 60 cities throughout the country. Relying on sophisticated operation network, PL provides safe, rapid and high effective logistics We are dedicated to the communication and cooperation with global companies. We provide service to companies in the fields of electronics, 11 Communication on Progress 2015 企业愿景 Vision electrics, power, petroleum, automobile, chemistry, food, exhibitions etc. The VIPs are Schneider, ABB, Siemens, Hyundai, Toyota, and recently partnered corporation such as Bosch, Honeywell and JD etc. Based on rich experiences with a large variety of industries, CPL could tailor-make viable 鹏远新和传承企业文化，助力国内经济发展方式的转型和升级，改善 and effective logistics management for every kind of customers and may 人们的运输、运营和生活方式。通过提升物流服务的专业性，帮助人 most closely meet their logistic needs. We have received great customer 们享受更高更快更强的新时代节奏；通过实现本地物流技术创新，激 feedback and have a strong reputation in the industry owing to our years of standardized and customer-tailored service. 发本土物流产业的持续活力，并为公司带来新的增长机遇。 We hope to pass on the enterprise culture and promote the transition and 战略与管理 STRATEGIES AND improvement of the development ways of the domestic economy and to improve the transportation, operation and lifestyle of people. We also hope ADMINISTRATION to provide people with many advantages in the new century by promoting the professionalism of logistics services; the innovation of logistics 鹏远新和在为中国物流业贡献力量的同时，将履行社会责任、坚持可 technology and to stimulate the continuous vitality of the local logistics industry to result in new opportunities for the enterprise. 持续发展等问题纳入到企业的新型发展战略之中。在鹏远新和现阶段 的发展中，坚持既要追求经济效益，又要追求社会效益，注重环境保 护的战略方针。 Pioneer Logistics contributes his strengths to China’s logistics industry, and will add social responsibility and sustainable development to the new improved development strategy of the enterprise. In the current stage of development, it is not only necessary to insist on the pursuit of economic interest, but also the pursuit of social benefits, focusing on the strategy of environmental protection. 12 Communication on Progress 2015 可持续发展责任 Sustainable Development 经济责任 Economic Responsibility Responsibility 实现营业额的稳步增长，将净利润、纳税额作为企业经济责任的重要 测量维度，通过知识创新和人才优势，发展核心业务，助力行业发展， 推动经济，实现固有资产保值增值。 经济责任 Economic To achieve turnover robust growth and make the total net profit and tax a Responsibility priority when calculating dimensions of enterprise economic responsibility. It is to recognize the value of fixed assets, innovation, HR advantages, 责任管理 developing core business, to make sense of industry development and Responsibility promote the growth of the national economy. Management 环境责任 社会责任 环境责任 Environmental Responsibility Environmemntal Social Responsibility Responsibility 关注用水量、用电量、耗油量等关键指标，规范节能减排的标准和管 理，加大监督力度，做好废旧包装、产品、污水、饮食垃圾等废弃物 分类管理及处理与再利用工作。 责任管理 Responsibility Management In relation to water consumption, electricity use, fuel consumption per 可持续发展是人类社会的共同责任，我们是可持续发展的坚定支持者 kilometer etc., as key targets of our environmental responsibility goals. To standardize the energy conservation and emissions reduction, strengthen 和实践者。我们将在科学发展观的指引下，以更大的决心、下更大力 the supervision, manage well of the packaging of the waste, such as sewage 气、采取更加有效的措施推进可持续发展进程，为全球可持续发展做 waste classification management and processing and recycling work. 出更新的、更大的贡献。 社会责任 Social Responsibility Sustainable development is the common responsibility of human society, and we are a firm supporter and practitioner of it. We will be guided by the 促进就业，保障人权、关注女员工、残疾人以及农民工的权利，提供 Scientific Development Concept with greater determination, greater 平等沟通的工作环境，实现利益相关者间的相互协作，共建和谐；遵 efforts, to take more effective measures to promote the sustainable development process, to make new and greater contribution to the global 守商业伦理，反对商业贿赂，创造公平竞争的市场环境。 sustainable development. We promote stable employment, protect human rights, and are aware of 13 Communication on Progress 2015 the rights of female employees, disabled persons and migrant workers. We 组织架构图 Organization Structure provide equal communication environment to promote collaboration, harmony and learning among community and parties of interest. We comply with business ethics, fight against commercial bribery in order to create a fair competitive market environment. 管理团队 Management Team 鹏远新和建立跨职能团队，依靠高水平的责任治理，对整个公司的企 业社会责任事务进行高效管理。企业社会责任管理委员会组成人员为 总经理及各下属部门的最高领导层，负责监管公司整体的企业社会责 任和可持续发展工作，将企业社会责任的理念渗透到各部门相关战略、 执行、管理等工作中，传达至每个员工，鼓励员工积极参与社会责任 事项，促进责任理念与每个员工的日常工作相结合，将社会责任管理 工作真正落到实处。 Pioneer Logistics establishes the cross-functional team, relying on a high level of responsibility management, to manage the company's corporate social responsibility affairs efficiently. The members of corporate social responsibility management committee are general manager and the subordinate departments for the highest leadership, they are responsible for the supervision of the company as a whole enterprise social 利益相关方 Parties of Interest responsibility and sustainable development, and to penetrate the concept of corporate social responsibility to the departments related strategy, 我们根据利益相关方对企业可持续发展的影响程度和风险大小进行识 implementation and management. Communicating to each employee and 别和选择，并且注意与多元化的利益相关方建立常态的沟通机制，倾 encouraging staff to actively participate in social responsibility issues and promote the understanding of responsibilities of each employee's daily 听他们的需求，学习他们的长处，认真对待他们的反馈，以责任未双 work, combined with the social responsibility management exemptions. 方带来巨大的价值。 14 Communication on Progress 2015 We identify and select the parties of interest according to the enterprise 客户  保持诚信  加强客户关系管理 sustainable development and the influence degree of the magnitude of risk,  优质的产品和服务  及时更新产品信息 and pay attention to the interests of the diversification and establish related  高效的响应速度  提高客户满意度 normal communication mechanism, and listen to their needs, learn their  秉承共赢的合作态度 strengths, treat their feedback, and bring great value for both parties by the responsibility. 商业伙伴  优势互补  业务交流  信息共享  定期走访 利益相关方列表 LIST OF PARTIES OF INTEREST  实现互利互赢  建立长期合作关系 公众  提高物流服务  参加公益活动 利益相关 期望与要求 沟通形式及表现  为公众谋求利益  搭建公众平台 方  支持社会公益事业  增添多样化公众沟通渠 政府  诚信守法  响应国家政策 道  商业道德  依法合规  定期组织“公众参观  依法纳税  诚信经营 日”活动 员工  保障员工合法权益  员工关怀与改善薪酬激 非政府组  支持机构发展  积极参加有关会议及活  公平合理的薪酬福利 励 织  履行组织章程 动  完善的职业发展渠道  增强员工参与管理度  支持机构能力建设  安全健康的工作环境  建立全方位培训体系  开展志愿服务  打造良好企业文化 环境  节约能源  节能经营  建立通畅、透明的内部  提倡绿色出行、办公  广泛使用电子流程，深 沟通渠道  支持环保公益事业 化无纸办公 行业  行业发展  推进行业自律  关注生态保护  与合作伙伴共赢  培养行业人才  实现环境友好  积极参与国内外同业交 流 15 Communication on Progress 2015 Parties of Expectations and Communication and  Develop public interest  Establish public Interest Requirements Performance and benefits platforms Government  Integrity and abidance  Responsive to  Support public welfare  Multiple public by law government policies undertakings communication  Business ethics  Regulatory compliance channels  Appropriate tax  Integrity management  Organize ‘public visit payment day’ on regular basis Employees  Protect the rights and  Staff care and welfare NGO  Institutional  Active participation in interests of employees improvement development meetings and activities  Better employment  Establish a full range of  Fulfil the obligations  Support for opportunity and fair training programs institutional salary and welfare  Develop better development system corporate culture  Carry out volunteer  Career development  Enhance employee service channels participation in the Environment  Promote green travel  Energy saving  Safe and healthy degree of and low-carbon life operation working environment management  Support environmental  Extended use of  Establishment of welfare electronic process, transparent internal  Ecological protection work towards communication paperless office channel Customer  Trust-worthy  Strengthen customer  High quality product relation management and service  Up to date product  Quick response time information  Improve customer satisfaction Business  Complementary  Business Partner advantages communication  Shared information  Regular visits  Achieve mutual benefit  Build long term cooperation relationship Publics  Improve logistic  Involve in public services welfare undertakings 16 Communication on Progress 2015 committed to ensuring that all employees at Pioneer Logistics, both 社会参与 Community Involvement understand and agree to comply with this bill of rights when conducting business internally and externally. We, as an organization, continually endeavor to improve our contributions to our Corporate Social Responsibility and strive to reach above and beyond our expected responsibilities, enabling us to protect and defend every employee’s human rights and guarantee a safe, respectful working environment for all. 以人为本 People-Oriented 鹏远新和自发展之初就提倡“以人为本”，而“所有员工在人格上一律平 等”的人权意识是“以人为本”的核心与首要前提。公司将尊重人权和防 止侵犯人权的政策均纳入员工行为规范准则手册中，确保发放到每一 位员工手中，除此之外，还定期会对员工进行人权培训。每一位员工 人权篇 HUMAN RIGHTS 鹏远新和支持与尊重《联合国工商企业与人权原则》，遵从相关的人 权条例，并了解国际企业社会责任和框架的人权部分，深知作为一个 组织对尊重和保护人权所应该承担的责任和为此应做的努力。 We Pioneer Logistics pledge to support and uphold the values of “UN Global Compact-Principles of Human Rights”. As a corporate company we are 17 Communication on Progress 2015 均有权参与到企业的人权管理当中，监督并及时发现潜在的人权风险， 助力员工成长 Career Development 积极应对初露端倪的人权问题并共同完成解决方案。 知识经济时代，员工更为看重的不是 与此同时，鹏远新和不断优化及完善公司的企业文化与管理理念，真 薪酬、福利，而是个人发展与个人价 正将“以人为本”贯彻于人力资源管理的每一个细节当中，努力让员工 值的实现。为此，鹏远新和建立了完 在企业中找到归属感。 善的员工个人发展计划与培训计划。 Since our companies’ inception, Pioneer Logistics have recurrently been a In the era of knowledge economy, we strong advocate of ‘people-orientated’ and all employees are equal in often find employees weigh the personality consciousness of human rights” is the core. CPL has included realization of personal development and personal value over salary and policies of human rights and violation preventions of human rights into the welfare. For this purpose, CPL established personal development plans and employee’s code of conduct and ensures that every employee holds a copy. training plans. In addition, regular trainings of human rights are also conducted within the company. Every employee has the right to participate in the supervision and 灵活的职业生涯规划 Flexible Career Plans management of enterprise human rights, to clearly identify potential issues and risks to employees and form appropriate procedures and strategies to 鹏远新和认为，员工职业生涯规划不是一成不变的，而是要寻求动态 avoid discrimination or complications within the workplace. 中的平衡。每一年度，公司都会根据员工具体情况对其职业生涯规划 At the same time, CPL constantly optimize and improve the business culture 进行回顾并及时作出适当调整，同时通过内部轮岗帮助员工充分发掘 and management philosophy, to have people-oriented incorporated into 自身潜力，更好地认识自我，寻求职业生涯发展的更多可能。 every detail of human resource management, and to allow employees to find a sense of belonging in CPL. CPL believes that each employee’s career planning is not static, but to seek a dynamic balance. Every year, we conduct reviews on every employee’s career plans based on their personal circumstances and make appropriate adjustment, at the same time internal rotation may be conducted to help the employee to fully tap their potential. 18 Communication on Progress 2015 完善的内部晋升体系 Excellent Promotion System mentor to guide through the first stage of work, and personalized training programs such as communication skills will be offered. 上升空间对于员工不仅仅意味着更高的职位与薪酬，更是对其价值的 肯定，以及获得更多工作经历的机会。在鹏远新和出现职位空缺时， 人力资源部会及时发布公告，所有员工都可以根据自身的能力、兴趣 竞聘，这为员工提供了在不同部门、方向发展和不断学习的机会，对 其个人发展有很大帮助。 Promotion for employees not only means a higher position and salary, but also the value recognition of the person and better opportunities. When vacancies arise in CPL, it will be announced by our HR department in a timely manner and all employees could apply for the position according to own capability and interest. This provides the opportunity for employees to work in different departments and directions to help their personal development. 多层次的员工培训系统 Integrated Training Program 鹏远新和为员工的学习、发展提供了很多资源，不仅鼓励员工在本岗 多元化与机会平等 Diversification and 位上不断提升，而且鼓励员工就未来可能担任的岗位进行学习。首先， Opportunity Equality 对于新人职员工采用“师傅制度”，每名新员工都有师傅并在工作、生 活上给与其帮助、指导，使其尽快融人企业。其次，公司会根据员工 鹏远新和着力营造一个平等、公正的企业氛围，通过充分保障言论自 自身需求，制定个性化的培训计划，如沟通技巧培训、当众表达技巧 由和广开言路，鼓励员工为企业发展献计献策，积极组织各岗位员工 培训等。 共同探讨和解决企业发展和实际运作中面临的问题，形成了上下一致、 团结奋进的局面。 CPL invested a lot of resources for staff learning and development, not only to encourage employees to improve in their position, but also to acquire the 作为一家大型综合物流企业，鹏远新和的员工来自五湖四海，不同民 knowledge needed for future possibilities. Every new employee will have a 族和肤色的员工享有同样的工作机会和职业发展机会。鹏远新和尊重 19 Communication on Progress 2015 各个民族的生活和文化习惯，并为不同文化背景的员工快速融入公司 益起到保驾护航的作用。鹏远新和管理层依据自己预定的时间间隔对 以及当地文化提供帮助。 体系进行评审，以确保体系的持续适宜性、充分性和有效性。 By promoting freedom of speech and encouraging all employees to air their CPL obtained OHSAS 18001 since 2014 and continues to improve the views, provide suggestions and be involved in the development of the internal EHS standard through ongoing management system of internal enterprise, we at PL are able to create an equity driven atmosphere within audit, self-assurance and supervision. We understand the core of the business. In keeping with our participative management style, every developing the EHS management system is to improve the health and safety employee is actively encouraged to cooperatively discuss and solve any of our workplace, improve working conditions, and protect the legitimate problems the enterprise may face. interests of employees. CPL is a large-scale logistics enterprise, comprised of business professionals 职业健康 Occupational Health from all over China and every corner of the globe. CPL celebrates our diverse and multi-cultural environment, and ensures all employees are able to enjoy 鹏远新和十分注重员工的安全和健康，除基本医疗保险外，还做出了 equal occupation development opportunities regardless of color, nationality, 以下安排。 gender or socio-economic status. We respect the culture and lifestyle of others from different backgrounds and create appropriate accommodations for them so as to assist them to quickly adapt to life in China and 为员工办理补充医疗保险 immediately become integrated into our company. 为在职员工提供年度体检福利，保障员工身体健康状态 劳工篇 LABOR 职业健康与安全 OH&S 为员工办理健身卡，鼓励员工积极参加锻炼，强健体魄 鹏远新和自 2014 年通过职业健康安全、质量、环境管理体系认证以来， 持续进行这一管理体系的内部审核、自我保证和监督。我们深知建立 办公场所选在高植被覆盖率行政区域，办公环境良好 推行 EHS 管理体系的主要目的就是改进我们工作场所的健康性和安全 性，改善劳动条件，维护员工的合法利益。这一举措增强了我们的企 业凝聚力，完善了企业的内部管理，为创造更好的经济效益和社会效 20 Communication on Progress 2015 We believe that the health and safety of our staff is of utmost importance. Health and Safety of employees and the business. The EHS Management Because of this PL not only provides basic medical insurance, but also System, aiming to improve the internal management, cohesion and organize and provide the following: coordination within the enterprise, as well as overall effectiveness and efficiency has resulted in superior economic and social benefits for the  Supplementary medical insurance for our employees; company.  Annual medical examination to ensure the health status of each employee;  Apply gym membership for employees to encouraged participation 福利待遇 Welfare in physical exercise after work, adding to their general well-being;  Company premises located among high plantation coverage areas 鹏远新和的每一位员工均可通过公司员工手册清晰快捷的找到自己享 to enhance good working environment; 有的员工权利和责任、以及收入和福利的书面政策等等。公司的员工 职业安全 Occupational Safety 个人保障体系包含很多人文关怀的因素，如员工生病、亲属过世，公 鹏远新和对于叉车驾驶员和厨师等岗位人员，要求持证上岗，积极制 司都会派人前往慰问；与此同时，公司整体福利均优于国家法律规定 定服务提供流程图，制定设备器材维修计划，对各种办公和运营设备 的带薪年假以及补贴等等。 定期检查保养，保存记录。 Every employee of CPL can find their standard rights and responsibilities in 同时，定期组织员工进行 EHS 培训，强化员工防患于未然的意识，提 the staff manual quickly and easily, as well as the welfare treatments they could enjoy, which are also above national regulated standards. 高对潜在安全风险的敏感度。 Pioneer Logistics adheres to the most recent and up to date Environment 平衡工作和生活 Work-Life Balance Health and Safety guidelines and procedures. All staff members are made aware of the health and safety guidelines upon induction to the company. 鹏远新和鼓励和引导员工找到工作和生活的平衡点，消除一切形式的 All employees responsible for operating heavy machinery, delivering 强迫劳动，定期为员工提供参与团队建设的机会，使大家在与同事出 shipments etc. are required to provide applicable certificates and 游的过程中充分感受生活的美好；定期到体育馆健身和组织各项体育 qualifications to the appropriate management team member before commencing work, as well as receive induction trainings includes (although 活动，不仅拉近了同事之间的感情，而且为减轻工作压力，放松心情 is not limited to) Fire drill training; correct record keeping procedures and 提供了良好的解决方案。 equipment maintenance strategy for all of the appropriate office and operating equipment. We have established and implemented a strict EHS Every employee requires a balance between work and home life. To Management System in order to preserve and protect the Environment, alleviate the pressures of work and help individuals to relax, we motivate 21 Communication on Progress 2015 employees to participate in a range of activities such as team sports and exercise classes in order to promote a healthy balanced lifestyle; as an additional incentive to be active, gym cards may be supplied to staff and encouraged to organize and participate in team sports. We believe that keeping staff healthy and active leads to a better workplace environment and team-building sports such as basketball or football are beneficial for enhancing vital communication and cooperation skills. 2015 年鹏远新和广州分公司团队建设活动 Photo: 2015 CPL Guangzhou Branch Team Building 22 Communication on Progress 2015 2015 年鹏远新和总公司旅游部团队建设活动 Pioneer Logistics regularly complete quality assessment of suppliers to ensure all partner companies adhere to the concepts of sustainable development. If a supplier is involved in unethical activity such as forced labor, child labor or the authenticity of products supplied is questionable, we as a company, pledge to cease trading with that supplier and source alternate suppliers in order to continue conducting our business in an ethical manner. 供应商管理大会 Photo: 2015 CPL HQ Tourism Department Team Building 供应商资质评估 Supplier Quality Assessment 鹏远新和定期对其供应商进行回访和资质评估，除了对于服务过程中 出现的问题与供应商积极有效沟通外，同时要求企业合作伙伴和供应 商遵守人权原则，一旦发现供应商有用童工、强制劳动或者行动不符 合可持续发展理念，鹏远新和即停止与该供应商合作。 Photo: 2015 CPL HQ Auditing & Supplier Meeting 23 Communication on Progress 2015 油方面，即达成累计节油约 0.2 万吨的成果，降低二氧化碳排放约 0.63 环境篇 ENVIRONMENT 万吨，相当于 250 亩森林一年的二氧化碳吸收量。 提高能效 Enhance Energy efficiency Under the trend of proactive response to climate change and gradually reduce carbon emissions within global industrial transportation industry, 在世界运输业积极应对气候变化、逐步降低碳排放的趋势下，鹏远新 CPL have been keeping the management of energy saving and emission 和率先在国内启动节能减排管理，全面梳理公司生产经营环节的能耗 reduction, optimizing the energy consumption influence factors within the daily work of company production and operation. In 2015, we further 影响因素。2015 年，鹏远新和将绿色运营理念进一步延伸到从仓储到 extended the concept of Green Operation to the whole Supply Chain service, 运输整个供应链服务链条，全面推行“绿色物流 Green Logistics”项目， fully implementing the “Green Logistics” project so as to update our brand to a green brand. During the past year, CPL pull the wisdom of everyone to 打造客户首选、国内知名的绿色品牌。截至 2015 年底，鹏远新和综合 boost our green concept, reducing carbon emission of “truck per kilometer” 物流板块群策群力，通过运输资源部门组织升级企业车辆发动机能效 by upgrading the engine efficiency of our commercial vehicle, enhancing 标准降低车公里排放、引入全铝车厢降低车辆自重进一步提高燃油利 fuel efficiency by introducing aluminum carriage to replace the traditional medal ones to reduce tare weight, reducing carbon emission of “carbon per 用率，运输管理部门动态持续优化车辆运营线路提高运输车辆满载率， kilogram” for carriage via improving the truckload percentage by optimizing 仓储管理部门引入太阳能发电发热装置替代冬季采暖燃油，最终仅燃 our general operational traffic lines & line haul, and introduced solar heat 24 Communication on Progress 2015 and solar electricity to our warehouse zone so as to replace the traditional participated in activities that could jeopardize their moral integrity or their fuel heating and fuel power generator. All in all, CPL achieved the goal of job. 2,000 tons of gasoline saving, reducing the carbon dioxide emission of approximately 6,300 tons which equals to the CO2 absorption for 42 acre 内部廉洁自律制度设立 Internal Self-Discipline forests per year. 一个组织能否健康稳步发展，终归要从内部着手，解决阻碍发展的问 反腐败篇 ANTI-CORRUPTION 题。鹏远新和了解一个高效廉洁组织的有效运转，离不开内部廉洁自 律制度的设立，我们在 2014 年成立的内审小组，经过一年的完善与改 与 所 有 供 应 商 签 订 反 商 业 贿 赂 条 款 External 进已正式步入正规，针对个别岗位员工收受贿赂等易发现象，从源头 Mechanism 上予以杜绝，对员工进行廉洁自律教育。通过廉洁自律制度的建立， 公司树立了良好的企业形象，提供了公平有序的竞争环境，为寻找优 鹏远新和在 2015 年持续推行重新制定后的反腐计划，努力做到与旗下 质的合作伙伴提供了保障。 所有供应商签订反商业贿赂条款，对供应商公布举报电话等反腐联系 At Pioneer Logistics we understand that an effective and efficient 方式，对于商业贿赂行为，一经发现，绝不姑息。 organization cannot run without first establishing an honest and open In 2014, all suppliers and partners that we, Pioneer Logistics, conduct atmosphere and placing trust in every staff member. Owing to our business with are required to sign the Anti-bribery provision. This provision companies’ prime focus on teaching employees self-discipline, creating a ensures that our company, as a state-owned enterprise actively carries out fair and orderly competitive working environment that eliminates any a series of anti-corruption procedures and strategies to establish ethical and corruption and illegal activities allows us to guarantee that our business and genuine partnerships with companies that share similar ideologies. We business partners run their business in a fair, honest manner. In order to prohibit any and all illegal activities in addition, any activities that violate promote sustainable growth and advantageous business development we morality and integrity, including bribery, cheating, plagiarism, money not only respect every employee's value and individual freedom, we also laundering, illegal transactions, and stealing company property are strictly provide staff comprehensive support, to create an overall atmosphere of forbidden. By providing regular anti-corruption training to our staff we are unity, harmony and optimism among all members in the company. able to lay a solid foundation for staff’s ethical and ideological education to help us build an incorruptible enterprise culture. Our staff strictly abides by management policies and have never accepted any form of bribery or 25 Communication on Progress 2015 展望 OUTLOOK 鹏远新和的总体发展目标：在保持快速发展、优化结构、降低能耗、 尊重环境的基础上，实现服务质量的不断提高。我们将继续秉承“以人 为本、绿色物流、创新经济、持续发展”的发展原则，发挥物流技术与 物流资源的优势，逐步完善和强化公司现有的产业链，实现企业、社 会、员工共同发展的愿景，不断创新技术及管理模式，提升物流资源 利用率及客户服务水平，积极参加与其他企业的国际化合作与竞争， 继续保持行业领先，努力打造世界一流的物流企业。 Pioneer Logistics’ overall development goal is to continually improve our quality of service, fast development, structure optimization, and respect for the environment through the reduction of energy consumption and carbon 鹏远新和国际物流有限公司 emissions. PIONEER LOGISTICS CORPORATION We will obey the developmental principles of people first, green logistics, 电话 Tel: 86-10-6472 8916 economic innovation, and sustainable development and improve on our logistics technologies and resources to strengthen our company’s industrial 传真 Fax: 86-10-6472 8916-601 chain. We will constantly work to create innovative technologies and plans promoting effective and efficient utilization of logistics resources, and 地址：北京市朝阳区花家地东路 3 号，100102 participate in international cooperation and competition with global and domestic enterprises to maintain an industry-leading level and build a Add: No.3 East Road Huajiadi Chaoyang District, Beijing, P.R.China, 100102 world-class reputation as a credible logistics enterprise. Website: www.caacpl.com
