Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 INet LLC Skopje Republic of Macedonia October 2016 I. Company Profile Lenovo Authorized Company Name: Distributor & INet LLC Authorized Warranty Service Provider (Macedonia,Albania Address: and Kosovo) Atinska 12, P.O.Box 468 1000 Skopje, Macedonia Red Hat Advanced Partner State: (Macedonia,Albania Macedonia and Kosovo) Contact: Toni Petreski Function: Red Hat – Certified Training Partner MBA, Managing Director (Macedonia,Albania and Kosovo) Tel. +389 2 3090.625 Trend Micro Gold Short Description of the business: Partner The company is highly recognized in value-oriented (Macedonia,Albania technology distribution and channel innovation providing and Kosovo) complex ICT equipment, peripherals and packaged software products while adding value through technical Value Added capabilities. Reseller, Bronze Partner Having adopted a modern organizational structure, INet has established three self-directed work business teams (departments) acting as profit centers: INet Level Platforms Marketing & Sales, INet Business & Technology Authorized Reseller (Macedonia,Albania Services, INet Center of Excellence. Through these and Kosovo) departments, while seeking new opportunities, INet is growing and developing its activities that correspond to Autotask different market segments and serve different needs. Distribution Partner & Certtified Main business is distribution and implementation of Consulting Partner computer, network and communication equipment, (Macedonia,Albania covering all the areas of information technology and and Kosovo) telecommunications. Date: October 2016 Membership date: January 2005 Number of employees: 9 Industry: ICT Information and Communication Technology 7 II. Statement of continuing support for the Global Compact from the Chief Executive Officer Corporate responsibility is about respecting laws and regulations, treating our employees fairly and ensuring their safety, keeping our environment green and working with others to achieve a common goal. In short, doing the right thing at every possible way, honest measurement of performance, and the courage to be open about both successes and shortcomings. Covering all the areas of information technology (distribution and IT services) and telecommunications we guarantee a range of innovative top information technology. This is the Global Compact report of our performance on issues relevant to our business and corporate responsibility we have direct control over, emphasizing the wider contribution we can make to sustainable development. Beginning in fiscal 2009 we upgraded our approach incorporated CSR-related priorities directly into our business strategies. In accordance with this, we worked to realize our identified priorities: 1) Achieve ultimate customer satisfaction; 2) Embed environmental awareness; 3) Better utilization of organization and human capital. Our business in 2015 focused on two core areas: Promoting the CSR Concept Promoting the IT services that stimulate growth and productivity Promoting the CSR Concept Business Leaders Forum is the platform of socially responsible companies in Macedonia, which aim is to promote the CSR concept, motivation of the other companies, raising the awareness etc. The platform joins small, medium and large companies which manage the business on a responsible way. The BLF members have the support in the processes of planning, implementation, improvement off the CSR activities. The aim is to provoke sustainable growth of the business with profitability growth, but generating positive economic, social and ecological effects to the society development. Promoting the IT services that stimulate growth and productivity Studies from big research and industry associations like Gartner and CompTIA have shown that the average small-tomedium-sized businesses lose thousands of euros a year to network downtime. INet decided to deliver proactive managed services that keep the IT network up and running at optimal efficiency, with superior network performance, security, and reliability—all at an affordable price. Since 2013 INet is using Professional Services Automation tool: Autotask. The results have shown that this tool lowers the cost for IT management and almost doubled the company productivity . INet will continue playing a responsible role in the global community. INet Executive MBA, Managing Director Toni Petreski, MBA 3/12 7 Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principled approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Responsible businesses enact the same values and principles wherever they have a presence, and know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, INet is not only upholding the basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; Principle 2. Business should make sure they are not complicit in human right abuse; 4/12 7 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. Elimination of all forms and compulsory labor; Principle 5. Effective abolition of child labor; Principle 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; 5/12 7 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ; Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies 6/12 7 FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery 7/12 7 III. Ethical Management The principles of ethical management, respect for human right and our values are clearly stated and implemented according to the Corporate Governance Code and the Code of Conduct. INet does not authorize, nor tolerates or knowingly ignore the human rights violations of one of its business partners, committed in the furtherance of the two party’s common business goals. This is stated in its Code of Conduct: Dealing with suppliers, customers and others – gifts, meals, entertainment and payment; All contacts and dealings with customers, suppliers, and potential suppliers must be conducted so as to avoid even the appearance of impropriety or violation of any applicable law or any other act or this Code (Referring to the INet’s code of conduct which sets outs the policies and procedures for the fair and honest business practices and behaviour that INet expects from its staff). Principle 6 of Corporate Governance Code: The Company takes into consideration the interests of the Company’s stakeholders and has a Code of Conduct that regulates the Company’s relationship with its stakeholders. 6.1. The stakeholders, in particularly the employees, may freely communicate with the Board of Directors about their concerns related to illegal or unethical practices and their rights are not compromised by doing this; Principle 8 of Corporate Governance Code: The Board of Directors is responsible for the strategic guidance of the Company, the effective monitoring of the management, and the Board’s accountability to the Company and the Shareholders. III.1 SAP ERP & Autotask PSA Solutions INet is using both the SAP ERPand the Autotask PSA solutions since 2010. As a small business entity, INet is the first company from Macedonia that has accepted the challenge of implementing the world-famous brands, in order to successfully respond on all challenges of modern business and bring higher level of business efficiency. After a detailed analysis of the existing organizational structure and business processes, solution was designed in which 80% of existing INet processes and functionality was kept through the customization of the solutions. The projects were successfully implemented in accordance with the appropriate implementation methodologies. Key benefits of the implementation: Improvement of business processes, faster response on customer requests, higher level of business transparency to the company shareholders, faster and accurate decision making. Every step of all End-to-End processes in INet is now structured and well defined which helps employees to work more efficiently and collaborate on every step of the processes. We are really satisfied with the transparency and ethical management the both solutions offer. “With analysing capabilities for each business part and history that can follow each sales flow from end to beginning, I am now able to make better decisions in order to win more projects and keep my strategic customers satisfied”said Toni Petreski, Managing Director of INet. 8/12 7 IV Employee Relations INet is an employer that provides its employees with a benefit program responsive both to the diversity of its community and to the many life changes individuals experience during their employment. Qualified employees are eligible for the majority of benefits immediately upon hire. INet practises equal treatment for each employee both in terms of gaining access to employment and in the treatment of employees once they are at work. Employees are selected on the basis of their ability to do the job and there is no distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. Each employee with respect is equally treated to the terms and conditions of the employment such as: equal remuneration, hours of work and rest, paid holidays, maternity leave, security of tenure, advancement, social security, and occupational safety and health. We fulfil our legal obligation but we strive to do much more because we truly care about our employees and their wellbeing. IV.1 Benefits to Our Employees  INet contributes a significant amount of benefits for its employees, such as: o Usage of mobile phones; o Possibility to purchase products from INet’s assortment with special price reduction; o Possibility for personal growth through trainings organized and paid by INet; o Auspicious working time, (from Monday to Thursday working time is from 08:30 till 17:00; on Fridays, from 08:30 till 14:30); o Collective worker’s insurance; o INet’s yearly budget includes designate sum that could be used for occasional gifts. That means that every celebration connected to employees, like: birthday, wedding, new born child, name day, etc. is noted and rewarded with occasional gift;  INet respects employee’s right to join the associations of their own choice and freedom to take industrial action in defence of their economic and social interests;  INet practices voluntary process used to determine terms and conditions of work and the regulations of relations between employers, workers, and their organization;  INet supplies work without any restrain and every employee is free to leave in accordance with established rules. V. Supplier/Consumer Relations We are providing services that help our clients in the world of constant technological changes. INet continually build the relations with the costumers according to their needs and seeks suppliers that are in line with its CSR values. V.1 Our services stimulate growth and productivity Studies from big research and industry associations like Gartner and CompTIA have shown that the average small-tomedium-sized businesses lose thousands of euros a year to network downtime. INet decided to deliver proactive managed services that keep the IT network up and running at optimal efficiency, with superior network performance, security, and reliability all at an affordable price. Since 2013, INet uses the Autotask PSA (Professional Services Automation) solution. The results have shown that this tool lowers the cost for IT management and increases productivity. 9/12 7 VI. Environmental Protection We are aware about the positive and negative environmental impact of our industry. At INet, our commitment to the corporate social responsibility extends throughout the company. Whether we are conserving energy and natural resources, ensuring a safe and healthful workplace, or working with our suppliers to develop sustainable global markets, we apply our extensive innovation resources and expertise to solve some of the most pressing global issues.  Use of the materials (components) resulting from the processes: High quality computer components; INet has direct vendor relations with world-known brands which are already deeply involved in environmental protection and confirm their responsibility; brands are already concerned about ‘environmentally friendly technologies’ and recycling programs.  INet distributes computers components declared by their manufacturers to be in conformance with the environmental performance standard for electronic products IEEE 16802006.  We regularly collect the paper waste for recycling by specialized company. VII. Corporate Philanthropy We have Corporate Giving Program which invests volunteer, cash and in-kind support in communities where our associates live and work. These investments are directed to innovative programs to promote education and economic self-sufficiency, to ensure quality of life and improve the health and well-being of citizens. This program, guided by our corporate values of teamwork, respect, accountability, integrity and innovation, focuses on three areas: Education Support is targeted at scholarships, computer science, distribution management and other programs that promote economic self-sufficiency. General operating support will not be considered. Health and Human Services Support is targeted at community-based social and health service agencies for specific programs. A significant portion of the support granted in this area will be channelled through INet's investment. General operating support will not be considered Arts and Culture Program support is targeted at performing art centres and cultural organizations. General operating support and requests to underwrite performances and exhibitions will not be considered. 10/12 7 VIII. Involvement in the process of increasing the CSR awareness INet strives to promote CSR among its collaborators and stakeholders. We are always prepared to share our knowledge and experience in this field in order to contribute towards the development of the CSR in the country. INet aims to prove that the CSR practices are not reserved only for big corporations and companies, but it is applicable to small and medium enterprises. VIII.1 INet in Business Leaders Forum Business Leaders Forum is the platform of socially responsible companies in Macedonia, which aim is to promote the CSR concept, motivation of the other companies, raising the awareness etc. The platform joins small, medium and large companies which manage the business on a responsible way. The BLF members have the support in the processes of planning, implementation, improvement off the CSR activities. The aim is to provoke sustainable growth of the business with profitability growth, but generating positive economic, social and ecological effects to the society development. The administrator of the platform is Center for Institutional Development CIRa. Business Leaders Forum is the first initiative for joint of the business sector for CSR improvement in Macedonia. As an initiative, it exists in over 90 countries in the world and is promoted for the first time in 1990 by Prince Charles and a group of business leaders. With the signature of the Memorandum of Understanding, INet justifies its high social liability and responsibility. The founders agree to implement a set of social, ethical and ecological principles into the management of the business. VIII.2 INet in the Macedonian Global Compact Network In 2011 a concept for revival of the Macedonian Global Compact Network was developed and implemented. For the purpose of reviving the Network, an Initiative Committee has been established and INet is part of it. The Committee is comprised of 5 Network members (plus the representative of the Secretariat) known for their sound CSR practices, commitment to the principles of UNGC and expressed interest for proactive role in strengthening the Network. Initiative Board initiated several actions such as: revision of the Act that establishes the rules of the GC Network in Macedonia; organization of the Annual Conference; Issuing of electronic newsletter. 11/12 7 IХ. CSR Awards During the past years, INet received many recognitions and awards for overall commitment (integrated approach) to Corporate Social Responsibility for small enterprise. We continued activities implemented in our daily activities, but have not participated officially to some Awards call. We employ the highest ethical standards, demonstrating honesty and fairness in every action that we take We take responsibility for all decisions and actions that we perform” INet LLC Skopje 12/12
