Microsoft Indonesia Communication On Progress Report March 2016 Statement of Continuous Support Over the past year at Microsoft, we have challenged ourselves to rediscover what it is about the core of our company that really matters. How can we make a difference in this world in a way that no other company can? We have begun by embracing a new mission: to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. To achieve our mission, we have defined business ambitions that are equally bold: to reinvent productivity and business processes, to build the intelligent cloud platform, and to create more personal computing. At Microsoft Citizenship all over the world, including in Indonesia, we recognize the ten principles of the global compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Being a corporate citizen, we are fully aware on the importance of sustainable development and always take the commitment at the highest level. In the areas of human rights and labour, our Citizenship programs have been recognized nationally and globally. Our human capital or labor policies performs and comply in a manner consistent with expectations of national government and law. In the areas of environment and anti corruption, Microsoft Indonesia has set the highest standards. Our standards have been applied to ensure the workplace is healthy, safe and clear from any pollution and environmental damage. Promoting and upholding integrity and accountability to the highest standard is our company’s endeavor without any exception. Microsoft Indonesia believes that sustainability can be achieved should the four areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption is integrated in our daily business activities. March, 2016 Andreas Diantoro President Director Area 1: Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Employees: First and foremost, we respect the rights of our employees in accordance with the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We work to do so through various Microsoft policies and programs including: Equal Employment Opportunity Policy; Anti-Discrimination and Harassment Policy; and Standards of Business Conduct. These policies complemented by a full range of programs to support the wellbeing of our employees and their family members– including employee benefits focused on health, personal wellness, and education. (http://download.microsoft.com/download/7/4/C/74C9403C-12BC-4037B4DF17750C617871/Microsoft%20Global%20Human%20Rights%20Statement%20English%20Sept%20201 3.pdf ) Area 1: Human rights • Promote a culture of wellness and balance • Benefits play an important role for an employer. Microsoft Indonesia empower their employees with resources, incentives, and flexibility they need to enjoy success on the job and to live a healthy, balanced life. • Continuous learning • We always encourage our employees to learn. That's why we offer education and training programs to help you hone your skills and learn new business technologies. • Take advantage of classroom training programs or elearning courses that can be completed anywhere. Diversity & Inclusion Programs TechFemme 2015 : successfully inspiring hundreds of young women across Southeast Asia to pursue a career in the tech industry, TechFemme 2015 event! Microsoft Indonesia held the first gender diversity event for college students and get a sneak peek of Microsoft's highly coveted summer internship program as well as tips and tricks on how to tailor your resume and ace your interviews in our Career Workshop Regular youth discussions on trends and opportunities in technology Empower Indonesian youth through YouthSpark programs: Entrepreneurship, Employment & Computer Science Reduce Traffic – Go Home Late Hot Desk MS Indonesia – Indonesia Most Admired Companies 2013 • Tempat bekerja favorit pembaca Majalah Warta Ekonomi • Kriteria : Awareness atas prestasi perusahaan mengembangkan kebijakan pengelolaan SDM karyawannya sehingga menjadikan perusahaannya sebagai tempat yang nyaman untuk bekerja dan mengembangkan karier Citizenship Programs Citizenship Efforts Indonesia Microsoft Citizenship mission is to serve the needs of communities and fulfill our responsibilities to the public. Our Citizenship programs align with our business and our National Plan that cover two pillars transforming education and enabling entrepreneurs; and where Microsoft can contribute our skills and resources to meaning impact such as our NGO partners Transforming Education • Partners in Learning – impacted over 14.4 million students, from over 420,000 teachers trained. • DreamSpark reached 93 Uni’s using free developers and applications. • Office 365 for Edu impacted 31 million teachers & students. • Shape the Future – Digital inclusion for 55,500 young people. Enabling Jobs & Opportunity • 4000+ youth empowered with workforce skills & training • YouthSpark training empowered 50,000+ youths to become entrepreneurs or employment • Empowered 1000 small business & 10,000 SMB with technology and training in FY 2013 Fostering Local Innovation • Imagine Cup 2015 recorded 8529 participants; and 961 students registered. • BizSpark (program for Software startups) with current active members : 357 (Oct ‘15) • 5 Microsoft Innovation Centers – available in UI, ITB, UPH, Binus & Gajah Mada Uni. An Open Source Interop Lab was launched in University of Indonesia’s MIC. NGO empowerment • Donated over $2 million worth of software donations to 200+ NGOs across Indonesia • Strategic NGO partners: YCAB Foundation, TechSoup Asia & Palang Merah Indonesia (Red Cross Indonesia) Area 2: Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Learning and Development In accordance with the commitment of Microsoft Indonesia to develop human resources by conducting various training and development of employees to ensure the development of capability and competence of the employees in order to conform with the latest developments of each function Area 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. MANAGING energy REDUCING and environmental RETHINKING energy demands footprint business practices  Desktop power  Centralized systems  Unified communications management management  Collaboration  Server power  Business intelligence  Electronic forms management  Dashboards  Digital note-taking  Virtualization  Custom scorecards  Online services Save Paper – Save Trees – Save the World Convert Paper Doc into Digital Format Reduce CO, use Bicycle to the office Reduce Traffic in the City Free Lunch every Monday Reduce Office Space Most of Employees Work Remotely Stay Healthy Free Fruits & Healthy Drinks Reduce Carbon Footprints through our Data Centers around the World Amsterdam Japan Dublin, Chin North Europe Ireland a Asia America Hong Kong Quincy, Chicago, WA IL Singapore Africa San Antonio, TX Central Australia and South America Area 4: Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Microsoft Indonesia applies the Anti Corruption & Compliance Tools at the highest level with no exception that cover anti corruption in all its forms prior to incurring the expenses Microsoft Indonesia Since 1995 Main office in Jakarta 200+ staff 15,000 + partners Software donations to nonprofits/NGOs $ 2M+ How to be involved : Directly, Semi – Directly through distributors or retail partners Reach us @MicrosoftID ; Thank you.
