CORPORATE CORPORATE AND AND SOCIAL SOCIAL RESPONSI RES POBNSI I L I TY B I L I TY CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RE SPONSIBILITY 2 0 1 5 • 2 0 1 62 0 1 5 • 2 0 1 6 R E P O R TR E P O R T 2 0 15 •2 0 16 R E P O R T SOCIETE GENERALE GROUP 2 I C ORPORAT E AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY RE P O R T SOCIETE GENERALE GROUP STRENGTHENING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION SUMMARY Group commitments CSR priority issues The reference bank A relationship banking culture based on common values CSR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Group governance CSR management Dialogue with stakeholders IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE Loyalty of practices Deployment of E&S commitments in relation to our banking and financial services Positive impact finance Socially responsible investment (SRI) Deployment of E&S commitment in our sourcing policy Dialogue with civil society Non-financial evaluation The bank is attentive to investors ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT Societe Generale has made commitments favouring the climate Supporting our clients with their low-carbon investments Reducing the Group’s carbon footprint Environmental data COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER The Societe Generale Group’s teams at the end of 2015 Supporting changing professions Developping a relationship banking culture based on common values Fostering employee commitment SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY Supporting emerging countries and new economic actors’ development Solidarity banking activities Combating insecurity and protecting vulnerable populations SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOCIAL COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS Citizenship Cultural sponsorship APPENDICES 3 SOCIETE GENERALE GROUP A ROBUST UNIVERSAL OUR AMBITION To be the relationship-focused bank, BANKING MODEL a reference in its markets, close to its clients and chosen for the quality and commitment of its teams. FRENCH RETAIL BANKING 39,000 employees* and 3,085 branches at the end of 2015 3 complementary brands 31 MILLION CLIENTS: INDIVIDUALS, at the forefront of the digital transformation 12 million individual clients PROFESSIONALS, COMPANIES & FINANCIAL including 810,000 professional, INSTITUTIONS (1) corporate and non-proﬁt clients 178 146,000 EUR bn in outstanding loans EMPLOYEES* IN 66 COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 73,000 in 52 countries employees* NET BANKING INCOME Leading franchises with recognised 32 EUR 25.6 bn expertise million individual, professional, and corporate clients (including 1.2 million businesses and 13.4 million insurance policyholders) GROUP NET INCOME EUR 106 bn in outstanding loans EUR 4.0 bn CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT TEAM SPIRIT BANKING, PRIVATE BANKING, 22,000 across 28 countries employees* ASSET MANAGEMENT OUR INNOVATION AND SECURITIES SERVICES VALUES RESPONSIBILITY At the hub of economic ﬂows between More than 5,500 clients COMMITMENT issuers and investors EUR 135 bn in outstanding loans * (1) Excluding Insurance policyholders. 4 I C ORPORAT E AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY RE P O R T SOCIETE GENERALE GROUP Crédit photo Antoine Doyen “ Frédéric Oudéa Chief Executive Officer For Societe Generale, being a responsible company lies at the very heart of our business lines’ mission and reflects the essence of the relationship bank of reference that we strive to be. As a key player in financing the economy, our mission is to offer the best solutions to advise and connect individuals, companies and institutions, in order to support them in the development of their projects, the management of their financial means and their risk coverage. Sensitive to the different stakeholders within our ecosystem, we also strive to ensure the generation of a long-term positive impact on the environment surrounding us. In 2015 we continued our proactive approach initiated in the 2000s with the signature of national and international commitments that bear the hallmark of precise and demanding principles. The Group also signed a global agreement with UNI Global Union as part of its commitment to respect human rights and labour rights in all its countries of operation. Furthermore, it joined the Manifesto on Positive Impact Finance of the United Nations Environment Programme to identify the environmental and social impacts of its activities and reduce them in compliance with international best practices. Moreover, in correlation with the COP21 held in the same year, Societe Generale in 2015 announced its ambitious commitments for the climate, which aim to contribute towards limiting the global temperature rise to less than 2°C by 2100. In this manner, the Societe Generale Group positions itself as a prominent banking player at the forefront of the global playing field for its CSR accomplishments and its transparency: in 2015, Societe Generale made its comeback among the first quartile of banks according to RobecoSam, and Vigeo ranked it as the first company among 1,300 multinationals for quality and relevance of CSR information. Accordingly, the Group is firmly committed to being a solid, responsible financial player aiming to serve its customers. This commitment is held by all of us, and rests upon our exemplary individual and collective behaviour. I am convinced that the leadership model that we have decided to adopt, applicable to all employees and centred on four client-focused values – team spirit, innovation, responsibility and commitment – will enable us to consolidate our position among the most responsible ” banks on a global level. 5 COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION 6 I C ORPORAT E AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY RE P O R T COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION GROUP COMMITMENTS Societe Generale conducts its business with the utmost respect for the values and principles under: ■ T  he Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its VOLUNTARY PRINCIPALES FOR associated covenants; MAINSTREAMING CLIMATE ACTION ■ T  he fundamental conventions of the lnter national On the sidelines of the COP21 climate change conference in Labour Organisation; December 2015 Societe Generale, along with 25 other major international financial institutions, adopted the voluntary ■ T  he UNESCO World Heritage Convention; principles for Mainstreaming Climate Action within Financial ■ T  he OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation Institutions. This initiative, which was spearheaded in and Development) Guidelines for Multinational particular by major players in development financing, such Enterprises. as the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the In addition, Societe Generale has shown its voluntary French Development Agency, but has also been joined by commitment since 2000 to the following public or private private institutions, aims to organise climate action within initiatives: financial institutions. ■ 2 000: founding member of the Wolfsberg Group; The five principles are as follows: ■2  001: joined the United Nations Environment 1. C  ommit to climate strategies Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI); Commit publicly by adopting a climate strategy that is ■ 2  003: driven by senior management, which defines its priorities joined the United Nations Global Compact, which encourages companies to integrate principles and targets. relating to human rights, working conditions and the 2. Manage climate risks fight against corruption; Participate in the current work in progress on defining, ■ 2  004: assessing and managing climate risks. Work with clients to signed the Diversity Charter (France); identify and finance the measures needed to adapt to climate ■ 2  007: adopted the Equator Principles; changes. ■ 2  007: signed the SME Pact (France); 3. Promote climate smart objectives ■ 2  010: signed the “Responsible Supplier Relations” Generate tools and financial instruments designed to Charter (France); overcome risks and barriers to financing low carbon projects and/or projects that are resilient to natural hazards (such as ■ 2 0 1 4 : s i g n e d t h e J o i n t D e c l a r a t i o n o rg a n i s e d b y green bonds, risk-sharing mechanisms, blended finance, etc.). Transparency International France for the promotion of transparent, honest lobbying; 4. Improve climate performance Define indicators for tracking and monitoring performance, ■ 2  014: support for the Green Bond Principles; and steer the progress towards achieving the objectives. ■ 2  014: Lyxor signed the Principles for Responsible 5. Account for your climate action Investment (PRI); Report on the implementation and results of the climate action ■ 2 015: signed a Global Agreement on Fundamental taken. Rights with UNI Global Union; The principles have been drawn up based on the best ■ 2  015: Séverin Cabannes (Deputy Chief Executive practices adopted by financial institutions. A document has Officer) launched the “Positive Impact Manifesto” on been published listing emerging practices and illustrating behalf of the Banking Commission of the UNEP-FI. some of the solutions that have already been implemented within institutions that are supporting the initiative. ■ 2  015: joined the “Soft Commodities Compact” of the Societe Generale participated in this publication by proposing Banking Environment Initiative (with the Consumer two measures: the issue of a positive impact bond for funding Goods Forum) to fight deforestation; projects that contribute to the fight against climate change ■ 2 015: subscribed to the “Principles for Mainstreaming (Principle 3) and implementation of an internal carbon tax Climate Actions within Financial Institutions”, launched (Principle 4). during COP21. 7 COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL Many sectorial initiatives referenced in the E&S policies as being the framework expected at the Group’s customer companies also GENERAL GUIDELINES incorporate the human rights dimension. Societe Generale’s proactive role in financing the real economy makes it These commitments to human rights in the Group’s sphere of influence aware of the environmental, social and economic convergence issues at are consistent with the signing of a global framework agreement on play within its sphere of influence and makes it intent to factor them into fundamental rights with UNI Global Union. its business. For the last ten years or so, the credit risk and reputation It reinforces the commitments made in Societe Generale's Code of management policies and processes have thus gradually incorporated Conduct, which has been transposed into an internal directive, to the assessment of Environmental and Social (E&S) criteria. respect human rights and recognise fundamental rights at work, notably making sure employment and working conditions are fair, not tolerating In addition to its regulatory obligations, the Group has made many any discrimination in working relationships, and complying with all voluntary commitments related to these topics. All these obligations health and safety regulations. With respect to freedom of association, and commitments are set out in the Environmental and Social General Societe Generale is committed to respecting the right of all employees Guidelines and the sector and cross-sector policies appended to them. to organise, to be members of a union and to bargain collectively. Furthermore, it sets out procedures to give unions affiliated with UNI They have Internal Directive status, are signed by the Chief Executive access to the company to make it easier for them to speak to employees. Officer, and apply to the entire Group. These principles constitute the (See p. 62, interview with Mr E. Malo-Henry) global reference framework for applying E&S evaluation procedures, which were first developed for the Investment Banking activities and The sanction mechanism applicable to all Societe Generale employees was also revised in 2015 to be consistent with the Code of Conduct. are gradually being applied to the other activities of the Group (See p. The Leadership Model, Code of Conduct and sanction mechanism are 26, E&S Sector and Cross-Sector Policies).The Group’s Environmental therefore all interrelated. This mechanism has been transmitted to all and Social General Guidelines are available on its website. They are managers. regularly revised to best reflect the consideration of E&S challenges in The agreement also covers relationships with business partners by the economic and social sphere. means of the Group Instruction on responsible sourcing included in the In 2015, the Group reaffirmed its commitment to the fight against climate appendix (See p. 62, Promoting a quality employer-employee dialogue). This agreement is regularly monitored with UNI Global Union. change by establishing a climate strategy that is consistent with the international objective of limiting global warming to 2°C (see p. 40, The Group’s climate strategy). Within this framework, Societe Generale has committed to an overall reduction in its coal-related activities (consistent BIODIVERSITY with the IEA’s 2°C scenario) and, starting now, will no longer be involved in Regarding biodiversity, Societe Generale adopted a specific E&S policy financing coal-fired power plant projects in high-income OECD countries in 2012, which applies to all Group banking and financial operations through review procedures conducted on specific transactions and or financing coal mine development projects. Societe Generale is also customers. The E&S General Guidelines also list the UNESCO World reinforcing its commitment to the fight against deforestation by adopting Heritage Convention among the international conventions with which the Soft Commodities Compact of the Banking Environment Initiative. the bank undertakes to comply. Lastly, the normative framework of the Equator Principles includes specific standards on biodiversity. + info > SECTORAL POLICIES EQUATOR PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Adopted by the Group in 2007, and revised in 2013, the Equator Principles (EP) constitute one of the initiatives that underlie the Regarding human rights, the General Guidelines list in particular the Environmental and Social (E&S) General Guidelines. Dedicated internal standards and initiatives that Societe Generale has committed to respect procedures and tools are used to ensure their implementation. The EP and has identified as the most significant for the E&S evaluation of its are intended to serve as a common framework for the financial sector clients: to identify, evaluate and manage the E&S risks of projects for which the 83 international financial institutions that have joined the initiative to date ■ The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant provide financing and advice. on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Initially dedicated to structured project financing and project finance Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; advisory, the EP have applied since 2014 to a broader set of transactions ■ The Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organisation, and services, including bridge loans and certain project-related corporate loans. which address, in particular, issues related to forced labour, child labour, discrimination and freedom of association; In “non-designated” countries (today consisting of non “high income OECD countries”), the initiative requires the dedicated transactions ■T  he United Nations Principles on Business and Human Rights; for which an E&S evaluation is required to be compliant with the ■T  he Performance Standards of the International Finance Company (IFC) OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; of the World Bank Group. In particular these standards cover human ■T  he United Nations Global Compact. rights through the evaluation of the working conditions and rights of the 8 I C ORPORAT E AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY RE P O R T COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION workers, the affected population resettlement and the impact on the Each year the bank participates in the EP General Meeting and in the indigenous populations. With regard to the environment, they establish initiative’s working groups. the best practices expected in terms of management and control of pollution, industrial risks and impact on biodiversity. + info In 2015, the EP introduced new reporting obligations in order to improve > EQUATOR PRINCIPLES transparency on transactions financed by members of the association. > EP REPORT Accordingly, Societe Generale published a first annual report (which can be consulted on the Group’s institutional website) dedicated to the initiative’s implementation and discloses the list of project loans within the EP scope in which the bank participates. CSR PRIORITY ISSUES The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy ensures that the Group The challenges (17 in total) were sorted by the CSR and Sustainable upholds each of its commitments and makes sustainable progress Development Department jointly with a group of experts according to according to priority areas related to its global strategy that respond to their level of maturity or Group performance (existence of objectives, two types of challenges: performance indicators, level of the non-financial rating, or points of view ■ t he relative significance for external stakeholders with particular attention of other stakeholders). given to the expectations of non-financial rating agencies and particularly They represent the Group’s CSR action priorities developed for 2015 in this RobecoSAM; document completed by the Registration document. ■ t he potential impacts on the business model in the medium and long term (results, risks, competitiveness, opportunities, innovation, role of the bank, human capital, operational effectiveness). Supporting emerging countries and new economic actors’development Essential Sustainability of the bank through comprehensive risk management, including environmental and social aspects Compliance with rules and regulations Transparent and efficient corporate governance Very Important Business ethics Customer satisfaction Career management/Mobility Employability Eco-friendly business activities Respect for human rights in our activities “Sustainable development” products Important Engaging compensation policy Diversity Quality of life at work Involvement in international initiatives on environmental and social topics related to finance Relevant Transparent, relevant and reliable information on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) aspects Visible Sponsorship and partnerships 9 COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION THE REFERENCE BANK Societe Generale’s aim is to become a benchmark in CSR policy approximately 46,000 people (Societe Generale employees in France). among Europe’s leading financial institutions. Since 2014, this This same criterion is also one of the qualitative criteria applicable to ambition has been demonstrated by the incorporation of the Group’s the assessment of Chief Executive Officers and/or Directors when non-financial performance into the compensation components of determining a portion of their variable compensation. A RELATIONSHIP BANKING CULTURE BASED ON COMMON VALUES Societe Generale aims to set the standard for relationship banking, by all employees to the benefit of its customers. This approach to working closely with its customers and chosen for the quality and employee behaviour relies on the new Societe Generale Leadership commitment of its teams. This means placing the customer at the Model and has helped to reinforce a corporate culture combining the centre of the bank’s concerns. ambition to develop activities (innovation), the desire to set an example as an individual (commitment) and as a group (team spirit), as well To achieve this, Societe Generale redefined its fundamental values as the concern for ethics and compliance with rules (responsibility). in 2014 (the values of commitment and responsibility were added to (See p. 58, Developing a relationship banking culture based on the historical values of innovation and team spirit), then emphasised common values) the behaviours through which these values should be expressed > FIND ALL THE DATA OF THE REPORT 10 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION 11 CSR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 12 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T CSR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT GROUP GOVERNANCE The Societe Generale Group has clear and transparent governance. It At December 31, 2015, 11 of the 14 directors are independent, i.e. ensures duly controlled decision-making best serving the company’s more than 91.6% of the Board members using the AFEP-MEDEF long-term interests while ensuring that the expectations of its major Code’s new calculation rule, which excludes employee representatives stakeholders are met, in compliance with the regulations. The from the calculation. fundamental operating principles of the governance bodies are described in the Internal Rules , which have been recast to incorporate, in particular, the provisions of Directive CRD4 and also, for ease of reference, the Directors’ Charter (cf. chapter 7 of the Registration Document), and the Directors are obliged to comply with the Charter, which guides their actions. 50% The compensation of Chief Executive Officers complies with the European Capital Requirements Directive (CRD4) of 26th June 2013, WOMEN whose aim is to establish remuneration policies and practices that in board of directors are compatible with effective risk management. In accordance with the CRD4 Directive which principles on compensations have been in effect since 1st January 2014 and its transposition into French law, the 92% Compensation Committee ensured that the Group’s compensation policies comply not only with regulations, but also with the company’s risk management policy and capital targets. Societe Generale also applies the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate of directors are independant Governance Code. MISSION AND ORGANIZATION OF THE This proportion is significantly higher than the target set by the Board of BOARD OF DIRECTORS Directors to comply with the proportion of 50% independent directors, The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Lorenzo Bini Smaghi Chairman recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF code. of the Board of Directors following the separation of the offices of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer on + info 19th May 2015. > MISSION AND ORGANISATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors defines the Company’s strategy by assuming and controlling risks, and ensures that it is applied. Societe Generale’s PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCE, Board of Directors is composed of twelve directors appointed by the General Meeting and two directors elected by employees. A CONTROL AND ORGANISATION OF RISK representative of the Works Council attends Board meetings without MANAGEMENT voting rights. Directors are appointed by the General Meeting for a The Societe Generale Group attaches particular importance to 4-year mandate. The two directors appointed by the employees of implementing a robust and efficient structure to control its risks in all the Group have a 3-year mandate (2012-2015). the businesses, markets and regions in which it operates as well as to The Board’s of Directors composition is intended to strike a coherent achieving a balance between a strong risk management culture and balance between the experience, expertise and independence of the development of its activities. its members in strict accordance with the principles of equality and Societe Generale Group’s risk management governance draws on: diversity that reflect the Group’s global reach. ■ T he strong involvement of its managers throughout the entire Societe Generale’s Board of Directors is made up of seven women organisation in the risk management process and the promotion of and seven men (i.e. 50% women or 41.6% excluding the Directors the risk culture, from the Board of Directors to its operational teams; elected by the employees, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of January 27, 2011). ■ C learly defined internal procedures and guidelines; 13 CSR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT ■ O  ngoing supervision by an independent body to monitor risks and SPECIALISED COMMITTEES OF to ensure that the applicable rules and procedures are effectively THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS applied. AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL COMMITTEE Two main bodies govern group risk management: the Board of The Audit and Internal Control Committee’s mission is to monitor issues Directors and General Management. concerning the production and control of accounting and financial information, and to monitor the efficiency of the internal control and ■ T  he Board of Directors, especially its Audit and Internal Control the risk assessment, monitoring and control systems. In January 2015, Committee and its Risk Committee, regularly carry out a thorough this Committee was divided into an Audit and Internal Control Committee and a Risk Committee in accordance with the CRD4 Directive. review of the system for managing, preventing and assessing risks. At 31st December 2015, the Committee comprised four independent ■ G  eneral Management gives a presentation to the Board of Directors Directors. It has been chaired by Mrs. Schaapveld since 19th May 2015. Previously, it was chaired by Mr. Wyand. The Committee met 10 times at least once a year (and more frequently if circumstances make it in 2015, with an attendance rate of 98%, compared with 100% in 2014. necessary) on the main aspects and the major developments of The main topics addressed during the year were as follows: the Group’s risk management strategy, regardless of their nature. ■ review of acquisitions and disposals; Within the Board of Directors the Risk Committee is specifically ■ monitoring of relations with the regulators; responsible for reviewing the consistency of the internal framework for monitoring risks and their compliance with this framework as ■ g eneral organisation of the compliance, global framework, roles and responsibilities; well as with the laws and regulations in force. The Audit and Internal ■ Asset Quality Review; Control Committee of the Board of Directors ensures the smooth functioning of the risk control systems. ■ Enterprise Risk Management (risk culture); ■ recovery and resolution plans; The “Enterprise Risk Management” ERM programme is closely ■ tax management; monitored at the highest level of the bank: it is supervised by General Management, with the participation of members of the Executive ■ customer protection; Committee, and is the subject of regular reporting to the Board of ■ litigation management. Directors’ Risk Committee. The first phase of the ERM programme was Several reviews of business activities were also carried out (Africa, carried out between 2011 and 2015. It has improved the consistency Insurance, Consumer Finance, etc.). The Committee travelled to New York and conducted a review of business activities on the American and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management system by fully Continent. integrating risk prevention and management within the day-to-day management of the bank’s businesses. RISK COMMITTEE The Risk Committee advises the Board of Directors on the overall strategy and the appetite to all kinds of risks, both current and future, and helps the Board when it verifies that this strategy is implemented. At RISK APPETITE 31st December 2015, the Risk Committee comprised four independent Directors. It is chaired by Mrs. Rachou since 19th May 2015. Previously, Societe Generale defines risk appetite as the level of risk, by type and by business that the Group is prepared to incur it was chaired by Mr. Wyand. The Risk Committee met 10 times during given its strategic targets. Risk appetite is defined using both the year. The attendance rate for its members was 95%. quantitative and qualitative criteria. At each meeting, the Risk Committee interviews the Chief Risk Officer The Risk Division and the Finance Division, in coordination about changes in the risk environment and highlights. It regularly with the business lines, have jointly carried out measures reviews: as part of the Group Risk Appetite approach, consisting in ■ the risk overview and risk mapping; formally defining a three-year overview including: ■ the risk limits for which it prepares the Board’s decisions; ■ t argets for certain key Group indicators (financial solidity, profitability, solvency, leverage and liquidity); ■ the liquidity; ■ risk/return ratios for the different Group businesses; ■ anti-money laundering; ■  nd the Group’s risk profile, by risk type (credit, market, a ■ the reputation dashboard; operational and structural). ■ the compliance dashboard. 14 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T CSR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee held five meetings in 2015. The attendance rate was 88% (95% in 2014). The “Enterprise Risk It prepared the governance decisions taken at the Board of Directors meeting of 15th January 2015: Management” programme has ■s  eparation of the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; ■o  rganisation of the Committees; improved the consistency and ■p  roposals for appointments to the positions of Chairman/Chief Executive Officer/Committee Chairman; effectiveness of the Group’s ■s  election of Directors to participate in the General Meeting. + info risk management system > SPECIALISED COMMITTES OF THE BOARDS OF DIRECTORS PERMANENT CONTROL SYSTEM Group’s internal control system is based on: COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ■ F irst-level permanent control, under the responsibility of Core The Compensation Committee prepares the decisions that the Board Businesses and Corporate Divisions, forms the cornerstone of the of Directors decides concerning compensation, especially those related permanent control system. It aims to ensure, at the operational level, to the Chairman and the Executive Officers and those that have an the security, quality, regularity and validity of transactions completed. impact on risk and the management of risks in the Company. ■ S  econd-level permanent control, independent from operational staff, At December 31, 2015, the Compensation Committee was composed comes under three Corporate Divisions and has been significantly of four directors, three of whom are independent. It is chaired by reinforced in 2015. independent director, Mr Lévy. The Compensation Committee met To know more, see pages 126 to 128 of Registration Document seven times in 2015, and the attendance rate was 97% (97% in 2014). In accordance with CRD4 and its transposition into French law, the PERIODICAL CONTROL Compensation Committee ensured that the Group’s remuneration policies comply not only with regulations, but also with the company’s Placed under the responsibility of the Group Head of Inspection and Audit, the Internal Audit Division (hereafter “DCPE”) comprises General risk management policy and capital targets.The Committee reviewed Inspection, Internal Audit and cross-business functions, the latter providing the principles of the remuneration policy applicable within the Group, operational support to Inspection and Audit teams. To fulfil its mandate, the and particularly concerning employees whose activities have a Group’s Internal Audit Division has adequate resources, from a qualitative significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, in accordance with the and quantitative point of view. The Group’s Internal Audit Division has new regulations in force. It above all ensured that the remuneration some 1,300 staff. policy effectively takes into account the risks generated by the The Internal Audit Division participates in the Internal Control Coordination activities and adherence by employees to risk management policies Committees and Audit committees at various Group levels (Core and professional standards, and consulted the Audit, Internal Control Business or Corporate Division, Business Line, subsidiary, etc.). It reports and Risk Committee in this regard. on its audit activity, as well as on the audit plan and the monitoring of recommendations. It may also present any matters requiring the attention Lastly, the Committee proposed the share (or share equivalents) of these committees. allocation plans to the Board and prepared the Board’s work on gender equality within the company. NOMINATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE The Committee is responsible for submitting proposals to the Board of Directors on the nomination of Directors as well as on the succession of the Chairman and the Executive Officers, especially where a position becomes vacant unexpectedly, after carrying out any necessary inquiries. At 31st December 2015, the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee comprised three independent Directors. It is chaired by Mr. Mestrallet since 19th May 2015. 15 CSR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT CSR MANAGEMENT ORGANISATION & GOVERNANCE participate. In 2014 the Group deployed “Planethic Reporting”, a new powerful CSR reporting tool, throughout the Group. CSR management at Societe Generale forms an integral part of the Group’s organisation and is implemented by various resources and + info structures at all levels (governance, compliance and internal control > CSR STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE functions, Risk Committees, New Product Committees, internal regulations, directives and instructions, etc.). The Executive Committee defines the broad outlines of the Group’s EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND CSR policy and periodically validates any action plans based on the reporting by the CSR and Sustainable Development Department. AWARENESS ACTIVITIES A dedicated section on the Group’s website pools information on the The Board of Directors is regularly informed of the application of the implementation of the CSR strategy. In parallel, an intranet, which was Environmental and Social commitments made by the Group. first set up in 2009, enables the entire workforce and all managers of the Group to learn about good CSR practices and related events. The intranet is supplemented by a bi-monthly newsletter. Conferences that are open to all employees at Head Office are organised every quarter. In 2015 they focused on topics involving More than climate change and the COP21, human rights and water-related issues. 1,200 Sustainable Development Week is another opportunity for the Group to demonstrate its involvement through initiatives devised within the various departments and to raise employee awareness CONTRIBUTORS of these challenges. In 2015, for the third year running, the internal Environmental Efficiency Awards was a platform for promoting new projects to support the bank’s environmental policy. This scheme allows TO THE EXTRA-FINANCIAL all the bank’s entities and business lines to contribute to the efforts to reduce CO2 emissions (See p. 45, Internal carbon tax). REPORTING In October 2015, in connection with Solidarity Finance Week, Societe Generale established a week of activities for its employees at the head office in La Défense around its solidarity banking offer. Societe Generale also promotes innovative CSR initiatives via the The Group’s business lines and corporate divisions are responsible for Innov’Group Awards (dedicated to innovation), which are organised implementing the CSR strategy. Each entity appoints its own “CSR every year. The 2014 Innov’Group Awards, granted by the Executive contributors” to carry out action plans and monitor their execution. Committee in 2015, rewarded a placement offer of Social and The network of “CSR contributors” has a total of about sixty people. Responsible Deposit for companies (SRD). The CSR and Sustainable Development Department reporting to the The HR department regularly organises conferences on “Well-being General Management through the Group Corporate Secretaryand at work” in the context of the “Life at work” programme (See p. 64, along with the CSR managers, it is in charge of defining and promoting Well-being at work). CSR policy throughout the Group as well as coordinating the activities of its contributors and all related initiatives. It also provides practical + info assistance to the different business lines and encourages both the > SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE DEPOSIT OFFER exchange and dissemination of best practices. To evaluate its overall CSR performance, the Group has defined a series of quantitative indicators. Every year since 2005, the corresponding values have been gathered, consolidated and analysed using a dedicated global reporting system, in which more than 1,200 individuals 16 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T CSR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Societe Generale remains attentive to stakeholders and consequently ■ c lients, adapts, whenever possible, its measures to best respond to their ■ e mployees, expectations with respect to the current regulations and laws. The ■ investors and shareholders, Group has a response policy for claims or solicitations, with dedicated ■ r egulators, teams for each stakeholder. Assessments conducted by third-parties ■ N GOs, on the bank’s achievements are part of its governing system, as with ■ s uppliers, the reputational risk chart that is submitted on a quarterly basis to the ■ n on-financial rating agencies. General Management with a comprehensive overview of relations, or with indicators presented in this Registration Document. More + info specifically, the Group is highly attentive to: > SEE THE GROUP'S WEBSITE > FIND ALL THE DATA OF THE REPORT 17 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE 18 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T LOYALTY OF PRACTICES SECTORAL POLICIES CODE S polic E& OF CONDUCT IN 8 LANGUAGES TAX i CODE 12 es* OF CONDUCT CHARTER 100 FOR REPONSIBLE ADVOCACY % CODE FOR RESPONSIBLE SOURCING € M OF SOURCING 5 FROM PROTECTED OF CLIENTS FROM ENTERPRISES SECTOR INVESTMENT BANKING IN SENSITIVE SECTORS UNDERWENT AN E&S REVIEW POSITIVE IMPACT FINANCE € 1.9 106TRANSACTIONS BN 6.7BN UNDERWENT AN E&S EVALUATION OF NEW AMOUNTING TO € FINANCING *Environmental & social 1ST POSITIVE IMPACT BOND ISSUANCE € 500 M X2 2014 2015 19 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE LOYALTY OF PRACTICES The loyalty shown to its external stakeholders and, more generally, the It is available in the eight most widely-used languages in the Group and integrity of its banking and financial practices contribute decisively to applicable to all Group employees, no matter their level of responsibility, Societe Generale’s reputation. By ensuring that it abides by these rules, including its Directors. It details the procedures for exercising the right the Group helps to develop a key asset: the trust of the customers, to alert when a specific situation justifies it. Thus, it contributes to the suppliers, service suppliers, employees and regulatory authorities on prevention of risks in order to strengthen the company’s reputation and which it depends. responsible approach. Thus a large number of mechanisms and initiatives related to the loyalty of practices are deployed throughout the Group. + info > CODE OF CONDUCT > SEE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CHAPTER 4.9, « COMPLIANCE CULTURE » “RISK CULTURE” PLACES RESPONSIBILITY VALUES AT THE HEART OF THE TAX CODE OF CONDUCT RELATIONSHIP BANK’S CULTURE The Group’s Tax Code of Conduct, approved by the Board of Directors in Controlling and managing risks are at the heart of the expertise of November 2010, is part of the worldwide developments to fight harmful Societe Generale’s businesses, which is why it is a focal point of the tax practices, particularly at the request of the OECD. It is available on “responsibility” theme of the Group’s new Leadership Model. The the Group’s website. Group’s actions taken under “RISK Culture” and put forward in the Under this Code, Societe Generale undertakes in particular to refrain frame of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) programme have from facilitating or supporting transactions with customers where the existed since 2011. This approach contributed significantly to the elaboration of the new Leadership Model (See p. 59, Focus on the effectiveness of such transactions depends on withholding information “responsibility” theme). from the tax authorities. To this end the Group has fully committed itself to implementing regulations aimed at ensuring fiscal transparency (FATCA, the EU CODE OF CONDUCT Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, and recently the Common Reporting Standard). It is particularly worth noting The strategic goal the Group set for itself is to protect the company’s image and to ensure that the employees act with integrity on a day-tothat all the subsidiaries of Private Banking are based in countries that day basis. Many strides were taken since 2011 on the subject of Culture have adopted the Common Reporting Standard. From 2016 onwards, & Conduct. The Group has taken on a body of vigorous doctrines and and by 1st January 2017 at the latest, based on the international rules on good conduct. agreements that have been signed, these subsidiaries will consequently automatically exchange information with the 98 countries that have The Code of Conduct is the foundation of Societe Generale’s professional committed themselves so far. It has also been decided to give our ethics. It exists in the form of an internal directive signed by the Chief international Private Banking customers more explicit information about Executive Officer and thus it is part of the normative documentation on their obligation to comply with the tax laws and regulations of all the which the governance system is based. These rules go beyond strict jurisdictions that apply to them. application of the legal and regulatory provisions in force, particularly when these, in certain countries, are not in line with the ethical standards Thus the Group continues to be vigilant about the tax compliance of its the Group imposes on itself within its values and commitments, and activities and of its customers. Since 2003, Societe Generale has laid constitute a uniform base. down strict internal regulations for preventing the development of any The Code clarifies the rights and duties of employees, customers, operations in countries that have been designated as non-cooperating suppliers and shareholders in their relationships with Societe Generale. tax havens by the OECD. It promotes social and environmental responsibility and reminds them of Societe Generale already decided in 2010 to close down, and has taken the main commitments made by the Group, such as the Global Compact the necessary steps to close down, all Group sites considered to be and the UNEP-FI (United Nations Environment Programme – Finance Non-Cooperative Countries and Territories (NCCTs) by France, the list Initiative), and the sparing use of natural and energy resources. Details of which was updated by the ministerial decree of 21st December 2015 are added to the fundamentals: respect for fundamental commitments (published in the OJ of 22nd December 2015). (such as human rights, respect for the environment, etc.), the prevention of conflicts of interest, corruption, money laundering and financing As of 2015 Societe Generale no longer holds, either directly or indirectly, terrorism, the gift and invitation policy, responsible sourcing and the any active operation in the countries in question. Societe Generale holds escalation procedure in the event of non-compliance. an unused banking licence in Brunei. 20 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE Moreover the Group prohibits setting up new operations in an extended By 2000, Societe Generale had already taken on a series of commitments list of locations known as the “SG list” (drawn up on the basis of linked to the Wolfsberg Group as well as, in 2003, the United Nations countries that left the OECD’s grey list of tax havens belatedly), unless Global Compact. Its anti-money laundering measures include monitoring otherwise authorised by the General Management upon motivation by potential abuse of the banking system for the purposes of corruption. the local business. Societe Generale has very strict principles on the prevention of corruption, Lastly the Group complies with the provisions of the French General Tax which are included in its Code of Conduct, and complies with the Code, particularly Article 209 B (“Controlled Foreign Companies’ Rules”, provisions of the most stringent regulations on the subject, in particular which provides for the French taxation of Group entities established in the UK Bribery Act. Close monitoring of their implementation has been countries where taxation on income is less than 50% of the French tax put in place. Information concerning obligatory measures and controls rate (e.g. SG Acceptance in the Netherlands Antilles). has been disseminated and applied throughout the Group since 2001 in the form of instructions, which are updated on a regular basis. + info In order to enhance vigilance, a mandatory training module on raising > SITE TAX CODE OF CONDUCT awareness on the prevention of corruption amongst employees of the > SEE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CHAPTER 2.12 « INFORMATIONS ABOUT Societe Generale Group has been deployed in 2015. GEOGRAPHIC LOCATIONS AND ACTIVITIES AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2015 » + info RESPONSIBLE LOBBYING > PREVENTING CORRUPTION > SEE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CHAPTER 4.9, « COMPLIANCE, REPUTATIONAL The rules and regulations that are likely to have an impact on the AND LEGAL RISKS» bank’s activities are growing in number and complexity. In this context, Societe Generale endeavours to be a proactive interlocutor vis-à-vis political actors, with its Public Affairs Department making a transparent CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND and constructive contribution to the public debate on the drafting of the OMBUDSMAN legislation that has an impact on our activities. Since 2014 Societe Generale has signed the joint declaration organised CUSTOMER SATISFACTION by Transparency International France to promote lobbying that is based In 2014, Societe Generale reaffirmed its ambition is to be the “reference on transparency and integrity. The Group also published its Charter for relationship bank on its markets, close to its customers and chosen for responsible representation before public authorities and representative the quality and commitment of its teams”. This ambition is at the core institutions, which has the following aims: of its strategy. To this end, all of the Group’s business lines are firmly committed to devising action plans to improve customer relations and ■ t o lay down the conditions for the Group’s contribution to the work the customer experience, and are structuring themselves so as to steer of the regulatory authorities at every level of governance; their satisfaction and their recommendation intentions more closely. ■ to foster lobbying that has transparency and integrity and contributes Since the quality of customer service is closely linked to the quality of to public debate among those of its employees and third-parties team management (the principle of the “symmetry of attentions”), the that participate – in the name of the Group – in the public decisionGroup has developed a broad managerial support system in line with making process; the Group’s customer-oriented values. ■ t o establish the main rules governing representational activities in In France dealings with public authorities and representative institutions. Within each of the main customer segments serviced by French In accordance with its commitments: Retail Banking (individual, professional and corporate customers), ■ the employees of the Public Affairs Department that are chiefly Societe Generale, its specialised subsidiaries (Sogecap, Sogessur, concerned are duly declared in the transparency registers of the Franfinance, etc.) and Crédit du Nord have been surveying the business institutions with which the representational activities are exercised: goodwill among representative samples of their respective customers European Union (Commission and Parliament), the French Parliament as well as among those of the top 11 French banks every year for some (National Assembly and Senate); ten years now in order to assess their level of relative satisfaction. The customers polled express their overall and detailed level of satisfaction ■ t he main stances adopted by the Group in connection with its across every aspect of the banking relationship. responsible representation policy are public and can be consulted in particular on the Group’s institutional website, in the “Sustainable Furthermore, in order to refine its products and services offer and to finance” section. better respond to the needs of its clients, Societe Generale Coverage & Investment Banking in 2015 measured the rate of recommendation of the + info bank by its large corporate and institutional clients all over the world (Net > MAIN PUBLIC STANCES TAKEN BY SOCIETE GENERALE Promoter Score), by questioning more than 1,200 people representing more than 160 economic players. To refine its measurement of customer satisfaction in the Societe Generale ANTI-CORRUPTION INITIATIVES network, the national competitive survey is backed up by annual The fight against corruption is increasing globally. Many states are satisfaction surveys and their results are available down to the level of each reinforcing their anti-corruption regulations with a hardening of the branch. These surveys are conducted by leading external service suppliers corresponding sanctions. (e.g. the market research agency CSA). Within the scope of these, every 21 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE year 120,000 individual customers, 14,500 professional customers and To support the work of the teams in the field and to ensure the corrective 5,000 SMEs (every 18 months) are polled on behalf of Societe Generale measures that depend on the support functions, the Corporate Divisions with regard to their recommendation intention and their overall and at Head Office embarked on a service culture programme in 2013. To feed detailed level of satisfaction with their branch and its staff. Moreover all this continuous improvement plan, an initial quantitative metric was put in Societe Generale’s branches receive several mystery visits every year. place in 2015 with the production of an internal barometer that measures Following each mystery visit, each branch is given a detailed feedback the (overall and detailed) satisfaction level of the front, middle and back report enabling it to assess the quality of the handling of prospects so as office teams of the Network with the services provided by the teams at to capitalise on its successes or identify areas for improvement. Head Office. In terms of service quality, the voice of the Network regularly gives fresh impetus to the various central departments via “employee The Crédit du Nord Group (CDN) carries out the same competitive surveys panels”. Conducted internally, these panels afford an opportunity for the among customers, which are supplemented by an internal programme. The customers of the Crédit du Nord Group have been asked about their customer contact teams to report directly on various topics, by business level of satisfaction every year for more than twenty years. In 2015, 55,129 line and by market, thereby driving the continuous improvement of the customers were polled (45,990 individuals, 5,568 professionals and 3,571 bank’s services. businesses). The CDN Group also carries out mystery calls and mystery The overall plan is managed on a day-to-day basis by the team of the visits within its branches on an annual basis. Since 2013 this programme Customer Satisfaction and Optimisation Department at French Retail has been strongly reinforced by the creation of a Customer Satisfaction and Banking, which relies on an efficient network of facilitators in the sales Optimisation Department, which reports directly to General Management force, based locally to be able to take action in the closest possible and is responsible for training all CDN Group employees on “Customer proximity to the branches, to support them and to play a proactive role Satisfaction”. Improving customer satisfaction ratings is the main annual in relaying any problems and failings to Head Office. The bank’s intranets performance target for the branches of the regions and subsidiaries of have wide-ranging coverage of customer satisfaction, notably via areas the CDN Group. dedicated to supporting all the players. The quality of the Group’s service and the programme it has implemented to this end have received a number of awards. For the fourth year running, Societe Generale won the Viséo Conseil award for “2016 Customer Service”. For its part, CDN is regularly among the winners in the customer satisfaction category for SURVEYS the Individual, Professional and Corporate markets. In 2015 it was ranked in first place in the Individuals market, fourth in the Professionals market and third in the Corporate market. 120,000 Societe Generale also gathers immediate “hot” feedback from its INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMERS customers after each real estate loan transaction. The main objective is to steer our customers’ key events more closely to ensure that there is a good fit between the service level expected and the performance 14,500 delivered. This “hot” feedback is gathered across all the branches and the results are shared on a monthly basis with all the player-stakeholders PROFESSIONAL CUSTOMERS participating in the operation. Lastly, in order to steer the high standards of quality delivered by the 5,000 bank on a daily basis, monthly monitoring based on around fifteen quality indicators is carried out and feedback is given down to the most granular SMEs level (quality of the handling of telephone calls, quality of the advice given, Surveyed by Societe Generale timeframes for processing or for issuing offers, etc.) to enable every branch to act swiftly in the event of any shortcomings in the quality of the service provided. These combined measures are at the heart of a quality certification programme for the branches, launched in 2013 by Societe Generale to 2016 customer make its resolutely customer-focused strategic orientation a reality. service for The percentage of the certified branches meeting the criteria of excellence has continued to grow strongly over the past the 4th year running three years. At the same time, the percentage of branches that are lagging furthest behind is simultaneously declining, which makes it possible to ensure a more uniform level of service quality across the Network as a whole. Abroad The customer satisfaction level in each market is one of the key objectives assigned to each Regional Director and is an integral part of each In 2015 International Retail Banking’s “Banking and Consumer Credit” performance review of the entity. The customer satisfaction level and its Division launched a cross-functional initiative to manage and measure development affects employees’ variable compensation packages given customer experience and satisfaction, which will be rolled out in that individual sales commission no longer exists (See p. 63, An attractive stages between 2016 and 2018 at its Banking and Consumer Finance and rewarding remuneration policy). subsidiaries. This programme aims to equip the entities with a sound and 22 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE consistent system for managing the customer experience, based on two Customers of Societe Generale’s other business lines in France may pillars: identification and monitoring of customers’ key experiences with also request the intervention of the Group ombudsman or other public the bank, and measurement of their satisfaction with the banking relations ombudsmen (ASF, FFSA, etc.). and transactions. Making a common system of analysis available to all the banks in the International Retail Banking Networks will facilitate managing Abroad and sharing relevant action plans in order to constantly adapt to meet For its subsidiaries overseas, customers have recourse to a local customer expectations and to build a relationship banking programme ombudsman appointed by the bank (where required by local legislation) that is founded on “the voice of the customer”. This programme will or to a local ombudsman appointed by a professional body. initially be rolled out within the scope of the individual and professional customer segments; a parallel and consistent programme, based on For proactive measures to protect customers in situations of economic the Net Promoter Score, is under development within the scope of the hardship, see p. 79, Combating insecurity and protecting vulnerable Corporates customer base. populations. For measures to protect customers, see Registration Document, Chapter CLAIMS AND OMBUDSMAN 4.9, “Implementation of compliance policies”, p200 Each of the Group’s core businesses has governance, an organisation, procedures and methods adapted to the activities of its business lines + info for the measures related to the complaint treatment and follow-up > SOCIETE GENERALE CERTIFIED TOP EMPLOYER FRANCE 2016 procedure. Important training actions and acts raising awareness amongst employees were conducted by the Group, notably within French Retail DIGITAL SECURITY AND DATA PROTECTION Banking (Societe Generale, Boursorama Bank and Crédit du Nord) Within the global context of digital transformation, one of the challenges the and within the Insurance business line (ISO 9001 quality approach), Group is facing consists of offering customers a digital service that is easy which has significantly contributed to the optimisation of the processes to use, readily available and highly secure. Consequently, Societe Generale (registration, quality and customer response times). The information is continuously investing in order to ensure the security of transactions linked to clients has also been improved. and the protection of its customers’ data. It is a crucial issue given the In terms of treatment of complaints, the Group’s instructions integrate escalation of cybercrime. The Group guarantees the security of data an escalation process in addition to the possibility of using an internal and of compliance with banking secrecy. The Group’s expertise in these or external mediator (independent mediator from the Societe Generale subjects of security and protection of customer data makes it a trusted group common to the Crédit du Nord Group, the French Financial third party in the eyes of its customers. Market Authority, and the French Banking Federation). As part of the transformation of its relationship banking model, In France Societe Generale’s French network has announced that it will invest Societe Generale is committed to finding a rapid if not immediate solution EUR 1.5 billion in its information system by 2020; 5% of this will be to complaints or problems linked to its Retail Banking network as soon dedicated to security. as a branch is duly informed by its customer. However, should the bank and its customer disagree on the action to be taken, customers may DIGITAL SECURITY file a complaint with their Customer Relations Department and, where applicable (i.e. if the dispute is still not resolved), request the intervention There is a Group-wide system for managing the security risks of information of the ombudsman whose services are entirely free of charge. systems. It is coordinated at Group level by a Head of Information System Security and Operational Risk Management (See chapter 3.5, Operational Exceptional circumstances aside, customers are risk (including risks related to information systems)). This system is systematically sent a reply from Societe Generale within 10 days or deployed in each core business, business line and entity. from the ombudsman within two months. On the operational side the Group relies on a CERT (Computer Emergency The free and amicable ombudsman services to which Societe Generale customers have had access since 1996, and which Response Team), which is responsible for managing incidents, monitoring were institutionalised by the legislator in 2002, are publicised by the security and combating cyber crime, calling on multiple information and bank to customers and are even outlined in the permanent insert on surveillance sources, both internal and external. This unit is the first private the back of account statements. The bank has undertaken to comply French CERT to have been accredited by the FIRST (Forum of Incident in full with all decisions taken by the independent ombudsman. Response and Security Teams, an international organisation dedicated to the prevention of security incidents) in February 2010. In 2015 the ombudsman handled 267 cases. Disputes linked to loans represent 24.3% of claims presented to mediation, while those The security risk management systems used by the Bank are derived from related to financial investment, which have fallen, represent 19%. best practices (predominantly ISO 27002 and the reference framework of Mr. Yves Gérard has been the ombudsman for Societe Generale and the the French National Agency for the Security of Information Systems) and Crédit du Nord Group since 1st January 2015. In March 2015 a dedicated are monitored on an ongoing basis by the Security of Information Systems employee responsible for processing the claims was put at the disposal function. These systems can be divided into four main categories: Raising of the ombudsman. Awareness, Prevention, Detection and Reaction. 23 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE The implementation of the strategic plan for information system security ■ S ecurity Pass (equivalent to Secure Access for individual and has, since 2013, been underpinned by “strategic guidelines on security”, professional customers). which are validated by General Management and all the businesses. Its ■ A series of conferences on scams entitled “fraud in the name of the deployment is built around four strategic priorities: securing the Group’s most sensitive applications, securing sensitive data, developing our CEO” in partnership with the French National Police (for corporate capabilities to detect and react to cyber attacks, securing customer customers). transactions carried out via online services, plus a transversal priority, In December 2015 Societe Generale was also a partner for the first namely making our employees and our customers more aware of the national public campaign on the protection of personal data. The “Hack risks of cyber crime and of good security practices. Academy” campaign, which was set up at the initiative of CIGREF (Club To combat cybercrime Societe Generale offers solutions to protect Informatique des Grandes Entreprises Françaises) and which aims to the assets and transactions of its customers (individual and corporate disseminate preventive messages as widely as possible, invites residents customers). As an example, three new solutions were launched in 2015: in France to adopt good practices to combat the most common threats ■ Secure on the web (find out more at www.hack-academy.fr). Access: a dedicated solution for companies that secures the authentication and validation of orders (payment orders or collection Internationally, for the protection of its clients’ data, recommendations orders). Regardless of the channel used to initiate the transaction, the on good practices are posted on the different online banking services. validator will receive an alert and can validate it from his/her smartphone, tablet or PC easily and independently of the original channel. See Chapter 3.5, Report of the Chairman on internal control and risk management. ■ C ard with a dynamic crypto code: a card for which security has been strengthened even further for online purchases. The three-digit security code is replaced by a small built-in screen that displays a new code every hour, rendering any data that might have been stolen inoperative and useless. The format and functionalities of the card, such as the contactless feature, remain unchanged. A trial run on a group of 1,000 individuals is planned in 2016. ■ M achine learning: in addition to the big data tools that it has rolled Thierry Olivier out to monitor and protect its customers’ transactions, the bank is studying the implementation of machine learning systems in order “Societe Generale has resolved to commit to the to detect anomalies of behaviour in real time and to better anticipate fight against cyber crime as a partner in devising fraud. this national campaign to raise awareness, which is directed at both the general public, including our customers, and also at all the Bank’s employees and Societe Generale announced that it will invest partners.” Thierry Olivier, Group Chief Information Officer. EUR 1.5 BILLION IN ITS INFORMATION SYSTEM BY 2020; PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION 5% OF THIS WILL BE DEDICATED TO SECURITY The Group is particularly sensitive to personal data protection. The respect of the personal data protection rules is a major challenge to the controlled development of computing and new technologies at the Partner for the first national heart of the Societe Generale group. Being a partner of privileged confidence and the guardian of its clients’ public campaign on the data, Societe Generale has no intention to sell data to a third party. The clients’ data is used for relevant purposes that have the objective protection of personal data of insuring the expected level of quality of service and offer. Societe Generale decided to strengthen its system for protecting personal data back in 2007. A “Protection of personal data” Group Societe Generale is also continuing its preventive measures against division was created within the Legal Department, which specialises phishing or social engineering: in dealing with the challenges of protecting private life and is in close contact with the CNIL. This division has the mission to assist advice ■ P roviding Trusteer free of charge, an additional means of protection and inform all of Societe Generale’s entities in the matter of protecting (firewall and antivirus) that specialises in the banking sector (for the personal data, to respond to the demands of assistance from the individual and professional customer bases). Group’s subsidiaries, as well as to ensure the relations with the ■ M aking it obligatory to change the confidential bank code remotely CNIL. They must be consulted when implementing new automated every 12 months (in place for individual customers since 2015). processes (computational) or in the case of modification, 24 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE so as to specify to the managers of these processes the necessary On the websites of the Group’s banks, clients have access to the precautions that must be taken, the formalities if need be, and to documentation related to the protection and the use of their personal ensure the centralised follow-up of sending declarations to the CNIL. data. Internal instructions, in line with local and European Regarding more precisely employee data, the Group Human regulations, define the rules to apply and the processes that must Resources Division adopted HR personal data protection rules, which be carried out in order to guarantee the protection and security apply to job candidates and employees alike: the Binding Corporate of our clients’ and employees’ data. The Group guidelines on “the Rules (BCR). All the Societe Generale Group entities worldwide must treatment of data of personal nature” particularly specify that the confirm their undertaking to comply with the BCR, which are binding implementation of processes consisting of transfers of personal data within the Group and aim to ensure an adequate and uniform level of outside of the European Union (EU), including other Societe Generale protection for the personal data and the private life of employees and Group entities, must be accompanied by specific guarantees job candidates within the scope of the human resource management (conclusions of standard clauses from the European Commission processes. To this end, Societe Generale has registered a Data specifically) and must go through an authorisation process by the Protection Officer with the CNIL for a defined scope of processing CNIL. purposes. He guarantees the compliant handling of personal data In France, the intranet site was also developed by the “Protection of within his scope of intervention. personal data” division. It specifically reiterates the people’s rights, makes available to the agency network a notice reminding the + info procedure to follow in the case of the exercising of these rights, in > SOLUTIONS TO PROTECT CLIENTS AND TO FIGHT AGAINST CYBERCRIME (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) addition to a model of response to an inquiry of access rights. Also, Societe Generale implemented the adequate measures to guarantee > SOCIETE GENERALE PARTNER OF THE INTERNATIONAL CYBERCRIME FORUM (FIC) (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) the respect of the clients’ access rights to personal data concerning > CYBERCRIME TALK & TOUCH (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) them, which includes: a mention of advanced notification appearing > SECURITY PASS A SIMPLE YET POWERFUL AUTHENTIFICATION TOOL at the foot of all paperwork related to data collection of personal nature, but also within the general and special policy conditions of our products and services. This mention specifies the service to which the access rights may be exercised. Furthermore, response models to the requests of the concerned persons related to the removal of the data held by our establishment as well as requests against the treatment of their data are at the disposal of the agencies. DEPLOYMENT OF E&S COMMITMENTS IN RELATION TO OUR BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES The Group has adopted various procedures for implementing its assessment and appropriate handling of operations with a potential E&S commitments (E&S General Guidelines, sector policies and the negative E&S impact, these procedures also make it possible to Equator Principles). These set out the procedures for handling the qualify transactions with a positive impact in relation to sustainable E&S challenges associated with transactions or customers to whom development. This dual approach underpins positive impact finance the bank provides banking and financial services. Although they (see p. 28, Positive Impact Finance). initially concerned Coverage & Investment Banking activities, they are developed and rolled out in stages with the aim of ultimately covering all the Group’s businesses. In addition to facilitating the identification, 25 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE SECTOR AND CROSS-SECTOR experts. It lists the projects, companies or business sectors, whether or not they are financed by Societe Generale, that are the subject of E&S POLICIES controversy or public campaigns from civil society for E&S reasons. The sector and cross-sector policies now cover twelve This internal list enables monitoring on a global scale; it is intended to sectors that are considered to be potentially sensitive from an give the operational teams an advance warning and to implement a E&S or ethical point of view and in which the Group plays an active more stringent E&S evaluation process. role. The energy and extractive sectors are covered by multiple sector policies due to their importance for the economy and for the Group, but also due to their potentially significant impact in terms of emissions DEFENCE EXCLUSION LIST into the atmosphere (including greenhouse gas emissions) as well as their impact on the natural environment and local communities (this In addition to the E&S watch list, an exclusion list has been drawn up applies to the following sectors in particular: Dams and Hydropower, for the Defence sector. It covers companies that produce, manufacture, Thermal Power, Coal-Fired Power, Mining, Civil Nuclear Power, and stock or sell anti-personnel mines or cluster bombs as well as other Oil and Gas). Several policies are also in place for the agriculture and types of highly controversial weapons. Societe Generale has, through forestry sectors (Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Forestry and Palm its sector policy, undertaken to refuse to knowingly supply banking Oil). The Defence and Shipping sectors are also covered. An E&S policy and financial services to such companies, their parent companies or on biodiversity applying to all our activities completes the sector their subsidiaries. approach. Developed by cross-department working groups within the bank, the E&S policies are approved by the Executive Committee. TRANSACTION E&S EVALUATION PROCEDURES They specify the main E&S challenges and risks in the sector, identify the international standards of reference of the The evaluation of transaction E&S risk and impact involves the sector and also specify the criteria for corporate clients and operational implementation of the Equator Principles (EP) within the dedicated transactions. In an ongoing improvement process, sector scope covered by this initiative. Societe Generale has also voluntarily monitoring makes it possible to assess the need to update the existing extended the EP scope of application and has integrated dedicated policies. transactions likely to present E&S challenges, such as equity capital market transactions, debt capital market transactions, mergers and In 2015 the Coal-Fired Power sector policy was updated acquisitions, and acquisition financing. in order to clarify the requirements for the thermal efficiency of new power plants that may be the subject of financing or advisory Within the Corporate and Investment Banking division, a dedicated services by the bank. team of E&S experts lends support to the sales managers in the evaluation and understanding of the E&S impact of transactions and corporate clients. In 2015, Societe Generale continued its efforts to update and improve the reliability of its processes for implementing its E&S commitments, particularly the EP, by developing its procedures, training its employees and deploying new IT tools. The key stages of the E&S evaluation of transactions within the Bank are as follows: ■ t he initial phase involves identifying the E&S risk and impact associated with projects that are the subject of advisory or financing, categorizing (A for projects where the E&S risk/impact is potentially high, B for projects with limited risk and C for projects with minimal risk), defining the E&S analysis process (due diligence) to be put in place and determining the projects’ potential qualification for positive impact financing; ■ the E&S evaluation phase aims to analyse the impacts and risks associated with the proposed project and the transaction’s compatibility with Societe Generale’s E&S commitments. The levels of evaluation and specific E&S requirements are determined according to the risk/ impact category of the project and the level of income for the country + info in which it is located. The review of the E&S documentation (due diligence report where applicable or any other documentation received > SECTORAL POLICIES from the customer) is conducted by the front officer supported by internal E&S experts in the case of projects that have been identified as carrying the highest risk. In connection with these reviews, addiE&S WATCH LIST tional information may be requested from the customer and/or from To facilitate the identification of controversies relating to E&S issues, an independent E&S expert. For category A and B projects the E&S an E&S watch list is drawn up and updated quarterly by internal E&S evaluation file forms part of the credit file that constitutes the basis 26 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE for the decision by the Bank's Risk Division. In parallel, transactions During 2015, a total of 106 transactions that underwent an E&S review carrying reputational risk for E&S reasons undergo a more stringent were signed off by the Group. Among these transactions, 31 project review and validation process; loans, 5 project-related corporate loans, 1 bridging loan and 10 advisory mandates relating to project financing fell within the scope of the ■ fi  nally, in the case of projects for which E&S impacts or risks have Equator Mining Infrastructure Principles. Over 2015 the total amount of the commitments for been identified and evaluated, the action phase; this aims to define transactions that underwent an E&S review Oil & gas was EUR 2.9 billion within Other an action plan that includes the necessary measures to minimise the scope of the EP and EUR 3.7 billion outside the scope of the EP such impacts or risks. The implementation of this action plan is Power Renewables Excluded Power Renewables (Societe Generale’s voluntary scope of application). incorporated into the loan agreement, along with the E&S standards Mining Infrastructure that the client is obliged to comply with under the requirements of Power Transmission OilDistribution and & gas Other the Equator Principles (EP) and in accordance with the Group’s E&S General Guidelines. Where customers do not meet the necessary Power Renewables Excluded Power Renewables standards, Societe Generale may decide to withdraw its financing. Power Transmission and Distribution Equator Principles scope Equator Principles Scope and Societe Generale Specific Scope Amount of commitments for transactions signed Amount of commitments for transactions Societe Generale Equateur by sector in 2015 Specific scope signed by region in 2015 Principles scope Societe Generale10 11 Equateur 23 Specific scope Principles scope 3 31 10 11 10 3 35 5 30 4 10 35 5 5 35 4 35 5 8 51 51 30 Mining Infrastructure 30 Oil & gas Other Power Renewables Excluded Power Renewables Americas Europe Middle East Power Transmission Americas Europe Middle East and Distribution Africa Asia-Pacific World Africa Asia-Pacific World LIMA’S METRO of greenhouse gases in the metropolitan area. Consequently, Lima’s metro: example of a project beyondPérimètre EP scopePrincipes for which the financing of this project is considered as contributing to Périmètre spécifique Positive Impact Finance as the most advanced environmental a de fullSociété E&S reviewGénérale has been conducted de l’Equateur and social standards are applied to manage the potential Societe Generale,10acting as facility agent11 and lead arranger adverse impacts of the project which will also generate positive alongside other 3 international banks, signed in 2015 a impacts in terms of climate change. $ 800 million financing for the construction and operation10 of This metro line will concern circa 25% of Lima metropolitan Lima’s second metro line (Peru), one of the largest infrastructure 35 5 area, ie more than 2.5 million people, and it is expected to be 4 projects in Latin America, with a total funding need of 35 billion. 5 used by more than 600,000 residents every day from starting $ 6.5 of operations, reducing the travel time from currently more than The project involves the development of a 27 km east-west 2 hours to less than 45 minutes. metro line with 27 stations and an 8 km airport branch with a further eight stations, which will reduce the costs of + info transportation, the number 51 of traffic accidents and emissions > LIMA’S METRO: RELIEVING THE CITY’S CHRONIC CONGESTION 30 27 Amériques Europe Moyen-Orient IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE CLIENT E&S EVALUATION PROCEDURES If a high level of E&S risk is identified, Societe Generale In 2010 a procedure for evaluating clients based on may decide not to enter into a relationship with a new client, to E&S criteria, which was revised in 2015, was introduced within impose restrictions on the relationship and/or to get a specific the Corporate and Investment Banking division. In 2015 this undertaking from an existing client for the purposes of prompting procedure was revised. The E&S evaluation of customers is carried it to develop its E&S practices. out in close collaboration with the analysts that are responsible for In 2015, more than 1,500 private groups among Investment the Know Your Customer (KYC) process. If these identify that the Banking clients were subject to an E&S review. Around 70% of company operates in a sensitive sector, has a link with the E&S watch these clients are active in sensitive sectors with regard to E&S list, has been found guilty of E&S-related offences or has been the (mostly defined to be consistent with the Group’s sector policies). subject of E&S-related controversy, then the file is transferred to a The most exposed clients are subject to a more thorough and team of three people that is dedicated to customer E&S analysis and, frequent (every 1 or 2 years) E&S evaluation. where appropriate, to the E&S team in Corporate and Investment Banking. The analysis is based on public information collected via IT Furthermore, Societe Generale is continuing to gradually roll search tools as well as, if necessary, information supplied by the out customer E&S analysis to other business divisions in the customer managers within the relevant business line. Group and is taking a progress-oriented approach by continually improving its E&S analysis methodology. POSITIVE IMPACT FINANCE Societe Generale is one of the pioneers of positive impact finance in the banking world, which is defined as a new way of financing. It is characterised by the financing of any activity that verifiably produces a positive impact on the economy, society or the environment whilst ensuring that the EUR 1,856 MILLION potential negative impact has been properly identified and managed. IN NEW POSITIVE IMPACT The Group’s Corporate and Investment Banking business has been FINANCING TRANSACTIONS reporting on new positive impact finance transactions since 2012 and the number of cases is rising steadily. Over the period 2012-2015 the number of positive impact finance transactions was multiplied by three. The Group successfully In 2015 positive impact finance transactions amounted to EUR 1,856 million (versus EUR 958 million in 2014). issued the first ever positive The Group is continuing to work on developing positive impact impact bond finance and is one of the initiators of the “Manifesto on Positive Impact Finance” launched last October by Mr. Séverin Cabannes, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Group, on behalf of the Banking Commission of the UNEP-FI (Financial Initiative of the United Nations Environment Programme). The Manifesto on Positive Impact Finance Manifesto, Societe Generale is now engaged in hatching “positive calls on banks and other players in the financial sector to develop impact” transactions and in defining the Positive Impact Principles. innovative financial solutions to address the financing needs that are necessary to attain the Sustainable Development Objectives of the United Nations. In accordance with the programme set out in this 28 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE The Group, which aims to be a key player in energy transition financing, has demonstrated its commitment by successfully issuing the first ever Positive Impact Bond. This is a EUR 500 million fixed-rate senior note with a 5-year maturity in respect of which the funds raised will serve exclusively to finance projects that contribute to the fight against climate change and whose negative impacts have been identified and properly managed. This bond establishes a benchmark in the market in terms of transparency and traceability, and was met with great success among the community of investors, as it was six times oversubscribed. Christopher Taah Fobeneh Examples of positive impact financing: “The Cameroon Water Utilities Corporation ■ Financing a solar power plant with a nominal capacity of 104 MW in (CAMWATER), the state-owned urban hydraulics the region of Antofagasta in Chile. In addition to providing a source company in Cameroon, is developing a water of clean and renewable energy, the project also contributes to the treatment system intended to supply the city of development of the renewables industry in Chile. The project won Yaoundé, the capital of Cameroon, via an additional the award for the transaction of the year in Latin America bestowed drinking water production capacity of 55,000 m3/per by the Project Finance International Magazine. day with the support of Societe Generale. ■ Financing an emergency water treatment system to supply the city of Yaoundé in Cameroon with drinking water and to meet the present This project is fully in line with the massive investment and increasing needs of the population. Moreover, this system also programme that CAMWATER has undertaken, whose has the advantage of being mobile and re-usable in order to fill any long-term objective is to improve the drinking water potential shortages of drinking water in other regions in the country. supply rate in urban and semi-urban areas to 85% The project is being built in compliance with international norms and by 2035. Thus by improving not just the quality, but standards with minimal impact on biodiversity and the soil. also the quantity of the water that is available for ■ F inancing one of the largest wind farms in the Baltic Sea, north of populations, the system of producing drinking water the island of Rügen in Germany. The project combines clean and used within the scope of this project and based on renewable energy production with efforts to reduce its impact on membrane technology complies with international biodiversity during the design, construction and operational phases. norms and standards. The wind farm, which has a nominal capacity of 288 MW, should make it possible to supply electricity to around 340,000 households The real positive impact of this project, in both social per year. and economic terms, is anchored in the Sustainable + info Development Objectives of the United Nations. > POSITIVE IMPACT MANIFESTO We are satisfied that this important project, which > POSITIVE IMPACT FINANCING PROGRAMME was initiated with the support of the government of > VIDEO Cameroon, is a worthy addition to Societe Generale’s Positive Impact Finance initiatives.” Christopher Taah Fobeneh, Chief of Division at CAMWATER 29 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT (SRI) SRI/ESG RESEARCH Since November 2015, the new mutual fund SG Solidarité was added to the range of SRI products (See p. 75, Life insurance: the “Érable Societe Generale offers its customers dedicated research on Essentiel” policy). Environmental, Social and Governance (or ESG) issues. The SRI team, currently consisting of four analysts, is part of the financial research branch of Investment Banking. This year, Societe Generale was ranked first in the SRI & Sustainability Research category of the Extel Survey. Societe Generale was ranked The bank’s primary aim is to assist investors and asset manager in the 1st position in clients in better integrating ESG criteria in their investment decisions. In order to accomplish this, the team works in close collaboration with the SRI Research category the financial analysts in order to demonstrate the financial materiality of these ESG aspects. of the Extel Survey In 2015, in addition to enriching the “SRI: Beyond Integration” study combining ESG assessments with the financial recommendations of the financial analysts with the aim of proposing an integrated, practical view of all the companies SRI OFFER WITHIN PRIVATE BANKING monitored by the research department, the SRI team drafted and Since 2015, Private Banking has been offering its led more than ten multi-sectoral reports that were presented to customers an SRI-dedicated collection of advice and products numerous national and international investors. (customised mandates, funds, ETFs and structured products). Its As part of its Corporate Access activities, numerous conferences assets under management at the end of 2015 amounted to and roadshows for investors and listed companies on the themes of EUR 315 million. sustainable development and social responsibility were organised in Paris, London, etc. SRI LIFE INSURANCE In November 2015, thirty or so companies presented To meet the needs of savers looking to diversify and invest in a socially ESG topics related to their activities to institutional investors at responsible manner, Sogecap and Oradea Vie’s investment-backed life the “ESG/SRI Conference”. insurance policies offer money market, bond or equity SRI vehicles, depending on the investment duration and level of risk desired by the Lastly, SRI research is used to underpin several indexes and baskets customer. of listed stocks, via the issue of financial products in the SRI thematic sectors of ESG (e.g. corporate governance, renewable energies, etc.) SRI assets under management by Sogecap amounted to and sustainable development (a list of products and methodologies is EUR 40.02 million at the end of 2015 (+10% versus 2014). The available at www.sgbourse.fr). global offering of SRI financial vehicles has grown, with 41 vehicles now available (versus 31 in 2014). SRI PRODUCTS FOR INDIVIDUAL SRI-CERTIFIED SAVINGS FOR SOCIETE GENERALE EMPLOYEES INVESTORS Societe Generale’s employee savings plan offers employees the opportunity to invest in various company mutual funds(1) (FCPE) SRI FUNDS certified SRI by the CIES (Inter-union Committee on Employee Societe Generale is committed to meeting investor demand for Savings). socially responsible investment (SRI) products by offering several types of investments (equities, bonds and money market products), As of 31st December 2015, the collection of SRI funds in savings plans particularly through 3 investment funds grouping together the most for the Group in France (the various Company Savings Plans, Group advanced companies based on these three ESG criteria. At the end Savings Plans and Collective Retirement Savings Plans) invested in of November 2015, Societe Generale’s SRI assets under management SRI represented EUR 406.8 million in assets under management for in these 3 funds totalled EUR 273 million. an average of approximately 22,000 unit holders. 30 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE SRI PRODUCTS FOR PROFESSIONAL ■ T he management of Lyxor assets has also strengthened the screening and SRI evaluation of its products (funds and SRI ETFs) and the INVESTORS assets under management amounted to EUR 320 million at the end In 2015, Investment Banking strengthened its teams and its ranges of of 2015. Moreover, Lyxor is a signatory of the PRI. SRI products across all its business lines. Assets under management for SRI products amounted to EUR 1.3 billion in 2015, broken down as follows: EUR 1.3 BILLION ■ Global Markets, starting this year, now have a structured SRI product range (in addition to the SRI/ESG research activities presented below) with EUR 986 million SRI assets in the portfolio, particularly via the Societe Generale Index (SGI) franchise, which offers securities on indexes with ESG-related underlyings. One of the successes of the FOR SRI PRODUCTS year occurred on an index sponsored by FINVEX, which combines an ESG filter with financial filters (EUR 711 million). In addition to the products on indices with ESG-related underlyings, the product range also includes debt securities where the utilisation of the funds serves to finance ESG projects. DEPLOYMENT OF E&S COMMITMENTS IN OUR SOURCING POLICY The Group's total purchases amounted to over EUR 6.5 billion in 2015, The “Conducting a Responsible Sourcing Policy” which makes the Sourcing function a key actor in the Group's CSR instruction has been appended to the Global Agreement on strategy. Pursuing a responsible sourcing policy works towards the Fundamental Rights signed with UNI Global Union in June 2015, fulfilment of Societe Generale's commitments in relation to contributing demonstrating the Group’s intention to implement it throughout to economic and social development and in relation to limiting its the Group (See p. 62, PROMOTING A QUALITY EMPLOYERenvironmental impact. EMPLOYEE DIALOGUE). Initiated in 2006, the Group’s responsible sourcing policy is implemented through multi-year action plans that seek the proactive involvement + info of all stakeholders in the value chain (key influencers, purchasers and > SOURCING POLICY suppliers) as part of a continuous improvement approach. The responsible sourcing policy is built around three components: ■ T he process of evaluating suppliers, products and services; The “Conducting a ■ S ystematic actions having an impact on purchasers, contracts and relationships with our suppliers; Responsible Sourcing Policy” ■ O bjectives in terms of economic, social and environmental impact, instruction was appended as stipulated in the Sustainable Sourcing Program (SSP 2011-2015). In 2014 the internal instruction “Conducting a Responsible Sourcing to the global agreement on Policy & a Code of Ethics for Sourcing” was published and distributed to all the Group’s purchasers, including those of the subsidiaries and fundamental rights signed with the branches. UNI Global Union in June 2015 (1) For Societe Generale: SG Obligations ISR, SG Diversifié ISR, Arcancia monétaire, Amundi label actions solidaires; for Crédit du Nord: Amundi Label Equilibre Solidaire, Amundi Label Obligataire et Solidaire, Arcancia Ethique & Solidaire, Etoile Sélection Développement Durable. 31 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE EVALUATING PROVIDERS, The mapping, which was updated in 2013, covers 62 purchasing categories. 31 of these have been identified as having a high level of PRODUCTS AND SERVICES sensitivity in terms of E&S risks, representing 54% of the amount of the Group’s purchases in France. As of the end of 2015, 28 purchasing EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS categories (compared to 22 in 2014) have been identified as having The evaluation of supplier risks comprises two aspects: a level of risk that is “partly under control” (i.e. 95% of the amount ■ Analysis of suppliers’ financial health as part of a global internal of purchases that are sensitive to CSR risks) and three categories project entitled “Know Your Provider”. (compared to nine in 2014) as having a risk level that is still “not under control”. For categories whose risk level is “partly under control” or ■ Evaluation of suppliers’ environmental and social (E&S) performance “not under control”, priority actions have been put in place to improve via EcoVadis. the Group’s control of E&S risks. In 2015 the Know Your Provider (KYP) project was launched. The E&S risk mapping of products and services has been translated into Accordingly, whenever a purchase is made, an analysis is carried out English and was presented to all the representatives of the international to get to know each of the suppliers invited to participate in a call for Purchasing function during an annual event in September 2015. tenders. In particular this analysis includes an analysis of the financial viability of our suppliers by studying their financial health and their SUPPORT FOR SUPPLIERS AS PART OF economic dependency rate with the Societe Generale Group. A PROGRESS-ORIENTED APPROACH: In addition a supplier E&S evaluation, covering the respective supplier’s REMEDIAL ACTION PLANS AND ON-SITE AUDITS. commitments and actions in the field of CSR, is requested when The Group encourages suppliers in a process of continuous progress making any purchasing decision. This evaluation, which is carried out by the independent expert Ecovadis, serves as a basis for measuring by urging those identified as presenting a risk (an Ecovadis rating that is suppliers' performance in relation to environmental and social issues, below or equal to 30/100) to implement a remedial action plan. Up until business ethics and subcontracting. the end of 2014 the suppliers concerned were invited, on a voluntary basis, to define a remedial action plan via the EcoVadis platform. The CSR rating (Ecovadis) given is factored into the Since the beginning of 2015 a remedial action plan management and selection criteria with a minimum weighting of 3%. Since 2011 monitoring process has been put in place in order to help suppliers to 2,687 suppliers have been invited to take part in this evaluation, improve their extra-financial performance, with the qualitative objective representing purchasing scope of EUR 2.5 billion for 2015. In 2015 of obtaining an average rating of 50/100 for all the suppliers that have the average rating was 46.5/100. Suppliers obtaining a rating less been evaluated by the Group. In 2015, nine suppliers thus identified than or equal to 30/100 are considered at risk (i.e. 52 suppliers under as being at risk were encouraged to implement such plans. Three of contract in 2015 against 67 in 2014). them were re-evaluated at the end of the remedial action plan and all The principle of the E&S evaluations of suppliers has also been put in were rated as not being at risk. place in Germany, Italy, the Czech Republic, Great Britain, Luxembourg and the United States (these 6 countries represent 17%(1) of the Group’s At the same time, an on-site audit approach supplements the plan for expenses), by means of internal questionnaires. suppliers identified as at-risk and belonging to a sensitive purchasing category. In 2015, in collaboration with an independent body, four INCORPORATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL on-site audits were completed and another six were initiated. CRITERIA IN SOURCING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES In 2006 the Group developed its environmental and social (E&S) risk mapping, which is linked to each of its purchasing categories. Its No CSR risk At-risk Corrective use also makes it possible to determine the specific criteria to take + procurement > supplier action plan category into account in connection with calls for tender in order to cover the following environmental and social risks that have been identified within the EcoVadis CSR risk On-site categories of products and services being purchased. evaluation + procurement > CSR audit category Each purchasing category has been evaluated in line with four key priorities: the Environment, Social Criteria, Business Ethics and + info Suppliers. This evaluation has made it possible to determine a level of > SUPPLIER RELATIONS sensitivity to E&S risks on a three-level scale: low, medium and high. > GROUP’S CSR RISK MAPPING For purchasing categories that have been identified as having a high level of sensitivity to E&S risks, based on an analysis of the actions that have been implemented by the Group (carried out by an external SYSTEMATIC ACTIONS audit), the level of control of these risks has been assessed (according to three levels: completely under control, partly under control, not under The Sustainable Sourcing Program (SSP 2011-2015) is reflected in control) by Societe Generale (or residual E&S risks). systematic actions carried out in France, which have an impact on: (1) Cumulative volumes for all six countries between January and September 2015. 32 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE The objective that has been set for 2016 75% OF THE INVOICES WITHIN 30 DAYS Serge Pouhaër …PURCHASERS “In France, payment delays have reached record ■ A ll our purchasers have signed a code of ethics governing levels that have not been seen in the past ten years, purchasing; increasing to an average of 13.6 days above the ■ A specific training module entitled “Purchasing and Sustainable statutory time limit as defined by the French Law on Development”, which is part of the in-house training programme the Modernisation of the Economy, which stipulates (which all our purchasers undergo), has been added to complement a maximum time limit of 60 days from the date on the module entitled “Monitoring Supplier Risks”, which is also part of which the invoice was issued (the date stated on the the in-house training programme; invoice). These delays represent EUR 15 billion in late ■ The incorporation of CSR objectives by all purchasers in a CSR payments, which lead to 15,000 business failures every initiative specific to their purchasing category. year. …CONTRACTS Being aware of these stakes, our Group has set itself the goal of paying our suppliers within 30 days. This plan meets three objectives: to be THE relationship ■ All Group contracts contain a sustainable development clause, bank vis-à-vis the Group’s clients and suppliers, which commits suppliers to uphold any employment laws (and where no such laws apply, to at least comply with the provisions to support the French and European economy by of the ILO) or environmental legislation in force in the countries facilitating our suppliers’ cash flow, and to assist in which they operate; businesses to operate and to develop. ■ O ur independent partner Provigis collects mandatory legal documents The Group has been increasingly focusing on from our subcontractor suppliers every six months throughout the innovative solutions, in both internal and external contracting period in order to fight against undeclared work; processes. The simplification of validation circuits for invoices entails empowering managers and greater …SUPPLIERS responsiveness. The Group subsequently opted for ■ As part of Societe Generale’s commitment to improving payment dematerialisation, which facilitates validation and time limits for suppliers the ambitious project “Payment in 30 days” reduces the workflow timeframe. Other avenues are was launched in 2014. As of the end of 2015 the average payment timeframe (weighted by the invoice amounts) is 36 days (i.e. a 24-day currently being explored, such as using a simple PDF. improvement on the statutory limit). The objective that has been set Since the end of 2015 around 65% of the invoices for 2016 is to pay 75% of the invoices within 30 days. (in terms of volume) have been paid within 30 days ■ T he validation circuit has been simplified and the dematerialisation and 88% within 60 days, with an average payment of invoices has been increased to facilitate suppliers’ cash flow. timeframe (weighted by the invoice amounts) of around 40 days. The performance of our employees is very encouraging and has been noted by the national press THREEFOLD OBJECTIVES BASED ON (the “Challenges” magazine’s rankings on payment ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL timeframes: moving up from the 57th position (out PILLARS: of 60) in 2013 to 9th place in 2015. The objective in 2016 is to pay 75% of the invoices within 30 days by The Sustainable Sourcing Program (SSP 2011-2015) has also defined specific goals: continuing our efforts in respect of the workflow.” ■ To make it easier for SMEs to win Societe Generale procurement Serge Pouhaër, Director of Group “Procure to Pay” contracts and to establish a framework of mutual trust with suppliers; Shared Services Centres 33 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE ■ To have recourse to players from the social and solidarity economy to be included, as far as possible, in the search for suppliers during calls and in particular to the adapted sector(2); for tenders. The purchasers in the Group have benefited from direct access to the platform of GESAT (national network for the protected and ■ To participate in the reduction of the Group's environmental impact adapted sector), which lists adapted enterprises and establishments of thanks to targeted sourcing actions. Services d’Aide par le Travail by geographic area and type of service. In 2015 services amounting to EUR 4.9 million were provided by business ECONOMIC PILLAR: COMMITTING TO SMES employing handicapped workers in France. In the French Retail Banking SMEs are key players in the French economy and at the heart of the network such enterprises collect and recycle paper on a nationwide strategy that French banks pursue. In France, with over 60% of the basis and manage the post for 72 sites in the network. For their part, all Group’s purchases made in 2015 from SMEs (Small and MediumSociete Generale branches have their waste paper collected and recycled, sized Enterprises) and mid-cap suppliers, Societe Generale facilitates of which over 85% is carried out by companies in the adapted sector. At access for these companies to the Group’s procurement contracts and the end of 2014 a project aiming to develop recourse to the adapted sector establishes a climate of mutual trust with its suppliers. under our Intellectual IT Services initiative was launched. This initiative has a dual objective: to support the adapted sector in the professionalisation of its IT function and to develop recourse to the adapted sector through activities that are strategic for the bank and that represent a significant … over 60% of the Group’s volume of expenses for Societe Generale. Thus the project should enable the Group to maintain, even increase, its expenditure in the adapted sector purchases made in 2015 whilst certain historical activities carried out in partnership with this sector will decrease over the coming years in line with the digital transition. from SMEs and Mid-Cap ENVIRONMENTAL PILLAR: CONTRIBUTING TO THE suppliers … IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GROUP’S ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS The objective is to participate, via the purchases made by the Group, in Societe Generale’s carbon reduction programme, in particular by SME PACT integrating environmental criteria that is specific to the products and Societe Generale, which was the first bank to sign the SME Pact in services being purchased in connection with calls for tender. Thus in December 2007, continues to reinforce its commitment to supporting 2015, the Purchasing Division played an important role in relation to innovative small and medium-sized businesses. Various actions are the Environmental Efficiency Award by supporting project holders and carried out in the Group within the scope of the SME Pact, in particular: by bringing innovative environmental solutions to the table. (See p. 45, The internal carbon tax) ■ c alls for skills via the SME Pact’s open innovation platform (http:// innovation.pactepme.org). Since 2014 the SME Pact’s open innovation platform has enabled 13 online calls for skills to be launched and more than 120 innovative SMEs to propose their A PROGRESS-ORIENTED APPROACH offerings; THE “RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONS” ■ sponsoring of SME suppliers by other corporate members of the CHARTER SME Pact. 15 SME suppliers have been sponsored since 2013; The Group has been a signatory to the “Responsible ■ p romotion of representative collaborations between Societe Generale Supplier Relations” Charter since 2010. This Charter sets out ten and an SME supplier; commitments for facilitating the building of a balanced and ■ e ncouragement to create groups of companies; sustainable relationship between the major corporate signatories and their suppliers. ■ a nd the supplier satisfaction survey, an annual evaluation of the quality of the relationships that Societe Generale maintains with its After it was signed, a specific action plan was put in place for meeting SME suppliers, which is structured around four evaluation themes: the Charter’s ten commitments, such as to: innovation, contractual relations, partnership relationships and the ■ a ppoint an internal ombudsman, levers. In 2015, 214 SME suppliers were invited to respond to the satisfaction survey. The Societe Generale Group was rated 62/100, ■ include a clause in contracts that favours recourse to mediation. an increase of 2 points year-on-year, which is above the average rating for the Banking and Insurance sector. THE “RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONS” CERTIFICATION SOCIAL PILLAR: COMMITTING TO THE ADAPTED In 2012, Societe Generale SA (France) received the “Responsible SECTOR Supplier Relations” certification from inter-company mediation, A close collaboration between the Group's Mission Handicap and the procurement contract mediation and the French association of CEOs Sourcing Division enables “adapted” enterprises in the protected sector and purchasing Directors (Médiation Inter-entreprises, Médiation des (2) “Adapted” enterprises are enterprises serving a social purpose; they are obliged to ensure that at least 80% of their employees are people with disabilities and they must operate in accordance with the provisions of the French Employment Code. The establishments of Services d’Aide par le Travail (ESAT), which facilitate the integration of disabled individuals into the mainstream labour market, are medi-social establishments whose operation is primarily governed by the French Family and Social Action Code. 34 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE Marchés publics and Compagnie des dirigeants et acheteurs de ■ S ince October 2014 Societe Generale has been a signatory to the France (CDAF)). “La Belle Compétition” Charter, which encourages competition, for “Communication Agency – Advertiser” calls for tender. This certification, awarded following an on-site audit of our practices by an extra-financial evaluation agency, attests to the fact that our With the Sustainable Sourcing Program (SSP 2011-2015) coming organisation and our day-to-day management provide reasonable to an end in 2015, a new multi-year Responsible Sourcing policy is assurance of compliance with the objectives and commitments defined presently in the process of being defined, calling on the input of a wide in the certification's frame of reference. At the end of 2015, in light of panel of stakeholders (key influencers, purchasers, suppliers – 706 of the annual follow-up evaluation, the Awarding Committee decided to which participated in Societe Generale’s responsible sourcing survey. renew Societe Generale’s certification. Its operational rollout will take place, in France and abroad, over the Procedures have also been set in motion for specific purchasing next three years (2016-2018). categories: ■ T he Group is a founder member of the Charter of Best Practices DASHBOARD OF THE SSP PROGRAM in Procurement of Private Security Services (security, transport of The SSP plan is tracked using the performance indicators below, which funds, remote monitoring), created under the auspices of the French make it possible to controle and measure the Group’s performance in Ministry of the Interior. terms of responsible sourcing. Management indicators Achieved in 2014 Achieved in 2015 2016 Targets Total of purchases €6.1 billion €6.6 billion n/a % of our purchases with an inherent CSR risk 63% 54% n/a % of purchases whose CSR risk is under control or partly under control (% of the value of purchases that are sensitive to CSR risks) 49% 95% ≥ 70% Expenditure among companies €4.9 million €4.9 million in the adapted sector (at the level of the Group) (at the level of SGPM in France) €5 million Expenditure among French SMEs/mid caps 60% 61% ≥ 60% Number of suppliers invited to take part in the CSR All suppliers were invited evaluation 2,167 2,687 to take part in calls for tender Number of suppliers evaluated, at risk, subcontractors 67 52 ≤ to 2014 Average supplier ratings 46.6/100 46.5/100 50/100 Number of supplier progress plans 13 9 10 4 + 6 initiated in 2015 Number of on-site supplier audits 3 and completed in the first half of 2016 10 Number of cases referred to mediation 0 0 n/a Rating in the SME Pact supplier satisfaction survey 60/100 62/100 ≥ to 2014 % of invoices paid within 30 days 53% 65% Objective for Q1 2016 75% ROBECOSAM rating (for Supply Chain Management) 95/100 98/100 ≥ to 2014 DIALOGUE WITH CIVIL SOCIETY Societe Generale makes every effort to promote constructive talks in a progress-oriented approach. The bank ensures it has regular with all its stakeholders. exchanges on the development and the implementation of its policies. In 2015 this type of exchange took place on, in particular, In particular, the Group is careful to listen to and engage the bank’s commitments to benefit the climate. in dialogue with NGOs that alert it to E&S issues within its sphere of influence or that can help it to adapt its policies and procedures Through its E&S watch list, Societe Generale monitors projects, 35 IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE companies and sectors, whether or not they are financed by the bank, Two main topics were covered with the NGOs: that are the subject of controversy or public campaigns on the part of ■ t he challenges of finance for the climate, particularly for coal-related civil society (see p. 26, Watch list). financing; The bank has put a procedure in place for centralising correspondence ■ h uman rights. and contact originating from NGOs or other players in civil society within the CSR Department, which is intended to alert it to the impacts The Group also maintains regular, constructive contact with CRESUS associated with its financing or other services. Wherever possible, an (regional agencies preventing over-indebtedness) through its internal enquiry is conducted and documented replies are supplied in partnerships with Group entities (CGI, Franfinance, BDDF) as well as writing or at meetings where appropriate. a dialogue on the role of lending institutions in preventing individuals from getting too far into debt and assisting people in difficulty (See In the course of 2015, Societe Generale participated in various work p. 80, Focus on over-indebtedness). and discussion meetings with around ten NGOs (including BankTrack, Amis de la Terre, Oxfam, and WWF, etc.) either through bilateral + info meetings or during more wide-ranging consultation meetings organised > WITH NGOS by the associations themselves or by the OECD, the Equator Principles Association or the World Bank. NON-FINANCIAL EVALUATION The Group attaches great importance to its financial and non-financial ratings and strives to obtain ratings that best reflect its CSR actions by ensuring the quality and transparency of the data provided. Societe Generale is recognised for the transparency shown to its stakeholders. In 2015 Vigeo named Societe Generale’s CSR reporting to be the most complete among the 1,309 companies observed. As a result, Societe Generale’s stock has been listed for many years in the main international SRI indices (DJSI World and Europe, FTSE4Good, Euronext Vigeo, Ethibel, STOXX, etc.) and is also a popular choice amongst a large number of SRI funds (See Group website). Nicole Notat + info > DIALOGUE WITH RATING AGENCIES > PRESS RELEASE (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) “Vigeo has ranked Societe Generale as the leading company in the world out of 1,300 listed companies for availability of information that helps the agency to form its opinions. We have recognised this drive for transparency, comprehensiveness and accuracy in its reporting.” Nicole Notat, the CEO of Vigeo 36 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE FINANCE THE BANK IS ATTENTIVE TO INVESTORS A DEDICATED TEAM of its individual shareholders, the Group has had a Shareholders’ Consultative Committee since 1988, whose primary role is to advise Societe Generale’s department in charge of institutional and individual on the Group’s individual shareholder relations and communications investor relations is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial policy. The Committee meets twice a year. Their questions are relayed communications and disclosure and for ensuring that investors and to the General Meeting. shareholders are kept up to date regarding its strategy and results. In 2015 the Group received several awards: the Grand Gold Award for Best Shareholder Relations and the Gold Award for Best Digital Communication of CAC 40 companies from Le Revenu, and the 2015 MEETING WITH INVESTORS Shareholders’ Club prize awarded by economic publications Les Echos The Group regularly meets with its investors to present its strategy and Investir/Le Journal des Finances in partnership with auditing group and results and exchange views with them, including on environmental Mazars. In addition, the transparency of Societe Generale’s financial and social topics. In 2015, Societe Generale’s management and the communications has been recognised by the Transparency label for Finance Department’s teams, accompanied by the Investor Relations the third year running. team, conducted nearly 100 roadshow days and participated in a dozen broker conferences in the major international financial centres. + info In total, they met with nearly 70% of the institutional shareholders. > SOCIETE GENERALE LAUNCH THE SHAREHOLDERS MOBILE APP (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) Also this year, a new type of roadshow was organised > GOLD AWARD FOR THE BEST SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS as part of the first Societe Generale positive impact green bond, (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) which contributes to the financing of the low-carbon economy. > PRESENTATION TO INVESTORS The funds raised are used exclusively to finance projects contributing to the fight against climate change (see p. 28, Positive Impact Finance). This was an opportunity to present, in November 2015, Societe Generale’s SRI/CSR accomplishments In total, to the institutional investors (this presentation is available on the Group’s website). THEY MET WITH NEARLY Maintaining and developing a policy of dialogue with its individual shareholders is a priority for the Group. In 2015, Societe Generale thus organised two shareholders’ meetings in Versailles and Cannes. 70% Each of these events brought together around 600 guests and allowed shareholders to exchange views with a member of the General OF THE INSTITUTIONAL Management. In November the Group also participated in Salon Actionaria, an individual shareholder trade fair attended by more than SHAREHOLDERS 25,000 visitors. The bank also took part in three information meetings in partnership with other issuers, in Lille, Aix-en-Provence and Nancy, each of which was attended by 150 to 400 participants. Five times a year the Group publishes its Letter to Shareholders, which appears quarterly in newsletter format and in June in paper format after the General Meeting. In late 2015 Societe Generale launched an app for shareholders, available on smartphones and tablets on iOS and Android devices. The app provides easy, instant access to all necessary information for shareholders: stock prices, press releases, calendar of upcoming events, and so on. This new tool is the perfect complement to the single-channel communication system made available to shareholders: dedicated pages on the Group’s website, dedicated phone number, Shareholders’ Club, and more. To make sure it continues to meet the needs and expectations > FIND ALL THE DATA OF THE REPORT 37 ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT 38 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T ACTOR OF THE ENERGY TRANSITION € BONDS 2 bn GREEN 76 % OF NEW FINANCING IN 76% THE ELECTRICAL PRODUCTION 70% € SECTOR TO RENEWABLE 2014 2015 ENERGY PROJECTS € 2 bn GREEN FINANCING X2 2014 2015 GROUP'S CARBON INTERNAL CARBON TAX FOOTPRINT ANNUAL AVERAGE OVER 3 YEARS 4 700 t 0,37 2,19 PER 30 GWh OCCUPANT 1 YEAR 2 YEARS 3 YEARS S A V E D BUSINESS TRAVEL 1,54 2020 Including airplane 0,19 REAL ESTATE 0,17 Including cars Including electricity 1,06 -20% OF EMISSION TA R G E T REF 2014 0,19 0,14 PAPER OTHER* * hosted Including data centers and office paper transport of goods 0,08 39 ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT SOCIETE GENERALE HAS MADE COMMITMENTS FAVOURING THE CLIMATE the acceptability standards for operations and clients individually for each E&S issue and in each business sector, particularly in terms of strict criteria on coal mining (Mining policy), emissions from the energy sector (policies on Thermal Power Plants and Coal-fired Power Plants), or deforestation (Forestry, Palm Oil and Biodiversity policies) (see p. 26, Sector and cross-sector E&S policies). Thus Crédit photo Peter Allan Societe Generale is generally committed to reducing its coal-related activities to ensure that by 2020 it will be in phase with the IEA’s 2°C scenario, and it has announced that it will no longer help to finance coal-fired power plant projects in high-income OECD countries or to Séverin Cabannes fund coal mine development projects. In addition, Societe Generale has strengthened its commitment to forest conservation by adopting the Soft Commodities Compact of the Banking Environment Initiative “The adoption of a global climate policy marks a new (backed by the Consumer Goods Forum), which aims to mobilise stage in Societe Generale’s commitment to fight the banking industry to help transform supply chains for agricultural against global warming. As one of the world leaders in commodities in order to help major customers in the sector to achieve energy funding, the Group is committed to reducing their goal of zero net deforestation by 2020 (see p. 6, Commitments, its own carbon footprint and to supporting its clients’ Challenges and Ambition). projects to minimise their impact on the climate. In this way Societe Generale is contributing to the responsible Those commitments are accompanied by a proactive policy in the financing of the global economy and intends to be one renewable energy sector, with a twofold increase in the funding of the key players in the financing of energy transition.” of renewable energy projects and the capacity to access up to EUR 10 billion in funding for projects in the renewable energy sector Séverin Cabannes, Deputy Chief Executive of by 2020, in addition to the desire to reduce its own carbon footprint. Societe Generale Societe Generale has set a new objective compared to 2014 to reduce its CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. In order to achieve this objective the Group is extending its “internal carbon tax” incentive scheme based on the emissions made by each Group entity, which are then redistributed Faced with the many climatic and ecological changes, one of the to finance internal environmental efficiency initiatives. challenges of this century will undoubtedly be the preservation of environmental balances. The interdependence of activities to address As such, Societe Generale will strive over the first half of 2016 to these increased risks shows that comprehensive, coordinated action implement a framework to steer and monitor its actions that is is necessary. consistent with the “Principles for the integration of actions in support COP 21 (21st conference of the parties that took place in Paris of climate in financial institutions” which it supports. These principles from 11th November 2015 to 7th December 2015) is a milestone in help guide financial institutions as they take climate change issues into general mobilisation to stop the average temperature of the earth consideration in their funding strategy, investment and risk management from increasing by more than 2°C, with concrete commitments from procedures alike, as well as in the disclosure of information. countries, local and regional authorities, businesses and financial partners worldwide. On this occasion, Societe Generale adopted a range of new climate commitments aimed at ensuring that the bank’s actions by 2020 are in phase with the scenario of a 2°C limit on global warming defined by the International Energy Agency (IEA) and complementing the existing Environmental General Guidelines of the Bank. These commitments strengthen the E&S general guidelines and sectoral policies comprising the Group’s E&S legal framework, which sets out 40 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS WITH THEIR LOW-CARBON INVESTMENTS Societe Generale wishes to be a key player in the funding of the energy transition by focusing on: ■ t he diversification of sources of energy production with increased funding of the renewable energy sector; ■ t he reduction in customers’ energy consumption; ■ t he increase in our energy transition actions in developing countries, specifically in Africa where Societe Generale has a strong presence, and attracting investors to these projects. All this can only be achieved by strengthening its partnerships with the players in energy transition and the low carbon economy. Jérôme Deflesselles + info > SOCIETE GENERALE COMMITS TO THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE > SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENTS “Ten years ago many questions were hanging over > FIND SOCIETE GENERALE COMMITMENTS ON NAZCA renewable energies: the maturity of the technologies, > FINANCING THE ENERGY TRANSITION the scale of the costs, the grant mechanisms, the > ZERO EXCLUSION, ZERO CARBON, ZERO POVERTY acceptability of surcharges by governments and > FIND MORE ABOUT SOCIETE GENERALE'S COMMITMENTS (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) citizens, etc. Today, in light of the technological > VIDEO S. CABANNES advances, the subsequent reduction in costs and the > VIDEO J DEFLESSELLES (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) climate issues, nobody doubts any longer that a longterm path and a real paradigm shift are necessary for GREEN FINANCE AND SERVICES the energy world. Year after year record investments are made in the sector. In 2015 EUR 330 billion was In 2015, in terms of funding activities of private or public sector companies, Societe Generale’s environmentally-friendly invested in renewable energies worldwide. funding amounts to nearly EUR 2 billion, and 66% of the global Thanks to having a clear and proactive strategy in the portfolio of the Corporate and Investment Banking division’s power renewable energy sector for over a decade, the bank generation sector consists of renewable energy assets (compared to 60% in 2014). As for green funding in favour of individual customers, is able to give its clients long-term support for their it amounts to EUR 173 million and for local authorities EUR 24 million. developments across all asset classes and jurisdictions. Green funding is up about 82% compared to 2014, thanks to a more In onshore, offshore, solar and biomass energy alike, dynamic market. This includes wind farms, all renewable energy production, waste and recycling, public transport projects, alternative Societe Generale has experienced strong growth in its fuels and clean vehicles. They benefit from the bank’s capacity to fund advisory and financing activities over the past few years. complex projects. Furthermore, backed by its position as a leader in the The ambition consists of doubling financing towards renewable energy energy sector and its recognised expertise drawn from projects to reach as much as EUR 10 billion of funding for projects from teams based throughout the world, therefore as close the renewable energies (RE) sector by 2020. as possible to its markets, the Group supports its clients across all sectors. FUNDING FOR LARGE-SCALE CLIMATE PROJECTS In 2015 76% of our new loans for electricity generation The bank has been particularly active in the funding of renewable energy projects and is a major player in the funding of energy infrastructures. projects related to renewable energies.” The Investment Bank has extensive experience in the environmental Jérôme Deflesselles, European Head of Renewable and renewable energy sector (solar, biomass, wind, etc.). With a Energy Advisory and Financing Services global presence and acknowledged sectoral expertise, the bank has continuously supported its customers for over ten years in the development of these sectors. In 2015, 76% of new project funding in the electricity production sector was dedicated to renewable energy assets for the Group (compared to 70% in 2014). 41 ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT The bank specifically played a decisive role in the USD 248 million funding of the 30 MW Block Island (USA) offshore wind power project, the first offshore wind farm in the USA, representing a major technological breakthrough. This debt-based funding has 76 % established a new funding model for the country’s future offshore wind farms. In Europe, the Group, amongst others, assisted in the largest offshore wind project to date in the United Kingdom, known as the Galloper OF NEW PROJECT FUNDING IN project, with a capacity of 336 MW located in the Thames Estuary. THE ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION SECTOR WAS DEDICATED TO The Group has been a leader in implementing a financial solution for the 100 MW Hornsdale wind power project in southern Australia. RENEWABLE In addition, Group subsidiaries abroad are also present in the sector. Internationally, Societe Generale helps local communities to grow while ENERGY ASSETS preserving their ecosystem. This type of funding comprises improved public transport routes, the installation of solar panels or dedicated infrastructures. For example, in 2015: ■ SGEF Poland and SGEF Czech Republic contributed EUR 1.2 million and EUR 17 million respectively to the acquisition of buses to improve public transport; ■ SGEF UK (United Kingdom) funded the installation of solar panels in A SPECIFIC OFFER OF SERVICES several cities for the benefit of the Aspirations Academy Trust. This SOGEPROM: integrated and innovative urban solutions charitable trust promotes education based on the development and personal ambitions of students; In 2014 SOGEPROM, the Group’s property development subsidiary, announced the launch of the “E+” programme for “Positive Energy” and ■ S ociete Generale Algeria awarded funding of EUR 63.7 million to a the signing of a series of long-term partnership agreements with major company specialising in the assembly of trams in order to provide industrial groups such as OTIS, RENAULT and SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, public transport solutions in major Algerian cities; the objective being to harness positive synergies based in particular on ■ K omerční Banka (Czech Republic) provided funding of EUR 4.4 million renewable energies. to install several infrastructures enabling better access to water and heating for those populations with systems tailored to preserve the At the first edition of its «New Uses” Award, the corporate property ecosystem, as well as funding for 25 multi-source energy production fair SIMI (Salon de l’immobilier d’entreprise), held in December 2015 projects using solar energy, hydro energy and biogas amounting to in Paris, chose to single out Lucibel and Sogeprom in the “User EUR 160 million; Services” category for this LIFI bi-directional broadband technology, the ■ S G Express Bank (Bulgaria) provided EUR 0.66 million for low carbon transmission of data through lighting. emission buses and in 2015 continued to fund several solar energy ALD : a responsible utilisation offer of automobile fleets production plants for EUR 10 million; Under the ALD newmobility programme launched in 2012, ALD ■ R usfinance (Russia), the consumer credit subsidiary in Russia, Automotive, the Group’s automobile leasing subsidiary, deploys arranged funding loans amounting to EUR 26 million for individuals to buy their own vehicles with a guarantee by the Societe Generale concrete, innovative actions to meet its customers’ new mobility Group; expectations by developing company car-sharing (ALD sharing), flexibility (ALD switch), and multi-mode (ALD Railease, ALD companybike, etc.) ■ F iditalia (Italy) provided funding of EUR 9.5 million to a thousand solutions and more recently a “mobility budget” (ALD mobility card) individuals for renewable energy production projects. solution, allowing its user to opt for the most appropriate means of Among the innovative transactions seen this year, KB (Czech Republic) transport for a given journey (public transport, taxi, vehicle hire, etc.). was the first European bank to establish a partnership to encourage investment in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energies (PF4EE, ALD Automotive also continues to develop its ALD Bluefleet offer aimed Private Finance for Energy Efficiency), which combines a financing line at the everyday reduction of CO2 emissions and fuel consumption of with a risk-sharing and technical assistance scheme. its fleets by promoting it to companies. 42 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT As of late September 2015, ALD Automotive managed a fleet of some 6,700 electric vehicles in 13 countries. With the addition of rechargeable hybrid vehicles and conventional hybrid vehicles, the fleet of new-technology vehicles managed by ALD Automotive was close to 30,000 vehicles, an increase of 48.9% in 12 months. Closely following emerging technologies, ALD Automotive also funded 8 fuel cell vehicles powered by hydrogen on the same date. + info > NEOEN A FRENCH LEADER IN RENEWABLE ENERGY > 100 MW HORNSDALE WIND FARM Jonathan Weinberger > TIMELY FINANCING FOR THE FIRST US OFFSHORE WIND FARM > A WIRELESS INTERNET CONNECTING USING LIGHT “SG's leadership in green bonds is clearly demonstrated > VIDEO (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) by the high standard of the debut issuance. The bank's Positive Impact Finance bond is a funding vehicle that supports high quality, low carbon projects, providing a ENVIRONMENTAL BANKING OFFER substantial improvement to the energy production mix, and IN FRANCE gives investors clear and robust reporting, providing an audited and transparent means for investors to monitor the In its French banking networks, Societe Generale promotes funding environmental attributes of the asset.” aimed at improving energy efficiency. Jonathan Weinberger, Head of Capital Markets Engineering SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNT (LDD) As of 31st December 2015, the deposits in these accounts amounted ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS CARD WITH THE ONF to EUR 8 billion. The bank mostly uses the amounts paid into these Through its Environment Business Card dedicated to corporate savings accounts to finance SMEs and sustainable development customers, the bank has reiterated its commitment until the end of 2016 projects. by contributing EUR 5 cents for each payment made with the card. This offer includes making paperless card statements available to company ECO-PTZ AND OTHER LOANS GENERATING ENERGY employees to enable them to track their expenditure, which can be SAVINGS consulted on Societe Generale’s secure website (www.sogecartenet.fr). The Group distributes green products and loans designed for its In 2015, payments to the ONF, the French Forestry Commission, individual customers. Since being introduced in France over 26,000 amounted to EUR 126,855, i.e. a 26% increase on 2014. These interest-free eco-loans and sustainable development loans have been payments will permit the financing of 2 projects in 2016: the site layout granted, representing more than EUR 410 million. of the “Salle de bal des demoiselles coiffées” in the Hautes-Alpes and a project raising public awareness and access for all to the forest in “Pays LOANS TO PURCHASE OF ELECTRIC OR HYBRID de Monts” in the Vendée region. VEHICLES Since September 2012, a preferential “Clean Vehicles” schedule is BOURSORAMA AND BLABLACAR reserved for clients who wish to finance the purchase of new or secondSince December 2015, Boursorama, the Group’s online banking hand electric or hybrid vehicles via an Expresso loan. subsidiary, has sponsored the travel of customers of the carpool In 2015 2,750 Expresso loans totalling EUR 33.6 million were granted. site who deposit funds with it. Along with the carpool specialist, they Since this specific schedule was put in place, a total of 6,695 “Clean launched a joint promotion to encourage carpool fans to use online Vehicles” Expresso loans have been granted, for an overall amount banking and vice versa. of EUR 87.5 million. + info At the same time, Societe Generale’s clients can benefit from a 5% > RESPONSIBLE ECONOMY AWARD FOR CGI discount on their motor insurance premium (for vehicles emitting less (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) than 120g of CO2/km) for the entire duration of their contract, regardless of the option selected. INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS TO RISE CGI, the Group’s consumer credit entity (Car Financing France) TO THE CHALLENGES OF THE ENERGY signed a partnership agreement with the world leader in electric cars, TESLA, regarding the retail funding of the brand’s electric vehicles. TRANSITION This agreement has been effective since October 2014. CGI will also Societe Generale uses its structuring and distribution expertise to take part in the manufacturer’s CSR approach by promoting access provide innovative solutions responding to risk/profitability concerns to “green” cars via extremely competitive lease-to-purchase offers. and integrating the ESG criteria required by investors, particularly 43 ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT through impact positive financing under the aegis of the UNEP-FI (see STRENGTHENING PARTNERSHIPS IN DEVELOPING p. 28, Positive Impact Finance). COUNTRIES In accordance with its global strategy, the Group strives GREEN BONDS to forge and develop partnerships, in the other countries where In support of its Corporate customers, the Group is keen to contribute it operates, with International Financial Institutions (AFD, EBRD, to the development of a Green bonds market, which allows them to EIB, World Bank, etc.) to propose financing solutions responding finance projects and acquisitions in renewable energies and energy to the needs of the local businesses and stakeholders it works efficiency, taking part in the fight against climate change and bringing with, with a particular focus on energy transition projects. the Group’s structuring and bond distribution solutions to the table, As a major player in Africa, Societe Generale is accompanying the combined with its long-standing expertise in ESG management development of this fast-growing continent. The Group is present in (Environmental, Social and Governance). 18 countries and is one of the most established international banks on the continent, with 3 million customers, including 150,000 businesses. In 2015, Societe Generale contributed to the emission of 6 green bonds Given that 75% of Africa’s population still has no access to electricity, representing a total sum of EUR 2 billion. the role of the bank is twofold: Thus, the Group supported the City of Paris as it issued its first climate ■ P roject financing to give African countries access to electricity, with a bond. The funds will be used to finance projects to combat climate role as an adviser or arranger in EUR 17 billion worth of investments change, in line with the city’s Climate and Energy Plan 2020. over the past 5 years throughout the entire value chain (funding of generation equipment, distribution grids, production units and financial advice for major infrastructure projects). ■ G reen funding initiatives and offers for SMIs/SMEs and individuals the Group supported to enhance the effort made by governments to promote the green economy (for instance a tax exemption on renewable energy in the City of Paris Burkina Faso, desire to break the cycle of dependence on oil in Tunisia, 6th green business forum in Congo). as it issued its first Societe Generale has signed several partnership agreements (AFD, EBRD, climate bond EIB, etc.) specifically dealing with the energy transition with international financial institutions, and intends to strengthen these agreements as much as possible. ■ A greement with the EIB as part of the “France Energies Renouvelables” programme to promote investment in renewable energies (EUR THE FIRST POSITIVE IMPACT GREEN BOND 750 million) across the French territory between 2014 and 2016. In order to meet the obligations of low-carbon investors, the Group issued ■ I n Senegal, SGBS and the French Development Agency (AFD) signed a EUR 500 million bond with a twofold environmental and positive impact an agreement for EUR 5 million as part of the SUNREF programme, component (see p. 28, Positive Impact Finance). a facility to promote investment in energy efficiency and renewable energies in developing countries; FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS TO BENEFIT NEW ■ T he same type of partnership for EUR 6 million was signed between TECHNOLOGIES SGBCI and AFD in the Ivory Coast in July 2015. This line of funding The Group’s teams are dedicated to the search for facilitated the granting of credit to one of the country’s leading financial solutions that foster new climate-friendly technologies, corrugated board producers to finance the purchase of equipment such as Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS). It advises on several that would reduce its energy consumption by 40% and improve its production capacity; of these essential climate change mitigation projects – for example, the White Rose Project in the United Kingdom, with EUR 300 million ■ I n Macedonia, OBSG established a credit line of EUR 4 million with in funding provided as part of the European Union’s NER300 the Green Growth Fund (GGF) to support the funding of projects programme, which aims to demonstrate the efficiency of carbon related to energy efficiency and renewable energies. capture and storage techniques. This approach expands the range of Relations with the EIB (European Investment Bank) continued to flourish available solutions whilst favouring progress and experimentation, (see p. 74, Supporting financial institutions and development agencies). paving the way to innovation. Moreover, the Bank is a long-standing player on the carbon market, + info > PRESS RELEASE CITY OF PARIS ISSUED ITS FIRST CLIMATE BOND ranked second and fifth respectively in 2014 and 2015 by Energy Risk (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) in terms of the European ETS, and has been rated first in terms of its > FIRST POSITIVE IMPACT BOND research on the subject, both in 2014 and 2015. > VIDEO 44 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT REDUCING THE GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT The bank also generates impacts on the environment through its activity. Aware of this responsibility, Societe Generale is pursuing its … a new target to reduce own environmental policy, which involves the control and improvement of its direct impacts on the environment, in association with its various stakeholders. At the same time, each division and business seeks to contribute to the Group’s environmental policy by developing its own its CO2 emissions by 20% initiatives, including within its business lines. Similarly the Buildings and IT Infrastructures divisions incorporate and per occupant steer the environmental aspects of their activities. by 2020 CARBON REDUCTION PROGRAMME The 2012-2015 carbon reduction programme came to an end in late 2015. At COP 21, Societe Generale set a new target The Group’s carbon footprint amounts to 2.19 tCO2/occ. compared to 2014 to reduce its CO 2 emissions by 20% per (7.6% reduction compared to 2014). occupant by 2020. The Group’s carbon footprint incorporates energy consumption, business travel, freight transportation (covering banking Since 2005, the Group has performed an inventory of greenhouse transportation (mail and parcels), cash transportation and transportation gas emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol (an international due to relocation), total paper consumption and consumption of data standard). The monitoring of environmental indicators is enhanced hosted in France. from year to year as a result of using a CSR reporting tool (Planethic The 2012-2015 programme aimed: Reporting) to manage information. The data collected via this inventory ■ t o serves as a basis for calculating the internal carbon tax. reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per occupant by 11% compared to 2012 by the end of 2015 (excluding the purchase of green electricity); ■ t o increase energy efficiency by 13% compared to 2012 by the end INTERNAL CARBON TAX of 2015. The carbon reduction programme is based on the implementation of an innovative scheme: each Core Business and Corporate Division pays an internal carbon tax according to their By the end of 2015, GHG emissions per occupant were carbon footprint (EUR 10/tCO2) and the revenue from this tax is reduced by 11.4% compared to 2012, surpassing the 11% goal, and energy consumption has been reduced by 11.3% compared to allocated to internal environmental efficiency initiatives via the 2012, instead of the established 13% goal. The reduction of energy Environmental Efficiency Awards. consumption per occupant of 4.3% observed between 2014 and 2015 was not sufficient to make up for the delay identified. The year 2015 was particularly successful in terms of CO2 reductions since the number of job positions was reduced between 2014 and 2015. 45 ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT This scheme, based on a twofold incentive, encourages each entity to: environmental profiles on buildings over 5,000 m² was completed in early 2015. This made it possible to set a benchmark for these buildings ■c  ut its CO2 emissions to reduce the amount of the tax; against the Group building standard (Responsible Building Benchmark ■ implement environmental efficiency initiatives, for which they may – RBB) for the purposes of deploying consistent and effective action receive funding. plans at country or entity level and improving the energy performance of the building stock as a whole. The goal of this scheme is to show that environmental measures are also opportunities to create value and innovation for the bank. A management tool (GREEN) allowing the real-time monitoring of a A committee makes the selection, ensuring that each initiative given building’s energy and water consumption and waste management implemented has demonstrated its environmental additionality and is currently being rolled out. It was rolled out in 2015 at the main central represents an economic interest for the Group. buildings in France, and is used to manage the energy efficiency of these buildings and to monitor energy management on all buildings In 2015, 56 initiatives won awards totalling EUR 3.4 million. certified ISO 50001 for a period of three years (19 central buildings Over the three years of this scheme’s existence, all 119 winning in France that represent 167 GWh of energy consumed in 2014, the initiatives, involving building, IT, paper, transport or waste (since 2015), benchmark year). enabled annual recurring savings of an average of EUR 13 million on The GREEN tool was also deployed in the United States (a building overheads, an average of 4,700 tonnes per year of CO2 and an average in New York), India (Bangalore and Chennai) and Luxembourg, and is of 30 GWh of energy savings. being deployed in other Asian countries as well as the UK. Environmental efficiency awards Initiatives rewarded The DUNES real estate project located east of Paris, with an area of 89,000 sq. m. and the capacity for up to 5,500 people, is under way. It is built according to RT (Thermal Regulations 2012) rules, and is undergoing HQE Construction and LEED certification, meaning that by the end of 2016, there will be a sharp improvement in the Group’s environmental and energy performance as older generation buildings are replaced. Specific measures are also being taken with respect to the existing buildings at the level of the corporate services and the branch and subsidiary networks in order to gain better control of consumption and even greater energy savings, namely: ■ managing consumption data: there were 192 branches equipped Paper Transport Buildings IT Waste with a remote meter system at the end of 2015. In the buildings in management Paris and the Paris region, an Environmental Management System (EMS) with incentives for saving energy and fluids is in place with the operator. The energy consumption of the central buildings fell by + info 1.7% in 2015 versus 2014; > 3RD EDITION OF ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY TROPHY (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) > VIDEO UNE INITIATIVE PRIMEE «DEMAT + » (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) > VIDEO UNE INTITIATIVE PRIMEE «RECYCLAGE DES BACHES» (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) GREEN was rolled MEASURES TAKEN TO IMPROVE out at the main central ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY buildings in France BUILDINGS to manage the energy Reduction of energy consumption With floor space of over 4 million sq. m., in 2015 the Group made a efficiency of these buildings commitment to continually enhance the performance of its buildings by implementing an environmental strategy for its building stock. and to monitor To this end, one of the objectives it has set is to increase the energy performance of its central buildings (excluding branches and energy management subsidiaries) in 2015 by 15% in comparison to 2012. This objective strongly contributes to the reduction of energy consumption achieved on all buildings certified since 2007. ISO 50001 Several tools have been implemented to reach this objective. An Environmental Diagnostic Tool (EDT) has been developed to evaluate the environmental performance of the building stock. A collection of 46 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT ■ r enovating buildings: major work and upgrading are continuously carried out in Societe Generale branches and buildings. This has led to a reduction in energy consumption of around 3 GWh/year; ■ using 13 initiatives renewable energy: in 2015, 26% of the Group’s electricity consumption was from renewable sources, thanks partly to have led to savings of generating renewable energy in our buildings (solar panels and the anaerobic digestion of the food waste of some of the Group’s 11.3 GWh/year in-house restaurants, totalling 1.4 GWh in 2015), and partly to acquiring green certificates. The Bank of Polynesia installed a solar and wind hybrid power plant at the “Head office and Pomare branch” in Papeete. ■ r educing travel through the establishment of new video-conferencing Decreased Water Use technology, phone software and telecommuting; ■ t echnology watch: identifying the technologies with the most efficient The Group’s water consumption was 2 million m3 in 2015, showing a slight increase in consumption compared to 2014 due to a broadening performance in environmental terms as part of an ongoing process to improve equipment; of the scope of coverage. ■ a n annual analysis of equipment: identifying obsolete or redundant In the buildings, water management is done in conjunction with energy equipment to cut down on energy wastage. management. It is boosted by consumption-cutting measures (motion detectors, replacement of leaky air conditioning units, etc.). In 2015, 13 out of 56 rewarded initiatives received funding on the grounds of environmental efficiency (see p. 45, Internal carbon tax). Waste management They have led to savings of 11.3 GWh/year. Societe Generale strives to reduce the direct impact of waste on the environment through recycling. At Group level, waste production is TRANSPORT estimated at about 16,000 tonnes in 2015, down 1.7% compared Societe Generale has long since implemented measures for reducing to 2014. the environmental impact of personal and business travel as well as of the transportation of goods. The objective of the new 2014-2020 carbon reduction programme is to incorporate waste into the Group’s carbon footprint. A large Business travel number of measures for improving waste management are in place Group employees travelled 504 million km by train, airplane and car within the Group. Efforts are focused especially on reducing waste in 2015, representing 3,358 km per occupant. The Group therefore (printing reduction, an eco-design scheme for designing equipment recorded a 0.5% decrease in travel per occupant compared to 2014, in collaboration with the manufacturer), reusing waste (reselling office with an increase in kilometres travelled by car which are emitting less equipment that is in good condition) or recycling waste (the manaand less CO2, and a reduction in distances travelled by airplane and gement of Electrical Waste and Electronic Equipment; the anaerobic by train. digestion of 455 tonnes of food waste in some buildings in the Paris The Group’s Sourcing Division, in collaboration with Group entities in region, which has produced 160 MWh of thermal energy; recycling France, has endeavoured for four years to reduce the Group’s carbon waste paper in branch networks 1,265 tonnes of recycled paper and footprint by listing the vehicles with the lowest emissions on the market. 150 tonnes of recycled cardboard processed by the protected sector). In order to accelerate its work and achieve the ambitious objective of reducing its CO2 emissions, the “EdisOn” project was launched, with IT INFRASTRUCTURES a target of 5% of electric vehicles in the Group’s fleet within 3 years. The IT Division has adopted an environmental strategy that gives At the end of 2015, 27 new electric vehicles were ordered by the greater consideration to environmental aspects when managing its Network’s Regional Divisions. To continue this growth, the Sourcing IT stock. The aim underpinning this strategy is twofold: to improve Division decided to launch, in the second quarter of 2015, a draft listing of electric charging stations to ensure the optimal business conditions the management of energy consumption data for equipment and for recharge infrastructure purchases for the entire Group. to systematically integrate environmental considerations into project design and management. It also encourages the use of good practices, such as sharing company cars and applying a threshold of 10,000 km/year for travel by private Multiple levers for action are used to reduce the environmental footprint car, below which an alternative mode of transport must be considered. of the Group’s IT stock: Commuting and telecommuting ■ consolidation: a highly focused strategy to consolidate the number of datacentres by increasing their occupancy rates and making “cloud” Targeted measures are deployed to promote alternative solutions to the solutions systematic both internally and externally with the aim of personal use of vehicles. At Head Office a carpool platform and a carsharing scheme are in place. Measures have also been implemented making 80% of applications virtual by 2020; in the subsidiaries. In particular, CGI and ALD International have made ■ w ider use of pull printing and a “zero paper” by 2020 objective thanks bicycles and electrically assisted bicycles available to their employees, to the “digital for all” programme; used for commuting to work as well as for some business trips. 47 ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT The implementation of telecommuting solutions in several Group entities also helps to limit the amount of daily travel. 5,000 people are involved in telecommuting, of which half are in France (see p. 57, Developing new ways of working and organisation models). The consumption PAPER Paper is the top consumable used by the departmental activities. It of office paper represents a significant economic issue and a sensitive environmental theme (waste management, fight against climate change and pollution). has gone down It is a constant concern for the Group and an increasing number of initiatives are being implemented to rationalise consumption, which stood at 16,545 tonnes in 2015. This figure has gone down compared 6.4% to 2014 (-6.4%). The consumption of office paper has been decreasing since 2007. In 2015, it was 54.5 kg per occupant, a 6% drop compared compared to 2014 to the previous year. Recycled paper represents 48% of office paper used, a 20% increase compared to 2014. The progress achieved is the result of various measures implemented throughout the Group, such as good use of printers, conversion of paper materials to digital materials and use of recycled paper. For BIODIVERSITY instance, the winning measures for the past 3 years in the “Paper” Within its subsidiaries abroad, initiatives to raise awareness about category in the Environmental Efficiency Awards – which only represent preserving biodiversity and maintaining ecosystems are growing in a portion of the measures in place at Group level – enable annual number. This is particularly the case with SGAL in Albania, DeltaCredit recurring savings of 101 tonnes of paper. in Russia, SGCB in New Caledonia, and ALD Automotive in Brazil and As part of its environmental commitments, Societe Generale not Hungary which all participate in reforestation operations and support only joined EcoFolio(1) but also supported its creation by becoming a biodiversity programmes. shareholder alongside other companies representing different sectors of the economy. It has been on the Board of Directors of this ecoorganisation since 2012. It promotes the circular economy through + info this eco-organisation. > SOCIETE GENERALE: THE FIRST EUROPEAN BANK TO BE ISO 50001 CERTIFIED (1) Since 2006, French legislation has stipulated that issuers of unsolicited printing for business purposes (publicity, free press advertisements, corporate publications, etc.) aimed at individual consumers must contribute to the financing of the recycling, recovery and destruction of such material by local authorities. EcoFolio, a state-approved private company, was set up in 2007 to enable companies to uphold this obligation. (1) The Group’s environmental issues cover a wider scope than the consolidated subsidiaries. This figure includes employees outside the HR and financial scope of the following subsidiaries: ALD Automotive Brazil, ALD Automotive India, ALD Automotive Turkey, ALD Automotive Ukraine, Concilian France and SG Mauritanie. These subsidiaries are not consolidated on the HR and financial level. (2) In order to ensure the comparability of the data and in order to present the environmental indicators on the basis of constant criteria, the reference year has been changed to factor in the integration of Newedge. Historical data has been restated as follows: new indicators integrated into the calculation of CO2 emissions have also been integrated into the historical data. The restatements do not correct the variations related to the growth or the reduction of the activity within the entity itself. (3) Coverage represents entities having contributed to data in proportion to their FTE (full-time equivalent) workforce. (4) Includes office paper, documents for customers, envelopes, account statements and other types of paper. (5) Includes own data centres hosted in France. Only the energy consumption of own data centres is included in total electricity. (6) Greenhouse gases (GHG). (7) CO2 emissions avoided through generation and consumption of electricity from renewable sources. (8) Includes direct emissions related to energy consumption and emissions of fluorinated gases. (9) Includes indirect emissions related to energy consumption. (10) Includes GHG emissions related to overall paper consumption, business travel, transport of goods and energy consumption of data centres hosted in France. 48 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T ACTION TO BENEFIT THE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Ref. year Environmental information Units 2015 2014 2012(2) GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Total number of Group employees(1) Employees 146,492 148,324 149,812 Total number of occupants covered in the reporting Occupants 153,512 152,391 143,464 Coverage data collection scope % 100% 99% 89% Total surface area counted m 2 4,029,343 4,046,680 3,921,013 POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste Tonnes 16,071 16,346 15,503 Coverage (3) % 90% 86% 62% Business travel M de km 504 508 437 Coverage (3) % 98 % 99 % 90 % Business travel per occupant Km 3,358 3,374 3,101 Plane Millions of km 238 248 168 Train Millions of km 49 52 51 Car Millions of km 217 207 219 SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES Water consumption Millions of m3 2.00 2.01 1.64 Coverage (3) % 98% 94% 71% Total paper consumption(4) Tonnes 16,545 17,676 17,249 Coverage(3) % 100% 100% 91% Total paper consumption per occupant Kg 108 116 125 Office paper consumption Tonnes 8,367.36 8,856.41 8,774.43 Coverage(3) % 100% 100% 89% Office paper consumption per occupant Kg 54.5 58.1 63.4 of which recycled office paper % 48% 38% 38% Total energy consumption GWh 861 904 916 Coverage(3) % 100% 100% 90% Total consumption per occupant KWh 5,661 5,915 6,385 Total electricity consumption GWh 617 635 666 Total electricity consumption per occupant KWh 4,052 4,151 4,640 Electricity production from renewable sources MWh 1,432 304 434 Consumption of energy by data centres (5) GWh 99 111 213 CLIMATE CHANGE GHG emissions(6) T CO2 e 326,377 355,079 346,416 Coverage (3) % 97% 98% 98% GHG emissions per occupant T CO2 e 2.19 2.37 2.47 GHG emissions avoided (7) T CO2 e 32,815 17,898 32,736 SCOPE 1 (8) T CO2 e 30,839 33,035 32,702 SCOPE 2 (9) T CO2 e 202,418 215,927 216,046 SCOPE 3 (10) T CO2 e 93,121 106,117 97,668 > FIND ALL THE DATA OF THE REPORT 49 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 50 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T EMPLOYMENT CULTURE 15,155 EMPLOYEES RECRUITED 4 VALUES TO SHAPE BEHAVIOUR ON PERMANENT TOWARDS CONTRACTS WORLDWIDE CUSTOMERS 23,385 DEVELOPMENT INTERNAL MOBILITY MOVEMENTS 25.2 TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY 59% WOMEN 50% WOMEN WITHIN ON THE THE GROUP BOARD AGREEMENT AND CHARTER 122 1INTERNATIONAL 1CHARTER NATIONALITIES FRAMEWORK OF “15 COMMITMENTS FOR AGREEMENT WORK-LIFE ON FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS BALANCE” 51 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Societe Generale aims to set the standard for relationship banking. ■ Developing a relationship banking culture based on common values. This ambition shapes the Group’s Human Resources policy, which Societe Generale’s corporate culture is based on its values (team closely links the human element to strategy, and corporate culture spirit, innovation, commitment, responsibility), the behaviour and to performance, all in service of the customer. Accordingly, in order skills they inspire, and the conduct to be followed by the employees to gain the best understanding of the specific challenges facing the working in these businesses. It has been shaped by more than businesses and any changes in the environment, the HR Department 150 years in service of its customers. The focus is on the customer, has the following strategic priorities: and all employees are guided by the Group’s fundamental values. Societe Generale’s new Leadership Model contributes to this ■ S  upporting the Group’s rapidly changing businesses. The banking approach, in particular through its integration into all HR processes. landscape is undergoing profound change: the evolution of customer It is this corporate culture that makes the Societe Generale Group and stakeholder expectations, the emergence of new technologies, unique and enables it to properly meet the expectations of all its and the regulatory framework are transforming Societe Generale’s stakeholders. businesses and the skills required to work in them. The Group must anticipate the skills that its businesses will require in the medium and ■ F ostering employee commitment. The Human Resources Department long term and the skills that are no longer essential. It must also allow pays close attention to employee commitment, which is intrinsically employees to develop their employability through training and the linked to team performance. Recognising each individual’s formulation of clear career paths while recruiting the best profiles contribution to the Group’s long-term performance, ensuring wellfor its growing or emerging businesses. Lastly, the digital transition being at work and drawing on the strength of the teams’ diversity is opening the door to new ways of working and new interactions are all essential to maintaining employees’ ties to the company and both internally and with customers. For Societe Generale, this improving efficiency. means seizing this opportunity to grow and develop its employees. Their ability to adapt their skills and ways of working is critical to the sustainability of the businesses. THE SOCIETE GENERALE GROUP’S TEAMS AT THE END OF 2015 The Societe Generale Group employed 145,703 people(1) at the end of 2015, i.e. a 1.7% decrease in total headcount compared with 2014. This headcount represents 131,572 full-time equivalents (FTE). Group headcount (at end of period, excluding temporary staff) 2015 145,703 2014 148,322 2013 147,682 2012 154,009 145,703 in 66 COUNTRIES 2011 2010 159,616 155,617 (1) Total number of employees on permanent contracts or fixed-term contracts, including EMPLOYEES LOCATED work-study contracts, whether they are present or absent. 52 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Geographic breakdown Breakdown of staff by core business 8% (11,472) &HQWUDODQG(DVWHUQ(XURSH   27% :HVWHUQ(XURSH $PHULFDV (39,258)     $VLDDQG2FHDQLD $IULFDDQG0LGGOH(DVW     50% 15% (73,252) (21,721) 145,703 employees located in 66 countries, including: ■ F rench Retail Banking 40.3%, Functions of Societe Generale branch network, Credit du Nord and Mainland (i.e. 58,712 people of which Boursorama France 43,228 at Societe Generale SA) ■G  lobal Banking and Investor Solutions Russia 13.6% Functions from corporate and investment banking, private banking, asset management and securities services Czech Republic 6.7% ■ International Retail Banking and Financial Services Romania 6.3% Functions of retail banking outside mainland France, and specialised businesses (insurance, operational vehicle leasing and fleet management, vendor and equipment finance) ■C  entral Divisions Mix of countries in which Societe Generale has operations: Expert and resource functions for the Group (finance, risk management, information technology, human resources, legal, compliance, audit, 10.5% of the workforce in low-income or lower-middle income countries(1) communication…) 11.6% in middle-income countries(2) Breakdown of workforce by status 2015 2014 (1) As defined by the World Bank: “Low-income + Lower-middle income economies ($4,125 or less)”, mainly Ivory Coast, Ghana, Georgia, India, Madagascar and Morocco. Overall headcount on permanent contracts at 31st December 135,050 136,759 2) As defined by the World Bank: “Upper-middle-income economies ($4,126 to $12,735)”, mainly Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Tunisia. Overall headcount on fixed-term contracts (including work-study participants) at 31st December 10,653 11,563 Temporary staff 10,891 11,028 + info > DATA.WORLDBANK.ORG 53 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER SUPPORTING CHANGING PROFESSIONS Today, the banking profession is experiencing profound economic, term. This approach is based on implementing the right HR policies, regulatory and technological changes. The Group’s Human Resources particularly with respect to training and filling vacant positions. It gives policy supports this transformation so that each of the Group’s employees the resources to examine their motivations and ambitions businesses has the skills required to serve the needs of its customers, in light of the organisation’s new requirements. while enabling its employees to develop their employability over the long term. This Group-wide strategic workforce planning has a three-pronged approach: ■a  threeto five-year forward-looking macro vision to anticipate major ANTICIPATING AND SUPPORTING qualitative trends in key professions undergoing change or in which CHANGES IN THE BUSINESSES the Group is having difficulties filling vacant positions; it is based on the Group’s strategic plan and on market trends/the market environment; 341,000 ■ a one-year strategic management plan, in conjunction with each business line’s operational plan; this enables the Group to draw up collective development, mobility and recruitment plans for the full year; JOB APPLICATIONS PROCESSED ■a  n individual development plan for each employee, which relates 15,155 back to the individual management process (training, professional development) and the performance management process. Through the Societe Generale job trends observatory in place PERMANENT CONTRACTS RECRUITED since 2013, the Group was involved in 10 studies with the Branch 23,385 Observatory (AFB Association française des banques, the French banking association); as such, close attention was paid to the impact of digital technology on the banking professions. INTERNAL MOBILITIES AN EMPLOYMENT DYNAMIC THAT RESPONDS TO 85.6% THE GROUP’S CHANGES Movements: arrivals and exits 2015 2014 RETENTION RATE OF EMPLOYEES ON New hires on permanent contracts 15,155 16,061 PERMANENT CONTRACTS New hires on fixed-term contracts 9.2 YEARS (including work-study participants) 9,627 9,753 Departures of employees on permanent contracts 19,402 18,212 Turnover of employees on permanent contracts 14.4 % 13.3 % AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE (1) (1) Exit rate for permanent contracts (ratio between all departures and end-of-period headcount for permanent contracts). STRATEGIC WORKFORCE PLANNING: A KEY TOOL Recruitment: attracting talent that the group needs The strategic workforce planning in place since 2013 is a key tool to In the 2015 financial year, the Group’s recruitments broke down as support the current and future development of the Group’s businesses: follows: it corresponds to a strategic management approach that gives the Group the skills its business lines will need in the medium and long ■ 1  5,155 permanent contracts, including 50.6% women; 54 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER ■ 9  ,627 fixed-term contracts, including 67.3% women. The average length of service within the Group is 9.2 years. In France, Societe Generale recruited: Specific focus on inducting young people ■ 3  ,901 permanent contracts (of which 2,541 for Societe Generale One of Societe Generale’s HR challenges is attracting, recruiting and SA in France); retaining the best talent, particularly junior employees, whose academic ■ 3  ,859 fixed-term contracts (including work-study contracts). experience matches the Group’s skill requirements. The Group is therefore committed to a proactive approach to the professional The recruitment and talent attraction policy is adapted to the integration of young people. Accordingly: characteristics of each business line and activity, in addition to the ■a  t the end of 2015, nearly 3,300 work-study participants and specific regional environment. Volunteers for International Experience (VIEs) were stationed within The careers.societegenerale.com website is the key tool for interaction the Group’s French entities, a figure in line with the legal requirement. with candidates. Since 2013, it has provided the Group with a unified A total of 5,056 work-study participants were hosted Group-wide recruitment process in 20 countries. In 2015, 341,000 applications during the year; were submitted via the Careers website, which had received more than 3.4 million hits. ■ in the 2015 financial year, 3,990 interns were welcomed in France (including subsidiaries). These training courses, most of which are Focus: growth in the it professions mandatory for graduation, allow students to be immersed in the Specific efforts have been made over the course of several years to business world, while benefiting from the support and guidance recruit employees across the entire IT function (central divisions and of their training supervisor. Globally, the Group welcomed 11,094 business divisions, particularly Global Banking and Investor Solutions interns during the year. and French Retail Banking). For example, Societe Generale SA in France recruited 600 IT professionals during 2015, including nearly Societe Generale’s former interns, VIEs and work-study participants 300 on permanent contracts. Promoting the Bank's attractiveness to represent a priority recruiting ground for recent graduates. To attract these candidates is a key recruitment challenge, which is why Societe the best candidates and retain the loyalty of the recent graduates who Generale has sought out additional opportunities to interact with them, make up this talent pool, Societe Generale has, for example: whether on the social networks (e.g., via the @SG_InsideIT account, ■p  artnered with a number of schools and institutes of higher where every week an employee from the IT function describes a education worldwide. In France and Europe, for example, the Group typical workday at Societe Generale) or at specific events (hackathons, has partnered with more than 50 schools and institutes of higher conferences, presentations at schools and universities, etc.). education (university, engineering or business training); The growth in the number of IT employees responds to the needs ■h  eld “1 contrat en 1 jour” recruitment events, where applicants can brought about by new practices associated with the digital transition sign a work-study contract in one day; (social interactions, mobility, instantaneousness, etc.). These trends hold true on several levels and have a direct impact on the Group’s ■ funded educational programmes and research through 11 chairs, businesses, such as the evolution of the relationship and interactions with a EUR 1.5 million commitment in 2015 (e.g. Energy & Finance with current and prospective customers, the transformation of products Chair with HEC, Financial Risk Chair with the École Polytechnique, and services, and the transformation of operational models and the UPMC and the École Nationale des Ponts et Chaussées); working environment for employees. ■ established the Global Banking and Investor Solutions’ GeneratioNext Departures and turnover (interns, VIEs and apprentices) and Junior Programme (recent In 2015, a total of 19,402 employees on permanent contracts left the graduates) support and development programmes, which serve as Group, for an overall Group turnover rate for employees on permanent in-house launching pads (development of the professional network, contracts of 14.4% (up 1.1% compared with 2014). The main reasons mentoring, in-depth introduction to the businesses, training seminars, for departure were, in descending order of importance: resignations etc.). These programmes each have more than 1,500 members (49%), redundancies (38%, of which 60% at the Russian entities) and worldwide; retirements (10%). ■ promoted the entry exam to join the General Inspection Department. The voluntary turnover rate for employees on permanent contracts The 2015 edition of this entry exam enabled 34 recent graduates (due to resignations only) was 7% (versus 8.4% in 2014). This rate was of 13 different nationalities to join the Group’s General Inspection 5.2% excluding the Russian entities (where, in addition to significant Department. structural adjustments, turnover rates are traditionally high), with rates that are particularly subdued in key countries such as France (3.3%) These initiatives demonstrate the Group’s determination to attract and and the Czech Republic (3.6%). Nevertheless, voluntary turnover recruit talent by raising their awareness, from their very first contact varied by business and geographical area: highly competitive financial with the company, of the challenges and responsibilities of the banking markets (especially in Asia) and countries with a dynamic labour sector and its professional realities. They also reflect the Group’s market have higher voluntary turnover rates than most of the Group’s determination to guide students as they formulate their professional entities. Specific, targeted actions have been undertaken to retain goals and give them the keys to understanding their future working the best talent. environment. 55 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER INTERNAL MOBILITY, A VECTOR conducted in the Information Technology Division of Global Banking and FOR IMPLEMENTING TRANSFORMATION Investor Solutions since mid-2014. + info > CAREERS.COM WEBSITE > SOCIETEGENERALE.COM WEBSITE : HACKATHON MOBILITY RATE: > TWITTER ACCOUNT @SG_INSIDEIT 17% DEVELOPING THE SKILLS AND EMPLOYABILITY OF STAFF MEMBERS OVER 60% OF PERMANENT POSITIONS FILLED THROUGH INTERNAL MOBILITY 25.2 HOURS Societe Generale is determined to develop an active, effective internal OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE mobility policy in order to promote the ongoing adaptation of employee skills to the rapid changes in the economic, regulatory and technological environment. 4 MOOCs In 2015, the Group’s internal mobility rate was 17% with 23,385 employees moving worldwide. In total, more than 60% of DEPLOYED INTERNALLY permanent positions were filled through internal mobility during the year. 4TH RANKED COMPANY IN THE CAC 40 IN At Societe Generale SA in France, internal mobility is steered by the “Campus Métiers Mobilité” (Job Mobility Campus) which centralises the TERMS OF DIGITAL MATURITY positions to be filled for the core businesses(1) and corporate divisions. It offers employees greater visibility on internal opportunities and gives them priority for filling positions. In total, more than 8,700 employees were moved internally at Societe Generale SA in France in 2015 (i.e. a mobility rate of 21%), including 2,500 via the Campus. ADAPTING THE TRAINING POLICY TO MEET Group-wide, the mapping produced since 2013 of all professions and CURRENT BUSINESS AND CUSTOMER NEEDS the identification of possible connections between different professions have made it possible to offer employees better guidance regarding Societe Generale puts a great deal of effort into training to enable their mobility options. A “jobs” intranet allows them to simulate its employees to develop their skills and employability, taking into various clear paths depending on their experience. By offering internal account the needs of the company and its customers and their future opportunities for advancement, this mobility policy also promotes development. Strategic training initiatives are analysed and prioritised loyalty among employees, who become deeply attached to the Group: by the Learning Board, composed of Executive Committee and Management Committee members. In 2015, the emphasis was on: the 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey measured a rate of pride of belonging to the Societe Generale group of 84% among ■ overhauling management training in conjunction with the Group’s employees (up 6 points from 2013). Leadership Model (see page 58); International mobility is also encouraged to support the company’s ■ d eveloping innovative solutions to disseminate knowledge, particularly intercultural dimension. At the end of 2015, the Group had approximately through digital (see page 57); 1,000 international mobility employees (all origin and destination ■ c ontinuing specific support initiatives. countries combined), including 60% within Global Banking and Investor Solutions (London, New York, Singapore, Hong Kong, etc.), 30% within In 2015, 77% of the Group’s employees were able to finish at least International Retail Banking and Financial Services (mainly on the African one training programme, for a total of close to 4 million hours, of continent and in Eastern Europe) and 10% in the corporate divisions. which 14% were completed remotely (e-learning, virtual classes, etc.). The Group has simultaneously developed short-term assignments This represents an average of 25.2 hours of training per employee, abroad, lasting a few months, for employees on international teams. compared with 24.4 in 2014. A total of EUR 93 million was earmarked These assignments are more flexible than an expatriation contract and for training expenses (3% more than in 2014, due in particular to the can increase synergies and facilitate relationships within multicultural integration of Newedge’s training programmes and the increased use teams. The employees involved overwhelmingly supported the testing of work-study contracts, see page 55). Most of the training provided (1) Excluding internal movements within the French Retail Banking Network, which are managed in a decentralised manner in light of its organisation and geographic breakdown. 56 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER was related to business-specific expertise, with a focus on technology; Development of a digital culture the remainder involved the Group’s cross-business modules, including In 2014, Societe Generale launched its “Digital for All” programme the risk management, regulatory, managerial, behavioural and personal with the aim of relying on all employees to accelerate the bank’s development components. digital transition by encouraging everyone to adopt digital tools. Most Group employees worldwide now have collaborative tools available Development and professional training with internal at their workstation, and 70,000 tablets have been distributed. These academies tablets come with a suite of application tools that make it easier for employees to do their daily work. A community of early adopters, Societe Generale continued to expand its development courses and equipped before the project rollout, helped promote this digital professional training for the functions in 2015. Designed to improve culture by sharing best digital practices. A variety of internal events skills and knowledge, these programmes are grouped into academies, (conferences, hackathons, etc.) also gave employees opportunities to which provide reinforced support and help to align practices abroad. learn about digital innovations. Some of the current initiatives include: Societe Generale also confirmed its position as the fourth-ranked ■ t he Banker’s Academy programme, led by senior bankers and company in the CAC 40 in terms of digital maturity at the second annual eCAC40 awards organised by Les Échos Business and Gilles Babinet. internal experts in advising large corporates and designed for employees with experience in the sales functions across the Group; Digitisation of training ■ t he Societe Generale has committed to an ambitious strategy to rethink Retail Banking Academy course, which certifies participants to training in the digital age. New procedures are emerging within the an international standard, is recognised by the Chartered Bankers Group and give employees the opportunity to grow in areas of their Institute and targets strategic and sales managers in Retail Banking; choosing, at their own pace and at the location that suits them best ■ “ FACs” (using mobile tools or from a virtual desktop, for example). In 2015, (Favouring Acquisition of Competence), intended for the Group gave employees access to: salespeople (branches, call centre agents) as soon as they start ■ 4 MOOCs(1): covering digital technology, project management, working at French Retail Banking. These training modules cover the financial analysis, risks and compliance. Through numerous self-tests, related behavioural, technical, business-specific and risk aspects; videos and interactions with the learning communities, they help ■ t he HR Academy, which helps disseminate the HR operational employees delve deeper into the different topics available; model and fosters professionalism among the HR Business Partners ■ m ore than 100 self-study videos on the intranet (general economic (HRD and HR managers) and HR experts in France and abroad. and banking culture, data protection, IT tutorials, employee savings, management control, etc.); Internal promotion: cursus cadre and passerell’e ■ 1 ,900 hours of training through virtual classes, which use short (one The long-established Cursus Cadre and Passerell’E initiatives, vectors to two hours), effective formats and provide the interactivity necessary for employability and internal promotion in France, were renewed for sharing practices, while limiting travel; in 2015, in a format that places a greater emphasis on working ■ nearly 100 new Rapid Learning modules(2), designed strategically collaboratively through the use of digital tools: and in response to specific needs by Societe Generale experts in ■ t he France and abroad, using a solution implemented throughout the “Cursus Cadre” is an 18-month training programme that enables Group since 2012. high-potential employees to obtain “cadre” status, thereby preparing them for greater responsibility and, in some cases, team leadership; DEVELOPING NEW WAYS OF WORKING AND ■ P asserell’E, a 10-month qualifying course, is designed to help ORGANISATIONAL MODELS employees with their skills development in order to achieve France’s Telecommuting and redefining the workspace banking classification Level E. Telecommuting serves a dual purpose: to develop innovative operating procedures in the digital age and help employees achieve a better workIn 2015, a total of 380 employees of Societe Generale SA in France life balance (see interview page 65). It is therefore a motivating factor successfully completed the Cursus Cadre and Passerell’E courses. (98% satisfaction rate among telecommuters in France), a source of empowerment, and a performance lever that several Group entities are SUPPORTING THE DIGITAL TRANSITION experimenting with via policies aligned with the local environment. At endTechnological developments have shifted practices towards greater 2015, the number of regular telecommuters in the Group almost tripled compared with 2014, increasing from 1,800 to nearly 5,000 people, mobility and created new ways to interact. Societe Generale sees half of whom work for Societe Generale SA in France. Telecommuting is these technological changes as an opportunity to transform and also widespread in the United Kingdom (nearly 800 employees), Czech improve its relationship with its customers and employees across all Republic (500) and Russia (300), as well as in Germany, Belgium and Group business lines. Romania (200 each). (1) Massive Open Online Course. (2) 15-20-minute long e-learning modules designed internally by business line experts. 57 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER The Group is also experimenting with new approaches to the workspace ecosystem. Societe Generale therefore draws on collective internal that encourage mobility, interaction and cooperation. Involving employees and external innovative capacity and strength to reinvent banking. in the design process (when they move, for example) makes it easier for In Africa, a good example of the open innovation initiative in 2015 them to make the space their own, when offices are more modular and was the creation of the PanAfrican Valley Community, which involves less formal. This is the case, for example, in Luxembourg, London, New Strategic Talents (see page 60) from subsidiaries in 14 African York and, shortly, Val-de-Fontenay, where the new real estate complex countries. Through daily multimodal exchanges (social networks, “les Dunes” will house all the Ile-de-France IT teams in 2016. This eastern events, conference calls, etc.) and regular interactions with innovative Paris technology park will give Societe Generale the opportunity to test local actors, members of this community become actors in the Bank’s FlexWork, which is based on the principle that everyone should choose transformation in Africa, working on concrete projects that relate to the their workspace according to their needs at the time, whether this means challenges facing the business lines on the continent. on-site at Societe Generale or off-site. Experimenting with new working methods + info > PRESS PACK : OPEN INNOVATION The open innovation initiative undertaken by the Group in 2015 gives the teams the chance to collaborate with the external innovation ecosystem (startups, FinTech, experts) to increase their creativity, agility and speed in their project development process. In addition to promoting alternative working methods (“pizza teams”, continuous improvement through the Test & Learn method or user experience), the Group encourages teams to immerse themselves in innovative communities so they can bounce their ideas off experts in this DEVELOPING A RELATIONSHIP BANKING CULTURE BASED ON COMMON VALUES ENGAGING THE TEAMS AROUND and a desire for individual and collective excellence (commitment and team spirit, respectively), as well as attention to ethics and to THE GROUP’S VALUES compliance with rules (responsibility). Societe Generale wants to set the standard for relationship banking, be These values will bring employees together while also bringing them close to its customers and be chosen for the quality and commitment closer to their customers. Specific governance is being established of its teams. Merely making customer satisfaction a priority will not at the highest level of the company to measure the change in the turn this ambition into reality: customers must truly be at the forefront corporate culture over the long term with respect to values, behaviour of everybody’s concerns. This means employees must work together, and the conduct to be followed in all the businesses. The Board of regardless of their job within the Group, with one shared objective: Directors and the Executive Committee will be involved. the customer. To achieve this goal, in 2014 Societe Generale redefined its core values + info (commitment and responsibility were added to the long-standing values > SOCIETEGENERALE.COM WEBSITE : OUR VALUES of innovation and team spirit) and then emphasised the behaviour and skills through which these values will be expressed by all employees in service of the customer. TRANSLATING VALUES Discussions about Societe Generale’s new Leadership INTO BEHAVIOUR Model were held among Group senior management (Executive Societe Generale’s new Leadership Model translates the customer Committee and Management Committee) and nearly 300 focus and each of the company’s four values into the required skills. managers. They helped strengthen the corporate culture which These are categorised for the three main levels of responsibility within combines the ambition to grow the business (innovation/customer) the company: senior management, managers and employees, thereby 58 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER introducing a common language that provides everyone with the keys to candidates evaluated according to the Leadership Model is one of their success at the Group. For example, for employees, the five areas the keys to changing the corporate culture over the long term. of focus are reflected in the following behavioural skills: FOCUS ON “RESPONSIBILITY” The core of the expertise of Societe Generale’s businesses lies in TEAM SPIRIT knowing and understanding risks and knowing how to control and RESPONSABILITY manage them. Risk management is a key aspect of the “Responsibility” focus of the Leadership Model. I focus my energy I lead ethically and talent on and with courage Since 2011, one of the components of the Enterprise Risk Management collective success (ERM) programme has been tied to the corporate culture through the Group’s “Culture RISK” initiative. I work to increase This is based on several HR mechanisms, including the our impact on clients systematic assessment of the “sense of risk” of candidates in the recruitment process, put in place in France since 2012 and in certain subsidiaries abroad since 2013. The goal is to select candidates who I provide inspiration and show behaviour from the start that is suitable for the Group’s encourage commitment INNOVATION throught my example and demanding nature with regard to risk management and to rule out my consideration for others those whose attitude would be inconsistent with this aspect. This I know how to think out of the box and create initiative has now been incorporated into the more comprehensive the conditions that COMMITMENT analysis of candidates’ behavioural skills (see above). breed innovation Since 2013, the behaviour of employees and managers whose professional activities have a significant impact on the Group’s risk profile have also been assessed by the Risk Management Division and by Compliance to complement the performance management process (see infra). Furthermore, nonThe new competency guide resulting from the Leadership compliant behaviour may be reported via the support functions working Model then provides concrete and practical examples of the directly with market participants. As a result of these measures, there behaviours that stem from each of these skills and that are are now several ways to sound the alarm about employees whose observable — and therefore measurable. behaviour does not meet the Group’s risk and compliance expectations. In conjunction with this guide, a self-assessment intranet tool is Their variable remuneration could be affected, if accessible to all. By answering 20 questions, the respondent can necessary. situate him or herself relative to the behaviour that is expected and More broadly, the awareness and training components can then use the development tools provided to improve in any areas of the Culture RISK initiative is of the utmost importance, with, to that may be necessary. date, an awareness-raising e-learning course successfully The priority in 2015 was to raise all Group managers’ awareness of completed by more than 52,000 employees around the world. this Leadership Model so they can in turn explain it to their teams by The success and the impact of the Culture RISK programme were the beginning of 2016. confirmed by the 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey: 86% of More than 100 workshops and seminars were held in employees believe that risks are accurately measured when any major all Group business lines and functions to ready all the teams to decision is made (15 points higher than in 2013) and 80% think that integrate the Leadership Model into the HR processes that the Culture RISK action plan has been adequately implemented within everyone comes in contact with over time. their team to avoid any damage to the Group’s reputation (question not asked in 2013). Moreover, in 2015, a self-assessment conducted by 400 TAKING EXPECTED BEHAVIOUR INTO managers worldwide showed how deeply entrenched the Risk Culture has become in the Group’s processes, for example in ACCOUNT IN THE HR PROCESSES terms of risk management and taking risk control into account in remuneration. CANDIDATE EVALUATIONS The tasks assigned to each new employee require specific behavioural Lastly, the “Responsibility” focus of the Leadership Model also reflects skills that have been identified and are consistent with the new Societe Generale’s requirement that employees meet the highest Leadership Model. standards of integrity in everything they say and everything they do. As such, the Code of Conduct (see page 20) is a critical tool, These skills are clearly detailed and are sought in regarding which employees — particularly those at Global Banking candidates through a common matrix that is used during and Investor Solutions — once again received training in 2015. In recruitment interviews. After a test phase in France in mid-2015, particular, the Code of Conduct defines the Group’s expectations of this initiative became more widely used at the end of 2015, for each all its employees and provides the information required to manage its position to be filled at the company. Recruiters have therefore been businesses ethically and in compliance with the laws of the countries a priority target for training on the new Leadership Model, as hiring in which the Group operates. 59 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER INTEGRATING THE LEADERSHIP MODEL INTO IDENTIFYING, TRAINING AND PROMOTING THE MANAGERIAL CULTURE THE NEXT GENERATION OF MANAGERS In 2015, the managerial development programmes in place at the The first people who will have to embody Societe Generale’s new different Group entities were reviewed. The Group’s training teams Leadership Model are the Group’s current and future senior managers. and the different business lines, divisions and countries collaborated to develop a common programme. This new participatory managerial This model is thus now central to several key initiatives to identify, train programme — focused entirely on the challenges facing the business and promote the leaders of tomorrow. lines — is centred on the Leadership Model. It will be rolled out GroupDetection of and support for strategic talent wide over the course of 2016 with separate modules for local, middle and strategic managers. The aim of the Strategic Talent approach is to detect, develop and build the loyalty of high-potential employees to prepare the next generation of managers. A Strategic Talent is defined as an employee who embodies the Group’s values, performs well over the long term, and has strong 93% potential for advancement. With its systematic approach, the Strategic Talent policy identifies individuals around the world on an objective basis defined by the Leadership Model, gives them the same chances OF EMPLOYEES ASSESSED to bring out their potential and enables them to advance within the 600 Group. This initiative involves both the managerial line and the HR line and is supported by a transparent communication process vis-à-vis the employees in question. The talent pool created represents 2.5% of BENEFICIARIES OF THE CORPORATE Group headcount; it consists of emerging, confirmed Strategic Talents UNIVERSITY PROGRAMMES and potential executives. Corporate university, dedicated to developing leadership 2.5% The Corporate University is an internal centre of expertise launched OF STAFF IDENTIFIED AS at the end of 2010 dedicated to developing leadership qualities in the most senior managers, Strategic Talents, and the Group’s senior STRATEGIC TALENTS leaders. The modules it offers focus on the development of behavioural skills, which explains why its programmes have been reworked to fully incorporate the Leadership Model as adapted for senior managers. The Corporate University offers a true forum for dialogue and networking CHANGES TO THE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT among senior managers and between peers, for participants from PROCESS more than 50 countries, in a teaching environment that promotes To ensure that this new Leadership Model is firmly rooted in the daily cooperation and teamwork. professional work of every employee, it has now been incorporated In 2015, more than 600 Group employees attended its programmes. into the performance management process. Aligning the annual appraisal with the Leadership Model is considered a key component Succession plans of the transformation. Societe Generale is paving the way for the next generation of managers Societe Generale’s performance management process uses common with the succession plans in place for the Group’s various scopes, criteria to recognise each employee’s skills and foster employee both in France and abroad. The plans for 300 Group key positions development and the emergence of Strategic Talents. It assesses not are monitored by General Management. The plans for 1,500 strategic only the achievement of operational results, but also the manner in Group positions are approved and monitored by the Core Businesses which these results are obtained. Starting in January 2016, one to two development objectives will have to relate to the areas of focus of the and Corporate Divisions. The behaviour and interpersonal skills of the Leadership Model, drawing on the concrete and measurable examples people identified as potential successors are analysed through the provided in the new Group skills guide (see “Translating values into lens of the Group’s new Leadership Model based on a matrix similar behaviour”, page 58). to that used when hiring new employees (see “Candidate evaluations”). In 2015, a total of nearly 116,900 Group employees had an evaluation One of the criteria used to identify potential successors for a Group interview, i.e. 93% of the headcount on permanent contract (up four key position is whether this behaviour is consistent with the new points from 2014). Leadership Model. 60 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER MEASURING BEHAVIOURAL CHANGE 360° evaluation of group key positions Employee satisfaction survey A new 360° questionnaire was designed on the basis of Societe The Employee Satisfaction Survey (“Employee Barometer”) is a Generale’s Leadership Model. It evaluates the holders of 300 Group comprehensive and anonymous internal survey conducted every two key positions worldwide and nearly 1,000 managing directors in Global years that is used to develop improvement action plans. In 2015, the Banking and Investor Solutions. This annual evaluation, first conducted survey questions were revised with the Leadership Model in mind at the end of 2015, is used to analyse how the daily actions and and a more streamlined questionnaire was developed such that each behaviour of key managers are perceived by their employees, peers question could be tied to one of the Group’s four values. The results of and superiors. It also gives the subjects of the questionnaire an idea of the survey show how employees’ feelings and experiences compare their impact on their colleagues and shows them where they stand in with the practices and behaviours associated with the company’s relation to the expectations of the Leadership Model, while fostering a values. They will also be used to measure the forward movement and discussion with their managers about avenues for development when change in the corporate culture over time, based on future surveys. they have their performance management interviews (see page 60). The 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey was carried out Individually, the results of these assessments shed additional light on among 132,500 Group employees in 76 countries, for a participation the performance management process, while the consolidated results rate of 68% (a rate that has increased steadily since the first survey will provide a way to measure changes in managerial practices over was conducted in 2009). Its results were communicated to all time. employees, both in general (Group results) and for their specific scope (entity results). INTEGRATING THE RELATIONSHIP BANKING CULTURE INTO THE TEAMS’ IT CO M DAILY LIFE R S PI M I *v s6 TM AM 5% ENCOURAGING THOUGHTFUL BEHAVIOUR TE in EN 2013 T The rationale for the cultural transformation is first and foremost to build closer relationships with our customers by meeting their expectations and furthering Societe Generale’s stated “Relationship Banking” ambition. To achieve excellence in customer satisfaction, however, the same attention must be paid to the relationship with and among employees: developing relationships of trust within a team and with its manager is vital to developing this same relationship with its customers. That is the reasoning behind the launch of an “attention symmetry” TY IN LI initiative, initially developed in the French networks (Societe Generale V BI and Crédit du Nord) and Corporate Resources (IT, Purchasing, Real NO AT SA I ON N Estate, Innovation) and then gradually expanding to the entire Group S PO RE via the rollout of the Leadership Model. This programme, in which the quality of employee relations mirrors customer satisfaction, thus seeks to encourage manager accessibility, direct contact and employee empowerment, as well as to foster a listening culture at every level of The Group results highlighted strong subscription to the organisation. the “Responsibility” (79%) and “Team Spirit” (76%) values. They showed significant progress on commitment (70%, 5 points higher The effectiveness of this initiative and the degree to which it has been than in 2013), an improvement that could relate to the numerous successfully implemented are assessed for different scopes. For initiatives implemented since 2013 (e.g. enhanced managerial example, within the Corporate Resources and Innovation division, a practices at various entities, internal roadshow by the Executive semi-annual internal survey showed that managerial practices have Committee to share the medium-term strategy, celebration of the improved, particularly with respect to supporting employees’ ideas and Group’s 150th anniversary around the world, etc.). recognising team successes (69% favourable opinion in 2015, up 1 point in 18 months) and managers’ constructive response to possible The “Innovation” value (72%) emerged as an area with room for mistakes (69% favourable opinion in 2015, up 3 points in 18 months). improvement, although some of its components scored quite well, such User satisfaction with the services provided by these teams improved as managers’ strong listening skills when employees go to them with at the same time, including for services related to IT infrastructure (70% ideas and suggestions (82%). satisfaction rate in 2015, up 7.3 points in two years). More broadly, Action plans for all the values are being developed jointly by managers, at the Group level, the 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey showed HR and teams in the different scopes. Some were launched in the fall of that 82% of Group employees believe there is a strong mutual respect 2015 and the rest will be implemented over the course of 2016. among members of their team. 61 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER PROMOTING A QUALITY EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE DIALOGUE All the structural and cultural transformations underway at the Group require a high-quality, constructive and broad-based social dialogue, which in 2015 was demonstrated by three milestones: ■ the ongoing strategic dialogue between the union organisations and Group Management; ■ the reorganisation of the representative bodies at the European level; ■ t he signature of the first global agreement on fundamental rights and trade union rights. Constructive social dialogue and international structure With the establishment since 2013 of bodies for dialogue and consultation on the corporate strategy, Societe Generale and the Agreement signed on 1st June 2015 by Philip Jennings, national union organisations anchored the social dialogue in three UNI Global Union General Secretary and Edouard-Malo Henry, key principles: agility, shared visibility and responsibility. In 2015, this Group Head of Human Resources at Societe Generale took the form of: ■ 2 meetings with the Chief Executive Officer;  For Societe Generale, 2015 was marked by our first ■ 6 meetings of the dialogue and consultation body, attended by global framework agreement, signed and jointly drafted Executive Committee members, to discuss strategic directions and with the global union federation UNI Global Union. We the basis for any projects under consideration; chose to make its theme fundamental human rights, ■ 1 combined seminar for managers, HR and social partners on wellfocusing particularly on freedom of association. being at work; We are pleased to be the first French bank to sign such ■ a n ongoing constructive dialogue on the 12 agreements negotiated a ground breaking agreement. More than just a strong (for Societe Generale SA in France), including major agreements commitment, it is a further concrete step in our policy of such as those on working conditions, gender equality and the social dialogue: this agreement reflects our commitment reorganization of the dialogue bodies at the European level. to ensuring the quality of this dialogue around the world Also, in June 2015, Societe Generale and the global union federation through, among others, the introduction of regular UNI Global Union signed a worldwide agreement on fundamental exchanges with UNI Global Union. It also sends a strong human rights and trade union rights, thus becoming the first French message to our 146,000 employees, confirming our bank to sign such an agreement. This agreement applies to all Group respect for individuals and human rights. entities. (see “human rights”, p.8). Edouard-Malo Henry, Group Head of Human Beforehand, in 2014, the Group’s Human Resources Division Resources established a global structure that coordinates, for each country in which the Bank operates, respect for information from employee representative bodies or employees and application of the local legal + info provisions for implementation of social procedures that guarantee > PRESS RELEASE: SIGNING employee rights during restructuring projects. This coordination helps ensure the same principles are applied throughout the Group. It also ensures that the international framework agreement signed with UNI Global Union is properly implemented at the subsidiaries. Lastly, the dialogue bodies were simplified in 2015 with the creation of the European Group Works Council through the merger of the Group Works Council and the European Works Council. This body operates in such a way as to boost the positioning of the Group’s social communications at the European level, with representation that is consistent with the Group’s organisation within the European Union and with its transnational transformation challenges. The quality of the social dialogue within the Group can be measured by the opinions expressed in the 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey, where only 15% of employees believe that change is occurring too quickly in their entity (a 2-point improvement from 2013). 62 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER FOSTERING EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT RECOGNISING EACH PERSON’S in remuneration. CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMPANY’S TRANSPARENCY AND COMMUNICATION PERFORMANCE To support its development, Societe Generale needs to attract, motivate The principles governing the Group’s remuneration policy, in particular and retain its employees, particularly by offering them a competitive for the categories of staff whose professional activities are liable to have a significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, as per the European remuneration package. This includes monetary remuneration, which aims Capital Requirements Directive No. 2013/36/EU (CRD IV), are detailed to recognise each person’s contribution to the company’s development, in the compensation policy and principles report. Detailed quantitative and employee benefits. The Group also offers a long-term profit-sharing information on those persons likely to have a significant impact on the programme aimed at motivating and increasing the loyalty of certain Group’s risk profile is also sent to the ACPR. categories of employees, in particular key executives and Strategic Talents. Lastly, an active employee share ownership policy is in place For the employees, a Total Reward Statement (TRS) is sent electronically with the aim of involving employees in the Group’s development and every year to staff on permanent contracts and to work-study promoting cohesion. participants at Societe Generale SA in France. This personalised HR informational document provides employees with a complete view of AN ATTRACTIVE AND REWARDING REMUNERATION the components of their overall remuneration for the previous year and POLICY gives them a better understanding of these components. Other Group entities have also provided their teams with such a document, such Monetary remuneration includes a fixed salary, which rewards the as Crédit du Nord and certain Societe Generale branches abroad. ability to satisfactorily hold a position using the requisite skills and is determined in a manner consistent with market practices. It also includes, where applicable, variable remuneration which aims to EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP recognise collective and individual performance. Variable remuneration At the end of 2015, current and former employees of Societe Generale, is contingent on operational and behavioural goals set at the beginning representing approximately 90,000 people, held a total of 6.83% of of the year and as a function of the environment, results and how these the share capital and 11.52% of the voting rights under the Company results were achieved (in connection with the Leadership Model – see and Group Savings Plans. This high employee share ownership page 58 starting in 2016). A company agreement implemented on demonstrates the ongoing commitment of the workforce. 1st January 2014 eliminates the individual commission system for the Retail Banking and Private Banking sales forces in France, replacing it with gross overall annual pay and the variable portion. The Group’s monetary remuneration policy is based on Group-wide principles applied in all the countries and is adjusted to the economic, social and competitive environment of the local markets as well as to the legal and regulatory obligations in force. Where the size of 6.83% the workforces permits, a cross-business review between functions OF THE SHARE CAPITAL and business lines is carried out to ensure consistent, objective remuneration levels between the Group’s different activities and facilitate cross-business cooperation. 11.52% The principles governing the Group’s remuneration policy, in particular OF THE VOTING RIGHTS HELD BY CURRENT for the categories of staff whose professional activities are liable to have a significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, are detailed in the AND FORMER EMPLOYEES compensation policy and principles report, published each year prior to the General Meeting and transmitted to the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution (ACPR—French Prudential Supervisory and Resolution Authority). For the 2015 financial year, personnel expenses for the Group totalled EUR 9,476 million. For Societe Generale SA in France, the average gross annual remuneration(1) amounted to EUR 53,371, an increase of 1.25% as compared to 2014, showing moderate growth (1) Average overall remuneration includes fixed and variable components as well as bonuses, excluding financial remuneration (employer contribution and profitsharing) and employer matching contributions. The average is calculated for all employees excluding those that are regulated (whose professional activities are liable to have a significant impact on the Group’s risk profile), who are subject to monitoring and disclosure elsewhere (see “Transparency and Communication”). 63 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER FREE SHARE PLAN ■ w ork environment (see page 58); To involve each employee closely in the Group’s earnings and future, a ■ s upport during key life events (services that facilitate work-life “free share plan granted to all employees” was implemented in 2010. balance); All employees were awarded 40 shares subject to their continued employment within the Group, performance conditions, and an increase ■ d eveloping the managerial culture (training and awareness initiatives in customer satisfaction. These shares were delivered in two instalments in connection with the Leadership Model). for employees who are French residents for tax purposes (in 2013 and For Societe Generale SA in France, this programme was launched in 2014); for non-residents of France for tax purposes, the first instalment conjunction with discussions with employees and their representatives. was delivered at the end of March 2015 and the second is planned An agreement on working conditions signed in 2015 defines a for 2016. framework for rethinking operating procedures. It also promotes the expansion of best practices by encouraging new initiatives on the MANDATORY EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS, ground as well as ways to share and test them. This agreement also VOLUNTARY PROFIT-SHARING AND COMPANY requires that well-being at work be integrated into organisation or SAVINGS PLAN reorganisation projects that have a high impact on the teams. It will In France, employees are involved in the long-term development of the be monitored regularly by the Well-being at Work Observatory (joint Group via profit-sharing and/or employer contribution schemes. These forum for discussion), chiefly by means of quantitative and qualitative schemes enable employees to finance projects or earn additional income. indicators to measure working conditions, which will be established They are tied to the company’s overall performance (financial and extrastarting in 2016. financial) and regulated by Societe Generale agreements signed with the trade unions every three years. For Societe Generale SA in France, under the agreement signed with the social partners in June 2014, the total 5,000 amount of mandatory employer contributions and voluntary profit-sharing for financial year 2014 rose by 30% from the previous year. The company savings plan proposes mediumand long-term savings, offering employees the opportunity to build up assets under preferential TELECOMMUTERS financial conditions(1) and tax rates through tailored management of a diversified portfolio of investment securities. It comprises a diversified range of seven funds, including the employee share ownership fund (Fonds E). Financial remuneration (consisting of the employer contribution and profit 74% sharing(2)) may be invested in the company savings plan. See also “SRI OF TOTAL HEADCOUNT COVERED employee savings” on page 30. by initiatives on stress prevention + info RATE OF ABSENTEEISM DUE TO ILLNESS 1.9% > 2015 REMUNERATION POLICIES AND PRACTICES REPORT CARING ABOUT EMPLOYEES’ WELL-BEING AT WORK PROMOTION OF WELL-BEING AT WORK INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE EFFICIENCY In addition to the ethical responsibility, Societe Generale considers the At end-2014, Societe Generale’s Executive Committee signed the “15 health and, more broadly, the well-being at work of its employees to Commitments for Work-life Balance” Charter. This charter, introduced be a long-term driver of performance and critical to its attractiveness, by the French Ministry of Social Affairs, Health and Women’s Rights and effectiveness and sustainability. According to the 2015 Employee the French Work-Life Balance and Corporate Parenthood Observatory, Satisfaction Survey, 79% of employees said they were satisfied with their proposes that signatory companies work to improve their employees’ work environment. The Group is convinced there is a very strong link work-life balance. Implementation of the Charter was accompanied by between well-being at work and quality of work. It therefore formalised an ambitious corporate project on well-being at work and in 2015 launched concrete actions in 2015, including heightened awareness of scheduling the “Life at Work” programme, which focuses on six specific themes: meetings and sending emails outside working hours, and the dissemination of self-assessment tools to improve practices and their effectiveness, but ■ individual and collective efficiency (promotion of efficient working also initiatives to support employees on a daily basis (conferences and methods); services relating to parenthood, launch of a dedicated space on the HR ■ h ealth and prevention (relating to the risks inherent in the Group’s intranet to provide information for employee caregivers). businesses); This charter also resonates outside France with the following initiatives ■ t elecommuting and new organisational models (see page 57); conducted in 2015: (1) Employer matching contribution and discount on the Societe Generale share in the event of a reserved capital increase. (2) In addition to Societe Generale SA in France, most French subsidiaries belonging to the Company Savings Plans are subject to an employer contribution and/ or profit-sharing agreement. 64 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER ■ e  stablishment of a flex-time policy at several Group entities (in Romania, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Spain, Serbia Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, India, Taiwan, Canada); ■ r equirement that managers pay greater attention to employees’ workload (in several Asia-Pacific entities in particular). HEALTH AND PREVENTION Social protection Olivier Brun Societe Generale fulfils its social responsibility by actively contributing to the social protection of all its employees, particularly in terms of healthcare, pension, death, invalidity and incapacity benefits. Societe Generale is one of the first groups in the French banking sector to have embarked on teleworking As compulsory benefit plans vary according to the legislation and regulations which apply in each country, each Group entity is in 2013. This new form of work organisation responds responsible for defining the degree of local additional cover needed, in to employees' aspirations towards a better work-life accordance with the objective defined by the Group to offer a minimum balance, the need for companies to be flexible and level of cover at least comparable to local market practices. Working agile and the problems of transport congestion and the alongside their regulatory authorities (and potentially with other Societe reduction of CO2 emissions. Generale entities in the same country), Group entities must also factor Among Societe Generale's 2,500 teleworkers in France, in their development strategy, remuneration policies, and financial more than nine out of ten feel they have found a better position when defining employee cover. For example, Global Banking and Investor Solutions makes every effort to harmonise employee work-life balance since they have been working from benefits with the current local Societe Generale policy when staff are home, especially as it has saved them on average integrated due to an acquisition. In 2015, harmonisation of employee almost two hours of travelling time. benefits between Societe Generale and Newedge affected about 2,000 Teleworking is part of a more global move to improve employees in 12 countries. the quality of work life. Societe Generale's commitment International Retail Banking pays particularly close attention to the to this issue goes way beyond simple convenience or social protection schemes at its subsidiaries, including in Africa. the services offered to employees: it is playing a full role Consequently, all African subsidiaries generally offer health cover in the area of work organisation. In particular, telework to employees and their beneficiaries, personal protection insurance aims to enhance job content and improve the quality of for beneficiaries should the employee die and, in certain cases, complementary pension plans. At the end of 2015, more than 12,000 management and the social environment. employees in the Mediterranean Basin and Sub-Saharan Africa (i.e. These initiatives will improve both the social and 99% of the local workforce) had easier access to care and benefited economic performance of the company as they from the company’s contribution to their healthcare expenses. encourage cultural changes which curb risky behaviour, In France, the Societe Generale Group health plan covered nearly improve collective operations and drive creativity 119,500 people (participating members and beneficiaries). and innovation. The resulting satisfaction and wellPrevention of psychosocial risks and stress in the workplace being lead to more transparent and collaborative group practices. Now calm and constructive working Stress prevention initiatives are conducted in 85 Group subsidiaries and branches in France and abroad, covering 74% of the Group’s relationships within the company are an essential part workforce in total. They seek to inform, train and support employees of high quality customer relationships: interacting likely to encounter situations that could cause stress. This is reflected with a positive employee who is ready to listen has a differently in different countries: significant impact on the customer experience. ■ f ree assistance programmes established in partnership with Olivier Brun, Associate Director of Greenworking healthcare or insurance sector specialists, which allow employees to Training and advisory firm for managerial and speak freely with an outside expert (France, Germany, United States, organizational innovation United Kingdom, Romania, Ireland, Singapore, Taiwan); 65 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER ■ t raining on psychosocial risks and/or awareness-raising through ■ in the Algerian and Moroccan subsidiaries, campaigns were workshops (France, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Czech Republic, conducted to promote breast cancer screening, which was offered Russia, Romania, United Kingdom, Slovenia, Hong Kong, China, to female employees and, in Algeria, to male employees' wives. Japan, Morocco, Tunisia); ■ stress surveys and evaluations (France, Spain, Austria, Germany, + info Denmark, Italy, United Kingdom, Scandinavia); > PRESS RELEASE : LIFE AT WORK ■ leisure and relaxation activities (France, Montenegro, Romania, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Morocco). PROMOTING TEAM DIVERSITY AND Under the Agreement on Working Conditions signed in 2015, AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE Societe Generale in France continued the efforts made since 2008 In addition to the ethical responsibility, the diversity of Societe with all corporate actors and with the support of external stakeholders Generale’s employees and its inclusive culture address a performance specialised in the prevention and management of psychosocial risks. challenge. The diversity of profiles and skills combinations can generate It has set two priorities: preventing internal risks (stress, harassment) a variety of ideas and help the Group identify weak signals to anticipate and external risks (aggression, armed assault). risks and opportunities, adapt and act quickly. First and foremost, they enable the bank to better understand and serve its customers, in all The internal risk training and awareness modules rolled out since markets in which it operates. 2009 (and updated in 2015) have been used to train more than 7,000 employees (including HR, managers and senior management) on psychosocial risk management. In 2016, the stress observatory will be replaced by a working conditions evaluation survey (see above). The results of the new questionnaire sent to all employees (addressing both Two priorities: psychosocial risk factors and protection factors) will enable Societe Generale to continue its efforts on the ground to improve working promoting women conditions. Lastly, a sexual and psychological harassment prevention and international profiles initiative and a specific procedure (listening, mediation, investigation and discipline, if necessary) have been in place since 2005. to positions of responsibility A company agreement on the prevention and management of aggression was signed in 2008. This led to the implementation within the Group’s of mandatory training on conflict situations (taken by all network employees) and specific psychological support programmes management bodies (partnership with the Institut National d’Aide aux Victimes et de Médiation National Institute for Victim Support and Mediation, INAVEM to provide post-traumatic support to employees who have DIVERSITY AT THE HEART OF BUSINESS LINE been victims of armed assault or aggression). CHALLENGES Prevention measures In terms of diversity, the Group has made it a priority to promote women and international profiles to positions of responsibility and seats within The Group continually monitors the possibility of any risks liable to affect the Group’s management bodies. the health of its staff, anywhere in the world. It conducts large-scale prevention campaigns managed at the hyper-local level to respond To this end, a Diversity Board, composed of Executive Committee pragmatically to the needs and concerns of the affected populations. and Management Committee members, was established in 2013. It sets strategic directions by placing diversity issues at the heart of In 2015: business line challenges and ensures progress in gender balance and ■ periodic (annual or every two years) medical check-ups and pandemic internationalisation. This strategy has been adapted for the different disease vaccination campaigns were available to employees in most entities, with each one implementing appropriate action plans to help entities on all continents (covering 77% of Group headcount); the Group achieve its diversity goals. Some HR processes are therefore key drivers of success in this area, particularly the establishment of ■ Societe Generale SA in France organised prevention campaigns succession plans (see page 60) that include international candidates and on sleep, sight, preservation of health, addiction and incentives for profiles. Similarly, close attention is paid to ensuring diverse Strategic participating in sports activities; Talent profiles (see page 60): currently 39% are women and 44% ■p  andemic information and prevention campaigns in the African international (non-French). subsidiaries, primarily on malaria and HIV/AIDS, were continued. The In addition to these priorities, Societe Generale is committed to other HIV/AIDS programme implemented involved all employees and their aspects of diversity, such as generations, social inclusion and disability. A families in each country concerned; it focused on education, testing, variety of initiatives are determined locally, depending on the challenges provision of treatment and the fight against all forms of discrimination; and regulations in the different countries and business divisions. 66 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER RAISING AWARENESS TO CREATE AN INCLUSIVE diversity (family, multicultural, sexual orientation, etc.). CULTURE Since 2011, Societe Generale has taken action to raise managers’ awareness of unconscious biases. The aim is to heighten awareness of the challenges of diversity and inclusion and to deconstruct stereotypes in order to urge everyone to change their daily management behaviours (recruitment, promotion, evaluation, decision-making, etc.). At end59% 2015, 1,430 managers and employees had participated in one of these WOMEN WITHIN THE GROUP training sessions, in France and abroad. The teams’ awareness of diversity and inclusion is also raised through Societe Generale’s support of key events, such as the European Diversity Conference, which Societe Generale sponsored and hosted 43% in 2013 and 2015, and inter-company initiatives such as the JUMP WOMEN AMONG MANAGERS forum (gender balance) and the EVE (gender balance) and OCTAVE (generations) programmes. PROMOTION OF GENDER BALANCE 50% WOMEN ON THE BOARD Gender balance reflects the company’s ability to appoint and promote the person whose skills best match a given position without bias or cultural filters. For this reason, Societe Generale encourages all its managers to promote this balance within their teams, and adopts this approach at the highest level of the company. Gender equality measures The Group’s gender parity policy is adapted locally through specific SHARE OF WOMEN 2015 2014 measures and collective agreements. Group 59.1% 60.2% For Societe Generale SA in France, two agreements signed in 2015 Managers 43.3% 44.0% will have a direct impact on gender equality: Senior management (top 1,000) 21.2% 21.6% ■ t he agreement on working conditions (see page 64); Management Committee (60 members)(1) 20.0% 18.6% ■ t he agreement of 3rd December 2015 on equality in the workplace. Executive Committee (13 members) 15.4% 15.4% It continues to uphold the commitments made in four priority Board of Directors (14 members)(2) 50.0% 42.8% areas of action: training, career development, remuneration and Executives (for Societe Generale SA in France) 45.2% 44.7% work-life balance. It sets out the 10 principles implemented within (1) Management Committee: 12 women (compared with 11 at the beginning of 2014, 8 at the company to make gender equality a reality (for example, using the beginning of 2011 and 6 at the beginning of 2010). the same recruitment process for women and men, increasing (2) Board of Directors: 7 women (including 2 staff-elected directors). the representation of women in management, and committing to Support initiatives encouraging the promotion of women). It defines concrete and The number of support initiatives, the key means to developing female measurable targets and actions, such as the targeted rate of 46% employees’ skills, has risen significantly since 2006, with more than women executives by the end of 2018 (it was 45% at the end of 800 women benefiting from one of the programmes established by 2015), measures that allow female employees on maternity, adoption the Group. Today, the Women in Leadership (WILL) development or parental leave to keep up with the transformations underway in the course is the driving force behind these actions. Designed for female businesses, the methodology for eliminating pay gaps, etc. Strategic Talent, it includes, over an 18-month period, group training, personal coaching and mentoring actions as well as participation in The company also decided to allocate EUR 1.7 million in 2016 to inter-company events. eliminating unjustified pay gaps between men and women doing The Group supports the women’s and mixed networks formed within equivalent jobs or at equivalent managerial or seniority levels within the company that actively and independently help promote gender the company. This new allocation builds on the work done in this area balance. They have enabled their members to attend conferences, in the last six years: between 2008 and 2015, corrective measures share their experiences, benefit from mentoring sessions and take were taken in more than 6,600 cases, for an overall amount of EUR part in personal development workshops which, since 2015, have also addressed subjects related to digitisation to help women advance in this 10.9 million. area. These networks have more than 2,400 members worldwide, incluAs a result of these numerous concrete actions, the bank ding France, the United States, Singapore, India, Luxembourg, Czech Republic, Senegal, Tunisia and Cameroon. In the United Kingdom, the has benefited from the “Label Égalité Professionnelle” “Women’s Network” is part of the “UK Diversity Committee”, which (Professional Equality Label) awarded by French encourages the establishment of networks on various components of independent certification company AFNOR since 2007. 67 COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER In addition, numerous initiatives have been implemented abroad, for Intergenerational cooperation example The Group is committed to representing different generations and ■ in the Czech Republic, the Group’s subsidiaries are focused on is working to improve cooperation among them, mainly through the establishing measures to smooth the return to work after maternity organisation’s digital transition. The “Digital for All” programme and leave (by maintaining contact with the company, returning gradually the dissemination of new digital tools and media have led to the and starting back with part-time work, benefiting from skills upgrades, implementation of numerous initiatives on reverse mentoring and etc.). The “Maternity Programme” at Komerčni Banka has helped the transmission of know-how and knowledge between junior and to increase the rate of women who return after maternity leave from senior employees (see also “Developing new ways of working and 45% (in 2008) to 61% (in 2015); organisational models”, page 57). ■ in Luxembourg, the “Opportunités égales pour hommes et femmes” In addition, the Group focuses special efforts on the professional (Equal Opportunities for Men and Women) project approved and integration of young people, while overseeing the continued supported by the Luxembourg Ministry for Equal Opportunities employment of its older employees and accompanying employees focuses on three topics: equal treatment between men and women, towards retirement. In France, as part of the effort to adapt the gender equality in decision-making processes and reconciling the generation contract, all Group subsidiaries have established specific work-life balance. agreements and/or dedicated action plans to reflect these objectives. For example: INTERNATIONALISATION ■ S ociete Generale SA set an annual target for the recruitment of young Reflecting the various facets of the group’s establishments people on permanent contracts. In 2015, this target was 500 (a target throughout the world that was met and exceeded: 914 young people under the age of 26 were recruited during the year). The generation contract also aims to develop training for seniors, implement health and prevention measures, and adjust seniors’ working hours (progressive part-time 122 and compensated half-time, dedicated to transmission of knowledge and skills or solidarity actions such as partnership/sponsorship with social entrepreneurs/charitable structures); NATIONALITIES REPRESENTED ■ C rédit du Nord set a 5% recruitment target for people over the age of 45 over the span of the Senior action plans (November 2013 to 58% November 2016 — on the second anniversary of the plan, this rate was 11%) in order to ensure a balanced age and experience pyramid, including upon recruitment. OF EMPLOYEES ARE NOT FRENCH INTEGRATION OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES As an employer, Societe Generale endeavours to take the measures required to ensure that disabled employees hold positions which match To better represent the diversity of the business lines, customers, their qualifications and benefit from appropriate working conditions and countries and communities in which the Group operates around the training. world, Societe Generale’s diversity policy also emphasises promoting the diversity of origins and nationalities of its employees. At the end of 2015, Societe Generale employed 2,302 disabled staff (as defined locally) around the world, accounting for 1.6% of the overall Within the Management Committee, 10 nationalities are represented, headcount. The highest proportions can be found in France, Italy and and 25% of members are not French (compared with 22% in 2014). Germany. This is also the case in the Group’s various establishments around the world, where 27% of the members of management bodies In France, Societe Generale SA employs 1,149 disabled staff(1). The three(Management Committees and Executive Committees) do not have year agreement covering the 2014-2016 period reiterates the long-term the local nationality. commitment to the recruitment and professional integration of disabled employees, with an initial target of 150 hires over three years. Initiatives The diversity of Strategic Talent, who make up a global talent pool coordinated in 2015 by Societe Generale’s Mission Handicap focused on that can be mined for succession plans for key Group positions, the following four priorities: is a concrete lever for promoting the international dimension of ■ I ntegration and recruitment: specific mechanisms for promoting the management teams. Today, 51% of emerging Strategic Talent, the integration of the disabled into the workplace, the regarded as the next generation of managers in the medium term, HandiFormaBanques work-study programme, the seventh Pass are non-French. pour l’emploi forum (one of the main recruitment forums in the Paris region, which offers personalised support for candidates and GENERATION BALANCE a place to discuss and interact on employment and disability topics), Within the Group: and partnerships formed with associations, schools and universities. ■ 2 4% of employees are under the age of 30; ■ A wareness-raising and training: actions to support employees and ■ 2 6% managers and eliminate unconscious biases, training for CHSCT(2) of employees are over the age of 45; representatives and multidisciplinary teams, awareness-raising for ■ t he average age is 37.7. employees, mainly at the European Disability Employment Week. (1) Number of disabled employees at 31st December 2015, based on the Mandatory Annual Declaration of Employment of Disabled Workers (Déclaration Obligatoire des Travailleurs Handicapés) criteria. (2) Comités d’hygiène, de sécurité et des conditions de travail, or committees for health, safety and working conditions 68 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T COMMITTING TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER ■ S upport and development : since 2007, nearly 2,500 adjustments Societe Generale also makes sure its services are accessible to made to work stations and working hours to keep disabled disabled customers. For example, in France: employees in their jobs. ■ a lmost all of Societe Generale’s and Crédit du Nord’s automated ■ Responsible sourcing : use of companies in the protected sector teller machines (ATMs) are equipped with voice synthesis and tactile to help create indirect jobs (see “Responsible sourcing”, page 34). sensors, and new facilities comply with accessibility standards for people with disabilities or reduced mobility; In Serbia, the “Inclusive Academy” programme, led by employee ■ S ociete Generale’s mobile application is accessible to the visually volunteers from Societe Generale Srbija, helps young disabled people enter the job market by giving them new skills through workshops impaired; and internships. The programme has assisted 50 young people since ■ a reduced-rate phone number puts visually impaired customers its beginnings in 2011. More than half were able to transform their in direct contact with a customer call centre and 920 customers experience into long-term employment either at the bank or externally. received their bank statements in Braille in 2015; In Romania, the Czech Republic, Spain, Scandinavia, Algeria and ■ a t the end of September 2015, two-thirds of Societe Generale and Japan, recruitment, awareness-raising, induction and support Crédit du Nord branches were declared accessible to persons with programmes have been implemented to promote the employment of disabilities, one year ahead of the legal deadline. The goal is to the disabled. achieve full coverage by 2021 (excluding historical heritage buildings). REPORT OF SOCIETE GENERALE'S MISSION HANDICAP AT END 2015 > FIND ALL THE DATA OF THE REPORT 69 SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY 70 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T MICROFINANCE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 1.9 € 37 MIFs M paid back 50 (PARTNERS ADIE, ADVANS,SPEAR, ONF,... ) FINANCED BY THE BANK to associations MIF MIF MIF MIF MIF MIF MIF MIF €105 M € MIF MIF One Million Award MIF MIF € € MIF donated by Axylia for its range MIF MIF MIF of solidarity products MIF MIF MIF MIF MIF MIF IN MICROFINANCE CREDIT LINES * MicroFinance Institutions FINANCIAL INCLUSION 2 PRODUCTS CERTIFIED BY FINANSOL 33,000 CLIENTS THE SG SOLIDARITÉ FUND AND THE SOLIDARITY SAVINGS SERVICES CARRIED OUT BY PLATFORMS FOR AMICABLE NEGOCIATION THE LABEL 67 GUARANTEES SAVING % PRODUCTS' SOLIDARITY AND AND TRANSPARENCY OF THOSE CLIENTS RETURN TO A SOUND FINANCIAL SITUATION GENERIS 38,500 MOBILE BANKING CLIENTS SIGN UP FOR THIS BASIC MOBILE BANKING BANKING OFFER 71 SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY SUPPORTING EMERGING COUNTRIES AND NEW ECONOMIC ACTORS’ DEVELOPMENT SUPPORTING BUSINESSES Apart from the local development of the agro-business, rapid and efficient access to mobile telephony is a key issue for the Group in AND INDIVIDUALS IN LOWAfrica: AND MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES ■ in Morocco, SGMA took part in a significant EUR 16.8 million Through its network of subsidiaries, the Group actively contributes funding deal with a mobile telephone operator for the installation to the development of the economy in the Group entities’ respective of a submarine cable to improve the network infrastructures and to countries by offering employment, supporting the creation and improve the performance, the speed and the cost-effectiveness of development of businesses, and assisting territorial communities with telecommunications; their projects. Its subsidiaries and branches fully assume their social ■ in Cameroon, Societe Generale is the privileged banker of the and environmental responsibilities and undertake progressive initiatives. country’s leading mobile telephone operators, Orange Cameroon As of the end of 2015, 59.7% of the Group’s staff is located outside of and MTN Cameroon. In 2015 it was the lead manager in a mainland France, of which 10.5% are in low-income or lower-middleEUR 114 million debt-financing transaction by Orange Cameroon, income countries(1) and 11.6% in upper-middle-income countries(2) providing EUR 29 million. It was also involved, to the amount of according to the World Bank’s definition. EUR 12 million, in the EUR 91 million syndicated loan for MTN Cameroon; Societe Generale constantly adapts its range of products and services to the maturity level of each market, proposing new and innovative ■ S ociete Generale Algeria lent EUR 46 million as part of a solutions in countries where access to banking is extremely limited, EUR 374 million syndicated loan for the acquisition and rollout of a i.e. most countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and, to a lesser extent, 3G telecommunications network in Algeria. Eastern Europe. + info The bank has a long-term strategy. Indeed, some of its subsidiaries > AFRICA A CONTINENT OF GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITIES have had a presence in Africa for more than 50 years (Senegal, Ivory Coast and Cameroon), and some for more than 100 years (Morocco). Since opening the subsidiary of Societe Generale Benin in Togo and SUPPORT FOR BUSINESS CREATION AND its subsidiary in Mozambique in 2015, the Societe Generale Group has SMES been established in 18 African countries and is uniquely positioned to offer its customers the benefits of an international bank and the IN FRANCE proximity of a local bank. Societe Generale is a key player for corporates, very small businesses In Africa, the Group serves close to 3.5 million customers, of which and entrepreneurship, with a customer base consisting of over 120,000 are corporate. Several transactions illustrated this support 80,000 large and mid-caps and 260,000 very small businesses and in 2015: professionals. The Group is committed to giving regional support to ■ S ociete Generale Cameroon participated in the funding of the artisans, entrepreneurs and enterprises of every size throughout their life and their business cycle. Agricultural Investment and Market Development Project, with EUR 7.5 million. The aim of this initiative is to contribute to In this way it is able to give its corporate clients the benefit of its transforming “low productivity” agriculture into “commercial” partnerships in order to foster their growth. To this end, Societe Generale agriculture. Nearly 300 cooperatives will be able to benefit from signed several partnership agreements over the course of 2015: funding, i.e. 30,000 households and 120,000 direct beneficiaries; ■ I n March, Societe Generale renewed its commercial partnership ■ I n Senegal, SGBS signed an agreement for EUR 9 million with with the company ELLISPHERE – formerly COFACE Services – the SEDIMA, one of the leaders in agro-business in Senegal, to fund a leader in company information in France in order to offer its clients unit for slaughtering and processing chickens. a range of business information products. (1) As defined by the World Bank: “Low-income + Lower-middle-income economies (USD 4,125 or less)”, in particular Ivory Coast, Ghana, Georgia, India, Madagascar and Morocco. (2) As defined by the World Bank: “Upper-middle-income economies (USD 4,126 to USD 12,735)”, in particular Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Tunisia. 72 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY ■ I n May, Societe Generale renewed its commercial partnership with Econocom, a key player in the management and financing of digital assets. ■ S ociete Generale and Crédit du Nord signed a new delegation agreement on the Bpifrance loan guarantee decision (in June and September respectively), delegating authority to branches to decide to extend the Bpifrance guarantee to loans of up to EUR 200,000 (within the scope of this agreement) per company or group of companies. The delegation of this decision enables them, together with Bpifrance, to support the projects of the companies concerned Laurence Mouratille-Lévy whilst reducing the timeframes for granting the related loans. A local organisation “Following discussions with Societe Generale ahead of The bank has significantly reinforced its support programme for companies the project, Unit-e (a group founded in 1985 by Hugues in terms of local networks or access to business expertise. In 2015, the Albanel and an independent player in renewal energy SMEs’ overall levels of satisfaction with Societe Generale confirm the generation in France) decided in 2015 to tap the euro momentum generated over the past few years. These positive results private placement (EuroPP) market, in parallel with bank emphasise the relevance of the bank’s programme based on the proximity lending (project loans) and crowdfunding, with the aim of a national network with strong local roots combined with the power and expertise of a universal bank. By way of proof, 72% of Societe Generale’s of having the funds, through corporate financing, to customers state that the bank puts its experts at their disposal, and 8 out develop new projects in the field of renewable energy. of 10 of its customers are of the opinion that the commercial strategy that Rather than carry out a “conventional” EuroPP issue, is deployed is a close fit for SME needs(1). Societe Generale recommended creating a green bond that was attractive for those investors who wished to move towards this asset class, and that was simple for the company to monitor by the very nature of the latter’s 72% business (annual monitoring of the nature of the use of the funds for the purposes of validating their use for green projects). OF SOCIETE GENERALE’S CUSTOMERS The nature of the deal – i.e. a corporate financing deal STATE THAT THE BANK PUTS ITS EXPERTS on behalf of a holding company acting in the field of infrastructure – is one of the first of its kind in the AT THEIR DISPOSAL EuroPP market, which explains why Societe Generale, as the arranging bank and the issuer, had to work to educate the investor market. Furthermore the structure of the deal itself is innovative, Support for company start-ups since it is the first EuroPP in the form of a bond that In 2015, Societe Generale entered into relationships gives the issuer the option of making the funds available with 24,088 new businesses that were set up less than one year in several drawdowns (bond in partial payments). ago in France (+2.4% versus the end of December 2014), i.e. 62% At the end of 2015 Societe Generale and Unit-e were of new professional customers as of 31st December 2015, to which able to announce the completion of an initial Green it granted approximately 4,300 medium/long-term loans amounting EuroPP tranche for EUR 10 million over six years, with a to EUR 464 million. coupon of between 4 and 5%.” The bank relies on specialist networks to ensure tailored help for its cusLaurence Mouratille-Lévy, Director – Global Capital tomers, which makes it possible to substantially boost the survival rate Markets Team of new companies (three-year survival rate of 87% and five-year survival rate for business creators of 84% versus an overall national survival rate of 51.5%. Source: INSEE – 2011). It includes among its partners: Initiative France, the BGE network (Boutiques de Gestion), Moovjee (Mouvement pour les Jeunes et les Étudiants Entrepreneurs), Société Nationales des Meilleurs Ouvriers de France, Adie (Association pour le droit à l’initiative économique), IME (l’Institut du Mentorat Entrepreneurial) and Réseau Entreprendre. This year Societe Generale again took part in many events alongside its partners and organised various conferences on the theme of starting up and taking over a business. (1) Scope of the survey: the CSA institute carried out a telephone interview with 2,715 banking relationship managers within SMEs, including 602 Societe Generale customers, between January and March 2015. 73 SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY The bank is a member of the national association Initiative France and a partner of 117 of its local platforms. The Initiative in 2015, France platforms have enabled the start-up or takeover of 9,038 companies, which have themselves created or maintained 20,697 THE SIGNING WITH THE EIB OF direct jobs during the first year. In addition to loans on trust (interestfree, unsecured loans) of 228 platforms, the bank granted 929 loans for EUR 59.6 million to entrepreneurs approved by Initiative France in 2014 (figures reported by Initiative France in 2015 in its activity 8 CONTRACTS report). FOR A TOTAL AMOUNT OF Through its partnerships, such as with SIAGI(2) for example (which was renewed in 2014), Societe Generale also promotes access to credit for business start-ups and takeovers. EUR 550 MILLION Support for the development of businesses The Group, within its networks (Societe Generale and Crédit du Nord), Notable major transactions of the year are as follows: reaffirmed its commitment to supporting the development of businesses ■ T  he EIB and SGEF Czech Republic signed a new agreement for a and its mobilisation of resources to support collective efforts to EUR 100 million credit line to be used to promote youth employment stimulate the European and French economies by continuing the special under the “Jobs for Youth” programme. This is the second deal credit offer (launched in September 2014) exclusively for SMEs, microbetween the EIB and the Group for this programme, coming after enterprises and professionals in France, which promotes investment the deal between the EIB and Group subsidiary KB (in the Czech in France (this offer is based on the various support measures initiated Republic) in 2014 which, after the success brought about by the first by the European Central Bank). deal, KB has signed off for a new credit line for the benefit of youth Societe Generale, via the intermediary of its subsidiaries, is marshalling employment (EUR 70 million). its resources to deploy the Group support strategy. The offers put in ■ S  GEF Poland has likewise agreed to a new EUR 100 million credit place in 2015 notably include the following: line for the benefit of SMEs and Mid-Caps and to a EUR 100 million in ■ t he launch, in July, of an offer to mobilise RTC (research tax credit) funding agreement that has also been signed off by SGEF Germany. claims, both in respect of seed credit (credit that cannot yet be claimed, because the R&D has not been completed/is ongoing) + info and credit that is due from the State (credit that can be claimed, > SOCIETE GENERALE AND BPIFRANCE TOGETHER TO FACILITATE THE ACCESS TO because the R&D has been performed), developed in partnership CREDIT TO PROFESSIONALS, VERY SMALL COMPANIES AND SMEs (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) with its subsidiary CGA, has enriched its product range. It enables its > SOCIETE GENERALE'S COMMITMENT RECOGNIZED BY SMEs innovative corporate customers to reap the benefits of the research (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) tax credit in advance. Immediate funding of the credit constitutes a significant cash advance for any innovative company; ■ t he Group also offers a comprehensive and integrated range of FINANCING FOR STATES Corporate and Investment Banking services (advice, financing by AND TERRITORIAL COMMUNITIES the bank or via the capital markets, capital investment) via the Societe Generale has been helping to finance the public economy for intermediary of Mid Capital Investment Banking, which gathers over thirty years (public authorities, social housing, public institutions, more than 110 professionals based in Paris and in the six provincial/ urban planning). As of 31st December 2015, the Group’s short, medium regional delegations of the Societe Generale network, whose mission and long-term outstanding loans across these markets in France is to support listed and unlisted mid-cap companies with their development and their succession planning. amounted to approximately EUR 16 billion. Societe Generale has diversified its range of products and services for local authorities by offering them co-financing in partnership with institutional investors. ABROAD Support for financial institutions and development agencies In France as well as abroad, the Group respects the principles of in the implementation of their development policy the Gissler Charter (a charter on good conduct between banking institutions and local authorities) in its dealings with public authorities. In accordance with its global strategy, in the other countries in which the Group has a presence, it is committed to forging and maintaining partnerships with international financial institutions (IFIs) in order to offer financing solutions that meet the needs of the businesses (of the FINANCING OF THE ASSOCIATION SYSTEM local economy) that it supports. Relationships with the EIB (European IN FRANCE Investment Bank) were strengthened in 2015, with the signing of 8 Associations are important players in the French economy because of contracts for a total amount of EUR 550 million, credit lines generally their production of intrinsic wealth: jobs created and services rendered. dedicated to SMEs and Mid-Caps, including EUR 300 million at Societe Generale Equipment Finance (SGEF). For many years, Societe Generale has developed close relationships (2) Established in 1966 by the French Chambers of Trades and Crafts, SIAGI is involved in the crafts and local activities sectors. It guarantees the credit facilities granted by all the banking institutions in the marketplace. 74 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY with the world of associations across the country. With an overall associations to anticipate the payment of their public subsidies. market share of 10% and more than 100,000 customer associations, Alongside these commitments, Societe Generale, in partnership with the bank puts its know-how at their service to allow them to achieve the law firm Fidal, organised some forty information meetings on current their objectives, by financing their projects, helping them to manage legal and tax-related subjects in order to cast an expert eye on the their assets and supporting them in their day-to-day management. problems faced by the associations. Along with CGA, its factoring subsidiary, Societe Generale enables SOLIDARITY BANKING ACTIVITIES SOLIDARITY BANKING OFFER Life insurance: Erable Essentiel TO INDIVIDUALS Launched in November 2015, Érable Essentiel is a life insurance policy that allows holders to save starting from EUR 25 per month and to invest in the SG Solidarité fund, which is certified by Finansol, a sharing and solidarity-based vehicle: ■ s olidarity-based because 5 to 10% is invested in solidarity enterprises of high social utility, and contributes to the social and economic development of the country; ■ sharing because 50% of the annual revenues is donated to one of the following 4 partner associations: Les Restaurants du Cœur, Habitat et Humanisme, CCFD-Terre Solidaire and Fondation Recherche Médicale. The first contributions to those associations will take place in October 2016. Solidarity savings services Solidarity Savings Services allow customers to contribute all or part (25, 50, 75 or 100%) of the interest on their savings passbooks (Livret A, Livret Développement Durable, Livret Jeune, CSL, Livret Épargne This picture is non available in english Plus, Livret BFM Avenir) to one or more charities or foundations supporting a humanitarian or social cause and acting for health care IN FRANCE or the environment. Societe Generale makes a matching contribution. As one of the first banks to develop a range of solidarity banking The Solidarity Savings Services benefit 40 partner associations. products, Societe Generale forges closer links between its customers As of the end of 2015, there are 44,267 Solidarity Savings Services and social entrepreneurs, and accompanies them on their path of (Societe Generale + Banque Française Mutualiste (BFM)) and solidarity. In 2014, the bank continued to increase the number of its EUR 273,000 in interest has been donated (i.e. -16.5% compared to partner associations and to enhance its range of products and services, 2014, mainly due to the fall in interest rates), broken down as follows: which is directed to all its customers – individuals, professionals and ■ EUR 238,067 in customer donations (including EUR 42,971 from corporates –, enabling them to make contributions to a long list of general BFM customers); and public interest associations. Overall, Societe Generale facilitated contributions totalling more than EUR 1.9 million, up 6% compared to ■ EUR 23,809 in matching contributions (including EUR 4,299 in 2014, to more than 50 partner associations in 2015. matching contributions by BFM); In the Profit for Non Profit Awards 2015 organised by the ■ EUR 11,215 in Societe Generale donations as part of the Solidarity consultancy firm Axylia, Societe Generale’s range of solidarity CRCM (Centre de Relation Clientèle Multimedia-Multimedia Customer finance products and services won the One million Award. This Relations Centre) operation. distinction rewards financial institutions that generate over In October 2015, the Solidarity Savings Services were EUR 1 million in donations per year. certified by Finansol. 75 SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY Charity bank cards support of the most disadvantaged. This scheme raised EUR 145,640 for Secours Populaire Français in 2015. Societe Generale is currently offering a Charity Bank Card Collection, which is becoming increasingly popular with customers. These cards SPEAR partnership enable them to support causes that are dear to them, thanks to having A partnership agreement with SPEAR (Société Pour une Épargne expanded the number of beneficiaries, and to having given concrete Activement Responsable – Society for Actively Responsible Saving) aid to one of the 28 partner associations. was signed in June 2012. SPEAR is a cooperative certified by For each payment made with one of these cards, Societe Generale Finansol that allows companies or charities wishing to carry out a pays EUR 5 cents to the charity concerned. solidarity project to obtain a bank loan thanks to savers who want to give meaning to their savings. Its activity consists of hosting projects Since the launch of these cards in May 2008, EUR 3,956,435 has responding to social, environment or cultural issues to allow them been contributed to partner charities, including EUR 844,259 in 2015 to secure financing under advantageous conditions by raising the (up 14% compared to 2014). necessary capital from individuals who wish to see their money put This collection was expanded with the launch of two new cards last to good use. June: Unicef and AFM-Téléthon. Through its dedicated online platform (www.spear.fr), SPEAR positions itself as an easy-access tool providing a powerful solution for solidarity savings and ethical investment. Since 2012, Societe Generale has financed 6 projects with added social and environmental value amounting to EUR 967,000. VOUS PRÉSENTE SON PARTENARIAT AVEC Depuis 2012, Société Générale est partenaire de SPEAR (Société Pour une Epargne Activement Responsable), Filigrane programme première plateforme française de crowdfunding qui permet à des épargnants de choisir la destination de leur épargne parmi une sélection de projets à fort impact social, environnemental ou culturel. Since the beginning of 2014, the Filigrane Loyalty Programme, part Pour Société Générale, ce partenariat innovant vient compléter sa gamme de produits et services solidaires, en phase avec sa stratégie RSE, et renforcer son rôle dans le financement de l’Economie Sociale et Solidaire. of the JAZZ package, has allowed customers to support the Secours SPEAR a collecté, depuis sa création en 2012, près de 4 000 000 € et soutenu une trentaine de projets avec l’aide de 500 épargnants WWW.SPEAR.FR Populaire Français humanitarian organisation and the French Red Cross. LES AVANTAGES POUR L ’ ÉPARGNANT LES AVANTAGES POUR LE PO R TEU R D E PR O JET Under the regulations governing sales with premiums, Societe Generale SIMPLICITÉ DONNER DU SENS ACCOMPAGNEMENT ACCÈS du process à son épargne dans la mise au point au crédit via has decided to donate the EUR 0.25 financial contribution made by de son projet les partenaires customers for each gift order to these two beneficiaries, split equally RÉDUCTIONS D’IMPÔT VISIBILITÉ between them. As a result they collectively received EUR 140,301 in 2015. SÉCURITÉ la banque 18 % sur l’IR € CONDITIONS PRÉFÉRENTIELLES grâce à la porte les risques 50 % sur l’ISF pour le prêt bancaire plateforme web Members of this loyalty programme also have the option of converting their loyalty points into donations to one of these two organisations of This picture is non available in english their choice, with Societe Generale making a matching contribution for each donation. In 2015, the total contribution to these two charities ABROAD amounted to EUR 404,537. The foreign networks contribute to the number of banking products Overall, Filigrane raised EUR 544,839 in 2015, i.e. 12% more than and services available to and used by local communities in countries in 2014. where the level of “financial inclusion” is still relatively low. The innovative products and services they frequently launch on their domestic markets also make them a source of positive emulation for customers. Societe Generale’s International Retail Banking division constantly FILIGRANE INCREASED seeks to enhance the specific expertise needed to offer a service to small and micro-businesses that still do not have access to banking 12% services (see p. 79, Financial inclusion). The “your bank: here & there” offer for migrant customers Introduced in 2007, Societe Generale’s “Your Bank: Here & There” WITHIN 1 YEAR service is designed for foreigners or French citizens of foreign origin living in France who still have very close links with their native country (a group estimated to include 5 million people). At Societe Generale, they represent 8.7% of the account openings for individuals. Sponsorship scheme The concept was developed thanks to the Societe Generale Group’s Societe Generale launched the Sponsorship Scheme in January 2014: presence in countries where migratory flows to France are significant. for every account opened under the Sponsorship Scheme, It benefits from the synergies between French Retail Banking and Societe Generale donates EUR 5 to Secours Populaire Français in International Retail Banking. 76 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY Solidarity offer in Morocco and Croatia Modelled after the cards offered in France, Societe Generale Morocco . “It’s an adventure of a lifetime to (SGMA) is continuing to roll out the charity bank card SOS Villages, intend to start up a company thereby supporting the association of the same name for the purposes that is consistent with one’s of funding the schooling of children from disadvantaged backgrounds. personal values. My plan was to In 2015, SGMA contributed EUR 2,295 to the association, which reconcile ecological and ethical was able to provide 45 children with school supplies for the entire imperatives (organic farming, academic year. renewable energy) with current economic imperatives, and to In Croatia, Splitska Banka, as part of its child protection show that this was not only programme and in partnership with Unicef, has launched a new desirable, but also profitable. It service: a direct debit scheme whereby customers make monthly was to create a convivial and festive place, where people donations to UNICEF and receive the title of “Champion of child from all over would come to drink, eat, celebrate and protection” in return. Two years after its launch, 3,535 customers perhaps also be made aware of another way of going have subscribed to this service and have raised EUR 130,000 in about things. This place is the brewpub “Au Nouveau donations. Monde”, a Quebec pub where people can eat Quebec specialities and drink beer that has been brewed on the + info premises. Everything we serve, both food and drink, is the > SOCIETE GENERALE AND ITS CLIENTS STRENGTHEN THEIR COMMITMENT WITH product of organic farming, which makes us the first (and ASSOCIATIONS (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) maybe the only) bar in France to offer this. In addition we > INNOVATIONS IN SOLIDARITY FINANCING IN 2015 (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) exclusively get our energy from renewable sources. We > SOLIDARITY SAVINGS SERVICE have also adopted an ethics charter to guide our practices > CHARITY CARDS and to steer our commitments towards greater > SOCIETE GENERALE'S CHARITY BANK CARDS, 2 NEW ASSOCIATIONS JOIN consistency once the company is financially stable. THE CHARITABLE COLLECTION (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) It is not always easy for an entrepreneur to fund > FILIGRANE PROGRAMME his projects. Eco-entrepreneurs often encounter incomprehension by financial institutions over some of their choices, such as having an exclusively organic product range or doing business with a green electricity MICROFINANCE supplier, for example. Indeed, such choices do not Beyond its impact in terms of jobs and regional development, the Group conform to conventional accounting standards. However, has spent several years developing tools and products that contribute social, environmental and ethical projects are not based to the social cohesion of the communities and regions in which it is solely on the concept of economic profitability. After present with EUR 105 million in microfinance credit lines. having been met with many rejections I then appealed to the crowdfunding platform SPEAR, which found the ABROAD right words and arguments to convince its partner bank, Societe Generale, that projects that may be non-standard Refinancing of microfinance financial institutions also deserve to be funded. Committed to professional integration and providing entrepreneurs Thanks to the loan obtained and the support of 55 savers and start-ups with all the support they need, Societe Generale, via its I created four jobs and was able to fund the takeover of a overseas networks, is a major player in microfinance, helping to make business as well as necessary brewing equipment. After banking available and to develop the local economic fabric. being open for a few months and in light of the figures of the first quarter, I can already say that the adventure is The Group has chosen to focus its microfinance activities in those getting off to a very good start.” countries in which it has a presence as a universal bank. Since 2003, Etienne Charest, founder and manager of it has been lending its support, via its subsidiaries, to the microfinance “Au Nouveau Monde” sector in two ways: granting refinancing lines to MFIs (microfinance institutions) in local currency and acquiring minority stakes in MFIs. This strategy underpins the economic support given to the social and As of the end of 2015, Societe Generale had granted EUR 95.8 million to 36 MFIs abroad, in Sub-Saharan Africa (Benin, local entrepreneurs and meets the MFIs’ need to find local sources Ghana, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, etc.), in of financing, especially in local currency, to ensure their development the Middle East, North Africa (Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia), in Eastern without being exposed to currency risk. Europe (Serbia, Moldova, Albania, Georgia) and in Asia (India). The MFI partners facilitate access to credit for communities that do Synergies are developed with the various partners – for instance, in not have access to banking facilities and, in doing so, feed their local the area of electronic payment, with the development of co-branded economies. cards by Societe Generale’s subsidiaries, in partnership with Advans 77 SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY MFIs. These cards give MFI customers’ access to ATMs (automatic IN FRANCE teller machines) and to branches in the networks of Societe Generale’s Support for adie* subsidiaries. This scheme has been in place in Cameroon since the end of September 2013 and in Ivory Coast since the end of 2014. Societe Generale has been an active supporter of Adie since 2006, Since June 2015, and for the first time in the Ivorian banking landscape, providing refinancing lines for its microfinance activity in mainland an MFI (Advans CI) and a bank (SGBCI, a shareholder in Advans France and the overseas departments, and contributing to the financing CI) share the same branch. Besides the objective of serving their of its support actions. respective customers, SGBCI and Advans CI regard this innovation as an opportunity to build on their complementarity in terms of financial In 2015, the line of funding granted to Adie amounted to EUR 9.2 million, solutions. which included EUR 3 million for New Caledonia, Polynesia and the West Indies. Acquisition of equity holdings in microfinance institutions Through its subsidiaries in Africa, Societe Generale also The bank made it possible for Adie to finance EUR 7.4 million in loans holds a stake in 5 MFIs via active minority interests and in in 2015, corresponding to 2,139 micro-loans. More than 1,600 jobs subsidiaries of internationally recognised microfinance groups have been created or maintained thanks to professional micro-loans, (Advans Cameroon, Advans Ghana, Advans Ivory Coast, and around a further 500 jobs have been created or maintained thanks AccesBanque Madagascar and ACEP Burkina). to personal micro-loans for employment. All in all, since 2006, the Group has refinanced 11,276 micro-loans for a cumulative amount of EUR 45.7 million (including EUR 5.1 million in New Caledonia, EUR 2.5 million in French Polynesia, EUR 2.8 million in Mayotte and EUR 2.5 million in the West Indies – Guadeloupe, Martinique and EUR 95.8 MILLION Guyana). The average micro-loan amount is EUR 3,041. Furthermore, in 2015, Adie also received an operating grant of EUR 125,000 from Societe Generale, supplemented by a budget IN CREDIT LINES allowance of EUR 12,000 for its “Microcredit Week”. Personal microcredit Societe Generale has been offering supported personal micro-loans For the first time in throughout France since 2010, wherever there is a support network with which it has concluded a partnership agreement. Its main partners to the Ivorian banking date are CRESUS, Secours Catholique and Restos du Cœur. landscape, an MFI These networks have a dual role: bringing in business and supporting borrowers in the period before the micro-loan is granted right up to and a bank share the end of its term. This has enabled Societe Generale to approve 45 microcredit applications between the end of 2010 and the end of the same branch December 2015. For its part, CGI, a Group specialist financing subsidiary in France, has implemented a Job Mobility initiative: the “CGI solidarity-based funding” initiative was launched in 2015 to give access to mobility – via access to THE LINE OF FUNDING AMOUNTED TO a car – to individuals who are seeking a job or who need to be mobile to keep their job. Through this initiative, CGI opens up access to car EUR 9.2 MILLION loans to those who would normally be excluded. + info FOR MAINLAND FRANCE > MICROCREDIT WEEK, SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ADIE (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) > SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ADIE'S ACTIONS AND SIGNED A PARTNERSHIP WITH FRANCE ACTIVE (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) > VIDEO (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) * French Association for the Rights to Economic Initiative 78 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY COMBATING INSECURITY AND PROTECTING VULNERABLE POPULATIONS FINANCIAL INCLUSION ABROAD In 2015, Societe Generale launched a new pan-African range of Mobile SOME MEASURES ALLOWING EVERYONE TO HAVE Banking and Mobile Payment services in Africa, which share the ACCESS TO BANKING SERVICES IN FRANCE common objective to bring banking close to its customers, whether they have access to basic banking facilities or are in the process of In accordance with Article L312-1 of the French Monetary and Financial being granted access to basic banking facilities, and to offer mobile Code on the right to hold a bank account, Societe Generale and Crédit payment solutions, including paying bills and paying retailers (See du Nord provide customers who are entitled to this right with free “basic chapter 4.2, “Significant new products and services”). banking services”, such as these services are defined by law. The two institutions are thereby complying with the Moscovici law (law no. In this way, since 2013 Manko, the company in 2013-672 of 26th July 2013 on the separation and regulation of banking support of social inclusion, a wholly-owned activities), which has reinforced the effectiveness of this right (including subsidiary of Societe Generale, has been offering with respect to shorter account opening times and the exercise of the banking products and services to populations with right to hold an account in the beneficiary’s name by the actors in the modest incomes and those that do not as yet have social sphere). As of 31st December 2015, 8,906 individual customers access to the traditional banking system. In 2015, had access to basic banking services at Societe Generale. Manko entered a new phase of development with a model that is based on a lean structure, a strong presence on the ground and an advanced Since 2005, Societe Generale and Crédit du Nord have sought to “make use of digital technologies. Manko is acclaimed by its customers, who banking easier” for everyone by offering a range of alternative means state that they are very satisfied with the services offered (the simplicity of payment (Gamme de moyens de paiements alternatives-GPA) to of processes, pricing, proximity and the expertise of the staff). Two cheques for customers without a cheque book. new branches were opened in 2015. Manko now has three branches The entry into force of the Moscovici law and its implementing legislation and serves 5,000 customers. The total credit it granted over the course of 2015 amounted to EUR 8.4 million (FCFA 5.5 billion). in 2014 significantly reinforced commitments undertaken since 2005 in relation to customers in financially fragile situations for the entire In Burkina Faso, the mobile branch concept, taking to the road to financial sector. bring the bank to the people, was launched in April 2015. The initiative will be extended to other countries depending on the success of the Accordingly, Societe Generale and Crédit du Nord, in pilot in Burkina. keeping with their regulatory obligations as defined by Decree 2014-738, have implemented a detection and monitoring system, + info combining internal warning mechanisms and KYC intelligence, > MANKO ACCELERATES ITS DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA for customers meeting the criteria for determining financial (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) fragility. This system enables them to write to these customers > VIDEO (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) systematically and at the earliest opportunity to propose a meeting with their advisor in order to present them with a specific offer designed to limit costs in the event of an incident (at least once a year for all customers in a financially fragile situation, but also each time a new fragility is detected). MANKO NOW HAS This everyday banking service (GENERIS) allows customers in a fragile financial situation to have, for a modest sum, the normal use of their bank account whilst benefiting from secure payment methods and 3 BRANCHES capped costs in the event of an incident. Moreover, advisors have AND SERVES received training on these regulatory developments in relation to customers in a fragile financial situation. As of end-2015, 37,234 Societe Generale customers had signed up for the GENERIS service and 1,293 Crédit du Nord 5,000 CUSTOMERS customers had signed up for that bank’s equivalent service. 79 SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY CUSTOMERS WITH A SERIOUS HEALTH RISK ■ the search, with the supported customers, for solutions for the Societe Generale’s goal has always been to develop products and gradual discharge of unpaid debts, favouring a path back to a healthy services that match the needs and expectations of each individual. situation rather than litigation as much as possible; Under the terms of the AERAS agreement (insurance and loans for ■ r esumption of the customer relationship with their branch at the end individuals with an increased health risk) signed by professionals in of the discharge period. France’s banking and insurance sectors in 2007 and later amended As of the end of November 2015, the platforms for in 2011, then again in 2015, opening access to insurance and credit amicable negotiation lent support to more than 33,000 customers. for people with a serious health risk, Societe Generale and Crédit du Around 67% of them returned to a sound financial footing and Nord make it easier for such people to get a loan (home loans and consumer loans) and provide a scheme for sharing some of the costs of their banking relationship in their Societe Generale branch has the additional premiums for customers in the lowest income brackets. resumed. Franfinance, a Group subsidiary specialising in consumer loans, has also introduced various measures to prevent over-indebtedness. In FOCUS ON OVER-INDEBTEDNESS 2010, Franfinance and CGI signed a partnership agreement with Since 2004, the Societe Generale France network has had the CRESUS (regional agencies preventing over-indebtness), a network resources needed to identify over-indebted customers in order to be of associations founded in 1992 that assists individuals with excessive able to offer them a responsible solution. or poorly structured debt. Against this background, these two French Group subsidiaries, consumer credit specialists, recommend that any of The law governing consumer credit that entered into force in their customers showing signs of financial fragility should contact their November 2010 modified the regulatory framework without radically local CRESUS association. The signing of a support charter between affecting the system in place at Societe Generale, which was a precursor in this regard. the association and the voluntary customer leads to the implementation of a budget and a social evaluation, followed by close support aimed A PROCESS DEDICATED TO OVER-INDEBTEDNESS at enhancing the safeguarding of the customer’s financial balance. Societe Generale introduced a dedicated process to ensure the responsible management of over-indebted customers as early as 2004. SUPPORT PROGRAMMES In France, Societe Generale and CRESUS have jointly launched a It maintains the service of bank accounts in which income is domiciled, budget education programme conducted as part of a skills sponsorship except in special cases, and informs over-indebted customers of initiative. Furthermore, a large number of initiatives are being put in alternative payment methods to cheques. Debtors continue to benefit place abroad (see p. 84, Financial education). from overdrafts that had been granted. Management of the customer relationship is based on a complementary system: TOOLS TO SUPPORT FINANCIAL EDUCATION ■ a ccount managers ensure the everyday monitoring of the account; ■ b ack-office operators monitor outstanding credit prior to acceptance of applications and manage repayment schedules once they have been approved. Thanks to this procedure, the bank is able to avoid any increase in loans borne by over-indebted customers whilst still enabling day-to-day personalised monitoring. Over-indebted individuals who cannot be granted any further credit are offered a bank account and appropriate payment methods to maintain a social life. They can then subscribe to the tailored offering In the interests of transparency and education, Societe Generale makes that is designed to limit costs in the event of an incident (see p. 79, a large number of simulation or financial calculation tools available to Some measures allowing everyone to have access to banking services its customers and partners, either online or via partner applications. in France). In France, Societe Generale has also teamed up with the Playbac Group to offer a financial education website dedicated to 6-11 year olds. This SUPPORT FOR VULNERABLE CUSTOMERS TO website “abcbanque.fr” offers educational content via games, videos, PREVENT OVER-INDEBTEDNESS news and various tools enabling children to learn while having fun. The The support scheme for vulnerable customers, via dedicated platforms, site contains a Parents’ Corner with advice and topics for reflection so which has been operational across the entire network of branches in parents can support them in this learning process as best they can. All France since mid-2013, is based on: this is topped off by an educational guide backed by a commercial guide ■ t he identification of all customers meeting certain vulnerability criteria that is handed out when a relationship is initiated. (exceeding authorised overdrafts and any other limits for a prolonged period, overdue loan repayments, etc.); + info ■ t he transfer of these customers to a platform of specialist advisors > ABC BANK WEBSITE (NON AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH) who temporarily take over the business relationship from the branch; > FIND ALL THE DATA OF THE REPORT 80 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY 81 SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOCIAL COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS 82 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOCIAL COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS CITIZENSHIP Societe Generale is committed to civil society and pursues a corporate In 2015, the Societe Generale group contributed close to EUR 11 million commitment policy that is built around three strategic priorities: with respect to solidarity sponsorship. citizenship, sport and culture via three separate entities. These areas of involvement drive on a daily basis – in the teams and among + info customers and third-party beneficiaries – the four core values that > FONDATION have been backed by the Group: team spirit, innovation, responsibility and commitment. EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT The Societe Generale Group is engaged in two key areas of intervention: professional integration, education and social inclusion through culture One of the objectives of the Citizenship policy is to make the most of the and sport. Civic engagement is a major focus of the Group’s solidarity solidarity commitment of Societe Generale employees by offering them policy and is notably expressed via the Societe Generale Corporate a chance to give their time and energy to benefit partner associations of the Group that use sporting or cultural activities as vectors of Foundation for Solidarity and its programme for involving Group education or integration. employees. In 2015 within the Group, nearly 13,000 employees got involved in a solidarity action proposed by the bank. PHILANTHROPY CITIZEN COMMITMENT The objective of the Societe Generale Corporate Foundation for A highlight of the Group’s solidarity programme, Citizen Commitment Solidarity is to implement and support general interest measures aimed is an event that is organised every year to strengthen and reap the at fostering the development of solidarity in society, in particular by benefits of employee commitment worldwide. This key event affords promoting access to education, by working to achieve professional an occasion to maintain even greater consistency over sponsorship integration, by helping young people to get their careers off the ground initiatives overseas and to capitalise on collective civic actions. and by fighting illiteracy. In 2015 and 2016, the Societe Generale Foundation elected to also support non-profit projects using sporting In 2015, nearly 7,000 employees from 39 countries in which or cultural activities as a means of promoting education and/or Societe Generale is based (including Paris and all the French regions) integration for people in difficulty. Since its creation in 2006, through took part in a wide variety of solidarity-related actions as part of the Societe Generale Corporate Foundation for Solidarity, close to 800 the Citizen Commitment Time initiative. A notable event in which non-profit projects have been supported in 26 countries amounting employees participated was the sporting and solidarity challenge, to over EUR 18.5 million. where the objective was to run as far as possible to raise money for partner associations. Thanks to their effort the company contributed FOUNDATIONS ABROAD over EUR 430,000 to voluntary projects related to integration through sporting and cultural activities. In the countries in which it is based the Group supports civic actions to actively promote the integration of people in difficulty. It acts via the SKILLS SPONSORSHIP actions of its Corporate Foundation and those of Societe Generale solidarity-based structures (akin to a foundation) at the local level. Skills sponsorship is a means of making employees available on an ad hoc basis and free of charge during their working hours to associations In order to be closer to the needs of the beneficiaries Societe Generale that are partners of the Foundation or supported by Societe Generale. solidarity-based structures also support non-profit organisations for Over 2015 as a whole, including actions initiated by the Foundation and integration locally by seeking to involve their employees on a voluntary all the initiatives backed by local Group entities, employees devoted basis as well as their customers. The Societe Generale Corporate nearly 4,000 days to solidarity-related actions via 3 commitment Foundation for Solidarity regularly reinforces the financial involvement programmes. of solidarity-based structures among those non-profit organisations Pro Bono Days that have already received support. Thus it seeks both to create synergies and to find opportunities to strengthen the links between The objective of these Pro Bono initiatives is to support a selected Societe Generale solidarity-based structures and the Foundation: this association for a day in keeping with the Group’s citizenship strategy. is the case with the foundations in Brazil and Morocco; solidarity-driven Employees then apply their value-added know-how to address a actions in the United Kingdom; Talents & Partage (an association of clearly defined need on the part of the association (communications, employees and retirees of the Group) and the Fondation 29 Haussmann marketing, HR, finance, IT, etc.). This skills sponsorship also serves to (a foundation for Private Banking customers). highlight the job expertise of the volunteers. Since 2012, 40 Pro Bono 83 SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOCIAL COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS days have been organised, involving 213 employees and more than apprentices and E2C students was raised thanks to the commitment 2,000 Pro Bono hours given to non-profit projects. of more than 150 employees. Overseas, skills sponsorship takes the form of Societe Generale Societe Generale affirms its social responsibility by giving its employees employees helping associations or schools during their working hours. an opportunity to showcase their professional skills through solidarity This is the case, for instance, in Romania, where employees commit to commitment on an international scale. For example, a financial two involvement programmes linked to working with schools to prevent education programme has been developed in Poland to assist young and fight against instances of children and youths dropping out of people with budget management within the scope of the “BAKCYL” school and to the personal development of secondary school pupils. project. Financial education programmes are also offered in Morocco (SGMA 44 branches participating for 100,000 beneficiaries, 5,000 Mentorship of which are students), Albania (SGLA), the Czech Republic, Spain, Mentoring involves an employee of the company providing support to the United States, Benin, Senegal, etc. a person who is socially marginalised or far removed from the labour market in his or her schooling, orientation or job search by sharing Disabled sports experience and advice. Societe Generale strives on a daily basis to integrate people with In 2015, nearly 300 employees of Societe Generale France acted as disabilities into its staff, committing itself alongside local and international mentors within 6 of the Foundation’s partner associations (Proxité, events or committees and clubs. The Group has been working with the Nos Quartiers ont des Talents, Solidarités Nouvelles face au Chômage, Paralympic Movement since 2003 and shares its values with the French Frateli, Mozaïk RH and Capital Filles). Disabled Sports Federation (Fédération Française d’Handisport (FFH)) and the French Adaptive Sports Federation (Fédération Française du Sport Adapté (FFSA)); two French federations for sports dedicated to people with disabilities. SOCIETE GENERALE IS A PARTNER OF THE As a partner of the French Disabled Sports Federation, Societe Generale FRENCH ASSOCIATION “NOS QUARTIERS acts over the years to intensity its relationships around shared values. ONT DES TALENTS” Whether it is a question of long-term support at national level – such as on the occasion of big sports gatherings for young people –, ad Societe Generale has been a partner of the French hoc assistance for a specific action or proactive involvement for a local association “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents” since 2007, event, for Societe Generale this partnership relationship is the best championing equal opportunities and the professional illustration of its team spirit, the value at the core of the bank’s DNA, integration of young graduates. In just eight years, 394 via support for all the athletes of the Paralympic Movement, on a daily Societe Generale mentors have helped young graduates basis and on its special occasions. from underprivileged areas in the Paris region, Aquitaine, Nord Pas de Calais, Picardie, Rhône Alpes, and Provence This partnership is reverberated on an international level through the Alpes Cote d’Azur. This makes Societe Generale the leading commitments taken with subsidiaries such as in Algeria, the Czech company in terms of the number of professional employee Republic, United Kingdom, Singapour, etc. mentors. For 10 years now, Societe Generale Algeria (SGA) has been partners with the Algerian Disabled Sports Federation and has renewed its support, for the year 2016, particularly for the occasion of the disabled Aware of its role in civil society and of the importance of strengthening sports world championships. the ties between the company and young people, the Group encourages its employees to get involved in a wide variety of actions to sponsor and support young people worldwide. In the United Kingdom, for example, Societe Generale involves its employees to a significant extent in initiatives to boost educational aspirations and prospects of employment for young people. In 2015, over 500 volunteers devoted more than 3,800 hours to helping young people prepare for the business world. Financial education Convinced that the intelligent use of banking products and services requires a financial “education” and the provision of clear information on these products and services, Societe Generale’s network uses tools to improve customers’ level of financial awareness. Societe Generale and the CRESUS association have devised and implemented a budget education programme, which is delivered within the framework of skills sponsorship. Since 2013, the Financial Education project has been seeking to make young people more aware of the issues of good budget management and takes the form of joint actions in the Apprentice Training Centres (CFA – Centres de Formation d’Apprenti(e)s) and the Second Chance Schools (E2C – Ecoles de la 2ème Chance) in France. In 2014-2015, the awareness of 1,935 CFA 84 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOCIAL COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS CULTURAL SPONSORSHIP Societe Generale’s cultural sponsorship commitment goes back Societe Generale’s artistic sponsorship pursues its commitment to several decades. In the two fields of its cultural sponsorship policy, culture by supporting young artists and projects targeting a broader Societe Generale is seeking to combine standards and sharing. public. In the continuity of its commitment to Marseille-Provence, On the strength of this conviction, Societe Generale is opening its the Maeght Fondation (2013) and the “Musée Passager” (2014), the Contemporary Art Collection to more and more visitors from various Collection has been supporting the ARTAGON project since 2015 backgrounds, while supporting initiatives aimed at developing classical enabling art school students in France, Belgium and Switzerland to music listening and practice among groups usually dissociated from participate in an annual competition and exhibition. this domain. These represent long-term cultural commitments and The Collection pieces are regularly removed from the bank premises are managed either centrally or locally by the Group’s subsidiaries. for exhibitions in regional museums (Nantes, Dunkirk, etc.) or in Europe (Belgium, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic, Russia, etc.). CONTEMPORARY ART: TWENTY YEARS OF Internationally, Societe Generale directly supports contemporary artistic creation, particularly in North Africa through its historical Collection of ENGAGEMENT over 1,000 works of art in Morocco as well as those more recent in Started in 1995, Societe Generale’s contemporary art collection now Tunisia and Algeria. comprises close to 1000 works. Structured around three axes (painting, At the same time Societe Generale is the main partner of the Victoria & sculpture and photography), it combines pieces by renowned artists Albert Museum in London in 2016 and 2017, for its flagship exhibitions, alongside newcomer creations. such as Botticelli Reimagined, as well as of the National Gallery in With a continuous acquisition policy and steadfast support from Group Prague. The Group also supports other cultural places and events in Executive Management, over the years the Collection has become one Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria. of the largest bank-owned contemporary art collections in France. From the outset, all Collection pieces have been displayed on the Societe Generale premises at La Défense, in the center of Paris CLASSICAL MUSIC: A COMMITMENT Boulevard Haussmann and Val de Fontenay, coexisting alongside ENGRAINED IN THE BUSINESS the on-site employees. A range of events have boosted interactions The Societe Generale group has become one of the leading sponsors between the art and business worlds, bringing internal and external of classical music, particularly through the Association Mecenat Musical audiences together on an increasingly regular basis. Thus, in 2011, Societe Generale created in 1987. independent curators were invited to choose Collection pieces for a unique hanging in a special space among the La Défense towers. In November 2015, on the occasion of the Collection’s twentieth MECENAT MUSICAL SOCIETE GENERALE anniversary, Societe Generale’s cultural sponsorship arm invited In 2015, Mecenat Musical Societe Generale provided support to 20 David Grimal, violinist and artistic director of the musical ensemble orchestras and ensembles. In the continuity of the partnership with Les Dissonances, partner of the association Mécénat Musical Société Salle Pleyel Paris, the association is since January 2015 “Grand Générale, to set twenty or so works of art to music, thereby creating Mécène” of The Philharmonie de Paris. It also pursues its collaboration a dialogue between the visual arts and classical music. with the music seasons of the Théâtre des Bouffes du Nord and the Collège des Bernardins in Paris, as well as the concert season of the The Societe Generale Collection is open to all audiences, and especially Musée de Grenoble. to young audiences through an educational and interactive approach. For example, various forms of mediation have been developed: Aware of the difficulties encountered by young musicians at the “Parcours découverte”, “Carnet d’exploration” and “Ateliers artistiques” beginning of their career, Musical Musical Societe Generale attributes (Discovery Trails, Explorer’s Notebook and artistic workshops, scholarships to students of the National Conservatories of Paris and respectively) for children aged between 6 and 12 are organized at Lyon each year40 scholarships in 2014-2015. Societe Generale’s head office several times a month; these trails play Additionally, Mecenat Musical Societe Generale strives to facilitate the on the distribution of the works of art throughout the various areas in access of the young public to classical music by supporting the practice the La Défense towers, which makes them playful. of music and mediation operations: the association is the founding For the 1st time, a musical discovery trail has been organised in sponsor of the Demos projectin 2015, 800 children benefited from collaboration with Societe Generale musical sponsorship (Mécénat an intensive and collective apprenticeship conducted by professional Musical Société Générale), which will make the Collection accessible musicians; The Concerts de Poche 5000 musical workshops and to young disabled visitors. 500 concerts in ten years. Mecenat Musical Societe Generale is 85 SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOCIAL COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS also partner of multiple orchestra and choir projects in educational World Cup and particularly during the last edition in England. Rugby Sevens institutions in France. supported by Societe Generale since 2001, Olympic sports starting in 2016, also allows the Group to raise awareness among new populations, scholars Mecenat Musical Societe Generale has just participated, as the main or students, to the practice of rugby. sponsor, in the French National Library’s acquisition of the manuscript – which has been declared a national treasure – “The Trojans”, the version for voice and piano, by Hector Berlioz, thereby contributing GOLF: A GROWING DEVELOPMENT to the enrichment of the French heritage. Societe Generale has been helping golf since 2001 through its partnership with the French Union. Convinced that the practice of Playing for Philharmonie de Paris, a unique initiative in sport must be accessible to the majority of people, Societe Generale the world of business also supports the Handigolf association. After the success of previous editions in 2013 and 2014 of “Playing In parallel, the Societe Generale business lines, from Private Banking to for salle Pleyel” (symphonic choir and orchestra bringing together Retail Banking to Global Banking and Investor Solutions, are becoming Societe Generale employees associated with the orchestra Les Siecles), more and more visible on the courses. The Group accompanies this Societe Generale decided to renew this unique initiative in the world international dynamic by being partners to the only major Ladies’ of business, by associating itself for a third year to The prestigious tournament taking place in continental Europe known as the Evian Philharmonie de Paris. Championship. Innovation for this new edition: “Playing for Philharmonie de Paris 2016” is composed of about fifty chorus members from Morocco and Cameroon. Concerts will take place on the 6th and 7th November 2016 directed by François-Xavier Roth the Grande Salle Philharmonie 1 Philharmonie de Paris. Prestigious partnerships in France and abroad Societe Generale supports diffusion venues such as the Festival of Glyndebourne and The Royal Albert Hall (Great Britain), or the National Theatre of Prague (Czech Republic). In France, the Group is partner of the International Lyric Festival of Aix-en-Provence and a few stages such as Le Volcan in Havre, the Scène nationale in Albi, the Royal Opera of Versailles or the Operahouse of Avignon. The Group also commits to the domain of professional reinsertion of young musicians through actions stemming from a partnership with the Princess Margarita Fondation of Romania and the Prietenii Muzicii Serafim Antropov Fondation, in Romania, and the Fondazione Scala in Milan, in Italy. + info > W WW.MECENATMUSICAL.SOCIETEGENERALE.COM > WWW.COLLECTIONSOCIETEGENERALE.COM SPORTS SPONSORSHIP The Societe Generale group has a sport partnerships policy to accompany the development of its activites all over the world. Alongside champions for international competitions, during for instance the Rugby World Cup 2015 in England, or meeting the young players at the beginning of their careers, Societe Generale is a privileged partner of multiple entities ranging from national federations to local clubs with emphasized support for rugby and golf. RUGBY: 2015, 5TH RUGBY WORLD CUP FOR SOCIETE GENERALE Since 1987, Societe Generale has been a loyal partner of rugby in France, from amateur rugby to the highest level. Integrated in the lives of more than 450 clubs, Societe Generale is one of the major partners of professional rugby and the French team. The Group, through its subsidiaries and implantations, also accompanies rugby in numerous countries around the world, from Luxemburg to China, going through Senegal and Serbia as well. Every four years since 2007, Societe Generale is a major partner of the Rugby > FIND ALL THE DATA OF THE REPORT 86 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOCIAL COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS 87 APPENDICES 88 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T APPENDICES NOTE ON METHODOLOGY The purpose of this note is to explain the reporting methodology ■ a ll entities that are fully consolidated in the Societe Generale Group used by Societe Generale for matters relating to Corporate Social and that have more than 50 employees. Responsibility (CSR). This methodology is set out in detail in the Group’s The CSR consolidation includes 155 companies within the Group’s reporting protocol, available on request. financial consolidation scope up until 31st December 2015. It particularly includes the various Newedge entities worldwide, which were not included in the scope of up until 31st December 2014. REPORTING PROTOCOL The information contained in the reference document, on the Group’s website and in other communication media, as well as in the Group’s DATA COLLECTION activity and sustainable development report, whether pertaining to The following data collection methods are used for the scope defined the 2015 financial year or to previous years, was prepared on the above: basis of contributions from the Group’s internal network of sustainable ■ for social, environmental, business and corporate sponsorship data, development officers and in accordance with the Group’s CSR reporting most quantitative indicators are collected by each Group entity via protocol and CSR initiatives programme. It is also prepared on the basis the “Planethic Reporting” tool by collectors who enter the data at the of data from the “Planethic Reporting” tool, used for the standardised level of their subsidiary, which is validated by validators who check the collection of the indicators used to keep track of the various initiatives. input data at the level of their entity before validating it, administrators All the reporting is coordinated by the Group Sustainable Development who check and validate the data at the level of the core business Department, which reports to the Group Corporate Secretary. and central administrators (Sustainable Development Department), Regular efforts are made to bring contributors and managers on board at group level, who carry out the final checks prior to consolidation; and familiarise them with the reporting protocol and the tool in the ■ o ther data is collected directly from the business lines’ CSR interest of increasing data reliability. correspondents or from the relevant departments (Sourcing Department, Risk Division, Human Resources Department) by the This reporting protocol is updated on a regular basis. Group Sustainable Development Department. REPORTING PERIODS INDICATORS SOCIAL, SPONSORSHIP AND BUSINESS DATA During a formal communication campaign, all contributors were informed of the data collection schedule, a Group Instruction and Subject to exceptions, quantitative indicators are calculated for a protocol for each category of indicators. The protocol serves as a the period running from 1st January 2015 to 31st December 2015 reminder of indicator definitions and application criteria. (12 months), with data taken up until 31st December 2015. The 2015 indicators were chosen particularly in respect of information requirements under the “Grenelle II” Law (in accordance with Article L. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code) as well as in light of the Subject to exceptions, quantitative indicators are calculated for Group CSR strategy and the determination to fulfil a core ambition as the period running from 1st October 2014 to 30th September 2015 closely as possible with regards to the GRI-G4. (12 months), with data taken up until 30th September 2015. The indicators are largely reported for a global scope. However, some of these indicators cannot be consistently applied to a global scope. In such cases, the indicators were analysed for the scope of France CSR CONSOLIDATION SCOPE or Societe Generale SA in France (excluding subsidiaries). Entities included in the reporting scope meet at least one of the following criteria: ■ e  ntities in which the parent company, Societe Generale SA (SGSA), directly or indirectly holds a controlling interest exceeding 50%. The branches are by definition wholly owned, since they are not capitalistic; 89 APPENDICES SCOPE AND RULES FOR CALCULATION OF following subsidiaries: ALD Automotive Brazil, ALD Automotive India, SOCIAL INDICATORS ALD Automotive Turkey, ALD Automotive Ukraine, Concilian (France), and SG Mauritanie. The workforce considered within the social indicators (apart if explicitly stated otherwise) corresponds to the total number of employees under Coverage of the total data collection scope corresponds to the ratio permanent contracts or fixed-term contracts, including trainee contracts, of the headcount of all entities that participated in the data collection be they present or absent. campaign to the total headcount of Societe Generale. With 146,580 The frequency rate of accidents in the workplace is the ratio of the number employees counted, Societe Generale estimates that the total data of accidents in the workplace (as defined by local regulations) to the total collection scope – i.e. accounting for at least the data on occupants number of hours worked, (workforce present with permanent of fixed-term and surface area – covers 99.93% of the workforce; as a reminder, contract multiplied by the time worked annually in the entity in hours), this figure was 99.4% in 2014. multiplied by 1,000,000. The rate of absenteeism is the ratio of the number of reported days absent paid to the total number of days paid, as a percentage. It is counted in RESTATEMENT OF HISTORICAL DATA calendar days and is calculated based on the total number of employees (multiplied by 365). Starting from 2007, Societe Generale had already set itself the objective of reducing its CO2 emissions per occupant by 26% over the period The scope of the charts “Breakdown of staff by age bracket” (page 2007-2012. As a result a 15% reduction was observed over this period 55) and “Breakdown of staff by length of service” (page 68) is the CSR consolidation scope as defined above, excluding the headcount of entities based on the reference year 2007. This objective was then applied to in Germany (GEFA, PEMA Gmbh, On Vista, SGSS Gmbh), South Korea the period 2012-2015. It was considered that a further 11% reduction (SG Securities), Morocco (Sogelease, Eqdom) and Tunisia (UIB), for which needed to be achieved by 2015. this information is not consolidated. In 2015, Societe Generale incorporated Newedge, which was not taken into account in the 2014 reporting. To ensure the transparency SCOPE AND MAIN MANAGEMENT RULES of communication and the comparability of data, the emissions for the reference years in the period 2012-2015 are presented in the emissions FOR ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS table and were subject to further manipulation so that the historical In 2015, the data collection scope changed due to the incorporation data were presented within a comparable perimeter to the 2015 data. of Newedge and the addition of new indicators. Similarly, the new indicators taken into account for the calculation of The environmental data collection scope takes into account subsidiaries the CO2 emissions have been incorporated into the historical data. The not consolidated for accounting purposes. The number of the Group’s restatements do not correct the variations related to the growth or the employees included in the environmental reporting scope is 146,492 reduction of the activity within the entities themselves. (compared to 145,703 in accounting terms). It includes, in addition to the subsidiaries belonging to the consolidated financial perimeter, the The details of the main restatements are set out in the following table: Indicator Restatement for the years 2014 and 2012 Environmental management system Perimeter and scope For the year 2012, integration of relative data Newedge Transport a) Distances covered for business travel, by train Method alteration so as to improve the exhaustiveness of the data gathered for the network in 2015. Application of this change in method to the previous years as well. b) Distances covered for business travel, by airplane Method alteration so as to improve the exhaustiveness of the data gathered for the network in 2015. Application of this change in method to the previous years as well. c) Distances covered for business travel by privately owned cars Method alteration so as to improve the exhaustiveness of the data gathered for the network in 2015. Application of this change in method to the previous years as well. Energy Consumption All types of energy For the year 2012, integration of relative data Newedge Paper a) Quantity of paper used for account statements for customers and 2015 data used (for the entities that reported data for the first time in 2015) and evaluated quantity of personalised envelopes. depending on the number of occupants for the previous three years. b) Other types of paper used Change of perimeter for France, recuperation of all types of paper. Calculation of the difference between the new and old perimeter and application of this difference to the previous years per occupant via pro-rata calculation. 90 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T APPENDICES ENVIRONMENTAL DATA: GENERAL RULES New indicators were incorporated or modified in 2015: ■ c heque books and cheque remittance slips have been incorporated Environmental data is calculated on the basis of invoices, direct in the paper indicators; readings, information received from suppliers and estimates. The following checks and ratios are used so as to manage the reported ■ t he indicator for the total quantity of photocopy paper for which we data: previously only recovered reams of 80 grammes in France has been modified in order to meet the “Ecofolio” reporting requirement and ■ in 2015, checks on variation compared to the previous year were now covers all types of paper that is equal to or below 224 grammes. performed for all environmental indicators. Contributors received With the exception of the Societe Generale France network, most of the alerts asking them to check the recorded data if the variation was subsidiaries consolidate the data directly in the Group’s reporting tool. greater than 30%; The data on transport and paper for France are subject to centralized ■ t he data collected on energy, office paper and transport was reporting by the Sustainable Development Department via data received compared to the number of occupants declared by entity; from the Purchasing Department. ■ e nergy consumption (electricity, steam, chilled water, oil, gas) is also reported in terms of the surface area (in m2); CALCULATION OF CO2 EMISSIONS ■ in the optic of a permanent increase of reliability, qualitative questions Calculation of the Group’s CO2 emissions is broken down into three (expected answers via written comments) allow for the visualization categories: of the different perimeters of the data, an inventory of best practices ■ Scope 1 includes direct emissions related to energy consumption and and a better understanding of the variations from year to year. fugitive emissions of fluorinated gases by the central departments; Wherever possible, the number of occupants implicated corresponds ■ S cope 2 includes indirect emissions related to energy consumption to the average number of Societe Generale employees or contractors (external electricity, steam and chilled water); working on-site during the reporting period or by default the number ■ S cope 3 includes GHG emissions from office paper consumption of occupants up until 30th September 2015. and business travel, since 2012. The scope has been widened to Coverage of the data collection scope for each indicator is the ratio include the overall paper consumption, the transport of goods and the energy consumption of data centres hosted in France. of the headcount of all entities having completed the indicator to the total headcount of Societe Generale employees. CO2 emissions are calculated according to the GHG Protocol method. 91 APPENDICES INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION PRESENTED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT SOCIETE GENERALE – FINANCIAL YEAR ■ t o express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information, overall, is fairly presented in all material aspects in accordance with ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2015 the Criteria (Limited Assurance on CSR Information). To the Shareholders, Our verification work was undertaken by a team of seven people between In our capacity as an independent verifier accredited by the COFRAC(1) September 2015 and February 2016 for an estimated duration of fifteen under number 3-1050, and as a member of the network of one of the weeks. statutory auditors of Societe Generale, we present our report on the We conducted the work described below in accordance with the consolidated social, environmental and societal information established professional standards applicable in France and the Order of 13th May 2013 for the financial year ended on 31st December 2015, presented in determining the conditions under which an independent third-party verifier chapter 5 of the management report (hereafter referred to as the “CSR conducts its mission, and in relation to the Reasoned Opinion on the Information”) pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-102-1 of the Fairness of the CSR information, in accordance with the international French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). standard ISAE 3000(2). RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to draw up a management 1. ATTESTATION OF PRESENCE OF CSR report including the CSR Information referred to in Article R. 225-105-1 INFORMATION of the French Commercial Code, in accordance with the protocols used by the company (hereafter referred to as the “Criteria”), a summary of We obtained an understanding of the company’s CSR issues, based on which is included in this Reference Document, appended to chapter interviews with the management of relevant departments, a presentation of the company’s strategy on sustainable development based on the social 5 (“Note on methodology”). and environmental consequences linked to the activities of the company and its societal commitments, as well as, where appropriate, resulting INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL actions or programmes. Our independence is defined by regulations, the Code of Ethics of our profession as well as the provisions in Article L. 822-11 of the We have compared the CSR Information presented in the management French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a quality report with the list as provided for in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. control system, which includes documented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with ethical standards, professional standards In the absence of certain consolidated information, we have verified that and applicable laws and regulations. the explanations were provided in accordance with the provisions of Article R. 225-105, paragraph 3, of the French Commercial Code. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INDEPENDENT VERIFIER We verified that the CSR Information covers the consolidated perimeter, It is our role, based on our work: namely the entity and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article L.233-1 ■ t o of the French Commercial Code and the entities that it controls within the attest to whether the required CSR Information is present in meaning of Article L.233-3 of the same code with the limitations specified the management report or, in the case of its omission, that an in the Note on methodology in chapter 5 of this registration document. appropriate explanation has been provided, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Based on this work, and given the limitations mentioned above, we confirm Code (Attestation of Presence of CSR Information); the presence in the management report of the required CSR Information. 92 I CORPORATE AND S O CIA L RE S P O NS IBIL ITY REPO R T APPENDICES 2. LIMITED ASSURANCE ON CSR For the other consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency in relation to our knowledge of the company. INFORMATION Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations in light of, where Nature and scope of the work appropriate, the partial or total absence of certain information. We conducted about 30 interviews with the people responsible for the We consider that the sampling methods and sizes of the samples preparation of the CSR Information in the departments BDDF, IBFS that we considered by exercising our professional judgement allow us and GBIS, and the Sustainable Development, Compliance, Human to express a limited assurance conclusion; an assurance of a higher Resources and Purchasing departments in charge of the data collection level would have required more extensive verification work. Due to the process and, where applicable, the people responsible for internal necessary use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent control processes and risk management, in order to: in the functioning of any information and internal control system, the ■ a ssess the suitability of the Criteria for reporting, in relation to their risk of non-detection of a significant anomaly in the CSR Information relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, cannot be totally eliminated. taking into consideration, if relevant, industry standards; ■ v erify the implementation of the process for the collection, CONCLUSION compilation, processing and control in respect of the completeness Based on our work, we have not identified any significant misstatement and consistency of the CSR Information and identify the procedures that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, for internal control and risk management related to the preparation has not been fairly presented, in compliance with the Criteria. of the CSR Information. OBSERVATION We determined the nature and extent of our tests and inspections based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information in relation Without qualifying our conclusion above, we draw your attention to to the characteristics of the Company, its social and environmental the following points: issues, and its strategy in relation to sustainable development and The application of the Equator Principles is mature within the Investment industry best practices. banking’s activities. In order to ultimately cover the entire group’s For the CSR Information that we considered the most important(3): financing and investment activities, there has been a formalisation of new procedures to follow through with Societe Generale’s environmental ■ a t the level of the consolidated entity and the business lines we and social (E&S) commitments. However, the application of the E&S consulted documentary sources and conducted interviews to General Principles is not yet homogeneous in its various business lines corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, and geographic locations. actions, etc.), we implemented analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, on a random basis, the calculations and the consolidation of the data, and also verified its Paris La Défense, 4th March 2016 coherence and consistency with the other information presented in the management report(3); Independent Verifier ■ at the level of the representative sample of entities that we selected , (4) ERNST & YOUNG et Associés based on their activity, their contribution to the consolidated Eric Duvaud indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews Partner, Sustainable Development to verify the correct application of the procedures and carried out Hassan Baaj detailed tests on the basis of samples, consisting of verifying the Partner calculations made and linking them with supporting documentation. The sample of entities thus selected represents 38% of the total workforce for the social data, 12% of energy consumption for the environmental data and 9% of the consolidated GNP for the business lines data. (1) The scope of the accreditation is available at www.cofrac.fr (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. (3) Societal and business information: regional, economic and social impact (support for SMEs, the range of solidarity products and services, financial inclusion in France and microfinance in other countries, the Positive Impact Finance initiative), business ethics (measures undertaken in favour of consumers’ health and safety, especially the prevention of over-indebtedness, digital security and data protection), the group’s environmental and social commitments when conducting its business (sector policies, the Equator Principles, E&S evaluations of transactions and clients, green financing to companies), relationships with the stakeholders (customer satisfaction and the ombudsman), factoring social and environmental issues into the sourcing policy. Environmental information: the general policy on environmental matters, greenhouse gas emissions (emissions of CO2 per occupant). Social information: employment (total headcount, new hires and dismissals), training policies, total number of hours of training, leadership model implementation and the results of the employer barometer. (4) The entities selected are:For social data: SGPM (France) and Rosbank (Russia) For environmental data: Rosbank (Russia) For societal and business data: SG London GBIS (UK), SG New York GBIS (United States), SG GSC Bangalore (India) and Rosbank (Russia). 93 2015/2016 Société Générale, membre fondateur d’Ecofolio, participe au recyclage du papier et a conçu ce document dans le souci d’une incidence minimale sur l’environnement. R E P O R T Societe Generale Towers 75886 PARIS CEDEX 18 TÉL. +33 (0)1 42 14 20 00 SOCIETEGENERALE.COM Societe Generale Société Anonyme with a capital stock of EUR 1,007,799,641.25 as of 31 December, 2015. 552 120 222 RCS PARIS contact.dvptdurable@socgen.com CORPORATE CORPORATE AND AND SOCIAL SOCIAL RESPO RE SP NSIONSI B I L I TY B I L I TY 2 0 1 5 • 2 0 1 62 0 1 5 • 2 0 1 6 R E P O R TR E P O R T
