ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Director General’s Address 4 Calendar of Events 2015 6 About the Company 10 Vodokanal History12 Mission and Values16 Corporate Management System Building Philosophy18 Vodokanal Today28 Risk Management 40 Participation in External Initiatives46 Interaction with Stakeholders 74 Results of Activities in 2015  112 Water Supply 114 Wastewater Disposal System126 Specialized Vehicles and Equipment144 Customer Service148 City Fountains160 Public Toilets162 Permanent Snow-Melting Stations and Snow Collection Points164 Innovations168 Implementation of New Water and Wastewater Technologies170 Development of Hydraulic Modelling 174 Geoinformation System Development176 Energy-saving and Energy Efficiency Projects 180 Patents182 Development of Information Infrastructure 184 Social Responsibility 186 Awareness-Building188 Environment Protection204 Labour Safety210 Personnel212 Social Policy and Corporate Culture228 Tariff Policy 244 Legal Framework for Tariff Regulation 246 Tariff Policy Principles247 Tariffs for Vodokanal Services in 2015 248 Connection Fees250 Financial Statement 252 Main Financial Indicators 254 Balance Sheet256 Income Statement260 Contact Information 262 3 Director General’s ANNUAL Address REPORT 2015 Director General’s Address Dear All, As concerns project development and plans for the future, the year 2015 was far from easy for us like for many others. Nevertheless, we could quickly adapt ourselves to the new reality and revise our key projects without impairing their quality or extending completion periods. ject implemented in Southern Water Supply Zone water specialists giving them practical knowledge has already proved effective: energy consumption and skills, and providing high-caliber professionals reduced by 21%, the number of water network for the water sector. Our company performance in 2015 was water to Northern WWTP for treatment. Besides, breakdowns – by 44%, and water distribution In November 2015, the Water Cluster’s highly appraised at the federal level. On 6 Novemthe collector will provide possibilities for the devellosses – by 22%. We plan to extend the water Demonstration & Exhibition Center was opened at ber, following the Decree of the Russian Governopment of areas along the Okhta River banks. supply management system coverage to Northern WWTP. The purpose of the Center is to ment, we were awarded the prize “For achieving The water supply system was also improving all St. Petersburg in the next years. streamline innovative development of the water good quality of products and services, and for in 2015. It is gratifying to mention that, every In parallel, the Southern Zone is making sector. The Centre’s exhibition area showcases implementation of highly-efficient quality manageyear, more and more citizens begin to understand a step-by-step transition to the billing for water hundreds of specimens of domestic products and ment methods”. It is the second quality prize we the value of water and use it more sparingly. consumption on the basis of remotely-transequipment. have received (we got the first one in 2006). Today, each inhabitant of St. Petersburg conferred meter readings. Moreover, Vodokanal has In 2015, Vodokanal continued its tradition The priorThe prize is of paramount importance for us sumes 131 liters of cold water a day (as comdesigned and launched a Consumer Personal of paying considerable attention to environmenitized areas of because it means that the company performance pared to 140 l/day in 2004). Account service on its official website where one tal awareness-raising and professional training. Vodokanal St. and the results of all staff’s everyday work – not This leads to reduction of the main compocan quickly find reliable information on cold water Fostering responsible attitude to the Nature is Petersburg are: only throughout 2015 but also in the previous nents of water balance: water supply service sales consumption and effected payments, send meter of great importance for us. The specialists of environment years – are highly appreciated. and water volumes supplied into the water distrireadings, and do many other things. Another Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre have protection, conAn essential phase of the untreated wastebution network, as compared to the year 2014. remarkable event was the opening of a new cusdeveloped new awareness-building programs water discharge closure programme: construction At the same time, the water quality indicators tomer service center in 19, Komsomola st. to teach school children and youth how to take servation of the of sewage collector on Admiralteyskaya embankare maintained at a high level. The drinking water Our company has done a good job in the good care of natural resources. One of such tools Baltic Sea, and ment from Dvortsoviy Proyezd to the Senatskaya supplied into the distribution network fully meets sphere of import substitution. In 2015, we targeted to active Internet users is the Da-Voda responsibility reduced reliance on foreign suppliers and could website (da-voda.com) where the visitors can find Square, was completed in April. With Admiralthe regulatory requirements in terms of physical, towards future decrease the percentage of imported equipment, tips for water saving, get knowledge of water teyskiy Collector in place, six direct discharges chemical and microbiological parameters. generations spare parts and materials in our total procurement properties and learn other interesting facts about through which about 1000 m3/day of untreated More specifically, we implemented ultraviolet for its actions. wastewater had been discharged into the Neva disinfection at Sestroretsk water treatment plant volume from 30% (as of the end of 2014) the water world. Therefore, we in the downtown area, could be closed. Moreoand “Gantulovskaya Gora” water treatment facilito 1.8%. The economic benefit amounted One more important environmental project, continued to ver, in 2015, the sewer network in the Repina ties; and modernized the UV disinfection systems to 258 million roubles. Helping the Pinnipeds, aimed at the rescue of focus on such Square was completed with the direct discharges at Northern, Southern, Main and Volkovskaya One of the key projects 2015 was the Water seal pups gained momentum in 2015. Vodokanal activities. diverted, and the reconstruction of the wasteWTPs under the Investment Program in 2015. Cluster. The Water Cluster concept was approved became involved in these activities in 2013 having water treatment plant in Kronstadt was finished. Furthermore, we have completed preparaby the meeting of the St. Petersburg Governor’s supported the zoologists Vyacheslav Alexeyev In 2015, reconstruction of Northern and Central tory works (design) for the reconstruction of Main Investment Council in April. The Cluster consists of and Elena Andriyevskaya, the authors of a unique WWTPs was going on to implement the enhanced WTP. This project is of paramount importance for three segments: technological (in fact, it is a commarine mammals rehabilitation method. In 2014, nutrient removal technology; the looped tunnel the city: a new 500,000 m3/day water treatment petence center preparing the Cluster’s projects the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation collector in Aviakonstructorov st. was put into block will be built at the plant. The reconstruction for industrial and commercial use, an engineering Center was opened at Repino treatment plant, operation; the construction of sewage collector of Main WTP will ensure stable supply of drinking center and consulting center), industrial (manufacand the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund was legalto divert wastewater from the hydraulic-fill areas water to the inhabitants of the city’s central disturers – the Cluster participants), and educational ly registered. In this period, we joined our efforts in Vasilievskiy Island continued. tricts and improve energy efficiency of the plant. (the Water Academy) segments. to save and release into the wild 47 grey and Felix V. Karmazinov Undoubtedly, the construction of Okhta Among the most significant projects, the The Water Academy inaugurated at ringed seals. The Petersburg citizens helped the SUE “Vodokanal Tunnel Collector will be a significant environmental automated water supply management system is Vodokanal premises in September 2015 is deszoologists too. I think that we who live in of St. Petersburg” project. The new collector will enable us to close worth mentioning. We are Russia’s first company tined to become the key element of the Cluster St. Petersburg have every reason to feel pride Director General dozens of direct discharges and divert the wasteto create such an innovative system. The pilot prospecializing in the training and development of in this important environmental project. 4 5 ANNUAL Calendar of Events REPORT 2015 Calendar 2015 of Events Vodokanal’s website launched a new useful service for pedestrians and car drivers: OPEN may HATCH? ALERT! January Vodokanal announced the winners of the annual Crystal Drop competition in the nomination “Best Customer among Providers Vodokanal together with the Marine Official events dedicated to the 70th of Municipal Services”. For the second year Mammals Research and Conservation Center anniversary of the Great Victory were held in In mid-January, Vodokanal’s permanent in a row, the winners were awarded in the organized an annual event “Towels for Baby Piskarevskoye Cemetery and at the Memorial snow-melting stations (PSMS) melted the jubiframework of the International Professional Seals”. Just in three days, they filled two big to Vodokanal workers who had died during the lee, one-millionth, cubic meter of snow Exhibition and Conference “Russian Public containers and over 60 big (120 litre) packs Siege of Leningrad. Veterans and Vodokanal for the first time in the history of snow-melting Utilities”. with terry towels and bathrobes to be used employees laid wreaths to the Motherland stations in Petersburg (since 2012). during seal pups rehabilitation. Children, adults Monument and to the commemorative On the last day of March, a new seal and different organizations participated in the installation in the Alley of Glory, and held rescue season was opened. The Marine collection of things for animals. a commemorative meeting at the memorial The construction of sewer networks in Mammals Research and Conservation Center in 56, Shpalernaya str. the Senatskaya Square and Admiralteyskaya in Repino admitted its first patient, a female The awarding of Crystal Drop competition Embankment went on with the aim to close the grey seal found by the St. Petersburg citizens winners continued in April. Sixteen best The Universe of Water museum complex existing six direct wastewater discharges on the southern coast of the Gulf of Finland near customers got awards in different nominations. participated in the Museums at Night event for in Admiralteyskaya emb. Shepelevskiy Lighthouse. the eighth time. The night program “We’ve gone The inter-museum citywide interactive through fire to save water” lasted for 12 hours project “Order to Survive” contrived and in a row. It was visited by nearly 8,000 people. February April organized by the Water Museum was launched in the framework of the 70th anniversary of the Vodokanal reduced the PSMS snow Vodokanal’s official pages were opened Great Victory. The project was implemented at 11 city’s museum sites to give the participants knowledge about the work of life-supporting June disposal tariffs for building management in the popular social networks Facebook and enterprises in Leningrad during the war. On the Children’s Day, the Water Museum agencies, municipal service companies and other VKontakte. organized a gaming program: “The Engineer’s types of housing organizations, thus making the The Water Museum opened the exhibition Secret Archive” quest. Children from orphanage PSMS services more affordable. The first technical exhibition and workshop “I am with Vodokanal: I have memories no. 23 supported by Vodokanal and from the dedicated to import substitution were held and pride!”. The exhibition showed photos, city-based summer camp hosted by School at Vodokanal’s Information & Training Centre. documents, letters, and personal belongings no. 515 took part in the program. At the exhibition, Russian manufacturers of the people who fought in the Great Patriotic could take a look at the new technologies and War or worked on the home front: relatives, Three patients of the Marine Mammals March equipment used in Vodokanal’s production process and, for their part, demonstrated specimens of their equipment and told about friends, and family members of Vodokanal employees, as well as materials from family archives. Research and Conservation Center in Repino were the first to be released into the Gulf of Finland at Kurgalskiy Peninsula in the season On 12 March, Petersburg hosted the forum their production capabilities. The exhibition 2015. Three grey seals, the Centre leavers, had dedicated to the closure of the international was a tremendous success. Forty-nine Russian The construction of Admiralteyskiy sewage been rehabilitated in record-breaking time due to project “Gulf of Finland Year 2014” implemented companies displayed their products and 41 firms collector was completed. As a result, the the Centre’s new facilities. in Russia, Finland and Estonia. Vodokanal made presentations at the technical workshop. discharge of nearly 1,000 m3/day of untreated St. Petersburg was an active participant of wastewater into the Neva was stopped. On the last day of June, the Baltic grey seal the Project events. Summarizing the Project The multimedia exhibition “Underground cow, Shepeleva by name, went to freedom after outcome, the Minister of Natural Resources and World of St. Petersburg” with a renovated city The construction of sewer networks in the successful rehabilitation at the Marine Mammals Environment of the Russian Federation miniature map and new illumination system Repina Square began with the aim to close the Research and Conservation Center. S.E. Donskoy, the Governor of St. Petersburg was opened in the Water Museum after untreated wastewater discharge into the River G.S. Poltavchenko, and delegates from Finland reconstruction. The Red Sails ship, the symbol Fontanka near Lotsmanskaya str. and Estonia visited the Marine Mammals of Petersburg school leavers, appeared on the Research and Conservation Center in the town River Neva on the miniature map. of Repino and evaluated its readiness for the new season. 6 7 ANNUAL Calendar of Events REPORT 2015 july october in the water sector. The official inauguration was attended by the Governor of St. Petersburg By 1 July, the construction of sewer The workshop on “Twenty-five years of On 10 October, SUE “Vodokanal of G.S. Poltavchenko and members of the city network in the Repina Square has been cooperation between Vodokanal and European St. Petersburg” celebrated its 157th government. completed. With the new sewer network in financial institutions in the field of environmental anniversary. Traditionally, this date was marked place, the direct discharge into the Fontanka enhancement” held on 27 August, marked by an exhibition of creative works by Vodokanal Vodokanal St. Petersburg was awarded near Lotsmanskaya str. could be closed with a quarter century of successful, fruitful employees and members of their families: of the Quality Prize 2015 of the Russian the wastewater diverted to Central WWTP for interaction between Vodokanal and European “Water – Source of Inspiration!” It was the 12th Government for “achieving good quality of treatment. financial institutions aimed at the protection and exhibition of the kind set up in the exhibition products and services, and for implementation recovery of the Baltic Sea. room of the Universe of Water museum of highly efficient quality management A new sewage treatment plant and complex, and it had a record-breaking number methods”. The company received a similar award a new water treatment facility, 350 m3/day The Marine Mammals Research and of exponents. Over 500 works of art by 116 in 2006. each, were put into full-scale operation on Conservation Center summarized the results people, their age ranging from 6 to 79, were the Isle of Valaam. Now the island treats of the season. The zoologists helped displayed at the exhibition. all its wastewaters in an effective and reliable 13 patients, many of which had been admitted way; any negative impact on Lake Ladoga is with serious injuries or illnesses. The Baltic A new advanced Customer Service december eliminated. The symbolical start button was ringed seal Little Inger stayed in the Centre till Centre in 19, Komsomola str. was opened. pressed by Kirill, the Patriarch of Moscow and spring, – her injured eye required continuous The Centre offers a full range of services to All Russia. supervision by the zoologists. customers; an electronic queuing system is used for convenience of customers, and service is On 21 July, six Ladoga ringed seals were provided on the “one stop” principle. Vodokanal started a trial operation released into Lake Ladoga near the Valaam of the new snow volume measuring system Archipelago, and a week later, on 29 July, the In late October, the Water Museum at its snow-melting stations. The concept of the season’s last “leaving event” took place. opened the exhibition “Finding at the Far system is based on contactless laser scanning Side of the World”. The exhibition showed of snow in a truck. exhibits from archaeological, ethnographical and natural science collections of the Yamal For the first time ever, water tariffs Museum and Exhibition Complex named after in Petersburg were established for a five-year I.S. Shemanovskiy; the gem of the exhibition september period: 2016-2020. A separate tariff for storm was a replica of the baby mammoth Lyuba. The water sewerage service was another novelty. august exhibition stirred a great interest among children and adults. The Universe of Water museum began On 1 September, festival programs “The to give children’s New Year parties. Vodokanal Day of Knowledge at Vodokanal” were implehas a long-standing tradition of organizing For the customers’ convenience, mented in 56, Shpalernaya str. for students of children’s parties in the old water tower in november Vodokanal’s website, www.vodokanal.spb.ru, the Water College and city schools, as well as 56, Shpalernaya str. The museum’s New Year launched a new service: a centralized water for children from orphanage no. 23 supported programs are interactive: it means that children distribution/sewer networks connection cost by Vodokanal. are more than just spectators, – they become calculator. active participants of the performance. During Vodokanal was among the winners of the the festival period (till 6 January 2016), An on-site meeting with participation International Competition of organizations for A new service, Personal Account, was 4,405 children visited the New-Year program. of Vice-Governors I.N. Albin and O.A. Markov the best youth outreach, having received created on Vodokanal’s website for customers’ was held at Northern WWTP. The Vicea grant in the nomination “Career Guidance” for convenience. Through the Personal Account, Governors were shown the process of Northern the best project in the field of vocational guidcustomers can quickly retrieve information WWTP reconstruction implemented as one of ance of school students, promotion of technical on water consumption volumes and charges, the main projects under the Neva Untreated professions and collaboration with educational communicate meter readings, or send Wastewater Discharge Closure Programme. institutions. applications for technical specifications, conclusion or amendment of cold water supply The educational programs developed Two Vodokanal’s facilities celebrated their contracts and/or wastewater disposal contracts. by the Youth Environmental Centre and the tenth anniversary on the same day. 22 SeptemWater Museum and targeted to teachers ber marked ten years since South-West WWTP The Demonstration & Exhibition and 1 – 11 year school students are supported and the fountain complex near Finlyandskiy Centre opened at the premises of northern by the St. Petersburg Education Committee. Station were put into operation. WWTP in Olgino in the framework of the These projects will complement other programs Water Cluster activities. The Centre has for non-school hours which are put into practice permanently functioning exhibition areas at schools in compliance with the new federal to demonstrate domestic products and stateeducation standard. of-the-art technologies and materials used 8 9 About the Company 10 11 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Vodokanal History The history of the city’s centralized water supply goes back to 10 October, 1858, when the Charter of “St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company” The Soviet Period World War I and the Civil War had a negA special page in Vodokanal’s history is related to World War II and the blockade of was approved by the Russian ative impact on the technical condition of the city’s water supply system, including its plants, Leningrad. The waterworks and facilities, clean Emperor Alexander II. equipment and networks. In 1920s – early 1930s wood pipes were sometimes used for water tanks, treatment plants, water networks and sewers were subject to intensive bombings construction of water networks due to the lack and shelling. As many as 955 shells exploded Among the founders 1858–1917 of more suitable materials. It was only by 1935 within the area of the Southern WTP alone. The personnel of the most important facilities were The JSC faced huge financial and technical In 1890, the State Duma took a decision that the pre-revolution level of water supply to of the the city network had been reached. put on a war footing. Destruction of networks problems at the initial stage. In early 1863, to buy out the assets owned by the St. PeJoint-Stock However, there were also some achievecaused the flooding of basements, streets and the construction of water networks was, practitersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company, Company were ments at that time. First of all, construction of squares and sometimes even the whole city cally, suspended. By then, the water tower and in 1892 – to buy out also the assets of engineers, such the Southern Waterworks (stage I was put into districts. Nevertheless, both the city water netin Shpalernaya str. (architects I.A. Merz and the New Water Networks Partnership. The City as A.N. Erakov, operation in 1933, a part of stage II – in 1940) works and the sewerage system were working E. Shubersky) has been built and several kilomExecutive Commission for water supply of P.I. Palibin, and modernization of the Main Waterworks without interruption except 25-26 January eters of water distribution networks have been St. Petersburg was established to manage the A.A. Peretz, treatment facilities should be mentioned. 1942 when the electricity supply was cut off. laid. The JSC’s registered capital was spent, the water networks and was subordinated to the E.I. Okel, In 1923–1924 construction of sewer Over the period between 1950 and 1970 shares sold badly, and even the government city administration. The manager of city water and prominent networks was resumed. In 1925, the city the annual average water supply to the city has subsidy could not alter the situation. In March networks was appointed on a submission from businessmen – authorities approved the major sewerage grown more than twice – from 912,800 m3 1863, the 1 Guild merchant A.I. Kron from the chairman of the Executive Commission. I.I. Glazunov, plans for Leningrad (separate system with four to 2,057,600 m3. The Southern WTP stage II St. Petersburg joined the JSC, contributed the During the first decades of the centralized M.I. Yakunchikov, independent sewer basins). Vasilyevsky Island was put into operation in 1948, Volkovskaya lacking sum (approximately, RUB 900,000) and water supply operation in St. Petersburg all I.N. Kushinnikov. was selected as experimental district for the WTP – in 1964, and the Northern WTP stage I – took up completion of the long-drawn works. customers received water which passed only Water supply to the first customers started coarse mechanical treatment. In 1889, sand construction of a new sewerage system. Conin 1971. Wide-scale construction of water by the end of 1863. filters were put into operation at the Main struction of sewers in Vasilyevsky Island (total pumping stations was underway too. In 1952, Some modifications were made to the Waterworks. The filters had been built by the length of street networks – 153.3 km) had the State Committee of the Council of Ministers initial design during the construction period. St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock lasted for 10 years. Vasileostrovskaya sewage of the USSR approved the project of sewerage At first, it was decided to take water from Company as strongly demanded by the city pumping station was completed by 1930. construction in the central part of Leningrad a sort of a “ladle” – the artificial water body authorities. Wastewater was discharged to the Neva Bay where a combined sewerage system was pronear Tavrichesky Palace connected with the In 1911, the filtration station with water without any treatment. posed instead of separate sewerage. The first Neva. However, the “ladle” proved to be unozonation was built in Peterburgskaya (PeIn the 1930s, more and more sewers stage of sewerage in the city centre including suitable for this purpose, and the JSC had to trogradskaya) area. Chlorine disinfection of were built in other city districts. The length of the Main Pumping Station was put into operaarrange water intake from the Neva. drinking water was implemented at the Main sewer networks in Leningrad reached 1130 tion in 1958. Before mid-1870es, the water network Waterworks (the first chlorination experiments km which exceeded twice the pre-revolutionIn 1966, the General Scheme of Leninwas only used by the citizens on the left-bank were made in Kronstadt in 1909). The Execuary level. In 1940 a new sewerage scheme of grad Sewerage was approved which included, side. The new joint-stock company (Partnership) tive Commission for sewerage construction and Leningrad was adopted. It was also based on among other things, three big complexes of was established in 1873 (to be managed by water supply rehabilitation in St. Petersburg a separate sewerage system. The scheme enwastewater treatment facilities. The first one – English contractors) to supply water to Peterestablished by the City Duma had worked since visaged mechanical treatment and precipitation Central WWTP – was put into operation in 1978 burgskaya (Petrogradskaya) and Vyborgskaya 1911 and took over most of the functions in followed by discharge to four channels of the (stage I). Before that, all city wastewater was areas. relation to water supply development. Neva Bay. Stormwater ought to be discharged discharged to the water bodies almost without to all watercourses in the city. It was planned any treatment. The Central WWTP, stage II, was to use the tunneling method to build the main put into operation in 1984, and the Northern sewers. WWTP, stage I, – in 1987. The construction of the South-West WWTP started in 1986. 12 13 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Contemporary History In the 1990s, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” developed and implemented a novel-for-Russia concept of strategic planning of the public utilities’ financial operations and business. Creation of a management system based on the corporate development planning was a crucial step to implementation of this concept in the company. It is the implementation of the strategic planning concept that ensured sustainable development of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. In 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg became released 29 patients, among them – five very Treatment Plant in the settlement of Olgino In 1992, the company was able to become self-sufficient and raise the one of the finalists for the prestigious award of rare Baltic ringed seals. In September 2014, within the frame of the Water Cluster activities. necessary investments for reconstruction and development. In 2004, the European Foundation for Quality Managethe Marine Mammals Research and ConservaThe Water Cluster concept was approved by the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Systems Reconstruction and ment (EFQM) – Excellence Award-2011. tion Centre was opened, and the Baltic Seal the meeting of the St. Petersburg Governor’s Development Programme for 2004-2011 was worked out. The SouthSince 2011, the International Advanced Friends Fund was established. Investment Council on 6 April 2015. The Water West WWTP was inaugurated on 22 September 2005 in the presence Water Technologies Centre, a joint project of It was one of the most exiting events in Cluster is established to speed up development of the President of the Russian Federation V.V. Putin, the President of Vodokanal and Lahti Science and Business Park the Gulf of Finland Year announced in 2014 by and implementation of modern technologies Finland Tarja Halonen and the Swedish Prime-Minister Göran Persson. (Finland), has been working at the premises of decision of Russia, Finland and Estonia. During and innovations in water supply and wastewaAlongside with the construction of new facilities using the best SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. the year, a wide range of events dedicated to ter disposal sector; secure supply orders for the advanced technologies, wide-scale reconstruction of the existing Since 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has the Gulf of Finland challenges were organized companies of the Cluster in the long run; enjoy WWTPs was implemented. By 2006, three “hot spots” in the Baltic started a new type of activity: construction and in Petersburg both for specialists and for the the advantages of home industry enterprisSea catchment basin have been eliminated. The reconstruction of the operation of permanent snow-melting stations general public. In particular, the festival “Gulf es, building companies, R&D and educational Central WWTP in 2007 made it possible to meet, and even surpass the (PSMS). of Finland – Area of Cooperation” was held institutes. HELCOM standards of nutrient concentrations. By commissioning two In 2012, the next-to-last stage of the with Vodokanal as an active participant. At the sludge incineration plants – at the Northern WWTP and South-West Northern Tunnel Collector was completed (the festival, an official meeting of the Gulf of Finland WWTP – in 2007, St. Petersburg became the first megalopolis to fully wastewater streams was diverted to the collecYear public councils from the three countries solve the problem of sewage sludge utilization. tor and then to Northern WWTP for treatment) was conducted. In 2008, Vodokanal St. Petersburg celebrated its 150th anniversawhich resulted in the closure of five direct disPre-commissioning of a new 500,000 m3/day Since the beginning of 2015, the Company has pursued ry. One of the biggest events of the jubilee year was the commissioning charges and the treatment of as much as 97% first-lift pumping station began at Main WTP. the implementation of the import phase-out policy of the first section of Northern Tunnel Collector extension. of all wastewater. Construction of the first-lift pumping station and in a consistent manner. During the year, the share The year 2009 was marked by the 20th anniversary of cooperation In autumn 2012, the cooperation between new intake facilities was the initial phase of the of foreign manufacture equipment in the overall with the Ministry of the Environment of Finland. “The Baltic. Common St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region got Main WTP Reconstruction Project. purchase amount of Vodokanal reduced from 30% Sea. Common Concern” Conference was dedicated to this date. a new impetus: the joint meeting of the city and Within the frame of the project on the to 1.8%.In the end of 2015, Vodokanal was given the In June 2009, the official ceremony of the last chlorine containregion took a decision to establish the Steering closure of the untreated wastewater discharges Russian Federation Government Quality Award er removal from Northern Water Treatment Plant symbolized that Committee of St. Petersburg and the Leningrad into the water bodies of St. Petersburg, direct 2015 for achievements in the sphere of product Vodokanal stopped using liquid chlorine for water disinfection replacing Region in the sphere of social and economic discharges from Petrovskiy Stadium and along it with hazard-free sodium hypochlorite. development. In particular, the Committee would Petrogradskaya Embankment were eliminated and service quality and for implementing highlyIn December 2009, the second stage of Northern Tunnel Collector deals with the provision of water supply and in 2014. In the same year the construction of efficient methods of quality management. The similar Extension was completed which enabled to reach 91% of wastewater sewerage services to the fast-growing developsewage collector at Admiralteyskaya Embankaward was given to the Company in 2006. treatment. ments at the border line between the city and ment (next to the Bronze Horseman) began. In June 2010, one of the biggest plants – Southern WTP startthe Leningrad Region. In April 2015, an important stage of the ed pre-commissioning of its new water treatment block designed for The first result of the joint environmental Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure 350,000 m3/day of potable water production (water supply to the city actions was diversion of wastewater in the Programme – the construction of the sewage from this block began in January 2011). town of Sertolovo (in the Leningrad Region) to collector along the part of Admiralteyskaya In 2010, Vodokanal summarized the results of the pilot project Northern WWTP (in St. Petersburg). Due to that, Embankment from Dvortsovy Proezd to the aimed to create a water supply management system and started to the discharge of pollutants into the Lake Razliv Senatskaya Square was completed. It made implement the system in the southern districts of the city. could be reduced by 58.8%. it possible to close six untreated wastewater By the end of 2010, the next stage of Northern Tunnel Collector In 2013, Vodokanal celebrated its 155th discharges, equivalent to approx. 1000 m3/day, Extension has been completed, and the official ceremony of connecting anniversary. Besides, this year was announced into the Neva. Alongside with the completion 12 more direct discharges to the Collector was held in January 2011. the Environmental Protection Year in Russia. of works at the Senatskaya Square, construction As a result, the wastewater treatment level in the city reached 93%. The main event of the year took place on of the sewage network at the Repina Square In 2011, Vodokanal could already treat 94% of all wastewater havVodokanal’s birthday, 10 October 2013: the was started. New sewage network will enable ing re-channeled five direct discharges to Northern Tunnel Collector and large-scale environmental project, construction to close the direct discharge to the Fontanka closed down seven small WWTPs (the wastewater formerly collected of Northern Tunnel Collector, was completed in River in Lotsmanskaya Street and to channel by them was re-channeled to Northern WWTP). The ceremony dedicated Petersburg. Ten untreated wastewater dischargwastewater for treatment to the Central Wasteto this event was attended by the Governor of St. Petersburg es were closed. Since then, 98.4% of wastewawater Treatment Plant. Today, 98.5% of wasteG.S. Poltavchenko. ter has been treated. water undergoes treatment in St. Petersburg. In 2011, St. Petersburg was finally crossed out from the list of In 2013, Vodokanal put three more permaIn the same year, a new wastewater treatBaltic Sea polluters. Since then the city has fully met the HELCOM recnent snow-melting stations in operation. ment facility and water supply plant were set ommendations on wastewater treatment quality: phosphorus concenThe total number of such stations increased to into operation on the Isle of Valaam, thus allowtrations in the total wastewater volume discharged in St. Petersburg do ten. Snow is melted by the heat of wastewater ing for efficient treatment of all wastewater and not exceed 0.5 mg/l. The official ceremony marking the completion of fed into the melting chambers. no adverse impact on the Ladoga Lake. the Clean Baltic Sea Project was held at Northern WWTP in June in the In 2013, Vodokanal launched a new social On 6 November 2015, the Exhibition Cenpresence of the President of Finland Tarja Halonen. project: in cooperation with the not-for-profit tre was opened in the presence of St. PetersIn 2011, Vodokanal expanded its biomonitoring system by implepartnership “Marine Mammal Rehabilitation burg Governor G.S. Poltavchenko and members menting it at wastewater treatment plants: since the beginning of the Centre of Leningrad Region” and 2PR public of St. Petersburg Government to present prodyear the composition of flue gases at the South-West Incineration Plant relations agency, it was saving rare animals of ucts, up-to-date technologies and materials of has been monitored by African snails, and since July the effluent quality the Baltic Sea Region, ringed seals and grey local companies in water supply and wastewater at South-West Treatment Plant has been checked by Australian red-claw seals. These activities were followed up in 2014. disposal sector. The opening ceremony took crayfish. During the season, the specialists cured and place at the Northern Wastewater 14 15 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Mission and Values Mission Provision of high-quality Values water and sewerage services ensuring good • Responsibility to future generations Careful and efficient use of natural resources including water, energy, quality of life for customers, forests, etc. sustainable development of • Responsibility to the customers the city, creation of water Continuous studies of the customers’ expectations and requirements, improvement of customer interaction procedures to raise the level of satisfacconsumption culture and tion with the water and sewerage services. conservation of the Baltic • Responsibility to the staff Sea water environment. Continuous improvement of labour safety, decent salaries and wages, social security for the company staff and their families and for the retired employees. • Innovative approach vision Incorporation of international best practices in the company management, the use of advanced technologies and creation of know-how in different fields of activities – that is the only way to reach success and to be a leading company. We see Vodokanal among • Openness to the public and responsibility the world’s best providers of to the society water and sewerage services Transparency of the company activities, access to reliable information due to the quality of its on the company work and history, close contacts with the mass media, educational institutions and public and environmental organizations – all that services and environmental constitutes the basis of our information policy. awareness. 16 17 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Corporate Management System Building Philosophy Corporate Management The Company’s strategy is based on The Company’s strategic goals are achieved The corpoSystem a clear understanding of present and future by fostering the corporate culture aimed at the rate culture demands of the stakeholders, cost-benefit and orientation of the personnel to the achievement development mutually advantageous cooperation principles. of such goals, support of new ideas and innovaapproaches and The company’s strategic planning horizons are tions and allocation of necessary resources. Building the principles harmonized with perspective plans of municipal The personnel are viewed by the leaders as of corporate and regional development. St. Petersburg Water a strategic potential for sustainable developsocial responsiand Wastewater Master Plan till 2025 with an ment of the Company and as a major resource Philosophy bility are used outlook to 2030 was approved by the St. Petersdetermining the economic performance. For this burg Government Resolution no. 856 dated reason, the personnel management policy is foby managers in 25 September 2015 and formed the basis for cused on the continuous training and professiontheir day-to-day The corporate management Water and Wastewater Investment Programme al development of the personnel and motivates activities at all of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” for employees to productive and efficient labor. management of SUE ‘‘Vodokanal of St. Petersburg’’ 2015-2017 approved by the Order of the The key indicators framework is implelevels for the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee. mented and improving steadily to ensure better purpose of takis based on the following principles: ment and its sole owner – City of St. Petersburg; benchmarking studies of the best peers The updated Master Plan incorporates understanding of internal processes and to ing managerial in Russia, Europe and other parts of the world; various city development scenarios taking into take the necessary managerial decisions at the decisions and participation of managers in international and account the available estimates of future populaCompany. The KPI (key performance indicators) providing social Accountability Russian conferences, seminars and meetings; tion growth and water demand per capita. framework is a set of interrelated measurable support for the The company’s executive body shall be regular self-assessment of activities (since 2006 The Master Plan gives considerations to the indicators of actual results. The KPI framework Company emaccountable to the owner (City of St. Peters– against the RF Quality Award Model, since economic and social development strategy helps achieve the efficiency of both business ployees. burg), the state authorities and control bodies 2009 – against the EFQM Model); re-engineering of St. Petersburg till 2030, the General Plan of processes and each staff member at his work in compliance with the applicable law. of business processes; and internal audits. the city, land use and development rules, site place, and, eventually, raise the efficiency of the planning schemes, master plans of municipalities Company. The indicators are cascaded to the Transparency The corporate governance system relies on the principles and approaches set by the internaof the Leningrad Region bordering on the city of structural unit level. The company shall ensure timely discloSt. Petersburg within the Big St. Petersburg, etc. The information systems (IS), such as tional standards: ISO 9001 Quality Management sure of reliable information on any material Vodokanal also takes into account requests IS “Water Balance”, Favordata, IS “Baltika” and System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management facts in relation to its activities, including its of the interested parties and, therefore, it underIS “Hotline”, to support the keeping of daily staSystem, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and financial standing, social and environmental takes at its own discretion additional obligations tistics are implemented at the Company as a tool Safety System, ISO 27001 Information Security performance and operating results, as well as which are incorporated in the strategic planning of continuous online performance monitoring. System and ISO 50001 Energy Management provide free access to such information (annual and relates, in particular, to social responsibility Systematic satisfaction surveys of all System. reports, Internet site, management addresses to the customers, society and personnel. stakeholders including the assessment of satAt present, the organizational structure of in the mass media, Internet portal, panel disThe Company strategy includes the targets isfaction among the main customer categories, the Company is aimed to implement the adopted cussions, conferences etc.) for all stakeholders. in five areas: finance and investments; consumsatisfaction and awareness of the public, functional-zonal management principle for water Responsibility supply and wastewater disposal (area water supply management offices and area wastewater ers; city/region/community environment; main business processes; and the Company personnel and staff satisfaction including assessments of commitment and loyalty, are an integral part The company shall acknowledge the rights disposal systems, each of them serving several and development. Medium-term strategic and of Vodokanal’s continuous improvement. Togethof all stakeholders as provided by the applicacity districts). The major principles of the corpotactical goals for each of the strategic areas er, the studies give an unbiased assessment ble law and shall seek collaboration with the rate management system building philosophy are set to achieve the targets. A special focus of the company performance in respect of the stakeholders to reach the company goals and are the process-based approach, personification is on energy saving and improvement of energy key stakeholders. to maintain financial sustainability and social of the responsibility and authority. efficiency. stability. Specific nature of the Company’s activities Efficiency related to the continuous provision of vitally The company will only reach its goal if important services with the involvement of each employee – from director general to ordia great number of the stakeholders makes the nary officer – works efficiently. Company’s operations more responsible and Vodokanal’s corporate governance system transparent. Stakeholders’ interaction rules are is continuously developing and improving due to defined in the Corporate Management Code and the strategic initiatives of the company managethe Corporate Ethics Code. 18 19 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Process Interaction Pattern in St. Petersburg Vodokanal Overview as of 1 October 2015 of Management All stakeholders Requirements Consumer Satisfaction All stakeholders Management processes Approaches Analysis of the customer and other stakeholders’ Coordination of the Company activity in compliance with all stakeholders’ requirements Analysis of the customer and other stakeholders’ Wastewater disposal requierements satisfaction Process Owner – First Deputy Director General Water supply Management Personnel Production Economy Finance Investment and of Company management development Management management construction To improve the Company operations, development projects Process Owner – management Process Owner – Process Owner – management Process Owner – Director for Personnel and Process Owner – Director for Economy Director for Finance Process Owner – Director for Development Information Policy Director for Development Director for Capital Projects Construction and Investments Vodokanal uses such management approaches as: Control over fulfillment of all stakeholders’ Objectives and tasks setting Work performance analysis • self-assessment; ISO 9001, 14001, 50001, 27001 and OHSAS requirements • reengineering of processes; 18001; • process-based approach; • industry-specific benchmarking and • satisfaction surveys of the internal functional studies; process users; • implementation of innovative instru• certification of the management sysments for management improvement. Centralized tems according to the international standards Securing the Document Property Internal control and improvement Social and Public Production Coordination and management provision of the material and Provision Provision Company cultural relations of the Company Supporting management management of the Company support production stock of vehicles of insurances assets Management communications support production to the Company processes operations Stages of the Company Management Improvement business units Value added action Information flow Selfassessment Self-assessment according according to EFQM Excellence Model to the criteria Participation in quality management The Company’s intention is to develop In 2015, QMS implementation of the BusinessDevelopment competitions gives the Company opportunities further its strengths, come close to the model Vodokanal Government processes of the processnot only to evaluate the maturity of its own of an ideal organization and participate in received the RF EMS implementation OHSAS implementation Quality Award reengineering based approach management system and to compare it with international quality-related events. We see Government best companies in Russia and Europe but also Vodokanal among the world’s best companies. Quality Award. 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 to involve Company’s employees in the process Using its own experience and the practicThis award of continuous improvements and search for es of its foreign and domestic peers in water is a result new paths of development and performance sector, Vodokanal is developing the “Ideal Waof a continuous Self-assessment according to EFQM Excellence Model enhancement. ter Company” concept. It is now formulated work of all In 2006, Vodokanal got the RF Governin the Strategic Plan of the Company and adpersonnel ISM implementation The management of Vodokanal is built ment Quality Award. In 2009, the Company dresses all spheres of activity: interaction with targeted to on the process-based approach. The Company passed an independent expert assessment customers; development and management the search for EnMS implementation Management improvement has defined processes needed to implement for compliance with the EFQM Recognized of water services and infrastructure; environdevelopment its mission, vision and strategy and determined Benchmarking system for Excellence level (5 stars). In 2010, it conment and society; financial sustainability and paths, the sequence and interaction of the processes. implementation firmed compliance with the Recognized for investments; staff development and social implementation The processes together with their interrelations Excellence level (5 stars) at the Central and support. The Ideal Water Company Concept is of the most and interactions constitute the Company’s Eastern Europe Countries Contest. revised in its form and substance from time advanced 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 process framework. As of the end of 2011, Vodokanal joined the to time according to the results of self-astechnological ranks of finalists of the prestigious European sessment for the previous year and in coninnovations and Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) sideration of external factors, including new improvement Excellence Award-2011. regulatory acts, the outlook for city developof management At present, the Company intends to dement, and customer expectations. processes. Annually, the Company management is For many years, Vodokanal has passed velop and implement its own production manevaluated by its senior executives (the annual operation analysis reports are issued). The successfully the management system compliance audits carried out by the National Certifiagement system with a tentative name “4E: Efficiency, Environment, Economy, Evolution”. The use of management approaches internal audit process has been developed and implemented to assess the conformity of the cation Association “Russian Register” and the international company SAI Global. 4E system will become an integrated concept enables to: which unites all processes and approaches to • ensure continuous improvement of water/wastewater Company management systems to ISO 9001, Since 2006, Vodokanal has self-assessed management improvement. The production service quality; ISO 14001, ISO 50001, OHSAS 18001 and its activities against the Russian Federation system should ensure a streamlined interac• find new forms of interaction will all stakeholders ISO 27001 and to provide the Company’s senGovernment Quality Award Model, and since tion of all process owners at the Company on the grounds of trust, respect and openness; ior executives with reliable information. Such 2009 – against the EFQM Model-based methand create a transparent reporting framework • meet the challenges and solve the problems faced by Vodokanal; internal audit process is an important element odology developed in-house, and participated based on key performance indicators of each • enlarge the Company’s contribution to the sustainable future of improving the performance and efficiency in regional and European competitions. Regular employee. of the region and the Baltic Sea basin. of the Company’s management system. self-assessments enabled to integrate management processes and link them with strategic planning processes. 20 21 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Key The process performance management process is based on Performance Deming-Shewhart-Tailor cycle (PDCA): Management 1. Plan (P) – key process performance targets are planned for the next year in January, on the basis of the strategic indicators, In 2015, St. Petersburg Vodokanal participated in the programme “International benchmarking in water supply and sewerage Each year, a report on the Company Processes required resources and result analysis of the services” organized by the European Benchperformance previous year. The cause-and-effect relationmarking Co-operation (EBC). EBC has been results ships between the approaches applied and the arranging benchmarking programmes for water and plans results we want to achieve are determined at companies since 2007. Yearly, about 50 comfor the this phase. panies from 20 countries, accounting for over next year 100 million people in Europe, America and Asia, In parallel with the process improvements, the Company is upgrading its set of indicators • number of interruptions of water supply occurred as a result of emergencies, damages or 2. Do (D) – the service is provided and took part in the programmes. EBC Benchmarkare presented to the City monitored at all process levels (management ing Programme is approved by the Internationfor strategic and day-to-day monitoring of proother technological disturbances; Administration. processes, life cycle processes and supporting al Water Association (IWA) and American Water cesses. The assessment tools are: internal and • the improvement of maintenance function The performance processes); daily operational indicators are Works Association (AWWA). external audits of management systems, self-asalongside with reconstruction works lead to results of the checked. At this phase, management is limited Within the frame of the programme EBC sessment based on the EFQM Excellence Model, higher reliability of network operation and lower Company are to ensuring the achievement of tactical (monthcompares key performance indicators of water benchmarking and corporate management rating breakdown rates. approved by ly) targets split by types of activities within the companies as of the end of reporting year. EBC criteria. Process performance is monitored using the protocol process. developed and circulated among the particrelevant key indicators. of the special Regular monitoring of the processes by 3. Check (C) – the progress in achieving ipants its own unique methodology for the calculation of key performance indicators based commission middle and top management enables to keep the key performance indicators is checked using of the on IWA indicators. The indicators are divided a close watch on approaching to the set goals and timely adjust the progress of the process. The key performance the daily and weekly data. by groups: production operations, personnel, St. Petersburg Committee for Quality targets for the next three years, environindicators of the Wastewater 4. Act (A) – the progress in achieving economy, finance, customers and environment. Energy and mental management program for one year and tactical targets and the reasons for deviation The final report with recommendation on imEngineering the form “Quality Targets for the Current Year Disposal process are: from targets are analyzed, and the necessary corrective actions are worked out at weekly proving the performance in difference areas is used by the management to make Support. Split by Months” have been developed to support regular monitoring of Vodokanal’s progress • percentage of wastewater treated at working meetings. Such actions help adjust the Company’s operations better. to the (water supply and wastewater disposal) wastewater treatment plants; the existing approaches to achieve the targets. The system of internal benchmarking quality goals. • reduced number of blockages per unit Process performance measurements based on the rating of production performance length of the combined municipal sewage netare the basis of the integrated operation moniof water supply and wastewater disposal work; toring system maintained and developed areas is introduced to optimize production and The key performance indicators • reduced number of blockages per unit in a systematic way, and used to identify the management structure of the Company. Rating assignment and benchmarking are carried out of the Water Supply process are: length of the separate storm water network; • permitted concentrations of total nitrogen key problems to be analyzed. Performance indicators are monitored using special scorecards by analyzing key performance indicators. Learnin the treated effluent; (IS “Water Balance”, Favordata, IS “Baltika” ing the experience of the best production unit • percentage of potable water samples at is a tool for improving the operation of other • permitted concentrations of total phosand IS “Hotline”) and continuously analyzed the plant inlet not complying with the applicable divisions. phorus in the treated effluent; at all management levels. regulatory values; • percentage of dewatered sludge to be Reporting forms are developed within • percentage of potable water samples in incinerated. the management accounting system the distribution network not complying with the to ensure permanent performance analyses. applicable regulatory values; Potential areas of process management • number of breakdowns on water distribuimprovement are identified in the course of tion networks per 10 km of pipelines per year; internal audit results and performance evalua• water consumption and distribution tion reports for EMS, QMS, OHSAS, EnMS and losses; ISMS as well as self-assessment. The results • number of recorded reasoned complaints of analysis are used to identify areas for about low water head; improvements and to work out the necessary corrective measures and actions for the existing approaches in order to achieve the strategic targets. Vodokanal compares its performance indicators with KPI of water companies in Russia and Europe, analyzes the operation of partner-companies to identify best practices and share the experience. The corporate portal “Benchmarking” functions on the Company’s website and contains the data on key performance indicators of the leading local and foreign water companies collected from public information sources. 22 23 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Main Provisions Disclosure on Corporate of Information Culture about Activities The development of corporate culture at the company is based on the unity of personnel in achieving the strategic targets, identificaThe company employees adhere to the corporate values (see the section “Mission and Values” above), and maintain and develop the corporate culture as required to achieve the highest level of the Company tion and support of social standards and values. of performance. For this purpose, regular companywide profesThe corporate values are obligatory for all Vodokanal staff SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” disclossional and cultural events are organized. and are proposed to all those who cooperate with Vodokanal. es information on its water supply and sewage Vodokanal management realizes the priority The company’s ethical principles are based on the corporate operations in accordance with the Decree no. 6 of social responsibility to the personnel. This realvalues, compliance with law, and respect for the rights of Vodokanal of the Government of the Russian Federation ization is based on the company’s internal standemployees and partners. They govern both in-company relations and dated 17 January 2013 “On Disclosure Standards and supported through the implementation the relations between Vodokanal and its partners and customers ards for the Water Sector”. Any disclosure of of different social support programmes including including behavior in the situations where conflicts of interests arise. information in the field of heat supply shall the improvement of remuneration mechanisms, be performed in accordance with the Decree medical care and voluntary medical insurance, no. 570 of the Government of the Russian Federsubsidized catering, recreation opportunities ation dated 5 July 2013 “On Disclosure Standfor the employees and members of their families, The main provisions of corporate ards by Heat Supply Organizations, Heat Netorganization of corporate events, and support of the company veterans and pensioners. culture adopted by SUE “Vodokanal works Organizations and Regulatory Authorities” (hereinafter, Information Disclosure Standards). The company has defined and is following its policy in the field of information and knowlof St. Petersburg” are set out in The Company has consistently pursued the policy to increase the transparency aimed edge. This policy is based on the principles of openness, completeness, regularity, timelithe company standard STO Vodokanal at facilitating the access to information subject to disclosure. All necessary information within ness, objectiveness, reliability, the raising of staff competence and improvement of corpoSPB 1.4-2010 Management system. the Information Disclosure Standards and information related to the process of establishing and rate culture. Values and ethical standards have been Code of Corporate Ethics. application of tariffs in St. Petersburg is available on the official websites of St. Petersburg defined and are followed to develop the corVodokanal, the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee, porate culture. The leaders demonstrate to the on the Internet and in the pages of a single spestaff, by personal example, the standards of ethiThe principles are (but not limited to): cialized publication – Vestnik Journal of cal behaviour towards every stakeholder, support • Focus on creation of value. Vodokanal employees work St. Petersburg Tariff Committee (the official print the learning of values by employees during the in line with the company strategy and strive to fulfil important stratepublication according to the Decree of St. Peadaptation period, and promote corporate unity gic tasks. When implementing various actions, Vodokanal employees tersburg Government no. 223 dated 21 February at different levels by initiating, and participating realize what value they create for customers, their company and the These resources are convenient official platforms for 2011; the mass media registration certificate in, joint events. society in general. centralized, uniform and timely disclosure of inforno.TU 7800675 dated 27 August 2010). The key approaches to the development • Professional skills and teamwork. Vodokanal employees are mation in accordance with the Information Disclosure of corporate culture and the principles of corpogood professionals. They build relations with their colleagues on the Standards. rate social responsibility are used in the day-tobasis of confidence, collaboration, corporate solidarity and mutual day activities at all company management levels assistance. The employees take a proactive approach in their teamwork for the purpose of taking managerial decisions, focusing on the result of joint activities. Those who are capable of imorganizing recreation and providing social supproving the company performance are offered career promotion, port for Vodokanal employees. and, moreover, implementation of essential projects is entrusted to Internal communications are effected in the them. company’s integrated information space includ• Strategic flexibility. Vodokanal operates in the environment ing, on the one hand, a set of IT resources and where governmental regulation of tariffs and fluctuating prices for the the corporate newspaper and, on the other hand, suppliers’ products are a reality and have a significant impact on the individual meetings between the company manimplementation of the company strategy. agers of any level with the Company employees. • Social responsibility. The company bears responsibility for the social well-being of its employees. The value created by Vodokanal staff is a huge contribution to the improvement of the living standards in St. Petersburg, the Baltic Sea Region and society in general. 24 25 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Legal Vodokanal Director for Legal Support Department Organizational Water Supply Wastewater Disposal Directorate Directorate structure as of 1 Jan. 2016 St. Petersburg Director Economy Finance Contract and Russian Federation for Economy Department Bureau Bureau Budget Execution Bureau Customer Deputy Director General Service Centre Branch Insurance Coverage Customer Department Service Directorate Socio-Economic for Southern Programs Implementation Water Supply Zone Centre Branch Director for Personnel Medical and Information Policy Centre Branch Information and Information and Training Deputy Director for Personnel and Personnel Administrative Public Relations Centre Branch Information Policy Department Department Department Water Supply Energy Intellectual Deputy Director and Wastewater and Mechanics Property for Development Disposal Systems Department Bureau Development Bureau Engineering Medical Centre Innovation Centre Branch Deputy Director IT and Company Sanitary for IT Communication Security Epidemiological Director Development Department Department Mobilization Department Supervision Inspection General St. Petersburg Water Supply Branch Water and Wastewater Environmental OHSAS and Order Regulation Deputy Director Connection Systems Management Production Bureau for Production Performance Department Department Inspection Bureau Transport Director for Production and Logistics Branch Economic City Water Hydraulic Modeling Civil Defense and Deputy Director Emergency Infrastructure and Planning Extra-Ordinary St. Petersburg for Production Security Bureau Response Centre Department Department Situations Inspection Wastewater Disposal Branch Internal Development Internal Control Tariff Management Chief Project 1st Class Control Director Department Department Quality Bureau Chief Expert Manager Leading Expert Projects Department Deputy Director for Approval Investment Construction Capital Construction and Permit Planning Department Directorate Investment and Investments Service Director for Capital Programs Construction Implementation and Investments Centre Branch Deputy Director for Water Supply Wastewater Construction Capital Construction Property Project Manager Project Manager Supervision and Investments Department Department Chief Accountant Chief Accountant Office 26 27 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Vodokanal Today Main achievements Moreover, Vodokanal is in charge of the city fountains and public toilets. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersof SUE “Vodokanal Vodokanal is strongly focused on ocburg” has cupational guidance and awareness-raising built an effecof St. Petersburg” in the activities. It has its Information and Training tive customfield of water treatment: Centre including the Universe of Water Museum Complex and the Youth Environmental Centre. er feedback system. Since • all potable water supplied to the city Another social awareness-raising project 2004, a 24-hour Company is UV-treated to ensure epidemiologic safety; implemented by Vodokanal is the web-portal Hot Line Ser• liquid chlorine is not used for water disda-voda.com which promotes the ideas of vice has been infection, it is replaced by hazard-free, non-toxic careful water use. in operation sodium hypochlorite; Vodokanal promotes its values by means providing all Profile • hazard-free, non-toxic ammonia sulfate is used for water ammonation instead of ammonia solutions; • a unique biomonitoring system (crayfish) of such social networks as Facebook, VKontakte and the Company has its own accounts there. kinds of information about Vodokanal An important field of activities is the work. The Hot is used at all water intakes to check water conoccupational guidance for the youth. Vodokanal Line Service dition in the water source, the Neva; actively cooperates with higher education phone number is • PAC (powdered activated carbon) dosing institutions and secondary vocational schools, +7 (812) 305-09-09. is implemented to remove odors and oil. develops and conducts educational career-guidance programs for students at the premises The State Unitary Enterprise (SUE) “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Main achievements of the Youth Environmental Centre, the Water Museum and the College of Water Resources. provides water supply and sewerage services to the city of SUE “Vodokanal Vodokanal St. Petersburg is one of the founders of the Water Cluster, which began its of St. Petersburg. It is the country’s biggest public utility of St. Petersburg” work in St. Petersburg in 2015. The Exhibition and one of the key municipal companies in St. Petersburg. in the field of wastewater Center and the Water Academy, being a part of the Water Cluster, were established at the treatment: premises of Vodokanal. At the same time, the • 98.5% of wastewater is treated in International Advanced Water Technologies Petersburg now; Centre, which was founded in conjunction with • Petersburg entirely meets the HELCOM Lahti Region Business Development Centre recommendations: phosphorus concentrations (Finland), keeps on its operation under the aegis in the total volume of the city wastewater of Vodokanal. As of 31 DecemVodokanal’s assets are owned by the City The sewerage system comprises: discharge do not exceed 0.5 mg/l, nitrogen conVodokanal together with zoologists has ber 2015, of St. Petersburg represented by relevant pub• 8,603 km of sewer networks; centrations – 10 mg/l; been involved in the project on rescuing marine the staff lic authorities. Vodokanal provides its services • 270,7 km of tunnel collectors; • Petersburg has solved the sludge dismammals of the Baltic Sea Region. The Marine of SUE to the city inhabitants (over 5 million people) • 176 sewage pumping stations; posal problem: three sludge incineration plants Mammals Research and Conservation Centre “Vodokanal and to many thousands of companies and • 15 wastewater treatment plants includare in operation in the city; was opened at Vodokanal premises. of St. Petersorganizations in St. Petersburg. ing 13 – for municipal sewage and 2 – burg” for surface runoff. The biggest are: Central • Biomonitoring technologies are implenumbered The water supply system comprises: WWTP, Northern WWTP and South-West WWTP; mented to check the quality of treated effluent 8,514 people. • 7,104.2 km of water supply networks; • 3 sludge incineration plants. (by means of Neva crayfish and Australian red• 193 boosting pumping stations; claw crayfish) and concentrations of flue gases • 9 water treatment plants at the sludge incineration plant (by means of (the biggest are Southern WTP, Northern WTP gigantic African snails); and Main WTP); • A snow disposal technology is im• 2 sodium hypochlorite production plemented in Petersburg: ten permanent plants. snow-melting stations and six technically equipped snow-melting points. 28 29 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Remarkable Events In the framework Simultaneously, the Water Museum of the 70th opened the exhibition “I am with Vodokanal: anniversary of I have memories and pride!” The exhibition the Great Victory, showed photos, documents, letters, and per2015 Vodokanal’s sonal belongings of the people who fought in Water Museum the Great Patriotic War or worked on the home front: relatives, friends, and family members contrived and of Vodokanal employees, as well as materials organized the from family archives. inter-museum The Universe of Water museum complex The opening, with a strong support from citywide participated in the Museums at Night event for On 12 March 2015, the International Forum Vodokanal, of the Marine Mammals Research interactive the eighth time. The night program “We’ve gone in St. Petersburg summarized the results of the Gulf of and Conservation Center in Repino was reproject “Order through fire to save water” lasted for 12 hours Finland Year 2014. Among the Forum participants were: ferred to by the Governor as one of the most to Survive”. The in a row. It was visited by nearly 8,000 people. the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of important events of the Gulf of Finland Year. project was the Russian Federation S.E. Donskoy, the Governor of Moreover, three countries made a joint declaraimplemented at St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko, the Governor of the tion at the Forum stating the need to “continue 11 city’s museum Leningrad Region A.Yu. Drozdenko, the Director General the cooperation in a trilateral format for the sites to give the of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ F.V. Karmazinov, purpose of fulfilling national and international inhabitants and and delegates from Finland and Estonia. commitments on protecting the marine environguests of the ment of the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic Sea“. city knowledge In his presentation at the Forum, Many actions under the company’s investment about the work G.S. Poltavchenko pointed out that Petersburg program till 2025 are directly related to rehabilitation of the Gulf of Finland. In particular, the of life-supporting had been involved in environmental protection activities over many years, and Vodokanal was plan is to ensure 100% treatment of not only enterprises in the city’s strategic partner in this field. municipal sewage, but also storm water. Leningrad during the war. A new sewage The symbolical start button was pressed treatment by Kirill, the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia. plant and Now the island treats all its wastewaters in a new, two-stage an effective and reliable way, and any negative In 2015, the construction of Admiralteyskiy The untreated wastewater discharge water treatment impact on Lake Ladoga is eliminated. The studies sewage collector was completed. As a result, closure project which enabled the facility, 350 m³/day demonstrated that the treatment quality, in six outlets discharging nearly 1,000 m3/day treatment of 98.5% of wastewater terms of all monitored parameters, including each, were put of untreated wastewater into the Neva were nutrients – nitrogen and phosphorus, complies in Petersburg in 2015, was going on into full-scale closed. Moreover, new sewer networks in the with the Russian regulatory requirements and successfully. Now the wastewater operation on the Repina Square were constructed with the aim the HELCOM (the Baltic Marine Environment is diverted to treatment plants Isle of Valaam in Protection Commission) Recommendations. to close the untreated wastewater discharge where it undergoes a full treatment early July 2015. The wastewater treatment modernization into the River Fontanka near Lotsmanskaya str. In 2015, the construction of Okhta tunnel cycle in compliance with the HELCOM programme for Valaam got a support from BASE collector began with the purpose to eliminate the Recommendations. (Implementation of the HELCOM’s Baltic Sea discharge of untreated wastewater into the River Action Plan) Project. Okhta. Construction of a new wastewater treatment plant was launched in the settlement of Molodezhnoye near St. Petersburg. It will be the city’s first plant to implement a new treatment technology based on membrane bioreactors. 30 31 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Vodokanal was among the winners of the International The educational programs developed by Competition of organizations for the best youth the Youth Environmental Centre and the Water outreach, having received a grant in the nomination Museum and targeted to teachers and “Career Guidance” for the best project in the field of 1–11 year school students are supported by vocational guidance of school students, promotion the St. Petersburg Education Committee. These of technical professions and collaboration with projects will complement other programs for non-school hours which are put into practice educational institutions. at schools in compliance with the new federal education standard. Moreover, Vodokanal got the Trajectory 2015 Award in the nomination “Senior Teenagers” at the All-Russian Forum “Trajectory of Success” dedicated to professional identity of youth. On 17 September The Russian Water Association For the first time in the history of In April 2015, the ringed seal was admitted to the Marine Mam2015, the Water is a partner of the Water Academy. In future, joint pinnipeds rescue activities of mals Research and Conservation Centre in a very bad condition and Academy was the Water Academy will play the role of an the Marine Mammals Research and could not be released into the wild together with other patients of launched as educational and methodological centre for the Conservation Centre in Repino and the Centre. All in all, 4 Baltic grey seals and 9 Ladoga ringed seals a pilot project Water Cluster and the water sector in general, Vodokanal St. Petersburg, the Baltic were rehabilitated and released by the Centre in 2015. All fosterlings at Vodokanal’s offering programs of higher/supplementary ringed seal Little Inger has stayed had put on weight and got prepared to the life in the wild. The conprofessional education and making scientific cerned citizens contributed more than RUB 250,000 for the Centre’s Information for continued rehabilitation in the research. The task of the Water Academy is care of the ringed seal. & Training Centre over the winter period. to satisfy the sector’s demand for qualified Centre. The first personnel having special knowledge and comstudents of the petences. Water Academy were Vodokanal employees. Vodokanal The Prize is a grand-scale national project St. Petersburg aimed to promote the quality management was awarded principles in Russia. The Decree of the Russian the Quality Government dated 6 November 2015 no. 1202 Prize 2015 “On awarding the Russian Government’s quality of the Russian prizes in 2015” was published on the Russian In November 2015, the Demonstration The official inauguration was attended by Government’s website on 12 November 2015. the Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. PoltavchenGovernment & Exhibition Centre opened at the Twelve more organizations were awarded toko and members of the city government. The for “achieving premises of Northern WWTP in Olgino gether with Vodokanal. The company received aim of the Demonstration & Exhibition Centre good quality a similar award in 2006. in the framework of the Water is to accumulate the national equipment and of products Cluster activities. technologies which have a good record of operand services, ation or are used successfully by Vodokanal or and for other Russian water companies. The Centre’s implementation exhibition area showed over 300 specimens of of highlydomestic products and equipment in line with efficient the import substitution policy. Due to systemquality atic activities implemented in this sphere under management the aegis of the St. Petersburg Committee for methods”. Energy and Engineering Support, Vodokanal could reduce significantly the percentage of imported equipment in the total procurement volume of Vodokanal. In 2015, the share of imports in the procurement volume reduced from 30% to 1.8%. It is in 2015 that the import substitution activities of Vodokanal became systematic and all-embracing. 32 33 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Investments Adoption in 2015 of Investment In 2015, Vodokanal invested RUB 13 billion in the development and reconstruction of water supply Programme and wastewater disposal systems. The works were performed under the adopted investment programme for 21015-2017. for 2016–2020 In 2015, due to the transition to a long-term planning, a new Vodokanal’s Investment Programme for 2016-2020 was The inThe water supply objectives are: The amount of RUB 7.7 billion was investvestment • supply of safe potable water to the ed in the wastewater system, including: adopted taking into account investments implemented by GKU programme objectives are customers; • improvement of energy efficiency and • mitigation of wastewater system’s negative impact on the environment – RUB 1.1 billion; “Ordering authority for construction and capital repair projects grouped in line with the core implementation of energy saving measures at water supply facilities; • provision of reliable wastewater services – RUB 2.5 billion; in the engineering and energy sector”. The total investment production activities of vices. • access to centralized water supply ser• improvement of energy efficiency and implementation of energy saving measures at for a 5 year period will amount to RUB 97.6 billion. Vodokanal. wastewater collection and treatment facilities – The main wastewater disposal objectives RUB 0.08 billion; are: • mitigation of wastewater system’s nega• access to the sewerage – RUB 3.4 billion; • other items (production bases, procureThe following sources of tive impact on the environment; ment of equipment, security systems, developinvestments are envisaged • provision of reliable wastewater disposal ment of public toilets) – RUB 0.6 billion. services; It is worth mentioning the following major for a 5 year period: • improvement of energy efficiency and projects implemented in 2015: • St. Petersburg budget – RUB 38.1 billion; implementation of energy saving measures at • Construction of Okhta sewage tunnel, first • Corporate funds and attracted financing – wastewater collection and treatment facilities; phase (started in 2015); RUB 46.7 billion; • access to centralized sewerage. • Reconstruction of Main Water Supply • Connection fee – RUB 12.8 billion. The investment programme was funded Plant (the design documentation was adjusted, from the following sources: the tender for construction and installation works Besides, work with the federal authorities • St. Petersburg budget – RUB 1.3 billion; was launched in 2015); is going on to raise funds from the federal budget • corporate funds – RUB 5.1 billion; • Construction of the sewage collector for implementation of such important project as • connection fee – RUB 6.0 billion; along Admiralteyskaya Embankment (the project the Okhta Sewage Tunnel Construction (1 stage) • raised financing – RUB 0.6 billion. was completed in May 2015; the direct dischargand the Reconstruction of Main Water Supply Vodokanal invested RUB 5.3 billion in es were channeled to the wastewater treatment Plant. the water supply system under the investment plant); programme, including: • The total length of the rehabilitated, • supply of safe potable water to the cusrepaired and constructed water and sewage tomers – RUB 0.4 billion; networks accounted for 137.6 km. Water and • provision of reliable water supply services sewage network totaling 162.1 km was put into – RUB 0.8 billion; operation; In 2016, the It is worth mentioning the following ma• improvement of energy efficiency and • Design documentation for construction investment implementation of energy saving measures at of two water supply plants in Kurortniy district in water jor projects to be continued or launched water supply facilities – RUB 0.2 billion; • access to water supply services – RUB (at Dyuny and Molodezhnoe sites) was developed; supply and in 2016: • Construction of Okhta Sewage Tunnel, first phase; 2.7 billion; RUB 2.0 billion from the St. Petersburg wastewater • Construction of the looped sewage tunnel along Basseynaya • other items (production bases, procurebudget were invested in water and wastewater development street; ment of equipment, security systems, developinfrastructure by order of GKU “Ordering authority and recon• Reconstruction of Main Water Supply Plant; ment of fountain complexes) – RUB 1.2 billion. for construction and capital repair projects in the struction • Construction of the second water pipeline along Gorskoe shosse, engineering and energy sector”. projects will from the crossroads of the Ring Road and the Western Speed Diameter amount to RUB to the settlement of Gorskaya; The total investment in water supply 14.2 billion • Reconstruction, capital repair and installation of water and sewand wastewater disposal projects as compared age network totaling 138.8 km. in 2015 amounted to RUB 15 billion. to RUB 13.0 billion in 2015. 34 35 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Implementation The Targeted of the Targeted Repair Programme Repair Programme for 2016 in 2015 The financing allocated for the targeted repair programme of St. Petersburg Vodokanal in 2016 amounts to RUB 670.8 million, including: • water supply – RUB 247.0 million; • wastewater disposal – RUB 423.8 million. The financing allocated for The expected performance of the targeted prothe targeted gramme has amounted to RUB 663.99 million, repair Within the targeted repair programme, Wastewater Treatment programme which is 102.2% of a yearly plan. the following major projects are planned for 2016: 1) Continuation of capital repair of the of St. Peteraeration tank no. 10 at Central WWTP (Lit Б, 1, sburg Water Supply the Bely Island); 2) Capital repair of pumping units at the Vodokanal Within the targeted repair programme, 1) Continuation of capital repair of contact in 2015 the following major projects were implementWastewater Treatment clarifiers (Contact Clarifiers Unit-1) at the Northmain pumping stations of Central WWTP and Northern WWTP; amounted to ed in 2015: 1) Capital repair of the primary sedimentaern WTP; tion tank no. 5 at Central WWTP (Lit AБ, 1, 2) Capital repair of the rapid filter no. 2 3) Continuation of capital repair of sludge RUB 650 million, including: Water Supply the Bely Island); at the Main WTP; treatment facilities at Central WWTP, Northern 1) Repair of contact clarifiers and replace2) Capital repair of the aeration system 3) Capital repair of chemical preparation WWTP and South-West WWTP; capital repair • water ment of filter media at Kolpino WTP; and storage building at Volkovskaya WTP; of the SIP turbine at South-West WWTP; of the aeration tanks no. 10 and no. 12 supply – RUB 2) Capital repair of the heating system of (Lit БД, 1, the Bely Island); 4) Capital repair of contact clarifiers build4) Capital repair of the boiler house at North205.66 million; screens on the 1st water conduit of the North3) Capital repair of sludge treatment ing (Contact Clarifiers Unit-3) at the Southern ern WWTP (Lit.E, 12/2, Konnolakhtinskiy pr.); • wastewater ern WTP first-lift pumping station; facilities at Central WWTP, Northern WWTP and WTP; 5) Capital repair of penstock no. 1 in shaft disposal – RUB 3) Capital repair of the heating system of South-West WWTP; capital repair of the SIP 5) Capital repair of ventilation system no. 12 and penstock no. 2 in shaft no. 13 of the 444.34 million. screens on the 9th water conduit of the Southturbine at South-West WWTP; of chemico-bacteriological laboratory at Volksewage tunnel collector in Rzhevka-Porokhovye ern WTP first-lift pumping station; 4) Repair of sewage tunnel (DN 900 mm) ovskaya WTP. district. 4) Repair of contact clarifiers and replacealong Arsenalnaya Street; ment of filter media at Northern WTP; 5) Capital repair of FV22700/63 pumping 5) Repair of contact clarifiers and replaceunit at the main pumping station of Northern ment of filter media at Volkovskaya WTP; WWTP (12a, Konnolakhtinskiy pr.). 6) Repair of rapid filters and replacement of filter media at Southern WTP; 7) Capital repair of a 6,000 m3 clean water reservoir no. 3 at Duderhof water pumping station; 8) Capital repair of chemical preparation and storage facilities at Northern WTP (restoring of tank thermal and chemical insulation); 9) Capital repair of storage tanks of the chemical preparation and storage facilities at Southern WTP. 36 37 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Vodokanal In 2015, the Director General of SUE “Vodokanal Awards of St. Petersburg” F.V. Karmazinov got the prestigious Business Standart International Award for effective management and compliance with the international management standards. Moreover, in appreciation of the Director General’s merits in 2015, he was awarded the 1st degree sectoral In 2015, Vodokanal won several international and national medal of the Federal Service for Technical and Export Control “For strengthening of governmental informaawards, where the most prestigious was the Quality Prize tion protection system”. 2015 of the Russian Government “for achieving good quality F.V. Karmazinov was awarded the Medal “For promotion of rescue service” by the Russian of products and services, and for implementation of highly Ministry of Extraordinary Situations for “achievements in implementation of the governmental civil defense efficient quality management methods”. It was the second policy, protection of population and territories from natural and technogenic extraordinary situations, time Vodokanal won the Quality Prize: its performance had and contribution to the development and improvement also been highly appreciated by Russian experts in 2006. Another environmental award was received by Vodokanal for its contribution to of the State Fire Fighting Service”. F.V. Karmazinov’ role in the development of social the improvement of environment and environpartnership and fruitful cooperation with the trade mental awareness-raising in the framework union aimed to protect the employees’ social and of the All-Russian Cleanup Day “Green Spring labour rights, as well as his contribution to sports de2015” organized on the initiative of Vernadskiy velopment and ensuring healthy lifestyle of employees Fund. The awarding ceremony took place at the in the company, was highly appreciated with the Diploma opening of the first All-Russian Environmental Children’s Festival “Eco-childhood” in the Kremof the Interregional Public Utilities and Service WorkIn 2015, Vodokanal St. Petersburg was lin Palace in Moscow. ers Union in St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region. awarded a certificate of merit and the medal In 2015, Vodokanal won the competition “For invaluable achievements in development for the best trade union committee’s occupaof sectoral legislation” by the Russian Water tional safety officer and the Spartakiad of the Association (RWA). The awarding took place Inter-Regional Committee of Trade Unions for at the Third All-Russian Congress of water St. Petersburg companies and organizations. companies in the town of Alushta in April. Vodokanal received a grant in the nomiAt the same Congress, the results of the video nation “Career Guidance” for the best project film competition “Understanding Water Means in the field of vocational guidance of school Understanding the Universe” organized by RWA students and promotion of technical profeswere summarized. Vodokanal’s video film “The sions, as one of the winners of the InternationNeva Crayfish and Its Friends” telling about the al Competition of organizations for the best main character of Da-Voda website (da-voda. youth outreach. com), the Neva Crayfish, was recognized the Vodokanal got the Trajectory 2015 best in the nomination “Water Will Find Its Way” Award in the nomination “Senior Teenagers” (the best animation telling about water or the at the All-Russian Forum “Trajectory activities of an RWA member company) and of Success” dedicated to professional awarded the grand prize of the competition – identity of youth. “The Apple Branch”. In 2015, Vodokanal won the Best ProIn 2015, the public organization fessional Skill Competition of Russian water “St. Petersburg Union of Industrialists and companies’ emergency repair teams; it was Entrepreneurs”: commended Vodokanal activalso the prize winner of the competition among ities with a certificate of merit “For proactive the sewerage emergency repair teams, excavaapproach and substantial contribution to the tor drivers and maintenance technicians. development of social partnership in St. PetersMoreover, Vodokanal was awarded burg, and on the occasion of the Union’s 25th the Honourable Diploma for in-house sports anniversary”. promotion and for its huge contribution to Among other awards received by the sports achievements of the Inter-Regional Vodokanal in 2015 was the certificate of merit Trade Union Committee at the International for active participation in IX International Green Workers’ Sports Festival. Economy Forum from the organizers. The Forum is a platform for state authorities, scientists and industry representatives to discuss and solve national environmental challenges, and to address the development and application of novel environmental technologies. 38 39 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 RISK MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL RISK Financial MANAGEMENT Risk Management Status in 2015 The Company is exposed to financial risks which are typical In 2015, Vodokanal kept using a wide range of tools of large utilities, namely: inflation risk, exchange rate risk, to minimize financial risks. interest rate risk and consumer income risk. To minimize To make a long-term forecast, the ComOrganization National Association of Securities Continuous monitoring of financial situMoreover, Vodokanal negotiated with the financial risks, pany uses its financial model calculated for the Market Participants, National Foreign Exchange ation and assessing its potential impacts on competent public authorities of St. Petersburg Vodokanal period up to 2035. Association and the Association of Russian the key financial indicators enabled prompt to receive compensations from the St. Petersof St. PetersThe financial model evaluates Vodokanal’s Bank. Currently, 97% of all foreign currency updating of financial policy and helped maintain burg budget for the shortfall in income resultburg follows financial capabilities taking into account the liabilities are hedged at the weighted average the Company’s financial sustainability. ing from the discrepancy between the sales a balanced big investment projects implemented with the exchange rate of RUB 47.07/EUR 1 for the In 2015, Vodokanal continued improvapproved for tariff regulation and actual sales. financial policy Company’s own or borrowed funds. It takes period until 2019. ing its financial model. The improved model based on the account of macroeconomic factors and ComThe Company also manages the liquidity corresponds to the European level and allows Strategic Plan pany development factors to identify potential risk by maintaining a certain amount of cash to predict and analyze Vodokanal’s key financial As a result, in July 2015 in accordance and long-term sources of investments and to project developand bank deposits, monitoring of the cash indicators in accordance with IFRS. perspective. ment options under different scenarios. flows and compliance with the loan repayment To minimize unfavorable macro-economwith the St. Petersburg Government The model provides instruments for comparative dynamic analysis and monitoring schedules. Risk management is integrated into the ic factors, in particular, a high inflation rate, Vodokanal has taken measures to increase Resolution no. 646 dated 21 July 2015 of Vodokanal’s performance. The monitoring management system via strategic managethe efficiency of all its divisions, including the and the Order of the Committee for Enerand analysis results provided by the financial ment and budgeting processes. Internal control optimization of operating expenses and import model are promptly used by Vodokanal manprocedures are implemented by the Company substitution. gy and Engineering Support no. 140 dated agement to make the necessary amendments to mitigate all types of risk. Internal audits Due to the earlier hedging of potential 22 July 2015, the Company received the to the company’s production and investment are made by a separate department within foreign exchange and interest rate risks, repayprograms. the Vodokanal administration. Scenario-based ments of the foreign currency loans were made subsidy to compensate the shortfall in the To minimize the risk of the reduced approach, industry analysis and SWOT analysis in rubles at the fixed exchange rate as of a income from cold water supply and sewincome and the risk of the reduced payment are used by Vodokanal as risk identification and certain date, which made it possible to avoid collection, Vodokanal implements a steady assessment methods. additional costs caused by recent drop of Rouage disposal services in the amount of monitoring of the customers’ debt and a package of measures for the debt recovery (for Furthermore, property insurance and third-party insurance of Vodokanal as the ownble exchange rate. RUB 1,995,596,800 (VAT included). instance, through the arbitration courts, debt er of hazardous production facilities are used restructuring, etc.) as a financial risk reduction tool. In 2014, the Company hedged foreign exchange and interest rate risks under the attracted Euro loans. The counterparty under the hedge transaction was OOO Goldman Sachs Bank (Moscow, Russia). The hedge transactions were made on the grounds of the documents issued by the Self-Regulatory (Non-for-Profit) 40 41 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Non-financial Risk Management The risk management system is targeted for a comprehensive risk assessment and implementation of measures to ensure prompt response to altering circumstances and conditions. Risk management system is based on standards such as the standards developed by the Federation of European Risk Managers Associations (FERMA) and ISO 31000. Vodokanal enhances the reliability of water makes a strong contribution to the developSustainable supply and sewerage, improves wastewater ment of regulations, makes suggestions and use of natural treatment and sludge management technoloargues its position. resources, gies, stops the discharge of backwash water To minimize the risks associated with systematic from water treatment plants using it for the need to extend production capacities, approach process needs after a proper treatment, and St. Petersburg Vodokanal widely implements The internal control department works Model. The key aspects of the Company to the corpoVodokanal’s addresses the environmental impacts of its environmental awareness-building proto achieve the following objectives: activities which may lead to risks were idenrate manageinternal vehicle fleet. grammes to foster solicitous attitude to water • ensuring the reliability of financial and tified including the risks of the stakeholders: ment, strong control Since 2012, the energy management resources among the population. managerial information; dissatisfaction of the customers with water contribution function system (EnMS) based on ISO 50001 has been The risks associated with the pollution • protection of the company assets and and wastewater services, environmental risks, to the developis performed functioning in the Company to raise energy of potable water source (the Neva) are mitisupporting the effective use of the company production accident risks and counterparty by a special efficiency at the plants in a systematic way gated by early detection of pollution events. ment of regresources; risks. department and to reduce risks of unsustainable use of In particular, Vodokanal has implemented the ulatory acts, • assistance in optimization of the corpoThe non-financial risks (see Major Non-Fithat deals with energy resources. EnMs facilitates the optimiriver water biomonitoring by crayfish at all its environmental rate organizational structure; nancial Risk Map) are systematically managed preventive zation of energy consumption. The Company water intakes. Oil spills in the river are detectawareness-rais• compliance with the applicable laws of by Vodokanal using a process-based approach identification selects and procures energy-efficient equiped by the monitoring system installed on one ing, innovative the Russian Federation and St. Petersburg and in order to restrain potential losses of the and minimization ment, designs energy-efficient processes and of the bridges across the Neva, upstream of technologies, internal regulations; Company. of the Company facilities. the first city water intake. and internal • implementation of financial and ecoTo minimize the risks associated with risks. Reduction of the risks associated with To mitigate the risks associated with nomic action plans. the customer dissatisfaction with water and and external work-related accidents and emergency information security, the company implements The internal control department prowastewater services, the quality management benchmarking – situations improves the service quality and measures to identify risks, determine risk facvides the management of Vodokanal with the system based on the International Standard all that is intemitigates negative impact not only on the tors and risk probability; makes analyses and information obtained: ISO 9001 is continuously improved. Regular grated into the Company’s employees, but also on all Compaassessments of the risks that may affect the • during inspections of the company interaction with customers through the Hot corporate manny-related stakeholders (contractors, visitors). company’s information security. The company’s departments; Line Service in combination with the Comagement culImproved occupational health and safety maninformational security management system in • by analyzing the range and prices pany’s transparency policy (including active agement on the basis of OHSAS-18001 leads accordance with ISO 27001 was established ture and leads of goods and services procured by the compacommunication with the mass media), as well to the situation where the identified hazards and certified in 2012 to ensure a systematic to minimization ny in the course of operations; as questionnaires and customer satisfaction and hazard-related risks are managed by the approach to the information security. of company • during the examination of basic and surveys, help mitigate this risk, too. Internal Company. Vodokanal continuously improves At present, Vodokanal keeps improving risks. supporting processes in the Company. and external audits under the Quality Manthe working conditions, takes measure to its non-financial risk management. Particular General procedures for internal control agement System (QMS) promptly identify the cut down work-related accidents and prevent attention is paid to the following areas: of departments and internal auditing are management areas to be enhanced and help emergencies at the main production facilities. • development of risk management; formulated and approved. Inspection reporting improve the processes at all stages of the Currently, professional risks assessment is not • extension of both internal and external rules and requirements to the form and conservice lifecycle. In this way, the Company only an important part of occupational health benchmarking; tents of reports are issued. The development performance can be enhanced and customer and safety management but also a part of • development of its own production of inspection and audit methods for different satisfaction can be raised. the corporate management. This activity is system with a tentative name “4E: Efficiency, types of corporate activities is ongoing. The risks associated with negative implemented on the basis of OHSAS-18001 Ecology, Economy, Evolution”. 4E will be Segmentation of non-financial risks was impacts on the environment are managed on and national regulations. a consolidating concept determining the place made by Vodokanal as a part of self-assessthe basis of the environmental management To alleviate the risks associated with unof each of the applied methods, approaches, ment in accordance with the EFQM Excellence system ISO 14001 used by the Company. desirable changes in legislation, the company and standards. 42 43 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Non-financial Risk Risk factors Degree of impact Risk management measures Risk Management Implementation of antiterrorist measures in compliance with the law of the Status in 2015 Shutdown of process Russian Federation; equipment as a result of Terroristic or naturally-ocProtection against potential Above average any terrorist act or natural curring threats consequences of accidents, disaster in the region catastrophes and natural disasters; Insurance of property and personnel In 2015, the non-financial risk manageNon-financial risk control comprises: ment process was under constant control • identification of all significant non-finanManagement system Customer dissatisfaction based on ISO Standards and EFQM Excellence cial risks (risk map); Lower quality of the improvement on the basis with the quality of water Above average Model, thus ensuring an efficient combination • monitoring of the progress of actions services provided of ISO9001 and EFQM and wastewater services of measures to alleviate the risks taken by the designed to mitigate any significant risks; Excellence Model company and measures to minimize, avoid • immediate response to identified risks Enhancement of internal Losses due to economically or redistribute the unacceptably high risks. or to the situations where the identified risks control to prevent conflicts unjustified terms of transacare near threshold levels; Corruption risks (potential of interest; tions with counterparts and Above average • effectiveness analysis of risk manageconflicts of interest) Compliance with anti-corThe risk management process ment actions by the top management. payments for nonexistent works ruption policy and the corporate ethics code is designed to reduce the probability Compliance with the of unfavorable outcome and to limit Negative impact on the life Russian laws pertinent to Risks of accidents at proand health of the company occupational health and potential losses. duction sites personnel resulting from Average safety; improvement of the their operational activity management system on the basis of OHSAS 18001 Non-fulfilment of contractuMore detailed preliminary al obligations regarding the Risks of non-performance analysis of counterparty time schedule and quality of obligations by contracBelow average risks and control over perof performed works, the tors formance of obligations by Key Non-Financial Risks Map of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” supply of equipment and counterparties components Strategic risks Risk management Risk Risk factors Degree of impact Incorrect long-term measures Regular updating of the Strategic risk planning of the company Above average Political and regulatory risks strategic development plan development Risk of economically unjustiEnvironmental risks fied restrictions in the state State authorities decide to Close interaction with the regulation of tariffs for freeze or limit the growth High regulating authority (St. PeMaintenance and improveNegative impact of ship water supply and wastewaof tariffs tersburg Tariff Committee) Water quality deterioration ment of the Neva water traffic and agriculture on High ter disposal and pollution of the Neva monitoring system, incl. the Neva water biomonitoring Country risk is weakly managed by the Company, Management system Special features of the soNegative impact on the however, it is taken into Risk of negative impact on improvement on the basis Country risk cial, economic and political High environment resulting from Above average accounts when strategic the environment of ISO 14001 situation in Russia the company activity decisions are taken or and ISO 50001 updated Operational risks Losses due to irrecoverable damage of production High Long-term planning, analysis of key performance management culture to reduce non-financial facilities results at all management levels, evaluation of risks and integrate successfully the non-financial Company investment proProduction-related and stakeholders’ satisfaction, social responsibility risk management approaches into a holistic Losses due to higher cost gramme implementation; technical risks (risks of and development of partnerships – all these system. of providing water and Control over the scope and breakdowns or incidents) elements have become a part of the corporate wastewater services comHigh time schedule of repairs pared to the planned equipment operation scenario 44 45 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Participation in External Initiatives On 27 November 2005, Vodokanal togethDuring the event, over one thousand of juvenile Baltic whitefish were released into er with FBGU Sevzaprybvod and the Federthe Gulf of Finland from Vasilievskiy Island. Overview of the Main al Fishery Agency (Rosrybolovstvo) impleArtificial rearing of young fish for subsequent release into its natural habitat is a valuable mented a public event aimed to stock the contribution to the maintenance of whitefish Public Events Held with Gulf of Finland with fish. population. The purpose of the event was to rehabilitate the Gulf of Finland and to restore Participation of Vodokanal, biological resources in the Baltic Sea. and their Outcomes Being a socially responsible company, Vodokanal devotes much attention to participation in different public events. On 12 March 2015, Vodokanal participated in the St. Petersburg Forum dedicated to finalization of the Gulf of Finland Year. The Forum was attended by the Minister Before the plenary session, the Forum of Natural Resources and Environment of the participants including the Minister of Natural Russian Federation S.E. Donskoy, the Governor Resources and Environment of the Russian Vodokanal held the annual Exhibition and Conference “Russian Public Utilities” housed in the Petersburg Congress of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko, the GovFederation S.E. Donskoy, the Governor ernor of the Leningrad Region A.Yu. Drozdenko, of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko, and Crystal Drop competition & Exhibition Centre “Expoforum”. The main purpose of the competition was to encourage the Director General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. delegates from Finland and Estonia, visited the for the title of the the customers who pay for water and sewPetersburg” F.V. Karmazinov, and delegates Marine Mammals Research and Conservation from Finland and Estonia. Center in the town of Repino and evaluated best customer. erage in a timely manner, to build relations Addressing the Forum participants, its readiness for the new season. between the company and its customers on G.S. Poltavchenko pointed out that Petersburg Speaking about the outcome of the Gulf the principles of openness and partnership, had been involved in environmental protecof Finland Year, all Forum participants emphaand to search for new ways of improving the On 18 March, the winners in the nomination activities over many years. The Governor sized that the cooperation would not stop at quality of service. tion “Best Customer among Providers of Mustressed the role of Vodokanal in such activthat. This point was reflected in the joint decnicipal Services” were announced. The awarding ities, referring to the company as the city’s laration adopted at the Forum: in particular, it ceremony was attended by the Vice-Governor strategic partner. states the necessity to “continue the cooperaof St. Petersburg I.N. Albin, the Chairman According to G.S. Poltavchenko, one of tion in a trilateral format for the purpose of fulof the Inter-Regional Trade Union of public the topmost events of the Gulf of Finland Year filling national and international commitments utilities and municipal service workers was the opening of the Marine Mammals Reon protecting the marine environment in St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region search and Conservation Center in Repino. of the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic Sea”. N.A. Leontyeva, and the Chairman of the Housing Committee V.V. Shiyan. For the second time in a row, the best customers among building management companies, condominiums, housing associations and housing committees were awarded in the framework of the International Trade 46 47 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 At the international forum and exhibition “The Environment On 23 March, Vodokanal was invited by EFQM (the of Big Cities”, Vodokanal showcased the results of its European Foundation for Quality Management) to parBaltic Sea protection activities. ticipate in the joint project “Go Global 2015. Wastainability” of Imperial College London and St. Petersburg In the framework of the exhibition held at organized at Vodokanal’s stand. The stand also the Congress & Exhibition Centre “Expoforum” showcased Vodokanal’s social projects: activiState Polytechnic University. on 18-20 March, panel discussions on import ties of the Youth Environmental Centre and the substitution, industrial wastewater treatment, Universe of Water museum complex, Da-VoThe project promotes sustainable developparticipants of the programme visited the environmental awareness-raising, etc. were da website (www.da-voda.com) encouraging ment and careful attitude to natural resources. Universe of Water museum complex and the careful attitude to water, and the International The project participants, graphic and industrial Youth Environmental Centre where they learnt Advanced Water Technologies Center. designers and architects from Great Britain about different programmes promoting careful Moreover, the information about the and Russia taking a post-graduate course at attitude to water. Moreover, the guests were Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Imperial College London and St. Petersburg told about the activities of the Marine MamCentre in the town of Repino and about the State Polytechnic University (approximately, mals Research and Conservation Center in Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund established 60 people) spent two weeks developing and Repino. Eventually, the participants presented with strong support from Vodokanal, was previsualizing vital social projects for our region. their projects: video films, exhibition stands, sented in every detail. In the framework of the “Consumption” and maquettes representing various environteam activities, the British and Russian mental and social aspects of the city life. On 19 March, Petersburg hosted XVI International Environmental Forum “The Baltic Sea Day” where Vodokanal was an active participant. The Forum was timed to coinOn 24 March, Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre became cide with the Baltic Sea Day celebrated on 22 March. partner to 19th model UN youth conference. Speaking about the St. Petersburg Two conference committees, one dealing Working in the committees, young people Initiative as a platform for public-private partwith environmental issues, and the other – with develop and present their proposals on more nerships to develop transboundary cooperation the Baltic Sea challenges (“the Baltic Forum”) sustainable management of water resources in and take economically sound action for the were working at the Youth Environmental Centhe Gulf of Finland. good of the Baltic Sea, the Director of Internatre. It was the 6th time that the Centre acted In line with the decisions taken at comtional Cooperation Department at the Russian as the conference partner. mittee meetings, the participants will draw Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment The Model UN Conference is an internaup their resolutions to be presented at the N.R. Inamov prioritized Vodokanal’s project tional not-for-profit programme of extended final plenary session of the Youth’s General aimed at the improvement of wastewater education for senior school students. Assembly. treatment quality in the region and to mitigate the negative impact on the integrated water system Lake Ladoga – Lake Onega – the Neva – the Gulf of Finland. On 26 March, Vodokanal took The Forum was organized by the Northern Dimension Business Council and the European part in VI Northern Dimension Business Association. The Forum focused on inter-regional Forum held in St. Petersburg. cross-border cooperation in the changed world, new approaches to business development, and interaction at the civil society level. 48 49 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 The first technical exhibition and workshop Among the participants were delegates of 180 national enterprises and professional Over a decade, the Universe of Water dedicated to import substitution were associations including the Union of Industrialmuseum complex has participated in the ists and Entrepreneurs. The participants could held at Vodokanal’s Information & Training get detailed information on the technologies international Museums at Night event. Centre on 8 April. and equipment used by Vodokanal and showcase their products. Through this event, a wide audience can A unique exhibition “I am with Vodokanal: During the be familiarized with water-related aspects and I have memories and pride!” was a centerpiece Museums at the need to take good care of natural resourcof the event. It was a military-patriotic exhibition Night event es. As all country celebrated the 70th anniverof materials from family archives of the Vodokan2015, the Unisary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War alers still working at the company. The exhibition verse of Water in 2015, the Museums at Night event was showed letters, awards, reminiscences, wartime museum comtimed to coincide with this memorable date. photos, personal belongings and many other plex was visited The cleanup of the Neva banks was done by 8,046 people. On 25 April, Vodokanal joined the City by Vodokanal employees and students of On the night of 16 May, the guests were offered a special programme allowing to visit things that had accompanied the soldiers and those who had worked on the home front, as well Improvement Day and the All-Russian the Water College and of the Nevskiy District School no. 570. Students of the Machine-Buildone of the museum complex exhibitions with as archival documents of Main Water Treatment an entire ticket and to participate in an interPlant taken from the repository collection of the Environmental event “Green Spring 2015” ing Vocational School helped the Vodokanalers active festival programme in the Information Information & Training Centre. The exhibition was who were cleaning the Gulf of Finland coast in organized by the non-governmental Fund the town of Olgino. During the “Green Spring & Training Centre area where they could see organized under the inter-museum project “Order imitations of the Siege-time vegetable beds, to Survive!” contrived and organized by the Infornamed after V.I. Vernadskiy. 2015” event, over 200,000 m² of area along a field cinema with wartime movies and songs, mation & Training Centre. The project participants the Neva and the Gulf of Finland were cleaned. a thematic concert programme, a repair zone were 11 city museums whose collections conAs many as 254 cubic meters of rubbish were imitating repair works on a damaged water tained documents and things of the enterprises collected and taken away. pipe, and an interactive museum programme which had supported the life in Leningrad during The staff of all Vodokanal units came to The Green Spring participants numbered “Order to Survive!”. the Nazi siege. the banks of the Neva and the Gulf of Finland 534 people; and over 3,200 Vodokanalers coast, as well as to other places to clean them participated in the City Improvement Day from litter. in different city districts. On 28 May, students from the USA and Russia attended On 15 May, the students of Petersburg In the course of the Project, students attended classes in the Youth Environmental an interactive class at the Youth Environmental Centre (YEC). schools participating in the project “Youth Centre and then, they organized “the Baltic The young people were authors of environmental mini-projects Interludes” in their schools using the knowledge Awareness-Raising in the framework of obtained. under the aegis of the international project “Eco-representatives: the International Advanced Water TechThe spectators’ and adults’ juries have sesustainable development awareness-raising actions for peers”. lected two best video films, the authors of which nologies Center Activities” presented their went on a study tour to the town of Lahti The interactive class was one of the learning stages. video reports of “the Baltic Interludes” (Finland) in the autumn. In November, schoolchildren from Finland made the return visit to the Under the project, the students met memaddressed the ideas of sustainable developperformed at their schools in the Youth Youth Environmental Centre of Vodokanal, bers of different youth environmental movement, cyclic economy, and better environment. Environmental Centre. St. Petersburg school and South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant. ments of St. Petersburg: “Separate Collection”, The project was implemented in 2014“No.More.Waste”, and “Bicyclization 2915 by the independent not-for-profit organizaThe Russian-Finnish environmental awareof St. Petersburg”. tion “Cross-Border Cooperation Centre ness-raising project “Youth Awareness-Raising On 28 May, the YEC implemented the final St. Petersburg” in association with the Kansas in the framework of the International Advanced project phase: a festival where 12 best mini-proUniversity and with the support of the partnerWater Technologies Center Activities” has been jects were demonstrated. The competitive works ship programme US-Russia Peer-to-Peer Dialog. developed by Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre, the International Advanced Water Technologies Center, and Lahti Region Development LADEC. 50 51 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 On 27 September, Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre held the creative festival “Knowledge and Creativity – Energy for the Future” for residents On 11 July, young employees of Vodokanal of children’s homes and their tutors. St. Petersburg and members of the company’s trade union organization’ Youth Council The festival participants attended creative Around 150 residents of six St. Petersparticipated in the All-Russian Environmental master classes “The Emerald City Craftsmen” burg children’s homes, including children’s where they were introduced to different trends home no. 23 in Petrogradskiy District patronEvent “Clean banks for our rivers and lakes” in decorative and applied art. ized by Vodokanal, and their tutors participatorganized by the Inter-Regional Public OrThe residents of children’s homes and ed in the festival programme. their tutors were invited to join the activities ganization “Environment Protection Union”. of the YEC’s special workshop. The participants cleaned a city beach at the Malaya Neva River having collected around two tons of litter. On 29 September, the YEC specialists organized the business game “Water and Cities” in the framework of II St. Petersburg Youth Environmental Forum. For the third time, the Universe of Water museum complex and the Youth Environmental Centre participated in the city festiThe game participants – students of val “EcoOkhta” organized in cooperation with the St. Petersburg Petersburg higher schools, proposed their own Krasnogvardeyskiy District Administration. ideas regarding sustainable water use and developed a project: implementation of water supply and sewerage systems in imaginary Environmental master classes and an incities. formative competition programme were organIn the game, the young people were to esized for the guests of the festival. An exhibition timate how many water and sewage treatment of special machinery from ZAO “Vodokanal’s plants were required for each of the cities and Emergency Repair and Rescue Centre” suppleto select the optimal layout of the plants in the mented the Museum’s and YEC’s programmes. city area. In addition to presenting its project, each team was to “obtain approvals” for it from relevant authorities. Traditionally, during the autumn The museum specialists developed an interactive family programme “Ready or not, here I come” for the Festival participants. school vacation, 30 October The programme was attended by 4,523 people. The City Festival “Children’s Days in St. Petersburg” was supplethru 9 November 2015, the mumented by the exhibition “Finding at the Far Side of the World”. seum complex participated in the The exhibition showed exhibits from archaeological, ethnographical and natural science collections of the Yamal Museum and Exhibition City Festival of children’s museum Complex named after I.S. Shemanovskiy. The gem of the exhibition programmes “Children’s Days was a replica of the baby mammoth Lyuba. in St. Petersburg”. 52 53 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 On 3 December, the participants On 6 November, the St. Petersburg The Centre is permanently functioning of the Petersburg International Youth Water Cluster’s Demonstration at Northern WWTP in Olgino. The Centre’s exhibition area shows over 300 specimens Forum 3.0 PROorienter were introduced & Exhibition Centre was opened. of domestic products and equipment produced to Vodokanal St. Petersburg. by national manufacturers. The opening of the Demonstration & Exhibition Centre marked the launch of the St. Petersburg Water Cluster practical activities. The official inauguration was attended by the Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. PoltavchenThe Petersburg International Youth Forum Russia, Belarus, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Latvia, ko, the Director General of SUE “Vodokanal 3.0 PROorienter is one of the biggest youth Lebanon, Poland, Romania, Uzbekistan and Ecuaof St. Petersburg” F.V. Karmazinov, Vice-Goverprojects of the year. The Forum under the motto dor visited the company’s Information & Training nors I.N. Albin and O.A. Markov, the Chairman “Time to Set Priorities!” addressed 10 key aspects Centre as part of their work in the “Economically of the St. Petersburg Investment Committee of the governmental youth policy. Delegates from Active Youth” subpanel. I.A. Babyuk, the Chairman of the St. Petersburg Committee for Industrial Policy and Innovations M.C. Meiksin, and the Deputy Chairman of the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support E.E. Rozova. From 18 December 2015 till 5 January 2016, the museum complex offered environmental awareness-raising interactive programmes “New Year in the On 18 November, Vodokanal hosted the Forum “Turning Over Old Tower” for children of the Pages” dedicated to the 70th anniversary of UNESCO. Vodokanal employees and the city school students. The new-year The Forum was organized by the Regional Coordination Centre of Associated Regional programmes 2015 were attended Schools “Baltika-Sever” in cooperation with by 5,610 people. Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre. In 2015, in addition to the jubilee, UNESCO marked the 10th anniversary of the Water for Life Programme (2005-2015) announced by the UN General Assembly. The Forum participants were delegates of the St. Petersburg Education Committee; headmasters, teachers and students of UNESCO associated schools and other educational institutions in Petersburg In 2015, the Information & Training Centre developed and the region. and implemented the thematic programme “Energy and The Forum participants visited the Universe of Water museum complex and the Power Engineering: Our choice!” for residents of children’s environmental workshop at Vodokanal’s YEC. homes in the framework of the citywide environmental event “Earth Hour”. On the Children’s Day 1 June, the Youth EnvironThe programme was attended by 124 schoolchildren including 41 residents mental Centre implemented the interactive Vodokanal’s YEC participated in Traditionally, the Festival participants are of children’s home no. 23 in Petrogradskiy the YEC project winners. programme “The Engineer’s Secret Archive” District, and 20 people from Family and ChilXX International Festival of Environmental At the Festival, the YEC presented the dren Aid Center of Vyborgskiy District. best video films shot under two projects: for residents of children’s homes and urban Films “The Green Look” in St. Petersburg “Youth Awareness-Raising in the Framework summer camps. on 24-27 November. of the International Advanced Water Technologies Center Activities” and “ECOvision”. 54 55 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Compliance Due to the results achieved by Vodokanal, Russia could apply for exclusion of hot sub-spot Two hot sub-spots of one hot spot 18 (18.11 Kolpino WWTP and 18.15 Metalwith HELCOM no. 18.1 (“sewerage system development”) from the HELCOM list. The 47th Meeting of HELCOM Heads of lostroy WWTP) stayed unclosed by 2016. Closure of hot sub-spot no. 18.11 Kolpino WWTP) is planned for 2020 after the reconstruction Recommendations Delegation on 16-17 December approved the of Kolpino WWTP with the plant capacity inexclusion of hot sub-spot no. 18.1 from the creased to140,000 m3/day. The elimination HELCOM list. of hot sub-spot no. 18.15 (Metallostroy WWTP) is planned for 2016 with the wastewater diverted to Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. Since then, The Convention on the Protection of the Vodokanal Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea (Helsinki St. Petersburg Convention) was signed by all Baltic countries has done a huge in 1974. For the first time ever, the Convention No. Hot sub-spot Status work to phase addressed all polluters located in the catchment 18.1 Sewage collectors closed (2014) out untreated area of the Baltic Sea. After the collapse of the wastewater disUSSR and other geopolitical changes in 1990s, 18.2 Central WWTP closed (2010) charge into the the new Helsinki Convention was signed in 18.3 Northern WWTP closed (2006) water bodies, to 1992 by the states located along the coast of With the Northern Tunnel Col18.4 South-West WWTP closed (2009) build wastewathe Baltic Sea and the European Communities. lector put into operation on ter treatment In October 1998, the Russian Federation joined 18.5 Pargolovo WWTP closed (2006) plants and to the Helsinki Convention 1992. 10 October 2013, Vodokanal 18.6 Prigorodniye WWTP closed (2006) upgrade treatIn 1992, the Comprehensive Programme could reach a very high 18.7 Torfyanoye WWTP closed (2006) ment processof environmental protection measures in the es. As a result, Baltic Sea Region adopted as a part of Helsinki wastewater treatment level 18.8 Zavodskiye WWTP closed (2006) the Meetings of Committees Convention listed the biggest pollution sources of the region and named them “hot spots”. Ini(98.4%) and stop the dis18.9 Pushkin WWTP closed (2006) and Heads of tially, the Programme specified 132 “hot spots” charge of 122 million m3/year 18.10 Petrodvorets WWTP closed (2012) Delegations of located in all countries of the Baltic Sea Region. HELCOM memOut of the 18 hot spots located in Russia, of untreated sewage into the 18.11 Kolpino WWTP Capacity will be increased; hot sub-spot closure expected in 2020 ber-countries 6 were in St. Petersburg including the 4 hot Gulf of Finland. 18.12 Kronstadt WWTP closed (2009) recognized that spots with 19 “hot sub-spots” being the rethe majority of sponsibility of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peters18.13 Sestroretsk WWTP closed (2006) Vodokanal’s hot burg”. 18.14 Pontonniy WWTP closed (2009) spots were elimiAt that time, wastewater treatment nated. in St. Petersburg was quite unsatisfactory, WWTP closedown with the wastewater besides, the discharge of huge volumes of un18.15 Metallostroy WWTP diverted to Central WWTP; hot sub-spot treated wastewater into the local water bodies closure expected in 2016 had to be stopped urgently. 18.16 Repino WWTP closed (2009) 18.17 Zelenogorsk WWTP closed (2006) 18.18 Pesochniy 1 WWTP closed (2012) The main tasks of Vodokanal with regard to the commitments taken by the Russian 18.19 Pesochniy 2 WWTP closed (2012) Federation under the Helsinki Convention were as follows: • closure of untreated wastewater discharges; • reduction of nutrient load on the Baltic Sea basin. The Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure Programme developed in 2001 is being implemented successfully to improve water environment in St. Petersburg and preserve the Baltic Sea water resources. Now the Programme is one of the most important environmental projects in the city. In the period 2003-2015 alone, 223 direct discharges of untreated sewage and rainwater totaling 480,000 m3/day were diverted into municipal sewage system. 56 57 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Discharge of Pollutants In 2015: 22,288 25,000 • construction of the sewage collector • rehabilitation of sewerage network along Admiralteyskaya Embankment and the was finished along Rimskogo-Korsakova street nitrogen, t/year phosphorus, t/year sewer along Dekabristov street was completed from the Fontanka Embankment to 21 Rimsko18,163 enabling the closure of 6 more direct wastewago-Korsakova street. The direct discharge from 20,000 ter discharges (approx. 1,000 m3/day in total). the combined sewage system to the Fontanka The direct discharges to the Bolshaya Neva RivRiver was diverted to the sewerage collector er were diverted to the sewerage collector and and to further treatment at the Central WWTP. 12,712 12,634 12,496 12,248 12,365 to further treatment at the Central WWTP. The The environmental impact with reduction of 15,000 11,037 11,048 10,729 environmental impact with reduction of organic organic and inorganic matter, nutrients and sust/year 10,003 10,049 and inorganic matter, nutrients and suspended pended solids amounted to 11.6 tons per year. solids amounted to 285 tons per year; 9,628 9,303 10,000 8,617 7,974 By 2016, the treatment level The Master Plan envisages mod3,502 3,027 2,457 5,000 2,307 2,168 1,930 1,773 of municipal wastewater coming ernization of municipal wastewater 1,270 1,178 760 677 492 491 433 355 292 to the combined and municipal treatment plants, including the up0 sewerage system in St. Petersburg grading of the treatment processes 1985 1987 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and implementation of tertiary treathas reached 98.5%. ment and wastewater disinfection To improve the nutrient (also total nitroConstruction of WWTP in Molodezhgen) removal efficiency in 2015: noe settlement was commenced. The plant at all plants. The treated effluent • Vodokanal continued to implement the is to be commissioned in the end of 2017. At the end of 2013, the St. Petersquality targets are strictly defined Northern WWTP reconstruction project designed by SWECO, Sweden. In particular, basic The biological treatment system and sludge thickening facilities were burg Government approved the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewain the HELCOM recommendations. construction and installation works for stage started up and commissioned at Kronter Master Plan till 2025 with an 2 of the Northern WWTP were implemented: stadt WWTP after modernization of WWTP outlook to 2030 (reviewed in 2015). In the 1990s, HELCOM adopted unified primary clarifiers 5-7, raw sludge pumping stawith introduction of JHB technology. Some The tasks to be fulfilled under the limit values for concentrations of nutrients, nition 2, aeration tank (5 sections) and 5 blowers snags were revealed for air flow meters and Master Plan include the closure of trogen and phosphorus, for all Baltic countries. were set into operation. Start-up and comnitrate pumps of the aeration tank in the course all untreated wastewater discharges. The requirements grow increasingly stringent. mission of the installed equipment and works of start-up and commissioning, for which reason With the adoption of new recommendarelated to automatic process control system completion of works was postponed to 2016 tion (Recommendation 28E/5, substitutes for are underway. Works for stage 1 are ongoing: until the elimination of the above snags. The remaining 96 direct sewage disRecommendations 9/2, 16/9, and 7/3) for construction of the underground part of return Under reconstruction works at charges in the city (they account for 1.5% municipal wastewater treatment on November sludge pumping station no. 1 is performed, Kolpino WWTP (without increasing of wastewater still discharged untreated) must 15, 2007, the requirements to wastewater pipelines are being laid. The old equipment WWTP capacity), rehabilitation of section be closed by 2020. The discharge volumes are treatment quality became still more stringent. of primary clarifiers no. 1–4 is dismantled, con1 of the aeration tank was performed within very small; however, interceptors and netConcentrations of total nitrogen and total phosstruction works are being implemented. the first stage of implementing nutrients removworks have to be constructed to divert them phorus in the treated effluent discharged into • The blowing station at the Central al technology with installation of new tubular to treatment plants. In particular, the Okhta water bodies shall not exceed 10 mg/l and WWTP is under reconstruction within upgradaeration system (OOO “SGS”). The section collector project should be launched to stop the 0.5 mg/l, respectively. ing the aeration tanks no. 5 and 6. Compresis in operation. Construction and installation discharge of untreated municipal and industrial Vodokanal focused on the modernization sors, air pipelines, electrical equipment of old works for secondary clarifiers are ongoing wastewaters into the Okhta River. In 2015, the of the biological treatment technologies (espeair blowers are disassembled. Equipment is (SC-4 of stage 1 and SC-3 of stage 2). government contract no. 1/15 was signed to cially, for the purpose of reaching the phosphodelivered and air blowers are installed on a new The Master Plan envisages divertlaunch the first stage of Okhta Tunnel Collector. rus removal targets). Since 2005, enhanced foundation. Electric equipment installation and ing of wastewater from Metallostroy biological treatment and chemical phosphorus connection to electric power supply is carried WWTP catchment area to the Central precipitation methods have been applied at out. The completion deadline is 2016. WWTP catchment area. St. Petersburg wastewater treatment plants Building of networks and rehabilitation to meet new requirements and achieve stable In 2015, sludge thickeners at of sewage pumping station is needed in order nutrient removal performance. Since 2008, with Pushkin WWTP were reconstructed to construct this wastewater diverting system. the chemical phosphorus precipitation process and started up. Construction of a 300 m sewerage network implemented at all municipal WWTPs, the total at Metallostroy WWTP territory was completed phosphorus removal efficiency has reached by Vodokanal’s own efforts. Tender procedure 89-90%. In 2015, the volume of phosphorus is being prepared to perform construction and discharged into the Gulf of Finland decreased installation works within the upgrading of the 6.6 times, and the volume of nitrogen – sewage pumping station and laying of sewage 1.54 times as compared to 2005. Phosphorus network. concentration in the total discharged wastewater does not exceed 0.5 mg/l (including the minor portion of the untreated wastewater) and nitrogen concentration does not exceed 10 mg/l. 58 59 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 The recognition of the fact that the enhancement of the Baltic Sea environment is only possible through joint efforts in the field of innovation and awareness-raising led to the Microscopic litter per 1 liter of wastewater signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between HELCOM and SUE “Vodokanal of Influent wasteAfter mechanical After final Treatment St. Petersburg” on April 19, 2013. The subject Litter type water to WWTPs treatment treatment efficiency,% of the Memorandum is the support to joint activities for the Baltic Sea enhancement. Textile fibers 467 33 16 96.57 The Memorandum provides for information sharing and collaboration in bringing treatment Synthetic particles 160 21 7 95.63 plants into compliance with the HELCOM recommendations. Black particles 3,160 302 125 96.04 Under the cooperation referred to in the Memorandum of Understanding between HELCOM and Vodokanal of St. Petersburg, a pilot project, aimed to identify sources and types of the pharmaceuticals discharged from It was also found that microplastics (fibers Microplastics issue was widely discussed St. Petersburg into the Baltic Sea, is launched and particles) concentrations were much higher again within the frame of the Baltic Sea Day (scientists from the Environmental Safety in the treated effluent than in the Baltic Sea events in 2015. The results of joint work imResearch Centre under the Russian Academy waters. It was recommended to continue the plemented by Vodokanal of St. Petersburg and of Sciences are involved in the project imstudies to underpin a legislative initiative aimed HELCOM to determine microplastics in wasteplementation). The test pharmaceuticals are at minimization of microplastics concentrations water before and after treatment at WWTPs diclofenac and ethinylestradiol, as their negain industrial wastewater. became the subject of the discussions. tive impact on the hemathermal species in the Baltic Sea has been reported. The results have shown that diclofenac removal at WWTPs is very poor, therefore it was recommended to make further studies In 2015, Vodokanal gave support to the to determine the maximum admissible concentration of diclofenac in the influent to WWTPs. development of HELCOM RecommendaAs for ethinylestradiol, it was found that potential concentrations of the pharmaceutical in municipal tions for Sewage Sludge Handling. sewage (0.004 ng/l) were lower than the most stringent environmental quality standards (0.007 ng/l). The objectives of this document The decision was made to continue research on the matter together with HELCOM in 2016. In 2014, the pilot project to detect microplastics in wastewater was implemented. Miare as follows: • to decrease negative impact on the environment by reducing croplastics and their impact on water environment is a new challenge raising concern worldwide, landfilling of sewage sludge; since such “litter” is not biodegradable and tends to accumulate in the environment. • to recommend possible options of beneficial use of sewage On 3 October 2013, the Ministers of Environment and high-level officials from nine Baltic sludge with consideration for: countries and the European Union adopted the HELCOM Copenhagen Declaration. In the Declara1) Energetic potential of sewage sludge; tion all parties agreed that the “regional action plan on marine litter shall enable … development 2) Content of useful elements including phosphorus. and testing of technology for removal of microplastics and nanoparticles in municipal wastewater treatment plants by 2020 and, inter alia, interaction with industrial companies to ban the use Also in 2015, Vodokanal took an active of microplastics and to assess the use of nanoparticles in production processes (e.g. in cosmetics part in a number of HELCOM events aimed production)”. Therefore, it is important to get reliable information on microplastics concentrations to protect the Baltic Sea. The official complein wastewater. tion of the Gulf of Finland Year 2014 took In 2014, laboratory tests were made to detect microplastics in wastewater at Vodokanal’s place on 12 March 2015 in St. Petersburg. WWTPs. It was found that the removal efficiency of different modifications of microplastics The International Forum dedicated to the at municipal WWTPs was rather high (96% average) as shown in the table below. completion of project was organized. All participants emphasized that this was not the end of collaborated effort. In the joint declaration adopted at the Forum, among other things, the need to “continue cooperation in a trilateral format to fulfil national and international commitments in relation to the protection of marine environment of the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic Sea” was recognized. 60 61 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Participation in the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UN GC) is the world’s biggest voluntary initiative that unites companies and organizations utilizing ten principles for responsible business in the areas Aiming at successful implementation Vodokanal regularly discloses the results of the UN GC principles, in 2015, Vodokanal of its activities to the stakeholders and the of human rights, labour, environment protection and antiparticipated in working meetings, conferencgeneral public. The consolidated information corruption. The UN Global Compact principles are based es and workshops organized by the Global Compact Network Russia to ensure efficient is published in the corporate sustainable development report which is annually produced in on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International exchange of experience, presentation of the best available practices and innovations. Paraccordance with the international standards of social reporting and posted, in English and RusLabour Organization Declaration, the Rio Declaration ticipation in such activities enables Vodokanal to be aware of the international best practices sian, on the official website of the UN Global Compact. In 2015, Vodokanal for the sixth time on Environment and Development, UN Convention against related to the sustainable development. In 2015, Vodokanal took part in the presented the Sustainable Development Report at the international exhibition of non-financial Corruption. now-traditional Russian Business Week reports by participant members of the Globorganized under the auspices of the Russian al Compact Network Russia. The aspects of Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Vodokanal corporate responsibility are reported together with the Global Compact Network in the corporate media – the corporate website Russia; participated in Roundtable “Business and newspaper. and Human Rights: promotion and implementation of business activity guidelines in terms In 2007, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peof human rights” focusing on establishing parttersburg” undertook voluntary commitments nerships to implement the following priorities: to comply with the ten UN Global Compact social investments, systematic training and principles in its operations. Vodokanal’s support awareness-raising of personnel, social responof the UN GC initiative demonstrates its easibility before personnel, creation of new jobs Vodokanal considers its participation gerness to meet international standards in all areas of activity and confirms its intention to and unemployment problem. Vodokanal particin the UN Global Compact as a unique ipated in the conference “Business and powpromote social projects. er partnership in the interests of social stability” strategic opportunity to promote The Company developed a corporate social responsibility system which comprises which covered the issues related to the social the social corporate responsibility situation in the Russian Federation, allocation the following elements: social support for of responsibility between the state, business principles and to further improve the personnel potential and motivation, continuous training and retraining programs, youth policy, and society for maintaining social stability, developing a system of professional standards, corporate sustainable development health and safety system, care for labour improving labour quality and establishing a practice. veterans, development of physical culture system of independent assessment of qualifiand sports, interaction with labour unions. cations. Besides, in 2015, Vodokanal took part Vodokanal’s participation in the UN Global in three advisory groups meetings in the frames Compact is the basis for planning and impleof the Global Compact Network Russia focusing mentation of its social responsibility policy. on the urgent issues of business communities. In the last four years, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has been acting as Environment Activity Coordinator for the Global Compact Network Russia. In 2015, as a part of the Environment Activity, Vodokanal implemented Help the Pinnipeds Project, Da-Voda website, Youth Environmental Centre projects. In 2016, it was decided that Vodokanal would continue its role of the coordinator. 62 63 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Involvement in the Development of Regulatory Framework In 2015, Vodokanal specialists participated in the development some acts of the Russian Government related Vodokanal experts were actively involved of draft regulatory legal acts at federal and regional levels to wastewater disposal”; in the discussion of possible changes in a num• Decree of the Russian Government datber of the regulatory acts of St. Petersburg aimed to regulate relations between different actors of the ed 14 October 2015 no. 1101 “On amending which govern relations in the water supply some acts of the Russian Government related and wastewater disposal sphere. For example, water sector and with associated sectors. to wastewater disposal”. they discussed possible changes in the Besides, the following legal acts, which Order of the St. Petersburg Government Commade a significant impact on the legislative mittee for Energy and Engineering Support regulation of relations in the environmental dated 8 November 2012 no. 148 “On estabIt should be particularly noted that in In the accounting period, work on the sphere in terms of wastewater disposal, were lishing standards for the quality of waste2015, the development of the regulatory draft law no. 386179-6 “On amending the adopted in the accounting period: water to be discharged into St. Petersburg framework necessary for functioning of the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastewa• Federal Law dated 13 July 2015 wastewater disposal system” – namely the Federal Law no. 416-FZ dated 7 December ter Disposal”” continued. In particular, the draft no. 221-FZ “On regulatory aspects of legal adjustment of the standards specified in the 2011 “On Water Supply and Wastewater Dislaw was under preparation to be adopted in relations associated with the construction specified Order. Efforts were made to improve posal” (Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal the second reading. In 2015, the draft law and reconstruction of transportation facilities the Decree of the Russian Government dated Law) was completed to make the mentioned was subject to major changes related to at federal and regional levels to provide trans19 October 2004 no. 1677 “On procedure of law fully operational. That work ended up with improving legislative regulation of relations beportation between the Taman Peninsula and collection of payments for discharge (receipt) the registration of the following laws and regutween the actors of the environmental sphere Kerch Peninsula, as well as the engineering of wastewater and pollutants into St. Peterslations by the Russian Ministry of Justice: (transfer to using BAT, changes in the setting infrastructure facilities at federal and regional burg wastewater disposal system”. • Guidelines on the estimation of proof norms related to the negative environmenlevels on the Taman Peninsula and Kerch Penduction and distribution losses of hot, potable tal impact). insula, and on amending some legal acts of and utility water in centralized water supply During 2015, Vodokanal experts were acthe Russian Federation” (with regard to imposThe outcomes of the regulatory systems (registered by the Russian Ministry of tively engaged in discussing a number of draft Justice on 17 February 2015); legal acts of key importance for the functioning ing moratorium until 1 January 2019 on the and analytical work conducted validity of certain provisions placing additional • Guidelines on the estimation of collectof the water sector and housing utilities. The property liabilities on customers of water comin 2015 indicate the completion of the ed (disposed) wastewater volumes using the following documents should be pointed out: sewer throughput method (registered by the • Federal Law dated 29 June 2015 panies in terms of wastewater disposal); active phase of reforming the legislation • Federal Law dated 29 December 2015 Russian Ministry of Justice on 26 February no. 176-FZ “On amending the Housing Code no. 404-FZ “On amending Federal Law “On the in the water and housing sectors. 2015); of the Russian Federation and some legal acts • Guidelines on the estimation of collectof the Russian Federation”; Protection of the Environment” and some legal acts of the Russian Federation” (with regard to Moreover, the scope of the regulatory ed (disposed) rainwater volumes (registered by the Russian Ministry of Justice on 27 February • Federal Law dated 3 November 2015 no. 307-FZ “On amending some legal the cancellation of certain regulatory aspects work is expected to be increased in 2016, of relations in the sphere of the environmental 2015). acts of the Russian Federation with a view protection in terms of wastewater disposal). since the existing regulatory basis The development of the above docuto strengthen payment discipline of energy ments was completed as early as in 2014, consumers”; The adoption of the above regulatory should be adjusted to the updated acts was driven by the need to reduce the but a significant work on their amending and • Federal Law dated 28 November non-tax financial burden on the industries federal legislation. modifying has been done on the basis of the 2015 no. 357-FZ “On amending some legal which buy water supply and wastewater discomments by the Russian Ministry of Justice. acts of the Russian Federation” (in terms posal services from water companies. In the of distribution of powers between different reporting period, activities related to identifiIn early 2015, Vodokanal employees suglevels of local government in the spheres of cation of ways to mitigate risks of potential gested developing a number of initiatives aimwater supply and wastewater disposal, waste adverse economic and ecological consequencing to improve the legislation on water supply management); es of the mentioned regulatory acts were and wastewater disposal. So, Vodokanal • Federal Law dated 13 July 2015 conducted. experts prepared amendments to the Water no. 224-FZ “On Public-Private Partnership, Supply and Wastewater Disposal Law aimed Municipal-Private Partnership in the Russian at improving terms and conditions of appointFederation and on amending some legal acts ing a guaranteeing organization (cancelling the of the Russian Federation”; compulsory requirement to appoint a guaran• Decree of the Russian Government teeing organization), regulating the reimbursedated 5 January 2015 no. 3 “On amending ment of lost income to water companies. 64 65 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Involvement in the Development ACTIVITIES OF THE of Professional INTERNATIONAL Standards ADVANCED WATER At the present time, major updates are being introduced into TECHNOLOGIES CENTRE the Russian Qualifications System thus influencing The International Advanced Water Technologies Centre – almost all sectors of Russia’s economy and social sphere. a joint project implemented by Vodokanal St. Petersburg and Lahti Region Development LADEC Ltd. (former Lahti Science and Business Park Ltd., Finland) – Vodokanal of St. Petersburg has been actively involved in the development of the water-relatVodokanal experts reviewed and has been successfully operating for several years. ed professional standards. commented on twelve professional standards. Nine of them have Great work has been done during this • accumulate, generalize and promote The year 2015 In October 2015, Vodokanal already been approved by the period and today the Centre functions as an knowledge of innovations both in the sphere was the anniintegrated well-established system. The Centre of the applied technologies and in water and versary year established a working group on Ministry of Labour of the Russian activities are carried out in accordance with the wastewater management; for the Centre – professional standards aimed to: Federation. yearly schedule of key training sessions. Con• contribute to the promotion of innovait has been tacts established with the Russian and foreign tions both in the sphere of the applied technolocarrying out its • participate in public and professional • Water intake operation specialist; partners help find the best experts to develop gies and in water and wastewater management activities for debate on draft professional standards; • Water pumping stations operation educational materials. for further dissemination of innovative solutions 5 years since • preparation of proposals on the specialist; Different formats of the Centre training among Russian companies; January 2011. development of professional standards • Wastewater treatment plant operation activities are developed to involve various target • perform environmental awareness-raising for housing and public utilities in terms specialist; groups of participants (managers, average speactivities. of water supply and wastewater disposal; • Water treatment plant operation cialists, students and schoolchildren). • elaboration of measures to introduce specialist; To improve the performance of the Centre, the approved standards into the Company. • Operator of sedimentation and aerathe participant feedback process was estabThe program of the main activities Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been actively tion tanks; lished. The state registration of the Centre cooperating with the leading organizations • Pumps and compressors maintenance as a non-commercial partnership was carried in 2015 was rather extensive and diverse. in the sphere of development, assessment and application of water-related professional worker (for the systems of heat and water supply); out; the Centre’s active engagement in the large-scale international forums and exhibitions Workshops and conferences for water standards – the Russian Water Association, • Operator of tertiary treatment and facilitates the development of the Centre. specialists as well as different forms the Presidential National Council for Professioneffluent disinfection systems; In 2015, the Centre continued to pursue al Qualifications and National Research • Wastewater treatment plant design the following objectives and tasks: of training activities for schoolchildren University “Higher School of Economics”. engineer; • provide training in the field of innovative and students of water-related and • Water and wastewater pumping stawater supply and wastewater disposal technoltions design engineer; ogies; other colleges were conducted. • Water intake operator; • enhance the proficiency of St. Petersburg • Coagulation specialist; Vodokanal employees as well as the employees • Chemicals preparation and dosing of Russian and foreign companies operating operator. in water and wastewater sectors; Vodokanal experts prepared their pro• share experience in the technologies In 2015, Vodokanal management took a decision to initiate posals on the functional map of the profesapplied in water supply, wastewater disposal, the establishment of the Council for Professional Qualifications sional standards for the ten key professions environment protection and rational use in the Water Sector to develop and expertize the relevant profesof the water sector and forwarded them of natural resources; sional standards, update the educational standards in accordance to the Russian Water Association to include with the requirements of the professional standards, arrange the them into the Professional Standards Develperformance of the relevant qualification assessment system. opment Plan 2016. 66 67 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Totally, repreSo, in 2015, the Centre conducted the most important issues in the water sector, In 2015, the Centre paid great attention 2015. On its completion, the schoolchildren In 2015, the sentatives 13 workshops for water sector employees, presented the innovative technologies of the to the environmental awareness-raising activpresented their approach to conservation Centre continof 43 Russian the lectures were delivered by leading experts water sector, enabled the experts from the ities for the younger generation. This work the ecosystem of the Baltic Sea and solving ued to conduct Vodokanals, from Vodokanal, partner-companies experts Russian and foreign companies to share their is regarded as an important factor of the the environmental problems. lectures, inter84 Russian and from the recognized European organizations opinions and experience. The training worksocial responsibility. The activities are organThe grand prize – a trip to Finland for active lessons foreign compaand institutions. The workshops consisted shops were focused on improving the profesized in the form of workshops, interactive exchanging knowledge with Finnish peers – and practical nies and 7 highof both theoretical and practical parts includsional qualification level of not only Vodokanal and laboratory classes, lectures, on-the-job is a great incentive that attracts schoolchilstudies for er education ing site visits to the facilities of Vodokanal employees but also the representatives training and projects, and are conducted dren into the course. St. Petersburg institutions and other companies.These activities covered of other Russian Vodokanals. in the Youth Environmental Centre Similar activities were carried out in Finuniversity participated in of Vodokanal of St. Petersburg and in city land, and the winners of interschool projects students workshops orschools, as well as abroad. visited St. Petersburg. of relevant ganized by the Substantial contribution into the arYear by year the Centre keeps on deprofessions Centre in 2015. rangement of these activities was made veloping and improving its activities to make and other proby the employees of the Youth Environmenthem attractive to new participants. A key fessions. Such TOTAL NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS TOTAL NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS tal Centre. They developed plans of the to the growth of the number of interested activities help IN THE CENTRE WORKSHOPS IN 2012, IN THE CENTRE ACTIVITIES IN 2012, 2013, classes aimed at solving not only the issues persons is the system of questionnaires and future special2013, 2014 AND 2015 2014 AND 2015 of environmental education and informing feedback with the participants. The system ists get familiar the participants of Vodokanal activities, but allows to identify the level of satisfaction with the rou1,200 also the issues of practical implementation with the Center activities as well as to take tine and show 1,042 4,500 4,314 of the knowledge learned. into account the participant recommendathemselves 1,000 3,911 4,000 The educational and awareness-raising tions for the future, in particular – the incluupon entering 827 3,480 800 3,500 course for schoolchildren dedicated to the sion of topics of their interest into employment. 3,100 3,000 problems of the Baltic Sea proceeded in the program of the future workshops. 600 567 2,500 429 2,000 400 1,500 200 1,000 SATISFACTION LEVEL BASED 500 ON THE QUESTIONNARIES RESULTS (%) 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 98 98 99 99 98 99 99 98 98 98 100 95 97 97 97 91 92 During 2015, over 4,300 Russian and foreign participants including over 1,000 water experts attended the Centre activities. 50 Quality of teaching Curriculum content Organization Equipment and facilities of teaching process available for teaching NUMBER OF VODOKANAL EMPLOYEES The activities of the Centre are 2012 2013 2014 2015 AT THE WORKSHOPS an integral part of Vodokanal operation IN 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 because they are aimed, among other things, at addressing the educational The results of the Centre activities in 2015 confirmed the efficiency of its performance. Of vital impor600 567 needs in the sphere of professional Such efficiency of the Centre is due to the access to the intellectual resources of both tance for the training and qualifications. Therefore, Vodokanal and water science communities of Russia and foreign countries. development 500 449 significant attention was paid to the The most experienced and notable reporters are attracted on the competitive basis which of the Centre is 400 training of Vodokanal employees guarantees the highest level of their preparation. its participation in 2015, as before. The fact that the establishment of the Centre was initiated by the Northern Dimension in international 300 Such training sessions are conBusiness Council, which working group is co-chaired by the Director General of St. Petersburg exhibitions 231 236 ducted in the frames of the Centre Vodokanal and the Director of Strategic Development Department of the Ministry of Employment and forums. 200 workshops. The results of the workand Economy of Finland, creates additional positive reputation to the Centre. In February shops show the increase in the number The Centre is unique because of its active direct contacts with the wide range of stakeholders: 2015, the Centre 100 of participants, as well as their interest Vodokanals, scientific and research organizations of Russia and CIS countries. Active interaction represented its in further training activities. with external partners gives additional opportunity for advertising and promoting the objectives activities in the 0 and mission of the whole Company and strengthens its image. exhibition booth 2012 2013 2014 2015 We should mention the Centre’s extensive “geography of cooperation”. In 2015, its activities of Vodokanal were attended by representatives of the Russian vodokanals and water companies from the Far St. Petersburg East to the western frontiers of Russia, as well as CIS countries. at the internaToday, the Centre is a structure which has made a name for itself not only in Russia but also tional forum in other countries in the world. “Ecology – 2015”. 68 69 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 MEMBERSHIP There is a set of key principles The Foundation organizes the EFQM Excellence Model Competition to motivate upon which the EFQM’s fundaIN ASSOCIATIONS, mental concept of Excellence organizations which introduce self-assessment according to EFQM Excellence Model, share experience in improving management practices. is based: UNIONS AND OTHER • Adding value for customers; • Sustainable achievement of the distinCompanies that comply to the maximum with the EFQM Excellence Model become winners of a prestigious prize – the EFQM guished results; ORGANIZATION Excellence Award (there are also Prize Winner • Leading with vision, inspiration and honand Finalist Nominations). But before esty; a company starts to compete for the Excel• Developing organization capacities; lence Award, it should pass, as a rule, several SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” gives much attention • Succeeding through the talent of people; • Using creativity and innovation; levels (“Committed to Excellence” Level and “Recognized for Excellence” Level) and receive to participation in professional associations and unions. • Managing with flexibility; • Creating a sustainable future. relevant certificates. Since 2006, to improve its management Over 30,000 companies throughout framework, Vodokanal has started self-assessEurope use the EFQM Excellence Model. ment of its activities on the basis of the regionThe Company is a member of the Russian Moreover, Vodokanal St. Petersburg is acIt is a proven, well-defined structure of 32 criterial model (the Russian Federation Government Water Association (RWA) – a leading union tively involved in the work of the Non-Commeron parts grouped under 9 criteria which allow Regional Quality Model) that is harmonized of water experts in Russia. Felix V. Karmazinov, cial Partnership “Russian Water Association” to implement the fundamental concepts with the EFQM Model. Since 2009, Vodokanal Director General of Vodokanal, is a member and the Non-Commercial Partnership “National of Excellence and achieve sustainable future. has conducted the self-assessment on the of the RWA Board. Union of Vodokanals” (NUV) established in The Model shows the cause-effect relationships basis of the EFQM Model. Baltvod Association of North-Western 2009 where Felix V. Karmazinov, Director between what is done in a company (what The constant self-assessment enables Water Companies initiated by Vodokanal in General of Vodokanal, is the President. approaches are used), how it is done (how exthe managers to see problems and challenges, 1991 actively participates in promotion of the Since 2014, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has tensively and at what levels the approaches are respond to them in a timely manner, develop advanced technologies in water sector of the been involved in the international benchmarking used) and what results are gained (achievement risk reduction alternatives and achieve the North-West Federal District. In 2015, Baltvod program for water services conducted by the of the goals). set goals. Association conducted several joint workindependent not-for-profit partnership “European One of the top-priority tasks of Vodokanal shops and conferences at the premises Benchmarking Co-operation”. The main objective St. Petersburg is the improvement of the of Vodokanal. Felix V. Karmazinov, Director of the project is to benchmark water supply and Company’s management system aimed to raise Main stages of interaction with General of Vodokanal is the chairman of the wastewater disposal services mostly provided responsibility for sustainable future of the Baltic Association Board. by the European utility companies. Sea region. EFQM: In 2015, Vodokanal together with Lahti Vodokanal St. Petersburg is a member Region Development LADEC Ltd. (Finland) of two self-regulatory organizations: the Using the Excellence Model • in 2009 , Vodokanal received the certificate confirming complicontinued to promote the Non-Commercial Non-Commercial Partnership “Association in its operations, Vodokanal ance of the Company’s management with the “Recognized for Excellence” 5 stars level of the EFQM Model; Partnership “International Advanced Water of Builders of St. Petersburg” and the Not-ForTechnologies Centre” which activities are aimed Profit Partnership “Interregional Union of Design is in a constant search for ways • in 2010 , Vodokanal won the International Quality Tournament at the provision of training in the field of the advanced water and wastewater technologies Engineers”. to develop and improve the of Central and Eastern Europe; for the Company’s employees, water companies EFQM is a non-for-profit membership performance, including: • in 2011 , St. Petersburg Vodokanal became a finalist of the from other regions of Russia and abroad. organization. It was established in 1987 by EFQM Excellence Award. The Company was the first to achieve such • the increase of the reliability and efficien14 leading European companies with the supa result among European water companies; cy of water supply and wastewater disposal port of the European Commission to increase the competitiveness of the European economy systems through the introduction of up-to-date • in 2012 , St. Petersburg Vodokanal won the best practice Since 1 December 2011, St. Petersburg by promoting new management approaches, management and metering systems, improvecompetition in creative use of social media organized by the European ment of water and wastewater treatment Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). Vodokanal presented Vodokanal has been a full member stimulating training in management fundaprocesses; at the competition its video-film “The Neva Crayfish and His Friends” mentals and creating opportunities to be of the European Foundation for recognized for success in this field. • rational use of water resources in the telling about the da-voda website (www.da-voda.com) – the project course of treating, distributing and provision aimed to disseminate the ideas of careful attitude to natural resources; Quality Management (EFQM). Currently, EFQM members number over of drinking water to consumers; 800 European organizations totaling several • protection of the environment while • in 2015 , two Vodokanal’s employees who had been trained millions of employees. EFQM was established on the EFQM Model were engaged as EFQM assessors in examining treating wastewater, handling and utilizing to assist organizations in achieving sustainRussian companies for nomination to “Recognized for Excellence” Level. wastewater sludge; able success by giving them relevant recom• guaranteeing to consumers the quality mendations. of water supply and wastewater disposal services that meet and exceed the requirements of Russian and European standards; • keeping the investment attractiveness to implement reconstruction and building programs; • effective resource management to optimize costs. 70 71 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Support of Regional Initiatives In 2015, experts of the Information & Training Centre, the Universe of Water Museum complex and the Youth Environmental Centre participated in the regional events targeted to the raising of the environmental awareness among children, youth, citizens • co-organized and participated in implementation of the International Environmental • co-organized and participated in implementation of the Forum “Turning the Pages and guests of the city. Camp in the framework of the Russian-Finnish cooperation in partnership with the Eco-Biologof History” dedicated to the 70th anniversary of UNESCO for UNESCO associated regional ical Centre and the public organization “Friends schools; of the Baltic”; • developed the concept of, and coordi• participated in the “TELESTART” Festival nated the inter-museum citywide project “Order More specifically, they: of Children’s Broadcast Journalism; to Survive” dedicated to the 70th anniversary • organized and implemented the city • co-organized children programme at • prepared and implemented the thematic of Victory in the Great Patriotic War; prepared contest “Fundamentals of Safe Water Use” in the International Environmental Film Festival programme “Energy and Power Engineering: and implemented the thematic interactive the framework of All-Russian School Olympiad “Green Vision”; Our Choice!” for residents of children’s homes programme “Order to Survive: Lenvodokanal!” in Life Safety, the city round; • participated in the IV All-Russian Enviin the framework of the citywide environmental under the project; • implemented the interactive programme ronmental Education Conference in Moscow; event “Earth Hour”; • organized the exhibition “Valaam. “ECO-School” in the framework of the Youth • participated in the VII Research and • participated in the inter-museum project Portrait. Landscape” dedicated to the Isle Environmental Forum; Practice Conference “Environmental Culture “Big Regatta”, prepared and implemented of Valaam; • co-organized the VI All-Russian Scientific and Awareness-Raising” for schoolchildren a thematic museum programme for 5-8 year • organized the exhibition of patchworks Environmental Conference “Water – Source in Krasnoselskiy District; school students and families; by the leading artists in St. Petersburg and of Life on Earth”; • co-organized and participated in the im• organized and implemented the Creative the Leningrad Region “Touch the Spring Well”; • organized and implemented the proplementation of a thematic programme in the Festival “Knowledge and Creativity – Energy • organized the XII regional exhibition gramme dedicated to the 70th anniversary framework of the city festival “EcoOkhta”; for the Future” dedicated to the Teacher’s Day of artworks by elderly and disabled people of the Victory for the International Museums • developed and implemented a museum for residents and tutors of children’s homes; “Good Hands Craft” in cooperation with the At Night Event (18 May 2015); programme in the framework of the citywide • organized and implemented career guidSocial Protection Committee of the Leningrad inter-museum festival “Children’s Days in ance programmes for school students “ProfesRegion; St. Petersburg”; sions in a Big City” on request of the • organized the exhibition “Finding • the YEC’s youth core group gave a welSt. Petersburg Labour and Employment at the Far Side of the World” and master classcome address to the delegates of XV InternaCommittee’ Instructional Support Centre; es under the Russian North Project. tional Forum “The Baltic Sea Day”; • prepared and implemented the youth panel session at YEC during the XV International Forum “The Baltic Sea Day”; • co-organized and took part in the impleMoreover, Vodokanal helps create com750 events including the city festival events: mentation of the International Model UN Youth fort for participants of different public events the New Year, Christmas, the Day of Victory, Conference; in the city and the regions by providing toilets. the City Day, The Red Sails, Day of Lifting • participated in the XII city conference of Depending on the venue of festive event, of the Siege, the Children’s Day, the Peterssenior school students “The Young Generation”; confirmed number of participants and guests, burg Economic Forum and many other signif• organized and implemented a thematic time of day and season of event, Vodokanal icant events. Moreover, in 2015, Vodokanal programme for 5-8 year school students under provides relevant toilet types (mobile cabins provided toilets to the all-Russian event “The the “Environmental Lessons in St. Petersburg” or vehicle chassis-mounted mobile sanitary Immortal Regiment” organized for the first Project of the non-governmental environmental and hygiene complexes). time ever. The operation schedule of mobile fund named after V.I. Vernadskiy; In 2015, mobile toilets were provided toilets at such events was determined by the • were on the jury panel at the sustainaon requests of various organizations for over City Government. ble development youth projects festival implemented by ANO “CTS-SPb” in partnership with the Kansas University; 72 73 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction with Stakeholders Vodokanal maintains close partnership Vodokanal. Investments implemented by means The basic princiwith water companies of the Baltic Region in the of the public-private partnership model Partnership ple of the partframes of HELCOM Convention and the Clean are an example of sophisticated and consistent nership applied Baltic Sea Project. Partnerships with the water activity aimed at the mobilization of funds for by Vodokanal companies of the Baltic Region are aimed at priority environmental projects. For instance, is that each Concept implementing joint environmental projects. Such the Northern Tunnel Collector construction, partner fulfils partnerships formed under cooperation agreereconstruction and upgrading of small wastewater its obligations ments provide access to resources, innovations treatment plants of St. Petersburg were financed in due time and new technologies on a mutually beneficial bafrom several sources including budgets of the and at a good sis. A considerable number of investment projects Russian Federation and the City of St. Petersburg, quality level essential for the whole Baltic Sea Region were own funds of Vodokanal and proceeds provided and underimplemented. The Company has partner relationby IFIs (including Northern Dimension Environmenstands that Vodokanal of St. Petersburg maintains lasting relations ships with water companies of Helsinki, Stockholm, Tallinn, Hamburg and Berlin. International tal Partnership (NDEP)). In 2015, Vodokanal together with the partnership implies joint with its partners on the basis of mutual trust, respect cooperation assists the Company to solve issues related to efficient benchmarking, investments, Russian Water Association which is comprised of 243 vodokanals from all federal districts of Russia work aimed at long-term, and openness and acknowledges that in the dynamic environmental protection, technical upgrade established the Water Cluster. On 17 September sustainable and environmental awareness-building. 2015, the Water Academy (the Water Cluster’s creation of environment of the modern world the company success Since 2009, St. Petersburg Vodokanal educational segment) was opened at the facilities value for both has been the member of the National Union of the Information and Training Centre. On 6 Noand satisfaction of all stakeholders strongly depend on the of Vodokanals and interacts with water compavember 2015, the Water Cluster’s Demonstration parties. Over decades of nies and governmental authorities for the purpose and Exhibition Centre was opened at the premises development of effective partnership. of introducing new operational standards and of the Northern WWTP. The Cluster solves several cooperation with foreign technical regulations as well as increasing investissues at once: import substitution, integration and domesment opportunities of the sector. The Company is of production and science, improving the pertic partners, engaged in reviewing and developing new drafts formance of the Russian water companies. The Vodokanal of water legislation for public utilities, conducts Water Cluster aims to create conditions for the Vodokanal adheres to the multilateral partnership concept including the interaction As for its international partners, consultations with legislative and executive boddevelopment of new water technologies on the has never failed to with its partners and suppliers on technical, proin 2015 Vodokanal continued ies, exchanges experience with leading housing basis of Russian engineering design solutions. fulfil its cess-related, financial, organizational and tutorial and public utilities as well as water unions. At To improve the quality of education of stuobligations; aspects of activities. Vodokanal St. Petersburg to cooperate successfully with present, Vodokanal is involved in promoting innodents in the water-related fields and build external and it was divides its partners into segments – by types of such organizations as: vative approaches in housing and public utilities labour pool of young experts, Vodokanal cooperhighly appreactivities or services and by significance and imof the Russian Federation and the CIS. Vodokanal ates with the following educational institutions: ciated by its • the Ministry of the Environment production branches conduct working meetings St. Petersburg State University of Architecture portance of the partnership in terms of creating partners. of Finland; with experts from housing and public utilities of and Civil Engineering, St. Petersburg State Transvalue for the stakeholders. • the John Nurminen Foundation; the Russian Federation and the CIS and arrange port University, Admiral Makarov State University The selected partnership concept provides • Nordic Environment Finance Corporation visits to Vodokanal reference plants, where such of Maritime and Inland Shipping, St. Petersburg the Company with the resources necessary to (NEFCO); innovative projects and best practices have been State Technological Institute, Mechnikov Northachieve the set targets and allows it to evaluate • Swedish International Development implemented. West State Medical University. comprehensively the external environment, build and Cooperation Agency (Sida); Among the leading Russian partners in the The partnership concept developed in its reputation and establish trust-based rela• Northern Dimension Environmental field of innovative technologies there are such Vodokanal help the Company to implement innotions. Such an approach is used by Vodokanal Partnership (NDEP). companies as Kreal, Arsenal and AViV. Together vative technologies, modernize plants, improve subject to its financial stability and investment attractiveness to ensure maximum effective with these companies Vodokanal implements prothe company management and, eventually, raise cost control and implementation of construcThe international cooperation enables jects aimed at improving wastewater treatment the stakeholders’ satisfaction with Vodokanal tion, reconstruction and capital repair plans for Vodokanal to study and introduce the best intertechnologies. services. water/ wastewater and social facilities. national practices into its own operations. The partnership with the Russian and One of the active partners of the Company European banking community as well as with is the Ministry of the Environment of Finland different investors is successfully implemented by which participated in over 50 innovative projects of Vodokanal. 74 75 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction All incoming requests are recorded in the information system of the Hot Line and efficient arrangement of work process with a sufficient number of skilled operators available forwarded to the relevant production division at any time of the day or night. with Customers responsible for examination of the network, remediation of relevant section of network and informing the customers of the works perThe customer call management includes computer registration of all incoming calls. Codification of calls supports efficient evaluaformed. All the call processing stages – from tion of service quality and helps determine the the call to remediation – are under the control areas for improvement in order to eliminate the of a body, which is independent from the procauses of complains preventively. One of the most important aspects of Vodokanal activities duction division performing the works. The monitoring of the request processing may is maintaining everyday contacts with customers. only be stopped after the customer confirms Processing of customer calls is based on the informathat the works are completed. Thus, it is a custion obtained by means of up-to-date technologies, tomer who evaluates the final results of works in particular, the Call-Centre – automated call recordin relation to every call. ing and distribution system. The information obtained Moreover, the above system enabled citithrough this system enables us to ensure reception zens, customers and clients to receive informaof all incoming calls and to optimize both the call tion and consulting services from the Hot Line processing time and the waiting time required for the Vodokanal The Company communicates with customers in several ways: in the course of services operators. caller to get the operator’s answer. of St. Petersburg operates provision, in the course of interaction initiated To develop the call reception system, the All these factors contribute to the by Vodokanal (interviews, focus groups), by time distribution of calls during 24 hours was the Hot Line Service which discussing various problems in the mass media, analyzed. The results of the analyses ensured improvement of the customer service quality. receives customer in newspapers, magazines and by organizing different meetings with citizens. calls round the clock Quick response to the customers’ com(tel.: +7 (812) 305-09-09). plaints of deficiencies in water and sewage networks operation is an important aspect for Vodokanal. In 2015, Vodokanal was involved In 2015, Vodokanal organized Besides, Vodokanal receives requests via the Internet (there is a separate section in consultation activities related to working meetings with “Feedback” on the corporate website www.vodokanal.spb.ru) and processes claims received customers, interaction with cusSt. Petersburg Association from the portal “Our St. Petersburg” and website “Beautiful St. Petersburg”. tomers, unions and professional of Industrial Companies associations of customers. (with regard to wastewater disposal norms, construction Vodokanal cooperated with the Union of local wastewater treatment of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Vodokanal-Customers interaction through calls of St. Petersburg within the working group plants, water balances). including St. Petersburg authorities (the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support, Tariffs Committee, Committee for Nature Meetings of the working group organized by the Concierge Use, Environmental Protection and Ecological Newspaper with the participation of the public services providers were Customer Safety of St. Petersburg) with regard to wasteA customer calls Informing the customer held to discuss issues of water supply for apartment houses, including the Hot Line Service of the process and water disposal norms, construction of local drinking water quality and pressure, installation of house meters with surveying customer opinion wastewater treatment plants and installation remote data reading, estimation of public service consumption by an on the quality of executed of water and wastewater meters, amending apartment house if there are no metering instruments and interaction works (customer satisfaction) regulatory acts related to water balances. with owners (right holders) of non-residential premises of apartment Every request houses, collection of payments from the owners of premises of apartis registered ment houses, application of multiplying factors to the public services consumption rates. Moreover, Vodokanal conducted consultations with the AssociHot Line Service ation of Housing Construction Cooperatives, Housing Companies and Follow-up control Condominiums, discussed issues related to estimation of wastewater The request is forwarded to a relevant Vodokanal’s service consumption by an apartment house if there are no limits for division for processing wastewater services consumed for the apartment house management needs and boundaries of operating responsibilities of the public service providers toward wastewater network within apartment houses, etc. Works are carried Information about out to solve the problem Production the works carried out until the request is satisfied divisions in relation to the request of Vodokanal 76 77 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 The winners were announced as follows: The title “The best customer The title “The best customer among industriamong heat supply companies” al companies” was awarded to: was awarded to: among customers with water and wastewater consumption up • I place: OAO “TGK-1”; to 10,000 m³/day:: • II place: AO “South-West Thermal • I place: OAO “Zavod Electropult”; Power Plant”. • II place: OAO “Special economic areas”. among customers with water The title “The best customer and wastewater consumption 10,000among organizations financed 30,000 m³/day: • I place: SUE “Inpredservice”; through the federal budget” • II place: OOO “North-West Technopark”. was awarded to: among customers with water and wastewater consumption over • I place: St. Petersburg State Technologi30,000 m³/day: cal Institute (Technical University); • I place: OOO “Operation Glavstroy St. • II place: Nikiforov Russian Center of Petersburg”; Emergency and Radiation Medicine of the Min• II place: OAO “Russian Railways”. istry of Emergency Situations of the Russian Federation. In the nomination “Clean Waters The title “The best customer of the Baltic Sea” (for implementation Vodokanal conducts the Annual Contest of this category was introduced – “For the by the customer of nature and water Long-term and Fruitful Cooperation”. among organizations which are for the best customer title – According to the contest results, the protection measures): winner in the nomination “The Best Customer financed through St. Petersburg “Cristal Drop”. among Managing Companies” was Housing Agency no. 2 of Admiralteysky District. The tibudget” was awarded to: • OOO “POLYSAN Scientific & Technological Pharmaceutical Company”. The objective of the contest is to build tle “Our Hope” (second place in the nomination among customers not served by the up close interaction between customers and “The Best Customer among Managing CompaCentralized Accounts Department: Vodokanal on the grounds of mutual openness nies”) was awarded to the Managing Company • I place: Pushkin Leningrad State Univerand good partnership as well as to search ways for further enhancement of water and “Service Nedvizhimost”. The Housing Agency no. 3 of Primorsky District was awarded for sity; In the nomination “Sustainable use of • II place: St. Petersburg State-Financed wastewater services provided to customers. the long-term and fruitful cooperation. Entity “The Duny Children’s Health Resort”. water resources” (for sustainable use by The contest procedure is implemented In the nomination “The Best Customer according to the Provision “On Contest for among Housing Companies, Housing Construcamong customers served by the Centralized Accounts Department: the customer of water resources through the Best Customer Title – Cristal Drop” that tion Cooperatives, and Condominiums” the • I place: State budgetary general edutimely installation of water and wastewater came into force by the Decree no. 159 dated first place was awarded to the Housing Comcational institution The Second St. Petersburg 9 November 2012. pany “Badaeva – 8”. The second place and the Gymnasium; meters). Major criterion for the selection of nomititle “Our Hope” was awarded to the Housing • II place: State budgetary pre-school • Housing company “Glinki-17”. nees is the fulfilment by the customer Construction Cooperative-1357. The Housing educational institution Nursery school of contractual obligations, and for the nominaCompany “Korzuna-26” was awarded for the no. 11 of Admiralteyskiy District, St. Peterstion “Clean Waters of the Baltic Sea” it is the long-term and fruitful cooperation. burg. implementation by the customer of nature and The winners in each nomination got the water protection measures in addition to the contest symbol – “Cristal Drop”, a diploma and contractual obligations. a special prize – a certificate for attending the Apart from the winners, the companies Museum Complex “The Universe of Water” free which rank second (category “Our Hope”) are of charge. also recognized at the awarding ceremony. The first stage of 2015 contest was held on 18 March within the framework of InternaThe festive announcement of the tional Exhibition and Conference “Housing and contest results in the remaining Public Utilities of Russia” in Expoforum Center. nominations under the second Vodokanal awarded the best customers under stage of the contest took place the category “Providers of Public Services”. on 17 April 2015 in the Museum Complex In 2015, a new nomination for the customers “The Universe of Water”. 78 79 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction with Suppliers Under the Law no. 223-FZ, the following information shall be posted on the official website: Vodokanal St. Petersburg is striving to build long-term, 1) Procurement plan. 2) Procurement regulation. mutually beneficial relations with suppliers. 3) Procurement information. 4) Amendments made to a contract during its conclusion and performance. 5) The number and total value of contracts concluded. In 2015, Vodokanal’s procurement policy was developed and approved. The following tasks are adAny procurement activities are performed dressed under Vodokanal’s To spend own funds in an effecby the Company in compliance with the applicaprocurement policy: tive way, Vodokanal carries ble laws of the Russian Federation, the Policy, the Corporate Procurement Regulation and out procurements applying the other regulatory documents. • long-term planning of requirements to goods, works and services; following regulated procedures: Strategically, Vodokanal’s procurement policy aims to provide high-quality goods, works • priority is given to goods and equipment and services as needed for the Company producmanufactured in St. Petersburg and the Russian tender – a bidding process where the winner tion process in a timely manner and at optimal Federation; shall be the bidder that offers the best contract market prices through reliable suppliers subject • continuous market analysis to ensure terms according to the criteria and procedures of to the procurement principles and on the basis a reasonable level of competition among potenevaluation and comparison of bids as stipulated of common information space. tial counterparties; in the tender documentation; • target-oriented and cost-effective spendPursuant to the Federal Law “On procurement ing of corporate funds for the purchase auction (open or closed) – single source (supplier, contractor) proPre-qualification is made prior of goods, works and services; a bidding process where the winner shall be the curement – a procedure other than tender where of goods, works, services by certain types of legal bidder that offered the lowest price or, if the a purchaser sends an offer of contract to one to the above • procurement procedures should be based entities” no. 223-FZ dated 18 July 2011, when procuring contract price is reduced to zero in the course supplier (contractor) only. The use of this proceprocurement on market mechanisms and principles of compegoods, works and services Vodokanal shall abide by of the auction and the auction participants comdure is limited to strictly defined cases where procedures in tition, transparency and publicity; the principle of transparency (Law no. 223-FZ, Art. 3, pete for the right of entering into the contract, – other procurement procedures are not feasible the situations • implementation of measures to reduce Part 1, cl. 1). According to this principle the contracting the highest contract price; or reasonable; where procurement-related costs, including time costs, authority is obliged to post any information about prountimely or curements on the official website www.zakupki.gov.ru. by developing advanced information technologies to manage the procurement process; request for quotation – a method competitive dialogue – a method unsatisfactory of order placement where any information about of order placement where the Order Placement performance • optimization of corporate procurement the purchase of goods, works or services Commission negotiates with the participants of of works or by using best practices; is made available to an unlimited range of competitive dialogue, and upon the completion provision of • ensuring safe operation of the Company persons by posting a call for quotations on the of such negotiations the latter submit their final services might production facilities; corporate website; and the participant who ofproposals. Prior to the competitive dialogue, the cause damage • maintaining a positive image of the fers the lowest contract price is announced the Order Placement Commission selects, according to customers. Company as a purchaser of goods, works and winner. The maximum contract price in this proto the evaluation criteria and procedures set services. cedure is 1 million Roubles, and the procedure forth in the Competitive Dialogue Documenmay only be launched by a company (including tation, the competitive dialogue participant its branches) once in three months for the same offering the best contract terms. product; 80 81 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 The following selection criteria are commonly used for prequalification: Import • bidder’s experience in the area relevant to the subject of the tender; • availability of plant and equipment; The open tender for “Construction of Okhta Sewage Collector (phase 1)” conducted in compliance with the Federal Law 44-FZ Substitution • competence of managers and specialists; “On contracting in the sphere of procurement • company ratings; of goods, works and services for governmental • certificates, diplomas, SRO (self-regulatand municipal needs” was the biggest procureing organization) documents; • other criteria used to evaluate the bidder ment event in 2015. The contract was awarded to ZAO PRiSS, its amount was 7,952.2 million In 2015, the priority goal of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Pre-qualification qualification. Roubles. was to reduce the Company dependence on foreign suppliers With such approach, goods and services Under the Decree of the Russian Governmeans selection of can be procured on optimal terms. Any call for ment no. 616 dated 21 June 2012 “On approvand to use domestic equipment, materials and technologies tender should contain information about the ing the list of goods, works and services to be contenders for participation contracting authority’s contact persons for procured in electronic form” and for the purpose instead of imported products. tender-related and technical issues. Those who of developing electronic procurement of goods in the (works, services) and computerizing of procurewish to bid (submit quotations) can get procurement ments made with the company own funds, clarifications on any issues arising during the procedure in Vodokanal has made agreements with electronic preparation of tender proposal either orally compliance trading platforms EETP and OTC-tender by calling the phone number specified with the (www.otc.ru). Since the beginning of 2015, all contracts • Drainage systems for filters; in the documentation, or in written form requirements E-procurement reduces labour costs concluded by Vodokanal for design, construction • On-line water quality monitoring devices; by sending a request for clarification. and criteria of the bidders and contracting authority, fosters and renovation of water supply and sewerage • Equipment for wastewater treatment plants; In 2015, under the Regulation “On the set by the competitive environment, and accelerates and networks and facilities and for supply of equip• Equipment for sewer networks; procurement of goods, works and services with contracting facilitates the procurement process. ment and spare parts, have contained the require• Electrical equipment; Vodokanal’s own funds”, Vodokanal carried out authority. Since 2012, Vodokanal has participated ment to use materials and equipment produced • Thermal equipment; over 2000 procurement procedures which led to conclusion of contracts for the total amount in the competition “The national rating of proby Russian manufacturers. • Vehicles and road-building machinery. of over 32 billion Roubles including a RUB curement transparency for the companies placing In order to improve the Company opera11,851.47 million worth of procurements under orders under the law no. 223-FZ”. In the competions, the performance of Investment Program the Federal Law no. 44-FZ “On contracting in tition 2015, Vodokanal once again took a decent and the procurement of products for industrial the sphere of procurement of goods, works and place in the section “Medium Transparency” use, Vodokanal established a technical import services for governmental and municipal needs”. on a par with the leading Russian companies. substitution commission which holds meetings every week. The Catalogue contains information on the The commission is made up of Vodokanal’s domestic products to be used for operation, renenergy specialists, mechanical engineers, process ovation or construction of water and wastewater engineers, IT-specialists, metrologists, logistics facilities. The data are regularly updated and supexperts, etc. The technical commission members plemented. Vodokanal’s Catalogue of Materials do analytical work and select equipment for and Equipment is posted on the city government Organization Score import substitution. website in the Import Substitution Section of the OAO “Russian Railways” 2,846 St. Petersburg Committee for Energy and EngiPAO “Sberbank of Russia” 2,759 neering Support alongside with catalogues SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg 2,747 Offers of domestic manufacturers of other companies (http://gov.spb.ru/gov/otrasl/ ingen/importozameshenie). OAO NK ”Rosneft” 2,694 were scrutinized to compile In 2015, Vodokanal regularly communicated OOO “Air Gate of the Northern Capital” 2,618 a catalogue of materials and with manufacturers of equipment and materials for the water sector in line with its import substiequipment eligible for import tution policy. Currently, substitution of imported pipes substitution. The Catalogue conBased on the 2015 results, Vodokanal evaluated the suppliers of goods, tains the following sections: is practically achieved. St. Petersburg companies OOO “IKAPLAST” and ZAO “Nordpipe” satisfy works and services under the regulation “On organizing the competition the demand for polyethylene pipes, in particular, • Pipes; for high-strength polyethylene pipes, having for “the best supplier of the year for SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg””. • Valves; launched a new line of pipes with a higher resistThe suppliers were evaluated in eight nominations: • Pumps; ance to mechanical damage: PE100 pipes with • UV water disinfection equipment; a PP protective cover, PE100 RC pipes, and • the best contractor in construction and reconstruction of utility networks, buildings and • Ozonation equipment; PE100 RC pipes with a PP protective cover. structures for the needs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. • Electrolysis equipment for sodium hythe winner – OOO TERES; pochlorite production; • the best supplier of process equipment for the needs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. the winner – OOO Alliance Electro; • the best supplier of materials for the needs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. the winner – OOO NPO “Chemical Agents Factory”; • the best supplier of consulting services for the needs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. the winner – Ernst & Young; • the best outsourcing company working with SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. the winner – ZAO VK “Service”; • the best supplier to ensure comfortable labour environment for the personnel of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. the winner – AO “BTK Group”. 82 83 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 SINCE 2015, VODOKANAL HAS The Russian ductile iron pipe manufacturer “Svobodny Sokol” has taken a commitment thickened sludge pumps (Germany). In April 2015, the Russian ONL sludge pumps passed the tests The main tasks of the import BEEN ACTIVELY to provide ductile iron pipes with a diameter successfully and will be installed at Vodokanal’s substitution program in the field 1,200 mm max. for Vodokanal’s water distribuwastewater treatment plants in future. SEARCHING FOR tion and sewerage systems. Interaction at the level of the Russian of information technologies NEW IMPORT SUBSTITUTION The Russian manufacturers ZAO “ENEKOS Ministry of Industry and Trade is underway to find are identified: Group” (St. Petersburg), Havle-Sevkom (Lipetsky domestic alternatives to the imported reciprocatOPTIONS WITH Region), ARMSPETSENERGO (Znamya Truda ing high-pressure sludge pumps (Schwing pumps • meeting of the Russian legal requirements The Import Substitution and Localization REGARD TO SPEto information security; Centre in St. Petersburg that opened in Septemfactory, St. Petersburg), OOO “Ugreshsky of Putzmeister, Germany, have been in operation CIAL PUMPS USED Valve Plant” (Moscow Region), and “Rus” for over 20 years), cased sewage pumps with the • modernizing the fleet of computers and ber 2015 helped Vodokanal intensify dialog with IN WASTEWATER Group (St. Petersburg) meet 95% of the demand capacity of more than 2,000 m3/day, submersible copiers, building the Company infrastructure national manufacturers of products for the water DISPOSAL. for valves. sewage pumps with the capacity of 4,000 m3/day in line with the import substitution policy, and sector and promptly solve any supplies-related HYDROMASHSERVICE (Moscow) offers max., and sludge dewatering centrifuges. implementing national software; problems. pumping equipment for water supply facilities. • possibilities of import substitution must Pump manufacturers: Uralgidromash (Sverdlovsky be considered for any procurement activities. Region), OOO “Baltic Plant Hydraulic Equipment” (St. Petersburg), OOO “Grundfos” Russian facIn 2015, various equipment manufactured tories (Moscow Region) and OOO “WILO RUS” in the territory of the Russian Federation was (Moscow) are ready to partially meet Vodokanal’s supplied to the Company through tendering, demand for pumping units. namely: switch gears, all-in-one PCs, uninterruptiThe dosing equipment is produced by ble power supply units. During overall reconstrucSt. Petersburg manufacturing factory “Areopag”. tion of the building in 19, Komsomola str., an elecThe analysis has shown that Vodokanal tronic queue management system produced by still depends on some foreign-made products the national company OOO “LETO Engineering” (including pumping equipment). Since 2015, efforts (Moscow) was installed in the customer reception have been made to find domestic alternatives to room. Lists of standard and special-purpose softthe special pumps used in wastewater systems. ware used by the Company were prepared. Since 2005, Vodokanal has been using Seepex By the middle of the 3rd quarter of 2016, Russian-made server hardware and data storage systems will be tested. Tests of the databases developed in Russia are planned to substitute In 2015, extensive work was done to find good substitutes for the high-tech equipment them for the existing corporate information systems in the long run. used in automated process control systems including the power equipment. As a result Equipment of AO “Avangard” and OOO “AlliSince 1 January 2015, the economy achieved The First Technical Workshop of the Compaance-Electro” (manufacturers of water meters and pressure sensors in St. Petersburg) has been by purchasing domestic equipment, materials and spare parts instead of imported products has been & Exhibition held by Vodokanal on In 2015, for the purpose of maintaining dialog with ny’s import substitution successfully used for the building of the Water 258.09 million Roubles. April 8, 2015 was also national suppliers and manufacturers, a special Import Supply Management System in the Southern Import substitution activities are carried Substitution section was created on Vodokanal activities, Water Supply Zone. out under the reconstruction and modernization another way to liaise with website. Import substitution proposals can be sent the share of imported equipFor the purpose of replacing imported water projects for the main treatment plants, water and national producers. by completing a special form available in this section meters, Vodokanal has approached OOO “Neko” sewerage networks and tunnel collectors listed (www.vodokanal.spb.ru/importozamewenie) ment, materials, or by e-mail: partner@vodokanal.spb.ru. (St. Petersburg), UK “Vodopribor” (Moscow), in Vodokanal’s Investment Program. Before, forThis event aroused interest not only and spare parts and “Vzlet” Group (St. Petersburg). Vodokanal is eign-made equipment was generally used in most in St. Petersburg but also in other Russian cities. in the total discussing production of quality monitoring instruprojects. Revision of the projects for reconstruction The newly-established Water Cluster About 40 companies from St. Petersburg and procurement ments for all water types with NPF “Burevestnik” of Main WTP, construction of the Okhta Collector, in St. Petersburg is also working with a strong all over Russia made their presentations at the volume reduced (St. Petersburg), NGO “Automatika” (Vladimir), construction of wastewater treatment facilities focus on import substitution. On 6 November workshop, and 50 companies showcased their from 30% OOO “Lyumeks” (St. Petersburg), and ITMO Uniin the Settlement of Molodezhny, creation of the 2015, The Water Cluster’s Demonstration products at the exhibition. Vodokanal set up its to 1.8%. versity (St. Petersburg). water supply management system for Southern & Exhibition Center was opened. The Center own information stands where the equipment In 2015, performance tests of Praestol and water supply zone, etc. with the aim to substitute is a part of the Water Cluster’s technological and materials used by it were described. Detailed Greenlife flocculants were carried out together imported equipment has shown that it is possible segment aimed to intensify innovative developinformation on the procurement process in with Russian organizations at Main WTP and to use domestic products instead of imported ment in the water industry. The Centre works on Vodokanal was provided. South-West WWTP to find effective domestic (also high-tech) equipment in almost every case. a permanent basis at the premises of Northern chemicals for drinking water treatment. As a result, In compliance with the tasks specified in the Wastewater Treatment Plant (town of Olgino). the Company made a transition to domestic chemdecree of the Russian President “On the National Over 300 specimens of Russian-made ical giving up the imported French one. Security Strategy of the Russian Federation till products and equipment are showcased at In 2015, AO “Gazpromneft” satisfied 80% 2020”, the main import substitution activities the Center. Most of the manufacturers are based of Vodokanal’s demand for the lubricants (oils and related to the Company’s business processes were in St. Petersburg including the exhibitors at the greases) and service fluids complying with the planned and approved. Import Substitution and Localization Centre. international standards and machinery manufacturThe Demonstration & Exhibition Center is not just ers’ requirements, to be used for Vodokanal-opera show room: at the stands visitors can watch ated vehicles and industrial equipment. how Russian equipment operates and look The share of St. Petersburg manufacturers’ at acting models of novel equipment. products in the total volume of purchased domesIn 2015, collaboration with St. Petersburg tic basic equipment for water and wastewater manufacturers for the purpose of import substisystems is about 80%. tution reduced Vodokanal dependence on imports and increased the industrial capacity of our city. 84 85 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction Interaction with Financial with Businesses Institutions and Industrial Vodokanal St. Petersburg has a long history of successful Enterprises cooperation with Russian and European banking communities and investors. In 2013-2015, the legislation regulating the water sector activities was developing. Vodokanal experts actively liaised with Examples of such cooperation are: the of goods, works and services with the internaindustrial enterprises, explaining to them different provisions Northern Tunnel Collector construction project and reconstruction and modernization of small tional standards. In 2015, the reconstruction of Northern of the new regulations and providing consultancy as necessary. wastewater treatment plants in St Petersburg. Wastewater Treatment Plant was going on Both projects were financed from several under the Program. It was funded by the existsources including the budgets of the Russian ing loans and grants. The supplies of relevant In 2015, amendments were made to the Vodokanal conFederation and St. Petersburg, Vodokanal’s equipment are underway; the equipment was Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Throughout 2015, 103 audits of conducted regular own funds, as well as loans and grants of tested with process water; in December 2015, Disposal” (the state regulation of big industrial sumers’ water management activities were monitoring international financial institutions and environthe filling of aeration tanks with wastewater consumers’ wastewater quality postponed till of financial mental organizations, such as: began; after that all the facilities were put 2019), the Cold Water Supply and Sanitation made upon requests of the consumers for markets and • European Bank for Reconstruction and into a full-scale operation. Preparations to the Rules, and The Consumers’ Wastewater Comthe purpose of identifying pollutant sources. is developing Development; pre-commissioning are under way. The program position and Properties Monitoring Rules. a concept • Nordic Investment Bank; completion is scheduled for 2016. As of 31 December 2015, 757 producof debt • European Investment Bank; Vodokanal provided assistance tion sites had local wastewater treatment financing • Ministry of the Environment of Finland; • John Nurminen Foundation; In 2015, Vodokanal continued to industrial enterprises on the plants (LWWTP), and 210 consumers had from various sources. • Nordic Environment Finance Corporation to perform its obligations following issues: their water protection action plans including (NEFCO); • Swedish International Development regarding the repayment • wastewater monitoring; 120 consumers which planned LWWTP Cooperation Agency; and • Northern Dimension Environmental and servicing of loans. • how to write declarations on wastewaconstruction or modernization. ter composition and properties; Partnership. • identification of pollutant sources; As of the end of 2015, the outstanding balance of foreign loans was MEUR 72. By the be• planning of organizational and technical In 2015, Vodokanal continued implemenginning of 2015, it had been MEUR 98. During the measures to reduce the discharge of pollutants; Following the work done in 2015, 51 consumers submitted their water protection action • development of pollutant reduction tation of the Neva Untreated Wastewater year, MEUR 26 was repaid in strict accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreements. plans. plans to Vodokanal (including 34 consumers which plan to build LWWTPs). Thirteen consumDischarge Closure Program. Moreover, in December 2015, Vodokanal’s ers put into operation or reconstructed their subsidiary OOO “Vodokanal-Finance” repaid, on time In 2015, the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” (state reLWWTPs. Among them are big companies, and in full, the bonded loan of 1,994 million Roubles such as: OAO “Zavod Magneton”, The Program is financed, in particular, by (state registration number 4-01-36398-R dated gulation of the quality of wastewater from big the loans of European Bank for Reconstruction customers was postponed to 2019), Rules of OAO “Wimm-Bill-Dann”, ZAO “Zavod Krasnaya 16 November 2010) obtained in 2010 to finance Zarya. Digital Communication Systems”, and Development (EBRD), Nordic Investment the construction of Northern Tunnel Collector. Cold Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal Bank and European Investment Bank, and by and Wastewater Composition and Properties OOO “Fazer “, and OOO “Leningrad bakery In 2015, Vodokanal got loans from VTB Bank products factory named after S.M. Kirov”. grants of Northern Dimension Environmental and SanktPetersburg Bank in the amount of RUB Control Regulations were amended. Partnership, Swedish International Develop2 billion and 1 billion, respectively. The loans were ment Cooperation Agency, Ministry of Enviraised through open e-bidding. The interest rates ronment of Finland, EBRD Special Shareholder were 13.3% and 12.95%, respectively. Fund and John Nurminen Foundation. In addition to financing, the lenders and donors of Vodokanal monitor the performance of financial obligations by the Company, compliance with environmental requirements, and conformity of tenders for procurement 86 87 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 In 2015, participants of the workshops organized by the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre in association with Vodokanal shared experience in collection and treatment of surface runoff from industrial plants and industrial wastewater treatment before discharge into the centralized sewerage system; discussed changes to the Russian water legislation and the EU laws regulating industrial wastewater volumes and treatment. The working group at the St. Petersburg of local treatment plants, etc. Vodokanal reguCommittee for Energy and Engineering Support larly participates in the sessions of the Union addressed the issues arising in connection with of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and in the the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastemeetings organized by the Saint-Petersburg water Disposal” and relevant bylaws. The memInternational Business Association (SPIBA). bers of the working group are representatives Cooperation between Vodokanal and SPIBA beof the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs gan in March 2011. Then, the meeting of SPIBA of St. Petersburg, Association of Industrial Committee for Environmental Protection and Enterprises in St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg Industrial Safety and Vodokanal proposed and International Business Association, the approved the idea of creating a SPIBA working St. Petersburg Committee for Energy and Engigroup at Vodokanal to solve urgent problems of 10,392 samples were taken at the sewer basins’ nodal points to investigate wastewater According to the City Administration, neering Support, the St. Petersburg Committee water supply and sewerage in an efficient way for Natural Resources, Environment Protection and to maintain a dialogue with the internationpollution levels. Specific combinatorial pollution the opening of the Water Cluster index evaluation methods (RD 52.24.643-2002 and Ecological Safety, and SUE “Vodokanal of al business community. dated 06.12.2002) were used to analyze the in St. Petersburg on the initiative St. Petersburg”. The working group discussed At different meetings with representaproblematic points of law to propose amendtives of industry and SME, Vodokanal regularly level of sewer basins pollution. Based on the of Vodokanal was one of the key assessment results for 2015, 2% of shafts ments to water-related and environmental legal acts, such as the change of wastewater presents a rapidly growing focus area: implementation of the chemical pollutant balance were classified as relatively clean, 8% – slightly events in 2015. In November 2015, disposal rates, application of water balances system for the municipal sewerage. With the polluted, 27% – polluted, 50% – highly polluted a demonstration & exhibition center and local treatment plants. Moreover, the worksystem in place, any above-limit discharge of and 13% – extremely polluted. Consequently, ing group together with the Neva-Ladoga specific pollutants can be identified at the sewstrong efforts are made to locate the sources as part of the Water Cluster was Water Basin Authority and Roshydromet Terrierage network nodal points making it possible of above-limit discharge in highly polluted and extremely polluted sewer basins. The tests opened at Northern WWTP in Olgino. torial Agency is considering development of to reduce the search of pollutant sources to regional iron/manganese concentration limits individual sewer basins and to approach the of wastewater composition and properties The center will offer permanent exhibition for 1,706 consumers showed that 88.8% of for assessment of water quality in regional wapolluters with the aim to assist them in the the consumers failed to comply with the reguareas to showcase products of national ter bodies, as their background values are high development of pollutant reduction action plans in the St. Petersburg area due to the geochemiand selection of optimal technologies for their latory requirements (16% of them just slightly manufacturers, advanced technologies and exceeded the limit values. The regulatory limits cal characteristics. Similar meetings were held with the local treatment facilities. were met by 11.2% of the consumers). materials for the water sector. The opening St. Petersburg Association of Industrial EnThe results achieved in the chemical pollutceremony was attended by the Governor terprises and the St. Petersburg International ant balance will be assessed at the workshop Business Association to discuss changes to to be held by the International Advanced Water of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko and wastewater discharge rates, construction Technologies Center in autumn 2016. In April 2015, Vodokanal hosted the members of the city government. first exhibition and workshop dedicated to In 2015, the inventory of sewer basins was made to estiimport substitution where representatives of Vodokanal described their activities and mate the total number of basins (638) for the calculation needs, and manufacturers presented their prodof chemical pollution balance. ucts. The new Import Substitution section was opened on Vodokanal’s official website on the day of exhibition. 88 89 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Water Cluster Technological in St. Petersburg Segment The technological segment comprises a demonstration & exhibition center, engineering center and consulting center. The St. Petersburg Water Cluster Project was approved by the meeting of the The Demonstration & Exhibition Center • OOO “Managing Company Vodopribor” Representatives St. Petersburg Governor’s Investment Counwas opened as a part of technological segment on 6 November 2015. The event was attended provided 25 building-level water meters to make pilot tests and decide whether they can be used of the Cluster Managing cil on 6 April 2015. The main objective by the Governor of St. Petersburg and memin the St. Petersburg Water Supply Management Company were assigned to the of the Cluster is to improve the perforbers of the city government. The Center is arranged as a permanent System; • Federal State Unitary Enterprise working group mance of Russian water companies through exhibition of achievements and technical solu“D.I. Mendeleev All-Russian Metrology Institute for Vodokanal tions in the water sector. The exhibition area (VNIIM)” expects to conclude a contract with interaction development, dissemination and implemenshowcases process equipment for WTPs and the Cluster Managing Company for verification with the tation of technical, organizational, legal, WWTPs, valves for water networks and sewers, of instruments on the test rigs shown at the leading higher materials for pipe repairs, different control and Center; education financial and economic solutions by combinmonitoring equipment, hydraulic test rigs, etc. • during the implementation of the tunnel institutions in ing the resources of industrial and research The exhibition demonstrates the prodcollector reconstruction project, the imported St. Petersburg. ucts of more than 100 manufacturers already HOBAS pipes were replaced with domestic prodThe working sectors. time-tested at Vodokanal’s facilities. All exhibits ucts manufactured by OOO “Metrobeton” group made a have a good record of performance. (also demonstrated in the Exhibition Centre) patent search. Vodokanal signed Water Cluster develalong Primorskoe shosse up to Zelenogorsk In total, over opment support agreements with six water WWTP; 500 active companies at the St. Petersburg International • after the demonstration and relevant patents of Economic Forum. There are three exhibition discussions at the Center, the customized boostSt. Petersburg On 15 October 2015, the Cluster managsites: ing pumping station manufactured by technical ing company was registered as an • a 680 m² building; AO Gidromashservis was tested in a residential universities independent not-for-profit organi• outdoor space under a canopy – for building to replace the existing boosting pumpwere examined, zation (ANO). The founders of ANO large-sized exhibits; ing station; and 100 of them “Water Cluster Managing Company” • an open-air space – for special machinery. • a number of national companies were selected are SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” (OOO “Nash Gorod”, OOO “SGS”, OOO “Riotek”, as potentially and the Russian Water Association etc.) were recognized as capable to substitute relevant to the (RWA) comprising over 240 water comidentical Russian analogues for imported equipCluster’s focus panies in Russia. The Demonstration & Exhibition Center ment. Given the growth of foreign currency exarea. A more inis a meeting place for manufactures and users change rate, replacement of process equipment depth analysis The Managing Company was established of water industry products. This area can also under the State Contract with SUE “Vodokanal of patents with the aim to develop the water sector by be used as a venue for industrial workshops. of St. Petersburg” No. 2/15 dated 18.08.2015 is planned creating, managing, developing and coordinatThe technical workshop on “Import substitution “Construction of Molodezhnoe Wastewater in future ing activities of the Water Cluster in St. Petersas a vector of development” was organized by Treatment Plant” could lead to a significant cost with a view burg, providing services to water companies Vodokanal in cooperation with the Russian Waincrease. However, thanks to Russian manufacto implement and promoting investments in the water sector. ter Association in the framework of the Center tures, it was possible to keep the Contract cost technologies The managing company focuses on coordiinauguration. unchanged. The same situation was experienced through nation and development of three Water Cluster The workshop was attended by representwhen equipment was selected for construction the Cluster segments: Technological, Industrial, atives of Russian manufactures, specialists of of a permanent snow-melting station at the Managing and Educational. design institutes, teachers and researchers of address: section 27, Shkipersky Protok st. Company. St. Petersburg universities as well as experts Potential establishment of a Cluster Manfrom Russian water utilities. The workshop on aging Company’s expert council responsible for “Import substitution as a vector of developidentification of key focus areas and evaluation ment” had 105 participants from different parts of the Cluster performance, was scrutinized. of Russia. Agreements with nine experts have been Many contacts between manufacturers reached. and potential customers were established in less than two months of the Center operation. 90 91 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Industrial Educational Segment Segment – the Water Academy One of the key projects of the Cluster industrial segment is chemical On 24 February 2015, for the purpose of consolidating sector-related plant construction to produce chemical agents for water scientific and practical capacities, academic education capabilities, and and wastewater treatment. material and technical resources of the Water Cluster with the aim to provide competent professionals for the water sector, Vodokanal The project outcome will be a state-of-theart plant to produce a wide range of coagulants established the independent non-for-profit organization of higher educafor water and wastewater treatment. tion “Water Academy” – a center of water specialist training and development. The following chemical product lines Another Cluster project is will be launched: construction of a hybrid caThe idea of Water Academy as a sectoral training center accumulating best practices and • Phase 1 (2018) – aluminum sulphate ble-duct and sewerage sysproving for water companies the personnel who production line – 100,000 t/year; • Phase 2 (2019) – aluminum chlorohytem in underground networks meet professional standards, was supported by the sector community, as well as federal drate production line – 20,000 t/year; of St. Petersburg. and regional executive authorities. • Phase 3 (2020) – ferric sulphate producDuring the year 2015, the Water Academy tion line – 35,000 t/year. The project envisages installation of microduct cable lines in Vodokanal’s sewwas announced at sector-specific events of differerage network in Central and Admiralteyskiy ent level. This project was highly appreciated by the water market actors. The total project investment districts of the city. The project objective is to remove over 2,600 km of overhead The Water Academy began to function will exceed 1 billion Roubles. cable ducts which substantially impair the on September 17, 2015 at the premises of Vodokanal’s Information and Training Centre and By the end of 2015, the Water Academy look of historical parts of St. Petersburg. opened the doors to its first students enrolled in Translocation of overhead cable lines under the course “Geoinformation systems as a basis had tested three more practice-oriented the ground will improve the city appearance and offer a chance to reconstruct the sewerage of water company management”. professional training programs: networks with the total capacity of communication lines remaining unchanged. The project will be implemented in 2016-2018. • “Chemical balance in water utilities as In parallel with a basis of wastewater treatment quality managethe training ment and interaction with customers”; programs test• “Hydraulic modeling of network operation ing, teachers modes (operation and design calculations)”; were selected • “Use of hardware and software system from among for water supply measurement and accounting”. the Company In total, over 70 Vodokanal employees were employees and trained at the Water Academy under four compleexternal organmentary professional training programs in 2015. izations. 92 93 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction with Interaction with Personnel Trade Unions Following the principles of socially responsible business Partnership with the trade union is an important part Vodokanal places great emphasis on effective of Vodokanal interactions. interaction with personnel. Vodokanal recognizes the trade union The Collective Employment Agreement A youth council as an essential element for the building of was supplemented with three addenda in was established Interaction The policy is based on strict observance as well as training of young employees. In terms effective corporate management and occupa2015. Following the adoption of new Occupaand is actively with personof the Labor Code of the Russian Federation of labor relations, the Company is committed to tional health and safety systems, raising the tional Health and Safety laws, assessment working under nel and social and is based on social partnership, common the principle of equal opportunities and guaranpersonnel satisfaction level; organization of of work places was replaced by special asthe auspices responsibility goals, respect for mutual interests, feasibility tees no discrimination on the grounds of gender, employees’ recreation and leisure-time activisessment of working conditions under of the primary is outlined in of the obligations taken by the parties and propreligion, political views, age, nationality, wealth ties, youth outreach, etc. “The methodology of special assessment trade union the Company er fulfillment thereof. status, etc. Vodokanal makes every effort to creThe basic document to determine relaof working conditions” approved by Order organization. development The employees are the Company’s main ate a favourable environment for improving labor tionship between the employer and the trade No. 33 of the Russian Ministry of Labour The Council has strategy and in asset and guarantee of its sustainable developeffectiveness, involving personnel in implemenunion as parties to social partnership is the dated 24.01.2014. The methodology does expanded its the personnel ment and, therefore, special attention is paid tation of strategic tasks, and ensuring transparCollective Employment Agreement – a legal not envisage assessment of biological facyouth outreach management to training and professional development, atency and openness of personnel management act that regulates social and labour relations tors when determining the class of working in the Company policy of SUE tracting and retaining high-skilled professionals, approaches and principles. between employers and employees based conditions for the workplaces of employees in the report“Vodokanal of on the congruence of interests of the parties performing works related to the operation ing year. Young St. Petersburg”. under the law of the Russian Federation. of water and sewerage networks or facilities. employees use The Collective Employment Agreement The trade union and the Company administrathe knowledge determines not only responsibilities of the tion initiated revision of the Methodology obtained at employer and the trade union, but also social to be made in cooperation with the Ministry seminars and guarantees and privileges for the Company of Labour and Social Welfare, with the aim trainings to employees and labour veterans. to amend the clauses describing the asimplement proOn 1 January 2014, the new Collective sessment of biological factor impacts in the jects aimed at Employment Agreement came into effect, process of determining the class of working the achievement and it will be valid for the next three years. conditions at Russian water companies. of objectives It sets out a well-developed corporate social and tasks set responsibility framework including: social supby the Company. port of the personnel capacity and motivation, occupational health and safety, care for veterans, sports development, youth policies, As of 1 January 2016, 5,673 employees interaction with trade unions, and continuous staff training and development. were members of the trade union Compliance with the Agreement deter(68.0% of the total number of staff), mining relations between the personnel and the company is annually checked by repreincluding 1,791 employees under 35 years Interaction with personnel is one of the sentatives of the parties who issue a relevant of age (31.6% of the total number of statement of compliance available to any most important components of strengthinterested employees. The Collective EmployVodokanal employees – trade union memening and developing Vodokanal corporate ment Agreement is revised and amended on a regular basis in consideration of the bers). culture and is implemented, in particular, check results. All amendments made to the Agreement are aimed to optimize social and through the internal communications labor relations between the employees and the employer. system including: • regular meetings of employees with ularly posts and updates information on managers to inform the employees about corporate activities (policies, plans, procefuture development of the Company; dures, etc.); • issue of the corporate newspaper • surveys of employees’ opinions “Vodokanal News”; on a wide range of issues; • corporate website accessible to • placement of advertisements, postevery employee where the Company regers and other information on special stands. 94 95 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction The Youth Environmental Centre (since Interaction with educational institutions, 2002) and the Universe of Water Museum with Educational (since 2003) have been actively interacting with municipal educational institutions (kindergartens, schools and orphanages). Their the youth and children is carried out in a variety of ways: nstitutions activities are oriented to different age groups. So far, in the opinion of public organizations, educational institutions and city com• • interactive classes, excursions; projects; mittees, the Youth Environmental Centre • theme-based events; is the important environmental aware• contests, festivals, campaigns, etc. The most important goals of the personnel management policies ness-raising centre of the city and the Universe of Water Museum is one of the most of Vodokanal are the maintenance of professional personnel advanced museums of the city. Seminars and method review sessions are organized for teachers, study guides are Totally, 978 fosterRelevant environmental information, in all areas of the Company activity and motivation of employees various forms of work, active training methdistributed for experts. In 2015, within the frame of interaction children from orphanages, ods applied by YEC allowed to attract over to productive and effective labour. 600 educational institutions of the city, differwith orphanages, boarding-schools, municipal and regional social rehabilitation centers, boardingschools, ent Russian and international organizations to the implementation of YEC projects and experts of the Museum and Youth Environmunicipal and programmes. mental Centre developed the programme regional social YEC partners are kindergartens, schools, “How to Make Friends with Water” targeted rehabilitation One of the areas of work with personnel In 2015, within the frame of the work colleges, secondary vocational technical to enhance the knowledge of children from centers is the generation of the external personnel targeted to the generation of the external schools, orphanages, higher education instituorphanages and social rehabilitation centers visited the succession pool. Availability of the external personnel succession pool, including the tions of the city and the Leningrad Region. about the value of water and its use in big Water Museum personnel succession pool gives the Company search for the talented youth, the Company cities, different (environmental, economical complex and YEC the opportunity to train the skilled workforce organized 15 meetings with academic teachYEC partner-educational and technical) aspects of water use. during 2015. in line with the Company needs and to mitiing staff and students from the educational Participants of the programme take part gate the risk of shortage of much-in-demand institutions, with which the Company entered institutions: in various theme-based events, excursions professions. into the cooperation agreements, and the • Russian State Hydrometeorological to the Water Museum and classes in the One of the elements of the personnel Company’s Information Days. University; Youth Environmental Centre. succession pool generation is the interaction Students receive pre-graduation, on-the• Herzen State Pedagogical University; Children from the Orphanage no. 23 with educational institutions. job and practical training in Vodokanal which • St. Petersburg National Research Uniactively participated in “How to Make Friends enable them to solidify the theoretical knowlversity of Information Technologies, Mechanwith Water” programme. St. Petersburg edge, get practical experience and develop Vodokanal has been providing support to the St. Petersburg Vodokanal interacts with their professional skills. ics and Optics; • St. Petersburg Fire and Rescue College Orphanage no. 23 of Petrogradsky District the educational institutions with regard Due to such training programmes, the “Rescuer Training Centre”; for several years. In particular, foster-children students of Russian higher education insti• Children and Youth Creative Work attend classes of the Youth Environmental to the following: tutions and vocational secondary education Centre “Creative Forum Kitezh Plus”; Centre, take part in New Year Programmes institutions are given the opportunity to • Youth Palace; in the Universe of Water Museum and in • conclusion of cooperation agreements; familiarize with the advanced production • St. Petersburg City Palace of Youth different events organized by the Information • meetings with academic teaching staff technologies and obtain a unique practical Creativity; and Training Centre of the Company. During and students; experience. • Environmental and Biological Centre 2015, foster-children from the Orphanage • arrangement of practical and on-the226 students did practical training in the “Krestovsky Ostrov”; no. 23 took part in the programme “Energy job training; Company in 2015. • District children and youth creative and Power Engineering: Our choice!” dedi• establishment of the targeted groups, To estimate the quality of training work centres; cated to the Earth Day, the programme “The establishment and supporting of the basic provided by higher educational institutions • Pedagogical Colleges; Engineer’s Secret Archive” dedicated to the sector-related departments; and vocational secondary education institu• Orphanages, boarding-schools, social Children’s Day, the creative festival “Knowl• participation in state examination tions and to select the most high-potential rehabilitation centers. edge and Creativity – Energy for the Future!”. commissions, state qualifying commissions, students, experts of Vodokanal participate in Children did the excursions in the Water defense of the graduate projects for professtate examination commissions and attend Museum and participated in the programme sional qualification; the defense of the graduate projects for pro“Order to Survive: Lenvodokanal!” and etc. • development of proposals on the fessional qualification. Interaction with educational themes of the course papers and projects for professional qualification for higher education Under the cooperation agreements coninstitutions is built on the In October 2015, Vodokanal submitted cluded by the Company with St. Petersburg institutions and vocational secondary educaeducational institutions for the purpose of basis of social partnership and to the orphanage 50 volumes of the tion institutions; • estimation of the Company’s needs for generating the external personnel succession in compliance with the main childhood classical reading – a big set pool, the Company experts developed the experts trained by higher education institutions and vocational secondary education list of the Company-relevant themes of the objectives of YEC: of work of Russian and foreign authors institutions. course papers and projects for professional qualification. The list that contained over 150 • fostering the culture of water use in written for children of different age. the city; In 2015, Vodokanal entered into twenty themes was forwarded to the partner-educa• fostering the responsible attitude of tional institutions. agreements on cooperation to generate the citizens to natural resources; • development of the youth inclusiveexternal personnel succession pool of the ness; water sector. • promotion of efficient environmental education as well as education for sustainable development. 96 97 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction Representatives of Vodokanal are members Members of the Council of the Neof the Environmental Council for Environmental va-Ladoga Basin Water Authority are the Protection under the Government of St. Petersmanagers and representatives of water with Environmental burg and the Council of the Neva-Ladoga Basin authorities (and subordinated to them federal Water Authority. Members of the Environmental state institutions) of the Karelia Republic, the Council are the representatives of regulatory enNeva-Ladoga Region, Barentsovo-Belomorsky vironmental authorities, St. Petersburg executive Region, the Committees for Natural Resourcand other Public bodies, leading R&D institutions in environment conservation and water protection sphere, public environmental organizations and institutions. es of St. Petersburg, Leningrad Region, the Karelia Republic, Novgorod Region, Pskov Region and Kaliningrad Region, scientific Organizations institutions, territorial bodies of Rosgidromet (Russian Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring). At the meetings of the Council of the Neva-Ladoga Basin Water Authority they discussed implementation by the executive bodies of the subjects of the Russian Federation the scheduled activities In 2015, within the meetings of the Environtargeted to the prevention of the negative environmental impact Responsibility to the society and future generations is among mental Council they discussed drafts on water bodies, conservation of the environment, organization of the Federal Law “On the Protection the basic values of Vodokanal St. Petersburg. In its operation of the Ladoga Lake” which provided for the of the state monitoring of water protection zones and water bodies as well as their security arrangements. They also discussed the develthe Company actively interacts with environmental organizations implementation of measures on improving the safety of the drinking water supply to opment of the Plan of the integrated use and protection of the water bodies and the draft exposure limits on water bodies. It was decided and public leaders. St. Petersburg citizens under the federal target programme and the St. Petersburg to accept the proposal of Vodokanal and to consider the following issues at the 13th meeting of the Council: environmental problems driven by geologi• the members of the R&D activities related to the monitoring In 2015, Vodokanal interacted with Russian and interand foreign water companies as well as other cal factors. of the background content of very hazard substances (referred to in the national environmental organizations under different enterprises. IAWTC organized training courses list of pollutants, which are subject to measures of state regulation on the topic of legislation in water supply and As a result, it was decided to take nature conservation projects implemented in St. Petersin the field of environmental protection, approved by the RF Governsewerage in different countries, monitoring of measures to stabilize the shores in the burg and the North-West Region of Russia. ment Decree no. 1316-r dated July 8, 2015); water/wastewater quality, etc. In 2015, IAWTC districts adjacent to the Gulf of Finland. • the algorithm of using the exposure limits on water bodies conducted workshops devoted to the requireThe Climate Strategy of St. Petersburg was (to be approved under the Plan of the integrated use and protection The Company experts took part in ments to water and sewerage network, industrial developed which objective was to carry out of the water bodies) for the calculation of the allowable discharge limits a number of events organized by the Ministry wastewater treatment (including metal-fabricating strategic planning for the development of at discharge points to water bodies (the Neva River, the Neva Bay). of the Environment of Finland. In particular, companies) and the experience of European St. Petersburg subject to the observable and on the 2nd September 2015 St. Petersburg countries in industrial wastewater treatment, projected negative climate changes. In terms Vodokanal experts participated in the Internationcollection and treatment of surface runoffs, meof Vodokanal, the Climate Strategy provides al Forum “Outcome of the Gulf of Finland Year trology support of water/wastewater treatment, for the development of preventive measures Project” held in Helsinki (Finland) and chaired by membrane technologies in water/wastewater to ensure reliability of water and sewerage the President of Finland Tarja Halonen, and on treatment, alternative option of wastewater networks under the condition of heat/cold the 1st December 2015, Vodokanal representsludge utilization, hydraulic modelling, benchmarkwaves, heavy precipitation and flooding. atives took part in the International Forum “The ing of water companies, impact of hazardous subRepresentatives of Vodokanal regularly Present Condition and Future of the Gulf stances (hormones, metals and their compounds, participate and make reports at the round-taof Finland” in Helsinki within the frame of closing organic matter, etc.) on the water bodies. ble sessions organized by the Environmenthe Gulf of Finland Year Project. Vodokanal plans to conduct similar worktal Council in respect of the changes in the Historically, Vodokanal maintains partshops further on. The workshop programme for current environmental legislation and nature nership relations with the Northern Dimension 2016 included such topics as “The Chemical Balprotection activities of St. Petersburg enterEnvironmental Partnership (NDEP). In May 2015, ance of Pollutants at Water Companies” and “Terprises, and, in particular, changes in the legisthere were series of meetings with the NDEP tiary Treatment and Wastewater Disinfection”. lation governing the discharge of wastewater management at the premises of Vodokanal. Experts of the Youth Environmental Centre, into water bodies via the centralized sewerOn 8 – 10 June 2015, with the participation of the International Advanced Water Technologies age system. Such round-table sessions that NDEP Vodokanal held the international conferCentre and Lahti Region Development LADEC focus on improving the interaction of state ence involving the sector-related ministries and Ltd. have developed the Russian-Finnish Enviauthorities and natural monopolists with city water companies of Belarus. ronmental Awareness-Building Project “Awarecompanies and enhancing the environmental ness-buildings among the youth in the frame of condition get a widespread support from the International Advanced Water Technologies community of environmental professionals In 2015, the Company kept on strengthening the relaCentre”. In May, St. Petersburg schoolchildren and attract plenty of experts from leading tions with its long-standing and reliable Finnish partpresented their video reports of “the Baltic companies. ner – Lahti Region Development LADEC Ltd. (Finland). Interludes” performed at their schools in the During 2015, Vodokanal representatives Youth Environmental Centre. The spectators’ and together with their Finnish colleagues organized adults’ juries have selected two best video films, and conducted over ten workshops on environthe authors of which went on a study tour to mental issues. Finland in the autumn. Vodokanal in cooperation with LADEC established the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre (IAWTC), which operation was aimed at the provision of training in the advanced water-related technologies to the Company’s employees, the personnel from Russian 98 99 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 In 2015, there The practical assistance provided by St. Petersburg Vodokanal to the Center for Research and were 13 “leavConservation of Marine Mammals in the settlement of Repino is widely recognized. Vodokanal’s ers” of the Maparticipation in the saving of the Baltic Sea inhabitants is a follow-up of the many-year work it rine Mammals carries out to protect the Baltic Sea. The main objective of the Centre is providing help to seal pups. Research and The scientists and zoologists Vyacheslav Alekseyev and Elena Andrievskaya are qualified experts Conservation that have gained a wide experience in successful rehabilitation of marine mammals. In addition to Center: four the rehabilitation work, they monitor populations of the Ladoga ringed seal, the Baltic ringed seal Baltic grey and the grey seal in St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region. In late 2014, the Baltic Ringed Seal seals and nine Foundation was established with the active support of Vodokanal. Ladoga ringed seals. One seal pup – the Baltic ringed seal Little Inger – had not got her reVodokanal experts regularly participated In 2015, Vodokanal experts participated in the developmove and stayed in the meetings organized by industry-based ment (adjustment) of the draft legal acts of federal in the Centre communities (NP “Housing and Utilities and regional levels which were targeted to the legal since it was seSector Development”, Russian Water Associregulation of relations in water supply/wastewariously injured ation) to develop proposals on reforming the ter disposal and environment protection sectors, in and its medical water sector and nature protection legislaparticular, the draft Decree of the Russian Federation treatment took tion. They also took part in the activities Government “On amending several acts of the Russian longer time. of the Working Group on the development Federation Government in the sphere of water supply of housing and communal services of the and wastewater disposal” (changes to the Rules of Cold Expert Council under the Government of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal approved by the Russian Federation and discussed necesDecree of the Russian Federation Government no. 644 sary amendments to regulatory acts and dated 29 July 2013). proposals for technical policy and technical regulation in the sphere of water supply and Vodokanal experts are the members of wastewater disposal. The result of the discusthe Technical Working Group no. 10, which sions at the meetings held by the executive members are nominated by the Order authorities of the Russian Federation (the of Rosstandart no. 251 dated 6 March 2015 Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry and which develops the Technical Guide “Use of Construction of the Russian Federation) of the centralized sewerage networks to is the development of the concerted position transport wastewater from communities and on the proposals together with the industrial urban districts for treatment”. Development community (the Russian Union of Industrialof the Technical Guide is the first important ists and Entrepreneurs) and the RF Ministry step of Vodokanal in adoption of a new of Natural Resources. Due to the introduction wastewater quality norm setting system of the moratorium on the state regulation based on process parameters of the best of the setting of the wastewater treatment available technologies (BAT). The Technical quality limit values for the industrial customGuide will be a framework for the further ers till 2019 and the charge for the negative development of nature protection regulations In 2015, Vodokanal took part in a public event aimed to stock the Gulf impact on water bodies, Vodokanal experts which govern process parameters and techof Finland with fish and to restore biological resources in the Baltic Sea, participated in the meeting at the RF Ministry nological standards based on BAT as well as which was organized by the Northwest Territorial Department of the of Construction and discussed the concerted their usage procedure. After the active work Federal Agency for Fisheries, the Federal State Budgetary Institution position on this issue. Vodokanal experts repof the Technical Working Group “North-West Basin fisheries management and conservation of aquatic resented their experience in interacting with no. 10 (including participation of the Combiological resources” and the Federal State Budgetary Scientific Institution supervision and control authorities in order pany representatives in the meetings of the “State Research Institute of Lake and River Fisheries”. to make the customers observe the regulaBAT Bureau) the Technical Guide was brought tory norms set to the quality of wastewater up for discussion in public. Then it was addischarged to the centralized sewerage justed upon such a discussion and approved During the event, over 1000 of juvenile the incorporation of St. Petersburg Vodokanal system. Discussion and adjustment of the by the Order of Rosstandart no. 1580 on Baltic whitefish (450-500 grams each) were into the regional plan on artificial rearing of changes to the Federal Law “On Water Sup15 December 2015 for voluntary use since released into the Gulf of Finland in the most biological resources for 2015. Vodokanal plans ply and Wastewater Disposal” and “Rules of 1 June 2016. Since the Technical Guide favorable time for reproduction (mid-September – to carry out similar environmental events in Cold Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” needs to be continuously updated, the work mid-December). A big preparatory work precedfuture, probably, in some other areas of the will continue in 2016. within the frame of the Technical Working ed the stocking of the Gulf with fish including Gulf of Finland. Group no. 10 will proceed further. 100 101 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction with Federal and Regional Since 2011, meetings of the working group on water supply and wastewater disposal in the residential sector of the city have been held at the premises of Vodokanal. The idea to organize such a working group started up during the IV Conference for Authorities Chairpersons of Homeowners Associations. It was also decided that the working group would comprise experts from Vodokanal, CEO of managing companies, chairpersons of housing cooperatives and construction associations, as Vodokanal actively liaises with state authorities at the federal well as representatives of the publishing house “Concierge”. Regular meetings are dedicated to and regional levels. contractual relationship between customers, sub-customers and Vodokanal St. Petersburg, boundaries of responsibility for operation of water supply systems between customers and sub-customers, installation by Vodokanal of water filters at the inlets of the buildings, mainIn April 2015, St. Petersburg Vodokanal was involved in the event “Starlings ReIn 2015, Vodokanal was They also discussed problems related to the managing companies which bear responsibility tenance of water meter units, water heads in apartment houses, etc. At these meetings turn” organized for children and teens actively involved in the United for the quality of the hot/cold water supply serof orphanages and boarding-schools vices provided to residents. Such events offer Vodokanal experts always answer specific of St. Petersburg. Russia Party’s Clean Water a platform for direct contacts between those questions on water supply and sewerage services asked by representatives of housing Project aimed at the who influence the citizens’ quality of life, and It was a two staged event. From the promote partner relations with manufacturers cooperatives and managing companies. 1st of April till the 21st of April, children built implementation of new and dissemination of the best available techbird houses and on the 21st of April they technologies and improvement niques. The CDP revision In 2015, Vodokanal also participated in a number hanged them up on the trees of the MikhayUnder the infrastructure strategic planning of events organized by the Baltic Marine Environment lovsky Garden which was opened for one day of public administration and monitoring project, Vodokanal ordered an road map for the period Protection Commission (HELCOM). on this occasion. Representatives of different procedures in the field R&D program to improve efficiency, reliability and security of water supply and sewerage sys2017–2030 with companies including Vodokanal helped children In 2015, Vodokanal continued its contacts to hang the bird houses up on the trees. of water management. tems. The objective of the R&D Program is to an outlook to 2050 is with the environment protection company The public organization “Recreation raise the efficiency of investments in municipal infrastructure in St. Petersburg through stratedeveloped in “Ecology and Business”. On 19-20 March of Gardens and Mini-parks” and the Russian consideration 2015, Vodokanal took part in the international Museum were the co-organizers of the event. In November 2015, Vodokanal held, under gic planning of the city programs aimed at the the Clean Water Project, a research and training achievement of social and economic objectives of strategic environmental forum “Baltic Sea Water Day”. The objective of the event was to attract plans of Historically, Vodokanal keeps a liaison attention of the city children to the surrounding conference on: safe drinking water supply to citunder “The Strategy 2030 with an Outlook to izens; design and maintenance of in-house hot/ 2050”, in consideration of their tasks, complemunicipal with the Northern Dimension Environmenenvironment and to draw attention of the sociinfrastructure tal Partnership (NDEP). On 26 March 2015, ety to the problems of social adaptation cold water distribution systems for the purpose tion dates, performers and resources. The R&D of extending their lifetime and reducing the Program will be implemented in 2016–2017. development, Vodokanal was engaged in the work of the of children with disabilities. with the aim VI Northern Dimension Forum held in St. Pebreakdown rate; and regulation of municipal serThe Corporate Development Plan (CDP) vice fees. The conference participants described for 2016-2025 is drawn up, including the Water to improve tersburg. investment different cleaning techniques for external and Supply and Sewerage sections based on “The The organizers of the Forum were the Northern Dimension Business Council and the Environmental awarein-house networks, their experience in design St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master performance. European Business Association. The Forum ness-raising and occupationof in-house cold/hot water distribution networks, Plan for the period up to 2025 with an outlook and cutting-edge water metering technologies. to 2030” as updated in 2015. focused on the issues of interregional transboundary cooperation in the changed condial guidance activities are tions, new approaches to business developimplemented by Vodokanal ment and interaction within the frame of the civil society. in close cooperation with various public organizations and civil society activists. 102 103 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 In 2015, the Company specialists participated in different meetings “Methodological recommendations on For the purpose of the Order of the and discussions of legislative and Vodokanal employees were actively technical audits of Vodokanal’s centralized waRussian Ministry of Construction no. other regulatory initiatives, reguinvolved in the meetings organized by the ter supply and sewerage systems” developed 437/pr dated 05.08.2014, Vodokanal St. Petersburg authorities: the Construction and approved by a company-wide directive alspecialists made a technical audit of latory enforcement, etc. Committee, the Committee for City Planning lowed to systematize and unify the approaches their centralized water supply and and Architecture, the Committee for Transport Since February 2015, Vodokanal’s Legal used by the Company to monitor the centralsewerage facilities. Infrastructure Development, the Legal CommitDepartment has been actively involved in the ized water supply and sewerage facilities. tee, etc. weekly meetings of legal department managers The technical audit results were approved from St. Petersburg Committees and their subby the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support and used for the technical audit of The St. Petersburg Import Substitution ordinate entities, organized by the order Moreover, Vodokanal employees particof the Vice-Governor I.N. Albin. At the meetVodokanal’s Investment Program with the aim and Localization Center (ISLC) was opened in ings, the Legal Department officers made ipated in the sessions of Russian state to assess projected efficiency of the InvestSeptember 2015. Vodokanal became a longment Program actions and to substantiate the term participant of ISLC exhibiting its informadetailed reports on Vodokanal legal work, such authorities, in particular, the Ministry as casework, liaison with state authorities, and list and priorities of the actions. tion on the stand of the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support and its subordinate developing legal regulation of relations in the of Construction, Housing and Utilities For the purpose of improving the regulatory framework, Vodokanal in association with enterprises. On 27-30 October 2015, ISLC sphere of water supply and sewerage, as well of the Russian Federation. hosted a thematic week “Sectoral strategy as on the most challenging areas of technithe Construction Committee, the Committee For example, on 25 December 2015, of domestic market development in the sphere cal and organizational development of water for Energy and Engineering Support and the the Company employees participated in the of municipal utility infrastructure” organized companies in different regions of the Russian Committee for Information and Communicameeting dedicated to discussion of changes by the Committee for Energy and Engineering Federation. One meeting dedicated to enforcetions, updated the regional guideline document to legal regulation of relations in respect of the Support. Vodokanal’s proposals on the support ment proceedings was hosted by Vodokanal. “Construction of water and sewerage networks charge for negative impact on the centralized of import substitution projects were included Vodokanal’s Legal Department officers in St. Petersburg (RMD 40-20-2013, St. Pewastewater systems. Due to consolidated into the outcome document of the thematic were appointed members of the working group tersburg). The new version of RMD 40-20-2013 opinion of the meeting participants representweek submitted to the Ministry of Industry and established at the Committee for Energy and provides for installation of optical fiber commuing the interests of big water companies, the Trade. Engineering Support with the aim to initiate nication lines inside the gravity sewers. draft amendment to The Rules of cold water Vodokanal liaises with the St. Petersburg regulatory development at federal and regional In 2015, Vodokanal specialists actively supply and wastewater disposal (Decree of Tariff Committee, St. Petersburg Committee levels in the sphere of energy, water supply cooperated with the Committee for Energy and the Government of the Russian Federation for Energy and Engineering Support, Fuel and and sewerage. In the framework of the Working Engineering Support on the issues related to no. 644, dated 29.07.2013) which would, Energy Committee of the Leningrad Region and Group activities, Vodokanal specialists have implementation of the governmental import in fact, eliminate any consumer liability for the Committee for Tariffs and Pricing Policy of developed two legislative initiatives aiming substitution policy and promotion of innovanegative impacts on the centralized wastewathe Leningrad Region on the matters related to amend the federal law no. 416-FZ dated tions. ter systems, was not adopted. to compulsory planning and reporting by the 07.12.2011 “On Water Supply and Wastewater Company on regulated types of activities, Disposal”. The purpose of the initiatives is to In particular, they participated in the Worknamely, “Cold water supply services. Sewerage introduce federal regulation of procedures and Moreover, the Company representaing Group meetings to discuss import subservices” and “Thermal energy production”. conditions of compensation for water companies’ lost profit, and to annul obligatoriness of tives participated in the forums and In particular, drinking water production/ conferences organized by the Minstitution actions as well as localization and wastewater treatment balances for controlled guarantor appointment. At the Working Group, istry of Construction, Housing and Vodokanal specialists drafted several regulasupport of energy equipment manufacturperiods, and energy saving/energy efficiency tory acts aimed to change the St. Petersburg Utilities of the Russian Federation in different cities of Russia: in Kalininimprovement programs for the effective period ers in St. Petersburg and Russia; and adof the Investment Program (3–5 years) are laws regulating relations in the sphere of water grad (April 2015), Rostov-on-Don (July supply and sewerage. 2015), and Ufa (December 2015). dressed different import substitution issues developed and approved. at the sessions of the Committee’s Scientific and Technical Council. 104 105 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Interaction with Mass In 2015, the Company employees joined different associations of bigger water comin sustainable use of natural resources and environment protection. Among the roundtable participants were reputable national experts Media in legal science (V.A. Musin), representatives panies to discuss future technical, economic of state authorities of the Russian Federation and legal development of the water sector, and India, and representatives of legal service business. in particular, they participated in the meetings organized by NP “Public Utilities DevelIn 2015, the Legal Department officers opment”. participated in the Northern Dimension Forum Accessibility of information is one of Vodokanal’s essential values. where they made a presentation on integrated water management; in the annual conference Interaction with the mass media is a good way to make the on finding the balance between the interests of business and sustainable use of natural information accessible. resources at the St. Petersburg State University Legal Department where they made a presentation on future development of RusVodokanal’s information policy aims to The mass media’s interest in Vodokanal sian environmental laws in the sphere of water create a positive company image, to improve activities is growing every year. 10,253 news supply and sewerage; and in other forums and mutual understanding between the company, items about the Company activities were pubconferences. its customers and the society, and to foster the lished in printed media, posted in the Internet culture of water use and responsible attitude or broadcasted on TV or radio in 2015. A number of publications on environtowards the environment. Relations with mass In 2014, the number of such new items exment-friendly practices, sustainable media are built on the principles of objectivity, ceeded 9,800 (in 2013 – over 9,000, in 2012 – water use, and legal regulation of rereliability of information and quick response. over 8,000). lations in the sphere of water supply and sewerage and associated relation groups, were issued as a follow up of the above presentations. Liaison with mass media Number of mass media publications In 2015, liaison with federal is maintained as follows: on Vodokanal activities and regional public authorities and • response to mass media queries; • interviews of Vodokanal representawith the professional community tives in the mass media; Year Number of publications was regular and fruitful, and had • press-conferences, briefings, round 2006 2,756 tables; The subject of discussion was legal regulaa positive effect on different • press-tours to Vodokanal facilities for 2007 3,177 tion of relations in the sphere of public utilities’ services, procedures and conditions spheres of the Company activities. journalists; 2008 3,835 • initiating publications in printed and of implementing concession agreements, Some of the projects launched electronic media, and TV/radio items; 2009 4,364 and environmental regulation. At an annual conference under the aegis of the Russian Water in 2015 will continue in 2016. • design and maintenance of websites describing the Company activities; 2010 6,138 Association (RWA), Vodokanal representative 2011 8,108 • projects publicity through mass media. made a presentation on reforming the regula2012 8,836 tion of legal relations in the sphere of municipal service provision, and the possibility of direct 2013 9,254 relations between providers of municipal ser2014 9,866 vices and apartment owners. Water and energy 2015 10,253 metering was also one of the key focus areas of the conference. In 2015, Vodokanal played an active role at international and national discussion In April 2015, Vodokanal opened platforms. The biggest event was V Petersburg its official pages in the social networks: International Legal Forum where Vodokanal was assigned the task to organize a roundVKontakte and Facebook. table dedicated to cross-border cooperation By the end of 2015, there were 268 posts in the social networks. 106 107 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 Every day, the Company managers The Most Critical Patient” (about receive digests of materials about the only pinniped patient which stayed at the Six press-tours to the Center and animal Main Events of 2015 release events were organized. In March 2015, Vodokanal activities. The digests help Marine Mammals Research and Conservation give fast response to publications, Centre over the winter – the Baltic ringed seal Covered by the Mass Media: the Russian Minister of Natural Resources and provide comments and clarifications, Little Inger), and “Whitefish, Go!: Stocking of the Environment S.E. Donskoy, the Governor Gulf of Finland with Fish” (about the Stocking of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko and officials and find new topics to be highlighted Activities of the Marine Mammals of the Gulf of Finland event implemented by from Finland and Estonia visited the Center. in mass media. Research and Conservation Center, Vodokanal on 27 November 2015). Vodokanal activities aimed to maintain the release of cured animals into the populations of ringed and grey seals in the reIn 2015, over 680 press releases wild, opening of the Center after reconstruction, establishment of the gion were widely covered by the leading federal In 2015, Vodokanal focused (news items) were posted on and municipal mass media including Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund. the First TV Channel, MTRK “MIR”, TV “Center”, on the development of its InterVodokanal’s official website. Vodokanal’s Information and Public Relations 5th Channel, NTV, RenTV, Russia T net sites. Information on different Department responded to average 25-30 oday, 100TV, TK St. Petersburg; in printed publications (newspapers “Komsomolskaya events was regularly posted mass media queries (requests for comments, interviews, film shooting) per month, the total Pravda v Sankt-Peterburge”, “Sankt-Peterburgson the existing corporate webnumber of processed journalist queries having kiye Vedomosti”, “Metro”, “Delovoy Peterburg”, “Argumenty I Fakty” and “Peterburgskiy sites (the official site of SUE exceeded 350. Dnevnik”); by radio stations “Radio Rossiyi”, “Peterburg”, “Baltika”, “Zenit”; and on popular “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” city’s Internet resources “Fontanka”, IA “TASS”, www.vodokanal.spb.ru, Nineteen press-tours were organized in 2015; Vodokanal managers and IA “Nevskiye Novosty”, IA “BaltInfo”, IA “Interfaks”, IA “Rossiya Segodnya” and IA “Dialog”. the museum complex site specialists participated in 9 press Moreover, numerous journalists’ queries www.vodokanal-museum.ru, conferences. were processed. In total, over 1,400 publications on this theme were issued in 2015. the Burevestnik Sanatorium site Information about the Center activities www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru, and Ten issues of the corporate was posted on Vodokanal’s official website newspaper were released. (www.vodokanal.spb.ru) in the section “Help the Youth Environmental Centre the Pinnipeds”, on Da-Voda site which focuses on careful water use (www.da-voda.com), and site www.vodokanal-ecocenter.ru). In 2015, the interaction with social in the social networks VKontakte and Facebook. networks users gained momentum. In connection with the “water battles” fought The water awareness-building by young people at the fountain complex in Internet portal (da-voda.com) created Moskovskiy avenue in summer, the Information Vodokanal’s import substitution In the last year, new useful services with the support of Vodokanal and Public Relations Department monitored policy regarding procurement of mawere opened for the company continued to function in 2015. the group “Big Water Battle” in VKontakte terials, equipment and technologies customers, citizens and guests The portal’s main character, the Neva Crayfish, on a daily basis. They issued press releases based (nearly 350 publications). of St. Petersburg: the section ”OPEN kept telling about the importance of careful on user messages in the group, warning about the HATCH? ALERT!”, the page “Personal Acattitude to natural resources, and posted dangers awaiting those who bathe in fountains count”, Connection Cost Calculator, information on its pages in the social networks: and stressing that such water festivities should Opening of the Water Cluster’s Online Payment for Water Services, Facebook, VKontakte and Twitter. Different video move to surface water bodies. Demonstration & Exhibition Center and Fountain Map; the mobile applicastories, video films and video lessons given, The VKontakte Group “Road Accidents and (137 publications). tion “Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was traditionally, by the Neva Crayfish himself were Extra-Ordinary Situations. St. Petersburg. Peter developed. Approximately, 70 releregularly posted on da-voda.com portal in the Online” became a good source of news for mass Da-Voda TV section to achieve better visibility media; here, users promptly post photos and comvant publications were produced. Completion of sewage collector conand comprehensibility of information. During ments on different happenings in the city: road In 2015, a new Import Substitution struction at Admiralteyskaya embank2015, four such lessons were produced: “The traffic accidents and extra-ordinary situations, section with a feedback form was such as fire events, water leaks, etc. Officers ment (over 300 publications). Neva Crayfish at Youth Environmental Centre”, opened. of the Information and Public Relations Depart“The Neva Crayfish and Weather Forecasters”, “The Neva Crayfish and Open Hatches”, and ment posted their comments regarding cold water “The Neva Crayfish Closes the Summer Season”. leaks or sewer breakdowns and responded to Traditionally, journalists expressed Construction of sewer networks in Moreover, 6 video stories were released, such as: mass media queries about different posts interest in the operation of city the Repina Square (53 publications). “Kindergarten for Seal Pups 2015: Lunch Time” in the group. fountains, permanent snow melting (about the process of feeding little pinnipeds Due to interaction with the Security Departstations (PSMS) and permanent tech– patients of the Marine Mammals Research ment, any unauthorized penetration of extreme nically equipped snow collection and Conservation Centre), “Everyone Needs roof jumpers to the top of the water tower in points (PTESCP). All in all, nearly Water: Five Simple Water Saving Rules” (about the town of Lisiy Nos could be prevented. A post 800 publications on the city fountains A hot-button issue was low-effort ways to save water), “The Season 2015: Summarizing Results” (about the work informing that entrance to the tower is prohibited and 600 publications about PSMSs was placed in VKontakte. and PTESCPs were issued in mass “water battles” in the fountain of zoologists at the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre in Repino during 2015 media in the last year. complexes in Petersburg and successful rehabilitation of 13 pinnipeds), (over 700 items in mass media). “Let’s Do It 2015 Project: How We Cleaned Up the Gulf of Finland Coast” (about the all-Russian environmental campaign “Let’s Do It 2015” and the campaigners who made the Gulf of Finland cleaner), “Kindergarten for Seal Pups 2015: 108 109 ANNUAL About the Company REPORT 2015 On 27-30 May, Petersburg hosted The Center’s exhibition showcases over V St. Petersburg International Legal 300 specimens of home-made products and Participation Forum. The roundtable on “Environmental equipment. The inauguration ceremony was Cross-Border Cooperation” in the framework attended by the Governor of St. Petersburg of the Forum was moderated by Vodokanal G.S. Poltavchenko and members of the city Legal Support Director M.V. Gassiy. government. in Exhibitions In June 2015, Vodokanal participated in the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum where the St. PetersIn late November, Vodokanal was awarded for active participation in IX International Forum “Green Economy” held and Conferences burg Water Cluster development support agreements were signed. On 4-5 June 2015, the Company speon 23-25 November 2015 in the governmental complex “Palace of Congresses” in the town of Strelna. cialists participated in the special-purpose In 2015, active cooperation between exhibition “Construction Machinery Vodokanal and its Finnish partners aimed In 2015, Vodokanal was an active participant of different and Technologies” in Moscow for the to protect the marine environment of the purpose of getting knowledge about innovaBaltic Sea was going on. Vodokanal particiRussian and international exhibitions at all levels with tive production technologies. pated in several big international forums: On 27 August 2015, the Workshop on on 2 September – in the International Forum the aim of strengthening liaison and cooperation “25 Years of Cooperation Between “The Gulf of Finland Year Outcome” Vodokanal and European Financial in Helsinki chaired by the Finnish Ex-Presiwith all stakeholders. Institutions in the Field of Environdent Tarja Halonen; on 1 December – in the ment Protection” marked a quarter of International Forum “The Present a century of successful and fruitful collaboCondition and Future of the Gulf of ration of Vodokanal and European financial Finland” in the framework of the institutions aimed at the protection and closing of the Gulf of Finland Year In February 2015, Vodokanal participatthe exhibition, Russian manufacturers could enhancement of the marine environment Project (Helsinki). ed in IV International Forum “Ecolsee the technologies and equipment used of the Baltic Sea. ogy”. The Forum was organized with the by Vodokanal in its production processes, In September, Vodokanal specialists support of the Russian Federal Assembly displayed specimens of their equipment and headed by the Director General F.V. Karmaziand attended by delegates from 50 Russian regions and several dozen of foreign told about their production possibilities. Around 50 Russian companies showcased nov were actively involved in the activities of Throughout the year, Vodokanal specialcountries. Vodokanal made presentations their products, and delegates of over 40 comII St. Petersburg Youth Environmental Forum. ists also participated in other internationabout industrial wastewater treatment and panies made presentations at the technical the snow processing technologies used at workshop. On 10 September 2015, Vodokanal al forums and exhibitions: specialists and management participated snow-melting stations. Moreover, Vodokanal participated in in the inauguration of the Import SubIn March 2015, Petersburg hosted four the Third All-Russian Congress of • World Water Forum in Daegu, South stitution and Localization Centre important environmental events at a time. At Water Companies held on 22–25 April in Korea – 13–17 April; at Lenexpo exhibition complex, St. the beginning of the month, a forum dediAlushta under the aegis of the Russian Water • International Forum IFAT Ankara, TurPetersburg. cated to the closing of the big international Association (RWA). At the close of the Conkey – 15–17 April; On 3 November, Northern WWTP hosted project “Gulf of Finland Year 2014” gress, Vodokanal got “The Apple Branch”, i.e. • International Forum IFAT Shanghai, the technical workshop on “Import Substiwas held with the direct involvement of became one of the winners in the competition China – 6–8 May; tution as a Vector of Development” Vodokanal. In the framework of summarizing of films and videos “Understanding Water • 2nd Russian-Chinese EXPO – Harbin organized by Vodokanal in cooperation with the project outcome, the Minister of Natural Means Understanding the Universe” and Fair, China – 12–16 October; the Russian Water Association. The workResources and Environment of the Russian was awarded the certificate of merit and the • 10th International Water Expo China shop was one of remarkable events held by Federation S.E. Donskoy, the Governor of St. medal “For Invaluable Achievements in the 2015 in Beijing, China; Vodokanal in the framework of import substiPetersburg G.S. Poltavchenko, and delegates Development of Sectoral Legislation” • International China High-Tech Fair tution. The workshop was attended by from Finland and Estonia visited the Marine by the RWA. 2015 in Shenzhen, China – 16–21 November. 105 participants from different parts of Mammals Research and Conservation Center In May 2015, Vodokanal delegates Russia (national manufacturers, specialists in the town of Repino and evaluated its readishared their energy saving experience at of design institutes, teachers and academic ness for the new season. the Russian International Energy researchers of Petersburg higher schools, On 18-20 March, Vodokanal presented Forum held in Expoforum, Petersburg, on and specialists of Russian water companies); the results of its Baltic Sea protection activ19-22 May. 25 presentations were made by representaities in the framework of the international On 28-29 May, Petersburg hosted tives of companies located in St. Petersburg, forum and exhibition “Ecology of a Big one of the notable events of the year: VII the Leningrad Region, Moscow, Kaluga, City”. Nevsky International Ecological Ekaterinburg, Lipetsk, Vladimir, Makhachkala, In March, the Company specialists Congress attended by more than 1600 Chelyabinsk, etc. followed the tradition being closely involved people from 32 countries and 62 subjects The opening of the St. Petersin the organization and the activities of XVI of the Russian Federation. Vodokanal was burg Water Cluster’s DemonstraInternational Forum “The Baltic Sea Day”. a partner of the Congress. Vodokanal tion and Exhibition Center on 6 More than 600 people, over one hundred of opened its exhibition stand at Tavricheskiy November 2015 was one of the greatest and them being foreign specialists, participated in Palace and organized one of the roundtables most important events for St. Petersburg. the forum. at the Congress. Addressing the Congress The Center works on a permanent basis at In late March, Vodokanal moderated a participants, Marjukka Porvari from the the premises of Northern WWTP in Olgino. roundtable dedicated to ecology and environFinnish private John Nurminen Foundation ment protection at VI Northern Dimenpointed out that there were much less bluesion Forum. green algae in the eastern part of the Gulf In April, Vodokanal organized and held of Finland in recent years, and Vodokanal the first technical exhibition and deserves credit for that due to the enhanced workshop on import substitution phosphorus and nitrogen removal technolowhich set the Company policy developgies implemented at its wastewater treatment path in 2015 in many respects. At ment plants in Petersburg. 110 111 Results of Activities in 2015 112 113 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Water Supply Structure, Daily average supply of potable water to the city Water losses on the networks 2015 1,635,600 m3 13.0% 2014 1,712,700 m3 12.9% 2013 1,808,800 m3 13.7% Volumes, The breakdown rate of water networks (number of damages per 10 km) 2.4 2.8 2.9 Main St. Petersburg water supply system is based on the area zoning principle. Parameters The Southern Water Supply System comprises: Vodokanal St. Petersburg provides potable water to the • Southern Water Treatment Plant The system supplies water inhabitants (over 5.2 million people) and to the (first-lift pumping stations, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift to the following administrative companies and organizations in the city (43,700 customers). pumping stations); • Duderhof WTP (first-lift pumping stations, districts: clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping Vodokanal acThe water supply system The bigger part (58%) of networks in the stations); • Kolpino WTP (first-lift pumping station, 70% of Moskovskiy district; tivities related to the provision comprises: St. Petersburg water supply system is made water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs 85% of Frunzenskiy district; • 9 water treatment plants; of cast iron. In recent times, pipes made of polyand second-lift pumping station); of water supply • 193 boosting pumping stations; ethylene and spheroidal graphite cast iron have • Kronstadt WTP (first-lift pumping station, 80% of left-bank part of Nevskiy services include • 7,104.2 km of water networks; been widely used. water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs district and 15% of right-bank part water intake, About 60% of water networks in St. Peters• 2 sodium hypochlorite plants. and second-lift pumping station); of Nevskiy district; water treatburg have been in operation for 15 – 50 years. • Petrodvorets WTP (first-lift pumping ment and transPipeline diameters of the municipal water The operating time of 25% of all networks is over station, water treatment facilities, clean water 65% of Kirovskiy district; portation. network in St. Petersburg range from 50 mm 50 years, and such networks need reconstruction reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations). 100% of Pushkinskiy district; St. Petersburg (house connections) to 1.4 m (water pipelines). or replacement. Water from Southern WTP is tertiary treated takes water here. The plant is also ready for use in case of 100% of Petrodvortsoviy district from surface need to take water from Nikolskiy pond; and the town of Kronstadt; and underAdjusted capacity of water treatment plants:* • named boosting pumping stations of the 100% of Kolpinskiy district; ground sourcSouthern WTP 900,000 m3/day third and fourth lift: Moskovskaya, Frunzenskaya, es. The main Uritskaya, South-Western, Rybatskaya, Kupchin100% of Krasnoselskiy district. Northern WTP 608,000 m3/day skaya, Strelninskaya, Lomonosovskaya, LGU water source is the Neva RivMain WTP 422,000 m3/day Petrodvortsovaya Waterworks, Petrodvortsovaya er; Vodokanal Waterworks, Pulkovskaya, Orlovskaya; Volkovskaya WTP 211,000 m3/day • boosting pumping stations of the third takes more than Kolpino WTP 151,000 m3/day and fourth lift; 98% of water Kronstadt WTP 18,000 m3/day • water supply and distribution networks. from it. Zelenogorsk WTP 10,000 m3/day Duderhof WTP 20,000 m3/day Gantulovskaya Gora WTP 32,000 m3/day * Adjusted capacity of WTPs means capacity of WTPs calculated in consideration of raw water quality deterioration, technical condition of water facilities and more stringent requirements to potable water quality in compliance with the Resolution of St. Petersburg Government no. 989 “On approval of St. Petersburg water and wastewater master plan for the period up to 2025 with the outlook to 2030” dated 11 December 2013. 114 115 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 The Northern Water Supply Water Treatment System comprises: • Northern WTP (first-lift pumping station, Technologies water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations); • Zelenogorsk WTP (first-lift pumping stations, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); • Sestroretsk WTP (first-lift pumping The system supplies water Treatment of Water station, water treatment facilities, clean water to the following administrative from Surface Sources reservoirs and second-lift pumping station). Water districts: The two-stage integrated process from Northern WTP is tertiary treated here. The plant is also ready for use in case of need to take The water treatment process at the key of potable water disinfection guarantees water from the Lake Razliv; WTPs taking water from St. Petersburg surface epidemiological safety of water supply • underground water sources of Kurortniy sources (the Neva River and the Gulf of Finland) district; 100% of Kurortniy district; includes the following stages: in St. Petersburg and full compliance • named boosting pumping stations of the third lift (Murinskaya, Kushelevskaya, Primor65% of Primorskiy district; • a two-stage water disinfection system; of the microbiological parameters skaya, Severo-Primorskaya, Kolomyazhskaya, 90% of Vyborgkiy district; • coagulation of pollutants (aluminium with the current regulations. Ozero Dolgoe, Martynovskaya, Parnasskaya, sulfate is used); 80% of Kalininskiy district; • flocculation (polyacrylamide-based cationOsinovaya Roshcha, Gorskaya, Pesochenskaya, The process consists of chemical pretreatNovoselovskaya, Shuvalovskaya WTPs); 65% of Krasnogvardeyskiy district; ic flocculant is used); ment with chloramines and secondary disinfec• boosting pumping stations of the third • sand filtration in the contact clarifiers tion with ultraviolet. Chloramines are produced 85% of the right-bank part (one-stage treatment scheme); in the treated water by dosing of hazard-free and fourth lift; • water supply and distribution networks. • sedimentation and sand filtration in rapid chemicals, ammonium sulfate and sodium of Nevskiy district. filters (two-stage treatment scheme); hypochlorite, and can maintain the disinfecting • powdered activated carbon is dosed effect not only in the process of water treatwhen necessary (if the Neva water quality bement at WTPs, but also during water distribution comes worse, or for odour and oil removal). via the municipal networks. The process solutions used to design and build K-6 block, a new 350,000 m³/day water treatment block at Southern WTP, in operation since early 2011, are as follows: • pre-ozonation; • clarification: coagulation, flocculation, The Central Water Supply System sedimentation in lamella sedimentation tank, sludge thickening, sludge recirculation and comprises: removal; • Main WTP (first-lift pumping stations, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs The system supplies water • filtration through dual-media (sand/granular activated carbon) rapid gravity filters; and second-lift pumping stations); to the following administrative • air-and-water backwashing of filters; • Volkovskaya WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water districts: • equalization, treatment and utilization of backwash water; reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); • sludge treatment; • named boosting pumping stations of the • storage, preparation and dosing third and fourth lift (Vasileostrovskaya, Gavan100% of Petrogradskiy, Vasileostroof chemicals; skaya, Petrogradskaya); vskiy, Tsentralniy, Admiralteiskiy • disinfection with chloramines. • boosting pumping stations of the third districts; and fourth lift; 10% of Vyborgskiy district; • water supply and distribution networks. 20% of Kalininskiy district; 35% of Krasnogvardeiskiy district; 20% of the left-bank part of Nevskiy district; 15% of Frunzenskiy district; 30% of Moskovskiy district; 35% of Kirovskiy district; 35% of Primorskiy district. 116 117 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Potable Water Treatment at Zelenogorsk WTP (Groundwater) Water Quality Control The groundwater treatment process in Zelenogorsk aims less steel wires welded to a guide frame of the at removing excessive concentrations of iron and manganese element. The wires are profiled in such a way that and consists of: inward expanding slots are formed between its rows. This solution ensures high reliability of the • aeration; drainage structure, and the inward expanding • removal of the sludge resulting from air slots prevent the clogging of filter elements and oxidation of ferric hydroxide (III) by means of facilitate the backwashing process. Due to the Zelenogorsk filtration through the gravel-sand media of the drainage system, a dual-media bed could be used Water quality control at Vodokanal of St. Petersburg is carried out WTP takes raw first-stage rapid filters; for the reconstruction of open filters without water from • catalytic oxidation and separation of manincreasing the bed height. The lower filter bed at all stages – from raw water intake to the water metering system underground ganese as dioxide on the second-stage pressure is made of 0.6 – 0.8 mm quartz sand, the sand sources. filters. layer height being 800 mm. The upper filter bed at the house connection. Water is disinfected by sodium hypochlorite is made of anthracite (0.8 – 2.0 mm); the height solution. of the layer is 400 mm. Oxidation of dissolved ferrous iron and The second stage of Zelenogorsk WTP Water quality control is implemented by the Company in accordance with the approved The program covers 174 checkpoints blow-up of dissolved carbonic acid is performed is designed for enhanced removal of iron and programs – the Working Program for Production where 86 water quality parameters in the aerator. To enhance the oxidation of iron manganese and consists of six pressure filters, Control of Potable Water Quality and the Proand manganese compounds, sodium hypochlorite main-line pumps, backwash water pumps for duction Program for Water Quality Control. are monitored. solution is injected into water. Chlorination is carpressure filters, buffer tanks, sodium hypochlorite The Working Program for Production Conried out after aeration and the sodium hypochlodosing equipment, flow meters and a chlorine trol of Potable Water Quality in St. Petersburg rite dose is 4-5 mg/l of active chlorine. analyzer. for 2012 – 2017 has come into effect since The first-stage rapid filters are equipped The water treatment process control is 1 January 2012. It was developed in accordance with a drainage system: hemispheric channels fully automated. The plant operation data are with SanPiN 2.1.4.1074-01 “Potable water. located on the bottom and covered by slotted displayed on the monitors of the operators in the Hygiene requirements to potable water supplied elements. These elements are made of stainplant control room. by centralized water supply systems. Quality control” approved by St. Petersburg Department of Rospotrebnadzor and adopted by the Chairman of the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support. Tertiary Water Treatment The following parameters are Technologies Used at Petrodvorets used in water quality control: and Sestroretsk WTPs pipes and reduce iron concentrations in the tertiary-treated water from Petrodvorets and • composite; Formerly, both Petrodvorets WTP and Sestroretsk WTPs, calcium chloride and soda • organoleptic; Sestroretsk WTP used their own surface water ash are dosed into the water as anticorrosion • chemical (organic and non-organic); sources – the Nikolskiy pond and the Razliv agents. • microbiological; Lake. Later, because of excessive pollution of Both plants have the equipment to re• parasitological (Lamblia cysts); these water bodies both plants were converted ceive, dilute and dose 32% solutions of calcium • virological (presence of hepatitis A virus to tertiary treatment facilities to treat the wachloride, and the systems for preparation and antigens and rotavirus antigens); ter supplied by the city waterworks. The tertiary dosing of 10% soda ash (sodium carbonate). • hydro-biological (phytoand zooplanktreatment uses the existing water treatment The dosing of calcium salts and carbonic acid ton); units, i.e. sand filters (one-stage treatment into the treated water and the resulting pH • radiation safety. scheme). increase can slow down the corrosion process, Electrochemical corrosion of steel pipes and in some cases, fully stop oxidation of iron The main water quality parameters are postprinciple: “WTP – water mains – city quarter netin the St. Petersburg water distribution sysin steel pipes due to the formation of calcium ed, in a tabular form, on the corporate website work – customer” was used for selection of the tem results in secondary pollution of potable carbonate film which isolates steel from water www.vodokanal.spb.ru, section “Water supply. checkpoints to be included into the Program for water with iron. To prevent corrosion of steel and the dissolved oxygen contained in it. Water quality.” Production Control. The Program for Production Control of Potable Water Quality covers 306 additional checkThe monitoring results enable to: points allowing a more detailed assessment of the water supply system. Twelve most important • trace the changes in qualitative characparameters are short-listed for monitoring. teristics of potable water at all stages of water A systematic approach based on the production and distribution; • identify hot spots and troubled sections To improve the potable water quality at Tertiary Water Treatment remote sections of the network, tertiary treatof water networks; • evaluate the efficiency of the implementaTechnologies Used at Boosting ment systems are constructed in the boosting pumping stations and house connections. Special tion of the investment program activities; • evaluate the efficiency of corrective Pumping Stations and House filter media are used there to remove iron. actions. Connections 118 119 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Achievements Levels of water quality control: • on-line process control using automatic is used at all city water intakes to control waof 2015 analyzers and automated continuous monitorter quality in the water source, the Neva River. ing systems; Prior to the treatment process, water from the • laboratory control; Neva River is tested by crayfish. The crayfish • control by an independent organization – located in aquariums may respond to any toxic Water Research and Control Center; substances in water within 1.5–2 minutes In 2015, rehabilitation and construction of networks and water • control by Rospotrebnadzor. (including data processing time). The cardiac rhythm of the crayfish accelerates, and supply facilities was performed by Vodokanal to guarantee The automated analyzers are installed at all stages of water treatment, signals from sensors transmit an alarm message (a red signal on a monitor of a shift supervisor) which safety of drinking water for the customers, increase of services the instruments are sent to the control room and process engineers, thus providing for the launches the automated water sampling for further detailed laboratory analysis of water reliability and improvement of energy efficiency. real-time control of the process. using chemical and biological methods and All the system elements are cross-integives warning to all departments of the water grated to guarantee reliability of water quality treatment plant. data at all stages. 30,162 water samples were analyzed 1. Design works for reconstruction In addition to the instrumental metering, in 2015. Minor deviations from regulatory the biomonitoring system designed by the requirements with regard to total iron content and construction of water St. Petersburg Environmental Safety Research were identified in the distribution water disinfection systems Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences network. Construction works for modernization The monitoring results show that of UV disinfection systems at the water treatment plants (Northern WTP, Southern WTP, potable water in St. Petersburg is harmless Volkovskaya WTP, Main WTP, Kolpino WTP, Petrodvorets WTP, Moskovskaya PS, Frunzenskaya in terms of its chemical composition PS) were conducted. and safe in terms of epidemiological Works on the implementation of UV disinfection system at Sestroretsk WTP and Gantuand radiation conditions. lovskaya Gora WTP were completed; modernization of sodium hypochlorite dosing systems at the facilities of Kurortny district (Zelenogorskaya WTP, Sestroretskaya WTP, Gorskaya WTP The monitoring In 2015, Vodokanal continued monitoring The efficiency of the activities aimed and Pesochnaya WTP) was completed. results of 2015 water quality in the distribution networks and at improving potable water quality is supported show that at the house connections. The conducted work by the results of an opinion poll conducted by quality helped identify houses which have problems Vodokanal in the end of 2015. According to the of potable with water quality; a plan of activities aimed opinion poll results the majority of the pollees water at improving quality of potable water delivered (84%) were satisfied with the quality to customers was developed and is under of the cold water in general. in 671 implementation. In August-September 2015, the 2. Design works for reconstruction apartment blocks housing Based on the monitoring results, the St. Petersburg Department of Rospotrebnadzor and construction of water treatactivity plan to improve potable water quality conducted an unscheduled inspection 170,000 people was developed; reconstruction of distribution of Vodokanal’s compliance with the requirement facilities Filter precoating requires quartz microsand Besides, in 2015, improved. networks was carried out, first of all in the placments to quality and safety of potable water. with a particle size of 20 µm; it is also possible preliminary es which gain maximum effect for customers. The laboratories of the territorial subdivisions to use diatomite powder, powdered activated design works Thanks to the ongoing activities, the of St. Petersburg Hygiene and Epidemiology In 2015, works related to the reconstruccarbon and other adsorbents. Water disinfecrelated to number of houses the water samples of which Center collected samples of potable water at tion of Kronstadt WTP including building tion is ensured by dosing sodium hypochlorite closure of indicate the excessive amount of iron reduces. 213 water supply facilities to check its compliof a container-type unit were completed. and treatment of water with UV. untreated ance with regulatory requirements. The results The container-type unit uses a two-stage water The plant is equipped with a system flush water of the unscheduled inspection confirmed that treatment technology producing 1200 m3/day of sensors to provide automated online conand consists of the container blocks. The twodischarges potable water in St. Petersburg was safe and trol. The implemented technology guarantees stage water treatment technology includes the compliance of potable water quality with from the in compliance with the regulatory requirements. the following processes: sedimentation in a the stated regulatory requirements. Southern cascade contact-vortex sedimentation tank In 2015, works related to the reconstrucWTP were (first stage); filtration in a precoat lamellar filter tion of the chemical plants at Southern WTP conducted. (second stage). and Northern WTP were going on. Design Chemical treatment of raw water is perworks were completed and a positive opinion formed by means of a coagulant, flocculant and was received for the project “Construction ballaster. Quartz microsand with an average of underground water treatment plant in Dyuny particle size (100 µm) serves as a ballaster. (“Rzhavaya kanava”)”. 120 121 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 3. Construction and replacement of water supply networks 5. Design and construction of water distribution networks In recent Performance of network rehabilitation works in 2011–2015 and water supply for small years, Vodokanal Water supply netsettlements gives much 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 work attention In 2015, works related to the construction to water Rehabilitation of water and reconstruction of water supply networks 89.9 137.1 72.4 79.8 80.8 supply networks, km in the settlement of Volodarskiy were pernetworks rehabilitation. formed. Design works for water supply networks in the settlements of Martyshkino, Rehabilitation of water networks is perof Lopatinskiy water pipeline which is important Lisiy Nos, Toriki, Molodezhnoe were completed. formed to ensure reliability and continuity for water supply of the right-bank part of the city. of water supply. As for the water valves, over 5,000 units In 2015, the following works were conwere replaced. tinued: the reconstruction of DN 1200 water In 2015, design works for the system network along Hasanskaya str., water networks of water supply from Southern WTP and Main and house connections in Rzhevka district; WTP to Volkovskaya WTP were completed. construction of the pipelines from Northern WTP In 2015, works related to the construction to Murinskaya pumping station (five out of six of separate house connections were performed construction stages were completed) and from for 356 buildings in Kirovskiy, Moskovskiy districts Main WTP to Vasilievskiy Island; reconstruction and in Kronstadt. 6. Import substitution In 2015, import substitution activities domestic manufacturers, including high-technolwere going on in the frames of the projects ogy equipment. of the reconstruction and modernization of the Import substitution activities allowed main water supply and wastewater disposal fato reduce the dependence on foreign suppliers. 4. Continuation of works related cilities, water supply and wastewater disposal Thus, in 2015, revision of the project “Design networks and tunnel collectors in accordance and construction of a new treatment block at to the establishment of the water supply with Vodokanal Targeted Investment Program. Main WTP, including reconstruction of pipelines management system Previously, imported equipment was used for transporting raw water from the first-lift pumpthe implementation of the majority of projects. ing station” was completed. In 2015, under the project “Establishment Revision of the projects on the reconAfter the State Expertise of the cost-esof the St. Petersburg water supply management struction of the Main WTP, establishment of timate documentation in 2015, the estimated system”, design works for reconstruction of the the Southern Water Supply Zone management reduction of the equipment cost under the pumping stations of the Northern and Central system and other projects with a view to project was RUB 1.435 billion (which amounted Water Supply Zones were going on. Besides, import substitution revealed that there were to 27.9% of the original cost of the equipment) works in the Southern Water Supply Zone possibilities to stop entirely the use of the thanks to using equipment of Russian origin (in particular – in the 2nd machine room of Southimported equipment and apply products of and excluding a number of buildings. ern WTP) continued. Pumps, valves, process pipelines, power-generating equipment and automatic process control systems of the 2nd machine room were replaced. In 2015, works in the Northern and Central Water Supply Zones (including Murinskaya, Kushelevskaya and Petrogradskaya boosting pumping stations) and the reconstruction of the 1st and 2nd machine rooms of the second-lift pumping station of Northern WTP were commenced. 122 123 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Future ing station reconstruction projects envisage 18. Substitution of foreign-made equipDevelopment replacement of pumps, valves, process pipes, power-generating equipment and automatic process control systems; ment in accordance with the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation “On National Security Strategy of the Russian Federof Water 17. Continuation of works related to ation for the period up to 2020” within the design of the centralized water supply system frame of construction and rehabilitation of in the settlements of Gorelovo, Novoselky, water supply facilities. Petroslavyanka, Pontonny and Pavlovsk; Supply System Revision of the In order to increase the satisfaction 10. Commencement of modernization and implementation of UV disinfection systems at St. Petersburg of St. Petersburg inhabitants with the underground water intakes in the settlements Water and Wastewater of Komarovo, Repino, Lisiy Nos. These activities quality of water supply services and ensure reliable and safe operation of water will ensure safety of potable water supplied to the citizens of Kurortny district; Master Plan for the supply facilities, the following activities 11. Continuation of works related to the construction and reconstruction of water disPeriod up to 2025 with are planned to be launched in 2016 and tribution pipelines that serve a large number of inhabitants and influence the development of on Outlook to 2030 continued in 2017-2018: urban areas: In 2015, the St. Petersburg Water • St. Petersburg area planning design; • completion of works related to the and Wastewater Master Plan for the period • development plans for the Leningrad 1. Commencement of construction of a new reconstruction of Lopatinskiy water pipeline up to 2025 with an outlook to 2030 adopted Region municipalities bordering on St. Peterstreatment block to produce 500,000 m3/day which is important for water supply of the by the Resolution of the St. Petersburg Governburg; at the Main WTP; right-bank part of the city; ment no. 989 dated 11 December 2013 • research of water consumption 2. Design and reconstruction works at • completion of works related to the conwas revised (the revision of the master plan in St. Petersburg; Kronstadt WTP including building of a containstruction of the pipelines from Northern WTP was approved by the Resolution of the • observations over changes in water er-type unit for two stage water treatment; to Murinskaya pumping station and from Main St. Petersburg Government no. 856 dated consumption in similar cities. 3. Modernization of the chemical units WTP to Vasilievskiy Island; 25 September 2015). • completion of works related to the The revision was performed in view at water treatment plants (Main WTP, Volkovskaya WTP, Southern WTP, Kolpino WTP, reconstruction of DN 1200 mm water network of establishing a model water and wastewater The following basic changes Kronstadt WTP, Petrodvorets WTP); along Hasanskaya str. (water conduits of the first and second lines); master plan in terms of strategic planning have been made in the revised 4. Continuation of UV disinfection sysof St. Petersburg utility infrastructure. tems modernization at water treatment plants • construction of feed and bypass netThe algorithm to forecast water consumpmaster plan: (Northern WTP, Southern WTP, Volkovskaya works to connect the hydraulically filled areas tion and wastewater disposal volumes as well WTP, Main WTP, Kolpino WTP, Petrodvorets of Vasilievskiy Island; as spatial load distribution was developed. This 1. Water supply sections were aligned WTP, Moskovskaya PS, Frunzenskaya PS). • construction of external engineering algorithm will be used as a base for the dewith the documents adopted in St. PetersModernization of the existing UV disinfection networks for a new residential area of Krasnoe velopment of sectoral balances as well as the burg in 2013–2015: systems will ensure safety of potable water Selo; inter-sectoral resource balance within the frame • St. Petersburg economic and social supplied to the citizens and energy saving; • construction of the second line of water of the strategic planning of improving efficiency, development strategy up to 2030; 5. Commencement of construction of unconduit along Gorskoye highway from the flying reliability and safety of St. Petersburg utilities • St. Petersburg heat supply master derground water treatment plants in Kurortny junction of Ring Motorway and the Western and energy systems. plan up to 2030 (activities related to the district (the settlements of Molodezhnoe and High-Speed Diameter road to the settlement of Further adjustment of the St. Petersburg reconstruction of the water supply network, Dyuny (“Rzhavaya kanava”)) and water pipelines Gorskaya; Water and Wastewater Master Plan for the reconstruction and construction of house confor these plants. This will ensure reliable and 12. Continuation of the water network period up to 2025 with an outlook to 2030 is nections, installation of booster pumps were continuous water supply to the customers of reconstruction; planned in 2016 to align it with the documents elaborated to ensure transition to a closed Kurortny district in full compliance with the 13. Continuation of valves replacement; adopted in St. Petersburg in 2015 and with the hot-water system); regulatory requirements; 14. Continuation of works related to the changes made in the city area planning designs. • St. Petersburg State Program “Integrat6. Design works and commencement installation of service laterals for the houses ed development of public utilities, power and with different ownership (demounting of “one energy saving systems of St. Petersburg” for of construction of flush water recirculation unit at the Southern WTP; flow meter for several buildings” systems); The master plan was 2015-2020 in terms of project deadlines and 7. Continuation of works related to design 15. Completion of works related to the establishment of the Southern Water Supply updated taking into account amount of financing. The deadlines for activiand construction of underground water intakes ties related to the reconstruction of Main and to ensure the reserve water supply; Zone management system (in particular – in the the following: Northern WTPs, construction of Dyuny WTP 8. Design works for the construction of 3rd machine room of Southern WTP); and Molodezhnoe WTP were changed; a flush water treatment unit at the Northern 16. Continuation of works related to • the city development scenarios with • Approved area planning designs. WTP to eliminate untreated flush water disthe establishment of the water supply mandifferent forecasted population size and 2. Activities by AO “Leningrad Region charges; agement system in the Northern and Central per-capita water consumption in accordance Utilities” related to water supply for the 9. Modernization of the technology of Water Supply Zones (including 1st and 2nd with the St. Petersburg economic and social satellite town of Yuzhny were taken into powdered activated carbon preparation and pump compartments of the Northern WTP, Pedevelopment strategy up to 2030; consideration. dosing at the Main WTP; trogradskaya boosting PS, Murinskaya boosting • the City development master plan and PS, Kushelevskaya boosting PS). The pumpRules for land use and development; 124 125 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Wastewater Disposal System Structure, Each sewerage area has its own system for collection and transportation of wastewater (sewerage network and tunnel Three sewerage areas – Northern, Central and Southern – are established Volumes, sewers), sewerage pumping stations and wastewater treatment plants. in St. Petersburg. Main Northern sewerage area sewerage area receives also wastewater from Parameters Covers the right bank of the Neva River including Nevskiy (the right bank), Krasnogvardthe town of Vsevolozhsk and the town of Sereyskiy, Kalininskiy, Vyborgskiy, Primorskiy and tolovo (Vsevolozhskiy Municipal District of the Petrogradskiy districts. In this area wastewater is Leningrad Region). Major part of the Northern transported to the Northern Wastewater Treatsewerage area is served by the combined sewerment Plant (Northern WWTP). age system, i.e. in case of rain the runoffs togethSt. Petersburg system of wastewater disposal and treatment Wastewater from Nevskiy (the right bank) and Krasnogvardeyskiy districts can be diverted er with domestic wastewater are transported to the Northern WWTP. is a complex of interconnected engineering facilities to provide by the Sewerage Pumping Station no. 6 into the In addition, this area includes local sewerage areas of tunnel sewers along Obukhovskaya Oborona avcollection of wastewater, its transportation and treatment enue and then further to the Central Wastewater Kurortny district (Sestroretsk WWTP, Zelenogorsk WWTP, Treatment Plant (Central WWTP). The Northern Repino WWTP, Molodezhnoe WWTP). at wastewater treatment plants followed by discharge into water bodies and wastewater sludge utilization. Central sewerage area St. Petersburg has two centralized sewerage systems: Covers the territory of the left bank The Central sewerage area is mainly served of the Neva River including Nevskiy (the leftby the combined sewerage system. The territory bank), Vasileostrovskiy, Central, Admiralteyskiy, of Vasileostrovskiy, Frunzenskiy and a southern part • the centralized combined/separate to a separate scheme which collects only doFrunzenskiy, Moskovskiy and a part of Kirovskiy of Moskovskiy districts has a separate sewerage system municipal sewerage system. One part of the mestic wastewater; districts. In this area wastewater is transported where rainfall is discharged without any treatment service area is connected to the combined • the centralized separate stormwater to the Central Wastewater Treatment Plant into city water bodies and the Neva River. sewerage system which collects domestic and system where rainfall and snow-melt waters (Central WWTP). industrial wastewater as well as surface are collected separately from other wastewater In addition, this area receives wastewater (rainfall, snow-melt) runoffs. The other part and either discharged without any treatment or from a part of Pushkinskiy district and, if needed of the service area is sewered according treated at surface water treatment plants. (during repair works), some wastewater from the Northern sewerage area can be redistributed via the Sewerage Pumping Station no. 6. The centralized combined/separate municipal sewerage system Southern sewerage area Covers the southern territory of the city all other territories of the Southern sewerage as well as a part of Kirovskiy, Krasnoselskiy area are served by the separate sewerage Wastewater comes from customers to the water treatment plants. 19% of the treated districts and the town of Strelna of Petrodsystem. centralized combined/separate municipal sewereffluent is subject to UV-disinfection prior to its vorets district. Wastewater from this area is age system which channels them into deep-laid discharge to water bodies. Wastewater sludge transported to the South-West Wastewater tunnel sewers and then to the wastewater produced at WWTPs is neutralized and burnt at Treatment Plant (SWTP). Control of wastewater Wastewater from Kolpinskiy, Kronstadt and treatment plants. Wastewater undergoes methree incineration plants. Ash produced in the flow between Southern and Central sewerage a part of Pushkinskiy and Petrodvorets districts chanical and biological treatment at 13 wastecourse of incineration is disposed to landfills. areas is performed by using penstocks located is transported through the pressure-gravity in the shafts of tunnel collectors. Except for the collectors to wastewater treatment plants located old part of Kirovskiy and Krasnoselskiy districts, in each of these districts. 126 127 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 As of 1 January 2016, the centralized combined/separate municipal Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants: sewerage system is comprised of: Wastewater treatment plant Adjusted capacity, ‘000 m³/day • 13 wastewater treatment plants; SWTP 290 • 168 sewerage pumping stations; • 6,224.0 km of sewerage networks including: Northern WWTP 690 1) gravity pipelines – 5,880.6 km; Central WWTP 1,050 2) pressure pipelines – 343.4 km. Sestroretsk WWTP 17 • 270.7 km of tunnel collectors; • 21,842 dump wells; Zelenogorsk WWTP 10 • 106 direct discharges including: Repino WWTP 10 1) 63 discharges from the combined Petrodvorets WWTP 72 sewerage system; 2) 33 domestic wastewater discharges; Kronstadt WWTP 28 3) 10 flushing water discharges from waterworks. Pushkin WWTP 71 • 2 sludge landfills: Severniy, Volkhonka-2 and sludge beds in Gorelovo community; Kolpino WWTP 69 • 3 sludge incineration plants. Pontonny WWTP 11 Metallostroy WWTP 9 Molodezhnoe WWTP 0 TOTAL: 2,327 Diameters of the sewerage network range from 100 mm (courtyard networks) to 1500 mm (water mains). Pipelines with diameters up to 500 mm make up 84.5% of the total length of all centralized combined/ According to the results of 2015 separate municipal sewerage system. the daily average volume of treated wastewater was 2,100,000 m³/day. The main material of sewerage In the course of wastewater treatment sludge produced in the course of wastewater The design pipes is as follows: the plant produces sludge which contains a lot treatment at all WWTPs. This enabled the city capacity • reinforced concrete – 48.9% of the total of pollutants removed from influent. to solve its primary task – to stop storing of sewerage length; At the present time, three sludge incinerwastewater sludge and reduce the negative pumping • concrete – 20.4%; ation plants (SIP) constructed at the city’s bigenvironmental impact. stations • polyethylene – 16.3%; gest WWTPs (Central WWTP, Northern WWTP ranges from • cast iron – 8.6%; and SWTP) are in operation. They incinerate 300,000 up to • ceramics and other materials – 5.8%. 1,000,000 m³/day. Tunnel sewers are the basic mains for transporting wastewater to wastewater treatAbout 49.5% of the SIP characteristics ment plants. networks have been Currently, 270.7 km of tunnel sewers (with 641 shafts and 452 bore wells) operate in operation for over in the city. Internal diameter of tunnel collec40 years. Adjusted capacitors ranges from 2 to 4.7 meters, with laying depth of 15–80 meters. About 65% of tunnel Design capacity ty of one Year of commisNumber collectors have been in operation for more than of one furnace, furnace as sioning of furnaces 30 years. t DS/day* of 1 Jan 2016, t DS/day* SIP at Central WWTP 1997 4 62.5 50 SIP at Northern 2007 3 62.5 60 WWTP SIP at South-West 2007 2 44 44 WWTP * t DS/day – tones of dry solids per day. 128 129 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Vodokanal also operates two sludge The following territories of the city are Petrogradskiy district, the western part of landfills: Northern and Volkhonka-2 and sludge served by the separate storm water system: Kronstadt. beds in the settlement of Gorelovo. territory of Vasilievskiy Island, non-residential Rainfall and snow-melt waters from the zone of “Parnas”, block building area “Shuvspecified territories are collected into the Characteristics of sludge landfills alovo-Ozerky” in the Vyborgkiy district; block storm water sewerage system and are either building area “Road to Grazhdanka district” discharged without any treatment through and “To the north of Murinskiy Ruchey” in the stormwater discharges or storm-water overYear of commisKalininskiy district; block building area “To the flows or transported for treatment to surface Area, ha Design capacity, m³ sioning north of Novoselov street”, non-residentiald water treatment plants and then upon treatNorthern landfill 1987 82.5 2,000,000 zone of “Obukhovo” and “Rybatskoe” and ment discharged into water bodies. development areas of “Rybatskoe “in the Diameters of the sewerage network Volkhonka-2 landfill 1990 34 2,867,100 Nevskiy district; block building area “Rzhevrange from 100 mm (courtyard networks) to Sludge beds in Gorelovo 1984 69.93 846,900 ka-Porokhovye” in Krasnogvardeyskiy district; 1.5 m (water mains). Pipelines with diameters block building area “Northern Kupchino” up to 500 mm make up 84.0% of the total and “Southern Kupchino” in the Frunzenskiy length of all centralized separate storm water In 2015, the amount of the utilized district; non-residential area “Predportovaya” system. sludge was 97,531.2 tons of dry solids and block building area to the south of the including: Dunayskoe avenue in the Moskovskiy district; • incinerated sludge – 84,778.5 t DS; housing area “Ulyanka” in the Kirovskiy district; • sludge disposed to the landfills – block building area “Sosnovaya Polyana and 12,752.7 t DS. Uritsk”, “Krasnoe Selo” in the Krasnoselsky district; block building areas “The western Major performance indicators of the part of Petrodvorets” and “The central part of Lomonosov town” in the Petrodvorets discentralized combined/separate municipal trict; territories of Kolpinskiy and Pushkinskiy districts, near the Angliyskaya embankment sewerage system in 2015 in the Admiralteyskiy district; 38th quarter of Sestroretsk, the eastern part of Zelenogorsk The share of treated municipal sewerage Specific quantity of breakdowns and in the Kurortny district; near the Dvortsovaya About 45.3% of all the networks in the total amount of municipal sewerage colblockages in the network per unit length of the embankment in the Central district; in Elagin have been in operation lected by the centralized combined/separate centralized combined/separate municipal sewisland in the Primorskiy district; the western municipal sewerage system was 98.5%. erage system per year – 0.69 breakdowns/ part of the embankment near the Karpovka for over 40 years. The share of treated runoffs in the total blockages/km. River, the Zhdanovskaya embankment in the amount of runoffs collected by the centralized Share of sludge utilized by incineration – 87%. combined/separate municipal sewerage sysShare of sludge disposed to landfills tem was 97.1% and treated up to environmentally safe condiThe main material of sewerage pipes The capacity of the surface water treattion – 10%. is as follows: ment plants is as follows: • reinforced concrete – 73.6% of the • Pulkovo-3 surface water treatment whole network; plant – 690 m³ per day; • concrete – 13.6%; • Kolpino surface water treatment plant – The centralized separate • polyethylene – 8.0%; 860 m³ per day. • cast iron – 3.5%; stormwater system • ceramics and other materials – 1.3%. The centralized separate stormwater As of 1 January 2016, the centralized Major performance indicators system is the system where rainfall and separate stormwater system is comprised of: snow-melt waters are collected separately • 2 surface water treatment plants; of the centralized separate into a stormwater system and: • either discharged without any treat• 8 sewerage pumping stations; • 2,379.1 km of sewerage network storm water system in 2015. ment through stormwater discharges or including: storm-water overflows, 1) gravity pipelines – 2,374.7 km; • or collected and transported for treat2) pressurized pipelines – 4.3 km. ment to surface water treatment plants and • 1,090 storm water discharges and The share of treated then upon treatment discharged into water overflows. runoffs in the total bodies. amount of runoffs collected by the separate storm water system is 2.2%. 130 131 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Wastewater Treatment Technologies Technologies to ensure wastewater treatment in compliance with the Russian norms and requirements of the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission are implemented at Vodokanal’s wastewater treatment plants. Wastewater treatment quality at St. Petersburg WWTPs is regulated by the Russian Federis formed by various bacteria, protozoa and metazoa which clean wastewater through Tertiary treatment. Given In order to ensure the compliance of At the present time, Vodokanal that almost all water bodies in St. Petersburg, wastewater treatment with HELCOM recomation regulations and international recommenoxidation of pollutants present in it. mendations, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has is searching for where treated wastewater is discharged, are dations. Chemical treatment is categorized as fishery water bodies, it predetermines the quality requirements to wastebeen constantly upgrading biological treatment by means of enhanced nutrient removal efficient and cost-effective chemical removal of phosphorus phosphates. water discharged into water bodies – sustechnologies. technologies The process flow of municipal wastewater Previously, the wastewater treatment plants pended solids of less than 5 mg/l. Therefore, The advanced UCT biological process of effluent applied mechanical and biological treatment treatment plants includes the following only; and the quality of effluent in terms of tertiary treatment (post-treatment) is needed (University of Cape Town) was implemented tertiary to be introduced at all WWTPs of the city in at SWTP, Sestroretsk WWTP and five sections treatment and stages of wastewater and sludge treatphosphorus concentration did not meet the requirements of the Helsinki Commission. order to stabilize treatment quality. Now, terof the Northern WWTP according to SWECO disinfection to ment: Thus, a chemical-biological treatment method tiary treatment is implemented only at Repino design scheme. JHB process (University of Johannesburg) was introduced at Petrodvorets be implemented Mechanical treatment was implemented at Vodokanal WWTPs. This and Petrodvorets WWTPs. WWTP, Pushkin WWTP, Kronstadt WWTP and at all is aimed at clarifying wastewater to ensure normal flow of further treatment stages. It inmethod combines the enhanced biological nutrient removal and chemical phosphorus Disinfection. The Water Code of Repino WWTP. These technological solutions wastewater the Russian Federation and other regulations enable to manage the biological treatment treatment cludes screens, grit removal units and primary precipitation. Today, all St. Petersburg WWTPs plants require disinfection of the treated wastewasystem in a flexible way, adjusting the sedimentation tanks. The screens retain coarse apply chemical phosphorus removal method of St. Peterter. Disinfection using ultraviolet radiation recirculation volumes and supply of oxygen impurities; grit removal units separate mineral using the most effective and cost-efficient is introduced at Repino WWTP, Sestroretsk for aeration. As a result, with any changes sburg. suspended solids (sand). In the following chemical – aluminum sulfate. WWTP, Petrodvorets WWTP and Southof external factors affecting the treatment stage of primary sedimentation, there goes a The principle of chemical treatment of West WWTP. Sodium hypochlorite is used to process (wastewater temperature, influent process of mechanical and organic pollutants wastewater is that the addition of the chemdisinfect wastewater prior to its discharge to contaminant concentrations), it became possedimentation. ical causes a reaction which results in formawater bodies at Zelenogorsk WWTP, Kronstadt sible to select the optimal mode and ensure tion of insoluble compound of aluminium and Biological treatment phosphates to be removed from the system WWTP, Pushkin WWTP, Kolpino WWTP, Pontonny WWTP and Metallostroy WWTP. the required quality of treatment. The projects of the city wastewater treatment plants reis the main wastewater treatment process along with sludge. construction are meant to upgrade biological before the effluent is discharged into a water body. This block includes aeration tanks and After the implementation of the chemical Sludge treatment. The main treatment with effective solutions of UCT and treatment method at all WWTPs, the effluent purpose of the wastewater sludge treatment secondary sedimentation tanks. The biological JHB technologies. quality meets HELCOM recommendations stage is to minimize its volume and elimitreatment process is based on the activated in terms of total phosphorus content nate negative environmental impact (smell, sludge biocenosis in a compulsory presence (max 0.5 mg/l). of oxygen. The biocenosis of activated sludge pathogenic microflora). Optimal solution for utilization of sludge produced in wastewater Efficiency of wastewater treatment at treatment plants is the incineration of the Vodokanal WWTPs in 2015 was as foldewatered sludge. lows: suspended solids and BOD – over 97%; total phosphorus – 95.4% and total nitrogen – 72.5%. 132 133 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Wastewater Future activities with Quality Regard to Industrial Control Wastewater Treatment Regular wastewater quality control at Vodokanal’s facilities is carried out in accordance with Wastewater Quality In accordance with the changes introduced into the Federal Law no. 7-FZ “On the ProtecThe regulatory acts adopted in furtherance of the Federal Law no. 219 make it clear that Assessment Programs approved by the Neva-Ladoga tion of the Environment”, government control in the sphere of water-resource conservation will implementation of BAT will be obligatory for the following St. Petersburg industries: Basin Water Authority of the Federal Agency for Water Resources. be applied by Rosprirodnadzor to big industrial companies (producing over 200 m³ of waste• treatment of municipal wastewater by centralized sewerage systems; water per day) from 2019. • production of refractory ceramics and It is connected with the fact that in July ceramic construction materials; 2014, the Federal Law no. 219-FZ “On amend• production of synthetic dyes, inorganic ing the Federal Law “On the Protection of the colors and vanish materials, surfactants; Wastewater quality control is performed: Environment” dated 21 July 2014 was adopt• production of pharmaceuticals; In follow-up • in the inlet chamber of wastewater In 2015, within the frame of the chemical ed. New provisions of the law are targeted for • large-scale food processing companies; of the treatment plants; pollutants balance, Vodokanal checked the sewa step-by-step transition to new principles of • fuel-and-energy companies; • in the collection chamber in the outlet of er basins and defined more accurately the total wastewater quality regulation which will be • municipal solid waste landfills; activities wastewater treatment plants. number of them (638 basins). based on process parameters of the best avail• facilities having electroplating producimplemented Wastewater quality control is carried out 10,392 samples were taken at the sewer able technologies (BAT) and applied, inter alia, tion lines and chemical processes. in 2015, to wastewater disposal companies and by monitoring 21 physical and chemical pabasins’ nodal points to investigate wastewater 51 customers a number of their customers. rameters, 8 microbiological and parasitological pollution levels. Specific combinatorial pollution submitted to The process parameters will be estabparameters. Around 16,000 components are index evaluation methods (RD 52.24.643-2002 Vodokanal determined annually. dated 6 December 2002) were used to analyze lished for the facilities, which produce signifiwater Besides, regular process control of all the the level of sewer basins pollution. Based on cant negative impact on the environment (1st protection stages of wastewater and sludge treatment is the assessment results for 2015, 2% of shafts category), within the environmental permits actions plans carried out at all WWTPs aiming at qualitative were classified as relatively clean, 8% – slightly starting from 2019. (34 customers and quantitative measurement of the plant polluted, 27% – polluted, 50% – highly polluted plan to operations. These control activities ensure and 13% – extremely polluted. Consequently, construct local the operation of the facilities in compliance strong efforts are made to locate the sources wastewater with the established regulations. To adjust the of above-limit discharge in highly polluted and treatment treatment mode of WWTPs the following paextremely polluted sewer basins. The tests of Thus, it may happen that by 2019 the notion “big customers” will plants). rameters are monitored: temperature, biological wastewater composition and properties for be modified and the government control will be applied by Rosprirodoxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, 1,706 consumers showed that 88.8% of the nadzor to the customers which facilities are attributed to the 1st 13 customers phosphates, nitrogen, alkalinity, dissolved oxyconsumers failed to comply with the regulatory category. set into gen, properties of activated sludge and sludge. requirements (16% of them just slightly exceedThe Federal Law no. 219 states that detailed norm setting for operation local Moreover, the South-West Wastewater ed the limit values. The regulatory limits were wastewater disposal companies and their customers is established by wastewater Treatment Plant has been constantly using met by 11.2% of the consumers). water and wastewater laws of the Russian Federation. treatment crayfish. Crayfish is the main element of the plants or system for biomonitoring the quality of effluent renovated the to be discharged into the Neva Bay of the Gulf existing ones. of Finland. Only the organism of an animal-biDuring 2015, 103 surveys were oindicator is able to assess simultaneously carried out to monitor the water a set of all the qualitative characteristics of water, where it lives, and its safety for the management of the customers Neva Bay of the Gulf of Finland. Australian red-claw crayfish are used in warm seasons and and to assist them in identifying narrow-clawed crayfish – in cold seasons. the pollutant discharge sources. 134 135 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Achievements The water industry-based community has to do a solid piece of work on of 2015 developing and agreeing the concerted position (also with industries) that In 2015, Vodokanal performed the following works will interlink law provisions with the to improve wastewater treatment quality and meet environmental regulations and will be reflected in the following documents: Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” and the HELCOM recommendations: relevant by-laws as well as the issues related to the selection of BAT for local wastewater treatment and implementation of wastewater • reference guides of the best available metering systems as well as discussions of technologies for different industries (with regard changes to legal acts. Vodokanal will go ahead to wastewater disposal sector, on 15 December 2015, Rosstandart approved the Technical Guide with its work within the frame of the working 1. Reconstruction group organized by the St. Petersburg Commit“Use of the centralized sewerage networks to tee for Energy and Engineering Support with of Northern WWTP 1st stage transport wastewater from communities and urban districts for treatment”, which was the first regard to the fulfilment of requirements set forth in the Federal Law “On Water Supply and and Central WWTP step in the transition to norm setting system Wastewater Disposal” and the by-laws adopted The main objective of the reconstruction UCT VIP technology was implemented The new based on process parameters); in its furtherance. project is to ensure compliance of the treated after the plant reconstruction. Raw sludge equipment • amendments to the Federal Law In 2016, the International Advanced Water effluent quality with relevant Russian regulapre-fermentation in the primary clarifiers was and advanced no. 416 related to improving the principles Technologies Centre will continue its activities tions and the HELCOM recommendations. implemented to increase concentrations of wastewater quality regulation for water process focused on providing assistance to the compaIn 2015, the following key process faciliof volatile fatty acids – an important composolution ensure companies and their customers (including regunies and exchanging international experience ties were reconstructed at Northern WWTP to nent for biological phosphorus removal in UCT lations for the transitional period before BAT are good treatment in the spheres of water supply, wastewaachieve the project objectives: and VIP processes. implemented, i.e. for 7-12 years). efficiency ter disposal and environmental protection. • Replacement of all mechanical and elecEach line of aeration tanks is designed Vodokanal St. Petersburg plans to carry and sizeable Vodokanal plans to hold a number of workshops trical equipment in seven primary clarifiers and as nine sections with anaerobic, anoxic and on its cooperation with the Russian Association for industrial companies dedicated to the best rehabilitation of building structures; oxic zones. The zones are equipped with electricity of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal, Naavailable technologies applied for industrial • Construction of new raw sludge pumpmixers and aerators. The aeration process savings. tional Union of Vodokanals, Ministry of Natural wastewater treatment and to the on-site treating stations nos. 1 and 2; is controlled by the oxygen meter readings. Resources of the Russian Federation, Ministry ment of wastewater from industrial plants. The • Reconstruction of Aeration Tank 2 with Circulation pumps are used to achieve the of Economic Development of the Russian Fedworkshop programme for 2016 includes, inter implementation of enhanced nutrients removal required treatment level by means of internal eration, representatives of the Russian Union of alia, such topics as “Chemical pollutants balance technology, including rehabilitation of building recirculation. Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the scienin water companies” and “Tertiary treatment and structures; The old return sludge pumps are replaced tific and design organizations in this direction. disinfection of wastewater”. • Replacement of the existing air blowers with the new ones. Sludge scrapers in the Discussion and agreement on the necessary with the frequency-controlled turbo blowers secondary clarifiers are also replaced. amendments to the Federal Law “On Water Sup(5 units); Reconstruction of aeration tanks nos. ply and Wastewater Disposal”, “Rules of Cold Vodokanal intends to develop further • Replacement of all mechanical and elec5 and 6 at Central WWTP continued including Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal”, the the system “Chemical pollutants trical equipment in six secondary clarifiers and the implementation of JHB nutrient removal Law “On Environmental Protection” and relevant balance” as an instrument of managing rehabilitation of building structures; technology designed to enable flexible control legal acts will continue in 2016. and planning the control over the • Construction of a new return sludge/ of the biological treatment process and the Vodokanal St. Petersburg will maintain its waste activated sludge pumping station no. 2; achievement of target values at any fluctuacomposition and properties of surface interaction with business communities and in• Construction of a stand-alone electric tions of influent parameters or other influencwastewater from customers. It also will dustrial companies of St. Petersburg, the Union substation with 10/0.4 kV transformers. ing factors. of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Association award the industrial companies within of Industrial Companies, St. Petersburg Internathe Annual Contest for the best customer tional Business Association (SPIBA). Vodokanal title – “Cristal Drop” in the nomination will give consultations and organize workshops “Clean Baltic Sea” (for the implementation dedicated to the issues arising in connection of nature and water protection with the application of the Federal Law “On measures). 2. Completion of Kronstadt WWTP In 2014, reconstruction of aeration tanks and implementation of JHB technology were reconstruction and implementacompleted; the air blowers and return sludge/ waste activated sludge pumps were replaced. tion of advanced nutrient removal In 2015, pre-commissioning was pertechnology formed. The reconstruction project has led to: • stable quality of the treated effluent; • 50% savings of chemicals, and 40% savings of electricity. 136 137 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 3. Start of a new WWTP construction 7. Construction and reconstruction in the settlement of Molodezhnoye of tunnel sewage collectors • The TSC loop in Aviakonstruktorov str. Tunnel sewage collectors (TSC) are built or between TSC “Severnaya Dolina” shaft 601 reconstructed to provide stable wastewater and shaft 345 was put into operation. With the services and to improve reliability and fail-safety loop in place, wastewater can be diverted to of sewerage operation. either of the two collectors for the purpose of 4. Sludge recycling and reconstruction technical inspections, shutoff of damaged pipe sections, and TSC repairs without having to • Construction of shunt pipe from shaft 1/27 at 33, Obukhovskoy Oborony ave. to the of landfills drain untreated wastewater into the city water NTC shaft near Zolnaya str. began. bodies. • Installation of technical equipment in the In 2015, works were performed under the The results of design studies and • Preparation of construction sites for shaft is going on under the collector construccontract of “Design of Severniy Landfill reconthe feasibility study will underpin a 4800 m looping TSC in Basseynaya str. betion project to divert wastewater from hydraustruction project to mitigate the environmental the selection of optimal solutions gan. The project aims to improve the sewerage lic-fill areas on Vasilievskiy Island. Sewer netstress and to provide reserve areas for the for sludge recycling and landfill operation reliability and to enable closedown works were built to connect the first quarters needs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”” of TSC in Blagodatnaya str. for reconstruction. of the hydraulic-fill areas on Vasilievskiy Island. reconstruction. (Phase 1, design studies, feasibility study). 8. Ongoing design of the The design will define the operating regimes of penstocks in the TSCs and stream 5. Next phase of wastewater diversion and automated wastewater managedistribution patterns in different hydraulic modes with the aim to control volumes and closure of untreated wastewater discharge ment system in St. Petersburg quality of wastewater in rainy weather and into the city water bodies to monitor breakdowns. Implementation of metering and control systems for wastewater The survey and the terms of reference for basins, improvement of the wastewater sys• In 2015, reconstruction of the sewage • After the completion of design works and design are completed. tem reliability, and energy saving actions collector along Admiralteyskaya embankment the obtaining of positive opinion of the State are planned. and construction of sewer network in the Expertise, a sewerage reconstruction contract Repina Square were completed. As a result, was made with a view to stop the discharge of six untreated wastewater discharges into the municipal wastewater into the Murinskiy Stream. Neva equivalent to about one thousand cubic • The construction of Okhta Tunnel Collecmeters in total were diverted. Now, the wastetor began. Twenty-one discharges accounting for water goes to Central WWTP to undergo a full 7000 m3/day of wastewater will be diverted in treatment cycle. the first project phase. 9. Replacement of sewers Lately, Vodokanal has paid much attention to replacement of sewers. in 2011–2015 Replacement of sewers in 2011–2015 Sewers 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 6. Design of sludge incineration systems reconstruction project at Central WWTP Sewers replaced, km 69.9 116.3 68 55.3 56.8 The sludge incineration plant (SIP) at sludge to landfills, Vodokanal completed the deCentral WWTP is one of the world’s biggest sign of two incineration lines at Central WWTP, and has been in operation for 18 years. The selected home-made equipment, and concluded operating time of the SIP’s main process units a supplementary agreement for the project is 10-12 years. In 2015, to ensure incineration updating in terms of import substitution. of 100% of sludge and to stop disposal of 138 139 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Future 10. Design and construction of sewer networks and facilities for small Development communities In 2015, construction and rehabilitation The construction of off-site water and of Wastewater Disposal System of the centralized sewerage system in the sewer networks to connect the new developsettlement of Volodarskiy were completed. ments “Tsvetnoy Gorod” and “Ruchyi-7” As a result, the wastewater was diverted to is underway. South-West WWTP. The construction of combined sewerage The designs of vacuum technology based for Konnaya Lakhta area in the northern coastal sewer systems for the settlements of Martypart of the city is going on. shkino, Lisiy Nos, Toriky and Molodezhnoye are completed. To mitigate negative impacts on the environment and to ensure consistent quality of treated effluent in 2016, Vodokanal has to implement actions as follows: 1) further diversion of direct discharges 4) completion of aeration tanks 5 and 6; 11. Import substitution from combined sewerage system, including: commencement of reconstruction project • further construction of Okhta Collector, for aeration tanks 1 and 2 at Central WWTP, In 2015, import substitution activities Construction of two incineration Stage 1; commencement of reconstruction project for were carried out under the reconstruction and lines at Central WWTP • further construction of networks primary clarifiers and the flocculant preparamodernization projects for the main treatment for diversion of untreated wastewater distion facility in the Central WWTP sludge treatThe equipment of the existing sludge charges in Petrogradskiy District (the Karpovka ment building (transition to a single-agent plants, water and sewerage networks and incineration plants in St. Petersburg is 90% embankment); flocculant); tunnel collectors as listed in Vodokanal’s Target foreign-made. Today, the import substitution • construction of sewer networks for 5) further construction of the new wasteInvestment Program. Formerly, foreign-made policy revealed that many types of equipment, diversion of untreated wastewater discharges water treatment facilities in Molodezhnoye equipment was generally used in most projects. such as boilers, lifting machines, screw conveyin Petrogradskiy District (the eastern part of community; The revision of projects for construction ors, mixers, compressors, turbines, etc., could Krestovskiy Island, Dinamo ave.); 6) completion of design and start of conof Okhta Collector, wastewater treatment fabe supplied by national manufacturers. • further reconstruction of Martyshkistruction of two new sludge incineration lines cilities in the settlement of Molodezhnoye, etc. The use of domestic equipment including chemno sewage pumping station (SPS) and the at Central SIP; with the aim to substitute imported equipment ical pumps under the project was approved by wastewater distribution system from the SPS 7) further work on sludge recycling to has shown that it is possible to use domestic the German partners. However, some importto Petrodvorets WWTP to enable diversion of obtain an environmentally safe product and products instead of imported (also high-tech) ed equipment, such as sludge pumps, sludge combined sewage from the town of Lomonto unload sludge storage beds at Severniy equipment in almost every case. The import conveying platforms, sludge driers, vapour osov into the sewerage system (now it is Landfill. substitution activities reduced Vodokanal’s condensers, and gas/water injectors, will still discharged untreated); dependence on foreign suppliers. be used as it is not manufactured in Russia. • construction of wastewater distribution The construction of Okhta Tunnel Collector system to divert the ObschMet Discharge to In 2015, extensive work was done to select equipment is one of the key projects under the untreated SPS no. 9; of Russian manufacturers (pumps, propeller-type wastewater discharge closure program. The • start of sewer network design to divert mixers, aeration systems, valves, penstocks) project will use penstocks of national manuthree direct discharges into the Okkerville River; for the project “Construction of wastewater facture (RUS Group, St. Petersburg), however, • start of sewer network construction treatment facilities in the settlement of application of German-made protective matefrom Reshetnikovo and Krasavitsa communities Molodezhnoye”. As a result of the import substitution rial (Konusit) is still an open issue. Currently, to the town of Zelenogorsk; efforts, 80% of equipment for the project will Vodokanal is making tests and selecting an • completion of the wastewater diversion be Russian-made. optimal technical solution and domestic materisystem between the sewer basins of Metalals for biocorrosion protection of tunnel sewers lostroy and Central WWTP. in cooperation with Russian companies, such as 2) reconstruction of stormwater system NPO STRIM (Moscow), OOO Tekhpolymer under the Murinskiy Park Development Pro(Krasnoyarsk), OOO SNIP (St. Petersburg), gram including the diversion of seven runoff OOO GIS (St. Petersburg), etc. discharges; 3) completion of the mechanical and biological treatment facilities reconstruction at Northern WWTP, Stage 2; 140 141 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 The following measures will be taken to improve reliability and security of wastewater services: Revision of the St. Petersburg Water and 1) Construction of looped tunnel colFurther works to create a wastewater lectors and a wastewater diversion system management system in St. Petersburg that Wastewater Master Plan for between sewage basins: will ensure optimal hydraulic modes in the • start of the 4800m looped TSC consewerage and improved energy efficiency of the Period up to 2025 with struction project in Basseynaya str. The project aims to ensure reliable wastewater disposal the centralized wastewater disposal system. The following should be done to achieve this an Outlook to 2030 services in Moskovskiy and Frunzenskiy disgoal: tricts and to enable inspection and repairs of • installation of wastewater metering and collectors in Blagodatnaya str. and Krasnoputiquality control instruments with an automatic In 2016, the St. Petersburg The Master Plan was revised lovskaya str.; data transfer capability; • start of a 608.2m shunt pipe con• grouping of consumers by sewer basins; Water and Wastewater Master as follows: struction from shaft 1/27 (33, Obukhovskoy Oborony ave.); • calculation of chemical balance for the wastewater disposal system to optimize the Plan for the Period up to 2025 1) The wastewater-related sections were harmonized with the documents adopted in • start of penstock reconstruction in shaft pollutants load on treatment facilities and with an Outlook to 2030 (the MasSt. Petersburg in 2013-2015, such as: 44bis of the backup collector leading to Beliy water bodies. Island to allow reconstruction of the main influter Plan) will be revised in consid• economic and social development strategy for St. Petersburg up to 2030; ent collector of Central WWTP. The following should be done to calculate eration of the documents adopted • the St. Petersburg State Program “Inte2) Construction of ventilation and gas the chemical balance: cleaning system for the tunnel collectors and • investigate how specific pollutants in St. Petersburg in 2015 and the grated development of municipal infrastructure, energy and energy saving in St. Petersburg” the SPS. influence the biocenosis activity of the biologchanges made to the city planning for 2015-2020 where completion dates and 3) Reconstruction of tunnel sewage ical treatment process at municipal treatment collectors: plants; projects. volume of financing are specified for each action. Completion dates have been changed for • start of TSC no. 3 reconstruction along • investigate how the discharge of unIn 2015, the Master Plan approved reconstruction projects at Central and Northern the embankments of the River Moyka and the treated surface runoff influences the condition by the Act of the St. Petersburg Government WWTPs, wastewater treatment facilities in Kryukov Canal in the historical center of the of water bodies; no. 989 dated 11.12.2013 was revised for Kolpino and Pontonniy, and the Okhta Collector city; • continue to liaise with manufacturers the first time after the approval (the revision construction project; • start of the Zelenogorsk WWTP’s influwith the aim of developing action plans to mitiwas approved by the Act of the St. Petersburg • approved area planification projects. ent collector reconstruction; gate negative impacts on the environment. Government no. 856 dated 25.09.2015). 2) Construction of treatment facilities for • start of TSC no. 3 reconstruction on the The revision was made with a view the satellite town “Yuzhniy”. River Moyka embankment; The following actions are planned to create a model water and wastewater mas3) Under the Master Plan, the length • further construction of sewage collector to ensure access to centralized sewerage ter plan in terms of strategic planning of the of the looping tunnel collectors and backup and networks to dispose wastewater from the for the citizens: St. Petersburg utility infrastructure. collectors will be reduced. Such reduction was hydraulic-fill areas on Vasilievskiy Island. • further construction of combined sewermade possible due to Vodokanal’s continuous 4) Reconstruction of sewer networks. age to dispose wastewater from the northern monitoring of achievements in the field of coastal area “Konnaya Lakhta”; water and sewerage services. • construction of wastewater facilities as Moreover, Vodokanal is planning to continue required for connection of consumers under The information on centralized sewerage systems – combined and separate domestic import substitution activities in respect of its relevant contracts. sewerage and separate rainwater sewerage – has been revised. wastewater-related construction and rehabilitation projects pursuant to the Decree of the Russian President “On the national security strategy for the Russian Federation up to 2020”. 142 143 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Specialized Vehicles and Equipment Age of vehicles 900 As of 1 January 2016, Vodokanal has the 800 794 Vodokanal had following equipment on 700 874 vehicles. the balance sheet: 600 • compact mobile boiler units (STEAMRA500 464 497 479 Types of vehicles TOR, MNT700, MNS700) as a substitute for 435 447 Including: outdated ADU steam generators, to thaw out 400 383 374 • 167 specialized van trucks to transport fire hydrants and stormwater tanks in the winter Types of vehicles As of 1 Jan 2016 workers and equipment; 300 period; Passenger vehicles 38 • 118 dump trucks; • 1 ASTEC DD2024 boring machine; 200 159 • 111 units of road construction equipment • 2 UNIVERSAL HDD mod. UNI 60*70 hori110 88 103 Freight vehicles: 309 including 40 JCB loader-excavators; 100 70 70 zontal directional drilling machines (truck-mount28 40 5 • 49 specialized combined vehicles Scania, ed); 0 9 Dump truck 118 Mercedes, MAN; as of 01.01.2010 as of 01.01.2013 as of 01.01.2014 as of 01.01.2015 as of 01.01.2016 • 1 VOLKSWAGEN 2EKE2 CRAFTER Flatbed truck 44 • 29 steam generators (STEAMRATOR special van – Mobile Tele-inspection LaboratoUnder 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years Over 5 years МНТ700); ry. The mobile laboratory for diagnostics and Van truck 139 • 24 tank trailers for drinking water supply; examination of networks using high-tech robotic • 376 other vehicles. Age of vehicles by type as of 31 December 2015 Long trailers 8 video systems reduces the examination time and 350 improves the accuracy of defect detection. Specialized vehicles: 315 Vodokanal has on its • 2 vacuum excavators SuperVac 2000 on the basis of FREIGHTLINER. The use of these Van trucks to trans167 balance sheet 13 diesel power machines has reduced the number of vehicles 300 port workers plants including 1,250/1,000 involved into repair of damage at water and sewVacuum-type vehicles 2 erage networks from 5 to 3 units at the same 250 kVA/kW (prime rating) mobile site. Also vacuum excavators work perfectly Sewage suction trucks 27 diesel-electric container-type in restrained urban conditions. It takes a few 200 minutes to deploy the equipment on the spot. 283 206 Combined trucks plants (C1400 D5, 3 units). Within minutes, an excavator removes soil from (Scania, Mercedes, 49 MAN) When cold water supply is interthe defect area by means of a powerful suction mechanism. 150 Other 70 rupted during network repairs, At the same time, the vacuum mechanism Buses 24 trailer tanks are used to deliver operates very carefully without interfering with, 100 73 Road construction drinking water to the citizens. or damaging underground utilities. 28 50 102 111 machinery 36 49 26 36 15 Trailers, semi-trailers 77 0 2 7 2 6 1 Road Trailers Passenger Fright Specialized Total 874 vehicles vehicles vehicles Buses construction machinery and semitrailers Under 1 year (2015) 1–3 years (2014–2013) 3–5 years (2012–2011) Over 5 years (since 2010) 144 145 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 In 2015, within the frame of the import substitution programme Vodokanal purchased two locally manufactured Backup Power Supply full-circle shovels (Е170W) which technical characteristics were not worse than characteristics of foreign prototypes. Vodokanal also purchased homeproduced equipment for repair works: Vodokanal is planning to upgrade and develop its vehicle fleet. The Company is planning for Vodokanal’s Facilities • АМ1600 ВС washer for cleaning large to convert to vehicles equipped with EURO-4 units and vehicles; (or higher) diesel engines with improved technical • a set of 2 battery conditioners with capabilities, and to use multifunction transport Svetoch-04-06 desulfation device and 1 battery units thus reducing the number of vehicles in its condition analyzer. fleet. A backup power supply system consisting of mobile and stationary diesel-electric power units (0.4/6/10 kV) has been operated by Vodokanal since 2013. The vehicles to be procured are the products of Russian manufacturers, including: With the backup system in place, Vodokanal can, if power outage occurs, ensure Thus, the functioning of the backup power pump operation to maintain water head in supply system made it possible to mainthe networks up to 10 – 15 m, stand-alone • 14 emergency vans with improved • 3 sludge suction vehicles on KAMAZ operation of WTPs to supply water from clean tain the quality of services provided by chassis capabilities, providing more comfort for 65115-3082 chassis, with EURO-4 (or higher) the teams transported. The emergency vans will diesel engines, with improved technical capabiliwater tanks during 12 hours, and wastewater Vodokanal under the conditions of external pumping to treatment plants. replace the outdated emergency vans on ZIL ties, – to replace outdated KO-510 petrol-fueled The installation of diesel-generators at effects on the power supply system of the chassis; sludge suction vehicles on ZIL-433362 chassis; • 4 Amkodor 333B front-end shovel load• 1 mobile three-phase laboratory for testWTPs led to a 1.53 million kWh reduction Company. ers to replace outdated TO-28 loaders; ing (low and medium voltage) power and cable of power consumption by pumps, because • 5 KAMAZ 65115-6058-23 (A4) rear-dump networks and locating failures, with high-tech diesel-generators at Southern WTP, Main WTP, trucks equipped with EURO-4 (or higher) diesel equipment to perform water networks tele-diagNorthern WTP, Volkovskaya WTP and Kolpino engines, with improved technical capabilities, – nostics, – to replace 3990-0000010 laboratory WTP were equipped with continuously-operatto replace old dump trucks with EURO-1,2 enon PAZ-320540 chassis with a petrol engine; ed variable-speed drives. gines (KAMAZ-55111S, KAMAZ -65115); • 1 track-type bulldozer TM10.10 GST9 – In 2015, the backup power supply system • 1 vehicle with a rope transfer, equipped to replace outdated B10M.0111-EH bulldozer; enabled to mitigate the emergencies on power with EURO-4 (or higher) diesel engine, with im• 2 crawler-mounted full-circle shovels supply network and generated energy for proved technical capabilities, – to replace outdat(18-20 tons) – to replace outdated EK-12, ET-18 232 hours and 36 minutes, ensured full-scale ed KAMAZ 53229S vehicle with Euro-1 motor; shovels. operation of the facilities in the course of the • 1 telescope mobile self-propelled manlift scheduled works and generated energy for alPSS on KAMZA-43253 chassis, equipped with most 31 hours, maintained the required power EURO-4 (or higher) diesel engines, with improved supply level at water and wastewater facilities technical capabilities – to replace AGP-18.02E on when the actual power supply was reduced by chassis ZIL-433362 with a petrol engine; grid operators and when some emergencies on the network were eliminated. 146 147 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Customer Service Customer Installation of water meters with remote data transfer capability will enable to: Service • manage water supply of the building in real-time, determine optimal parameters of cold Water meters with remote data transfer capability are installed by Vodokanal under in 2015 drinking water supply to the building; • ensure reliable recording of water consumption volumes in the building; the data can the automated water supply management be used for prompt localization of emergencies system project for the Southern Water and for the settlement of accounts. Supply Zone. Customer service is one of the most important and prioritized areas of Vodokanal activities. Direct Contracts Given the positive experience of “one conVodokanal divisions (Department for tact” customer centers in St. Petersburg and in Service Connections and the Payment Centre), with Citizens consideration of customers’ calls and proposals, which were located previously at three different Vodokanal interacts with its customers through premises, today are placed in a single building of In 2015, according to the provisions estab164 of the Housing Code of the Russian Fedthe Customer Service Centre using the same the Customer Service Centre. lished by the legislation of the Russian Federeration, clause 17 of the Rules of provision of “one contact” principle. The Customer Service Centre has a cusation on public services (direct management public services to owners and users of premises On the grounds of “one contact” principle tomer floor with a comfortable waiting area of the apartment building, apartment building in apartment buildings and houses, approved by Vodokanal interacts with customers to connect and an electronic queuing system. Customers management form is not selected, the building the Decree of the Russian Federation Governthem to the centralized cold water supply and may look through the printed materials about management form is selected, the building manment no. 354 dated 6 May 2011). sewerage systems, conclude cold water supply Vodokanal operations and watch video-films agement form has not been yet implemented), In the business practice of the Company, and wastewater disposal contracts, receive about Vodokanal environmental projects. Vodokanal processed the contractual relaVodokanal may conclude direct contracts with meter readings, charge for the provided services The Customer Service Centre offers additional tionship with regard to cold water supply and citizens or collect direct payments from the owThroughout and issue invoices, interact with customers in services: scanning of the documents needed for sewerage services with owners of commercial ners of apartment buildings (the Article 155 of the 2015, Vodokanal arrears (including identification of the cause of the execution of cold water supply and wasteand residential apartment buildings (the Article Housing Code of the Russian Federation). debt, development and implementation of debt water disposal service contracts, copying of the installed mepayment plan). documents from Vodokanal archive and obtaintering devices In November 2015, the Customer Service ing the information from the open information equipped with Centre was opened within working distance of sources of the state authorities (in particular, the remote data Summary of Direct Contracts and Payments Ploshchad Lenina metro station (19, Komsomola information which is necessary for the execution ( as of 31 December 2015) transfer funcstr., St. Petersburg). of cold water supply and wastewater disposal tion on the cusThe Customer Service Centre provides service contracts). tomers’ side. a package of services to the customers including In 2015, Vodokanal launched in a full scale execution of permitting documentation for the “Customer Personal Accounts” which can be DIRECT CONTRACTS connection of buildings to the centralized cold used to apply for connections, change or termiNumber of apartment buildings, which owners (users) 47 water supply and sewerage systems (issuance nation of cold water supply and wastewater disconcluded direct contracts (including 7 houses with the number of flats over 30) of technical specifications, execution of service posal service contracts, to insert meter readings connection contracts, issuance of certificates and receive information about amounts owed. DIRECT PAYMENTS confirming the fulfilment of the connection conIn 2015, the online payment for water Number of apartment buildings, which owners (users) ditions) and cold water supply and wastewater services via the Company’s website became 7 made direct payments to Vodokanal disposal service contracts. available for physical entities (owners of private residential houses, individual entrepreneurs). 148 149 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Volumes Reduction of water supply volumes for of Sales budgetary organization has been stipulated by law. According to the Federal Law no. 261-FZ dated 23 November 2009 “On energy saving and increasing of energy efficiency” and the Decree of the Russian Federation Ministry of EcoThe results of Vodokanal activities in 2013-2015 show nomic Development no. 591 dated 24 October Starting from a certain period, budgetary institutions 2011 “About the procedure for determining the a stable reduction in cold water consumption by customers. reduction of the volumes of resources consumed (acting in comparable conditions) are required to by state (municipal) institutions in comparable reduce the water consumption volume during a 5 year conditions”, budgetary institutions are obliged to period by at least 15% of the actual water volume concarry out energy audits each 5 years. sumed in the previous year, and the annual reduction of the water volume should be not less than 3%. The diagram illustrates the reduction in water consumption over the last three years. Volumes of water and wastewater services sales for 2013–2015, in physical units (‘000 m3) 650,000 600,000 550,000 500,000 569,934.4 617,641.7 616,403.7 544,120.9 519,498.2 584,187.5 450,000 400,000 350,000 300,000 2013 2014 2015 Water supply Wastewater disposal Volumes of water consumed were Water sales reduction for reduced by 8.8% in the last three “Other Consumers” years. Reduction of sales in 2015 category is caused by: amounted to 4.5%. • saving fuel and energy resources by the Summarizing the results of the report Major impact on the reduction companies; period, major reduction of water consumption Water supply reduction trend may be • application of resource-saving technolovolumes was achieved by health care facilities, of surface runoff volume is produced gies (for instance, application of water recycling); kindergartens and secondary schools. observed for both “Service Providers to House• modernization of equipment and technoWastewater volume from cold and hot by the following factors: holds” category (population) and Other Consumlogical processes of industrial companies; water supply directly depends on water supply • reduction of surface runoff due to the ers category. • elimination of breakdowns and leakages volumes. Therefore, wastewater volume from decrease of atmospheric precipitations; Reduction of water supply volumes for the in in-house networks; cold and hot water supply is characterized by • calculation of volumes in line with new “Service Providers to Households” category is • cut down of production volumes and similar factors as the water supply volume. guidelines; a result of application by housing organizations number of orders; Surface runoff volumes directly depend • installation of wastewater metering of comprehensive measures to improve ener• termination of the production operations on the amount of atmospheric precipitations devices. gy-savings and energy efficiency, including minby the customer or change of the type of operaas compared to the actual amounts in previous imization of water losses in in-house networks, tion by the customer; years. Moreover, the Guidelines for the calculacontrol over the water consumption, rational • removal of major production operations tion of the volume of the received (transported) water consumption by population through to the suburbs or to other districts of St. Peterssurface runoffs came into force on 10 March the installation of water meters for cold and burg. 2015 as approved by the Decree of the Ministry hot water. of Construction, Housing and Communal Services no. 639/pr dated 17 October 2014. 150 151 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 The structure of accounts receivable by customer categories as of 1 January 2016 ‘000 RUB Accounts receivable Share of Customer category by period outstanding accounts as of Accounts 1 Jan. 2016 Less than 1 Less than 2 Over 2 months receivable in overall structure month months Receivable Providers of services to households 4,364,489 1,053,277 501,286 2,809,925 66.1% Energy suppliers 103,874 99,138 1,125 3,611 1.6% St. Petersburg budget 28,917 24,146 3,897 874 0.4% In order to improve the collection of payments, settlement Federal budget 539,832 61,595 48,909 429,329 8.2% of any receivables and prevention of the receivables increase, Organizations in Lenin713,665 59,403 21,213 633,050 10.8% grad Region Vodokanal has developed and implemented the mechanism of Others 397,176 232,646 28,620 135,910 6% individual interaction with customers aimed to ensure timely Industry 457,604 316,558 45,084 95,962 6.9% collection of payments for the provided services. Total 6,605,557 1,846,763 650,134 4,108,660 100% The Company monthly approves individual As of 1 January 2016 the accounts receivpayment collection plans split by customer catable amounted to RUB 6,605,556,800. The diaActions Taken to Reclaim Receivables egories and monitors the observance of such gram shows the structure of accounts receivable plans on a weekly basis. as of 1 January 2016 (MRUB). To avoid delays in payments and overdue • notifications to customers that the accounts receivable Vodokanal implements Company is entitled to limit and (or) stop, a set of actions including: on a temporary basis, the provision of cold wa• telephone negotiations with customers ter supply/wastewater disposal services; further to find out the reasons for non-payment and limitation and stoppage of water supply and (or) agree on possible payment dates; wastewater services; the structure of accounts receivable as of 1 January 2016 (MRUB). • reconciliation of volumes of the provided • agreeing on the repayment of outstandpublic services (identification of discrepancies ing debt in installments; in the cold water/received wastewater volumes • interaction with state authorities (ex0.4% (or the absence of such discrepancies)); change of information, working meetings, partic8.2% St. Petersburg 1.6% • written notifications to warn about the ipation in the work of multiagency commissions) Federal budget budget breach of contractual obligations and overdue Energy suppliers (district administrations, governmental author539.8 28.9 payments; ities of the Leningrad Region, local authorities, 103.9 • reconciliation of payments and clarifying Housing Committee, main authorities responsito customers the reasons for debt accumulation; ble for distribution of budgetary funds); 10.8% • working meetings with representatives • recovery of accounts receivable through Organizations of customers-debtors to agree on payment due the court proceedings. in Leningrad Region dates; 713.7 6.0% 66.1% Other Providers of services 397.2 to households 4,364.5 Temporary Limitation and Stoppage of Cold 6.9% Industry Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal 457.6 Services for Customers-Debtors The share of the customer category “Provigion” is 10.8%, the share of customers financed by The laws of the Russian Federation provide Over 12 months of 2015, Vodokanal forwarded 1,235 notifications ders of Services to Households” is 66.1% in the the Federal Budget (the Russian Federation Minisfor temporary limitation and stoppage of cold to customers-debtors warning about the impending temporary limitation overall structure of accounts receivable, the share try of Defense including OAO “Slavyanka”) is 8.2% water supply and wastewater disposal services and stoppage of services because of the customers’ debts totaling RUB of the category “Organizations in Leningrad Reand the share of the other categories is 15%. in case of customers’ debt. 140,347,100. Upon such notifications 1,067 customers repaid their debts Such measure is exceptional and is applied in the total amount of RUB 88,231,100. by the Company when all other actions aimed Provision of services was temporary limited and stopped for 114 at the settlement of a debt have been exhaustfacilities because of the customers’ debts totaling RUB 14, 851,900. With ed or when the customer breaches the agreed regard to 41 facilities Vodokanal received money in the total amount of repayment of the outstanding debt. RUB 7,895,100. 152 153 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Reclamation of Receivables through the Court Proceedings Connection The Company intensifies the In 2015, 4,664 lawsuits were brought to the courts to collect debts totaling RUB In 2015, Vodokanal introduced and has been applying new approaches to debt enforceto Water Distribution reclamation 2,756,082,500. As of 1 January 2016: ment, including: of receivables • the courts delivered judgments at 2,372 • collection of debts of physical entities from all lawsuits in favor of the Company to collect without recourse to the courts is performed by the amount of RUB 1,242,815,200 (RUB means of judicial orders. During the period and Sewerage categories 204,318,700 were paid prior to the judgment); of 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, the of customers. • 707 lawsuits were paid in full prior total amount of RUB 6,090,700 was collected; to the court judgment in the amount • the debts not exceeding RUB 300,000 of RUB 361,850,400; • 13 amicable agreements were concluded for the total amount of RUB 44,349,000. are reclaimed through the summary procedure. In 2015, 2790 statements of claim were sent to arbitration courts under the summary procedure Networks In 2015, 205 claims in the total amount of for the total amount of RUB 300,691,000; RUB 74,758,600 were sent to the respondents • consolidation of claims under several conand had been paid before the lawsuits were tracts and with regard to different facilities into taken to the court. one legal action. It enables to reduce the number In 2015, the lawsuits brought in the courts of claims, review duration and collection period. prior to 2015 were completed; as a result 282 In 2015, such consolidation was applied to 27 Vodokanal issues authorizations for connection judgments were made in favor of Vodokanal to claims totaling RUB 825,100; collect RUB 249,433,800. • introduction of a new online payments of new (reconstructed) facilities to municipal water Thus, totally in 2015 (as of 1 January 2016) 2,654 judgments on reclamation of RUB service on the web-site of Vodokanal; • launching “Customer Personal Account” distribution and sewerage networks. 1,492,249,000 were issued. on the web-site of Vodokanal which enables to As of 1 January 2016, 1549 lawsuits are insert meter reading in a timely manner, receive This includes the issuance of: pending in courts to collect debt and penalties information about water service calculations and for the total amount of RUB 881,249,500. volumes, apply for technical specifications, conclu• technical specifications; sion (change or termination) of contracts; • conditions for connection (utility connecCustomers’ applications for permitting documents are • submission of the request to impose tion) to municipal water and sewerage networks; received by the Customer Service Centre at the address: 19, temporary restriction on the departure from the • connection (utility connection) contracts Komsomola str. Russian Federation; to municipal water and sewerage network; • from 9:00 till 17:00 (Monday-Thursday); • application of court enforcement actions • project validation; • routine break from 12:00 till 12:30. towards physical entities; • certificates of conformity of the built (reThe one contact principle is used. • sale of the distrained property. constructed) facilities with connection conditions. Court Enforcement Action Over 12 months of 2015, RUB previous year (Over 12 months of 2014, the 1,183,636,400 were collected which is collected amount was RUB 665,690,000). Other visiting addresses for the 78% higher than in the similar period of the customers are: • Room 218, 15 Saperniy pereulok, Kolpino, from 9:00 till 18:00 (lunch break is from 12:0 till 13:00); • Room 12, 1 Pereulok Suvorovtsev, Petrodvorets, from 9:00 till 18:00 Court Enforcement Actions towards (lunch break is from 12:0 till 13:00). Physical Entities Applications for obtaining The From 1 March 2015 till 31 December • 13 were rejected (in accordance with the specifications can be implemented 2015 the Federal Bailiff Service forwarded actions 53 requests to impose temporary restriction Resolution of the Plenum of the RF Supreme Court submitted via the Internet no. 50 dated 17 November 2015, the temporary resulted on the departure from the Russian Federation: restriction on the departure abroad shall not be (www.vodokanal.spb.ru/ in the • 34 requests were accepted; • 6 requests are under consideration; imposed during the period given for voluntary performance). dlya_abonentov/lichnyj_kabinet/). collection of RUB 1,608,000. 154 155 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Annual summary of the issued permitting documents for the connection to municipal water supply and sewerage systems Call Type of works Number of the prepared documents The number of documents in 2015 compared Centre Period 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 to 2014 Technical specifications, utility connection conditions, initial 5,143 4,591 5,333 4,285 2,461 –42.57% data 7,250 6,987 8,623 Vodokanal of St. Petersburg has its twenty-four-hour Other documents 6,211 7,803 4,623 4,478 2,400 –46.40% Hot Line Service to receive calls from the customers (phone: +7 (812) 305-09-09). Reviewed design documents 3,169 2,950 3,456 3,794 4,120 4,211 4,372 7,093 62.24% *For more details see also “Interaction with Customers” Section. Prepared utility connection 123 311 314 476 424 1,276 1,866 46.24% contracts In 2004-2014, the implementation and In 2004-2015, the Call Centre received a big number use of the calls recording and handling system, of calls (general inquiries or consultations). Concluded utility connection as well as other improvements of this process, 242 181 260 374 333 1,115 1,435 28.70% 97,000 calls were received in 2015. contracts led to reduction of call duration from 12 to 2 minutes with the maximum waiting time of 2 Performed utility connection minutes (in peak periods, when up to 200 calls 1 5 59 123 252 216 232 7.41% Infromation Inquiries contracts per hour are received). At present, the average time of waiting for the operator’s reply is 2–20 Letters confirming the issuance seconds. 150,000 of conformity certificates with 489 466 489 363 370 330 –10.81% The number of inquiries related to Vodokanal 120,493 utility connection conditions 125,000 116,869 activities has increased over these years. It can 111,273 108,700 112,576 be explained by the increase of a number of 97,398 100,000 93,084 new customers and the growing interest of the 83,983 84,355 The scheme of issuing authorizations for connection of facilities to municipal water Time periods for issuing permitcitizens in the Company’s operations. 75,000 73,395 and sewerage networks ting documents by Vodokanal: The number of complaints 50,000 55,659 55,047 Receiving specifications* • specifications – 7 working days (by law – received by the Hot Line Service 25,000 14 working days); reduced from 30,146 • utility connection conditions – 14 working 0 days (by law – 30 working days); to 23,308 in 2004–2015. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • utility connection contracts – 5 working Receiving utility connection days (by law – 30 working days); conditions and concluding the • project approval – 10 working days (the term of the project review is not regulated Low Water Head Complaints connection contract by law; • certificate of conformity of built facilities The most serious complaints are those 3,000 with connection conditions – 7 working days related to low cold water head. In 2004, 2,673 (the term of issuing the certificate is not regulat2,673 complaints about low water head were 2,500 ed by law). received, and in 2015 there were only 8 legitiApproval of project documents mate complaints, i.e. the number of complaints 2,000 has reduced more than 334 times over 12 years. 1,500 Receiving the certificate of conformity The number of complaints 1,000 839 730 of the built facility to utility related to blockages of the yard 500 378 connection conditions sewers has reduced 2 times in 218 127 153 156 38 25 14 8 2004-2015. 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * – If the client has determined the required installed capacity, the receipt of specifications shall not be required. 156 157 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Customers’ In the end of 2015, Vodokanal conducted its usual opinion surveys among the citizens Satisfaction of St. Petersburg regarding the services provided by Vodokanal, i.e. end-user Survey satisfaction survey. The data was collected by street interviewRespondents are grouped by age, gender, social status, district of residence, etc. to ensure End-consumers of cold water and wastewater services ing of 1000 persons of all age groups and different social status, living in different city districts. representative sampling. are the citizens of St. Petersburg, individual entrepreneurs Opinion surveys among citizens of St. Petersburg are carried out annually. The objective and legal entities of different ownership. of such surveys is to find out to what extent the The survey-2015 results showed that the end-users are satisfied with the quality of services and social projects of Vodokanal. By analyzing overwhelming majority of respondents the results of such surveys Vodokanal can identify (82%) rated high Vodokanal’s work: 67% problems, as the citizens see them, and improve its performance in relevant areas. of respondents gave 4 scores (according In 2015, St. Vodokanal actively involves consumers in discussing issues arising in connection with Since 2010, Vodokanal has conducted to a 5-score system), 15% of respondents Petersburg opinion surveys in the form of outdoor polling Vodokanal water supply and wastewater disposal. Such (previously, Vodokanal did phone surveys). Quesgave 5 scores and 16% of respondents interaction is carried out on a regular basis in conducted sethe form of an open dialogue (regular meettionnaires are developed on the basis of a Likert-type scale (rating scale). Mathematigave 3 scores. lective polling of its customings, working groups, consultations). cal-statistical methods are used to analyze the The Company provides ongoing monicollected data (e.g. scalogram analysis). ers (budgetary toring of satisfaction of both customers and organizations, end-consumers. providers of Questionnaires used to survey customservices to ers’ satisfaction with water and wastewater The survey demonstrated that the have ever called the Hot Line Service were households, services are approved by St. Petersburg majority of citizens (84%) were satisfied with satisfied with its performance. tenants, indusVodokanal’s Standard no. 18.2-2010 “Interaccold water quality. 17% of respondents were More than three quarters (78%) of the city trial companies). tion with customers (clients) during rendering “absolutely satisfied”, 30% – “very satisfied” residents installed water meters in their flats. 307 customers of services. Information support to customers and 37% – “satisfied”. (In comparison with 2014 this parameter has participated in (clients)”. Satisfaction with regard to specific paramincreased by more than 10%). The majority of polling. eters of cold water remained persistently high. those who had the meters (90%) thought that 11.7% (19.8% in 2014) of respondents 87% of respondents were satisfied with odour; they were worthwhile. Another 5% of respondwere not satisfied with the location of custom87.5% – with transparency; 78.7% – with ents were undecided when they were asked to er service offices. The Company analyzes the colour. assess the efficiency of water meters. 5% of results of polling in order to undertake remedial 97% of respondents were satisfied with respondents declared their dissatisfaction with actions. continuous water supply. This parameter is water meters (5%). the most important for the majority of the City residents assessed also the tariffs for St. Petersburg population and characterizes the water and wastewater services. 56.4% of the quality of municipal water supply service. St. Petersburg residents were satisfied with The polling results showed that: In particular, in November 2015 Vodokanal As usual, the satisfaction with cold water tariffs. This parameter has increased by 1.6% opened the Customer Service Centre which is • 85.1% (85.2% in 2014) of customers located in a working distance from the metro head is high. At late 2015, 87% of respondents as compared to 2014. At the same time, 80% were satisfied with it. of respondents could not tell what water tariff were satisfied in general with water supply station and unities several business units of the Company in one office. The satisfaction with quickness of defect applied to them. and wastewater disposal services; The Customer Service Centre gives the rectification increased in 2015 (60% of respondents were satisfied with it in 2015, which • 92.8% (91.4% in 2014) of customers customers the opportunity to fill out the feedback form, propose how to improve the Compawas 10% higher than in the past year). were satisfied with Hot Line Service operny’s operations and leave feedback about the More than 85% of respondents rated high the provision of the information about The survey showed that citizens had positive attitude to work of the Centre employees. ation. repair works and about the timeframe of the social projects of Vodokanal. As usual, the respondents water supply restoration. The satisfaction with ranked high the work of the Universe of Water Museum. diversion of stormwater from in-yard territories 99.3% of respondents were satisfied with the work of remains on a high level (82.4%) among the city the Museum Complex; 97.5% – with the Youth Environmenresidents. tal Centre; 98.9% – with Vodokanal operation of founSt. Petersburg citizens highly appreciate tains and fountain complexes and 88.3% – with activities the operation of Vodokanal’s Hot Line Service targeted to the protection of the Baltic Sea. (telephone: +7 812 305 09 09), which receives calls about the failures in water and sewerage systems and gives reference information about the Company operations. 93% of those who 158 159 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 City Fountains In 2015, Vodokanal The City fountains are in operation from April to October. At the end of the season, all Number of fountains by years 4 St. Petersburg operated fountains are subject to temporary shutdown, 70 4 4 all equipment is removed, sewage pipes are 4 77 fountains and 4 fountain flushed, water supply network valves are 60 Total number of fountain complexes 4 closed, and fountain bowls are cleaned and Total number of fountains complexes. covered. In winter, dismantled equipment is 50 4 4 maintained and prepared for the season, the 40 4 fountains are visited and inspected, snow and 3 litter is removed and waterproofing of the 30 1 60 62 67 77 55 bowls is checked. 41 42 The history of St. Petersburg fountains drovskiy, Rumyantsevskiy and Nikolskiy gardens 20 35 31 33 dates back to 1705. Construction of fountains were the spectacular examples of the fountains 27 is associated with the genius city founder – Peter built in those times. 10 20 17 the Great. The first fountains appeared in the The interest in the city fountains amplified Summer Garden which construction was carried in the 1930s and 1950s of XX century. At that 0 1996 1999 2002 2005 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 out under the Emperor guidance. Peter I dreamed time, full-flowing fountains in Smolniy Garden of his own Versailles and drew the original park (1934) and the memorial fountain “Crown of GloIn the period of 1996-2015 SUE “Vodokanal All fountains design himself. He planned to establish a regular ry” in Moskovskiy Park of Victory (1949), which of St. Petersburg” repaired 36 fountains. Condition of the city fountains and fountain built and architectural park with clear layout and straight became one of the Great Patriotic War Victory As of 31 December 2015, 35 fountains, complexes operated by Vodokanal St. Petersburg reconstructed parkways, neatly trimmed trees and bushes. In monuments, were built. Furthermore, construcwhich were transferred to the Company by SUE Russia the spectacular fountains were located for tion of many small fountains in the yards of the in non-operational condition, are out of the first time ever in four places of the garden. restoring, fast-growing and upgrading city can be “Vodokanal In order to ensure fountains operation, a canal considered as a distinctive feature of the fountain operation. Operational 46 of St. Peterswas dug out and a steam machine pumped water development at that time. The total number of burg” comply from the Bezymyaniy Erik River which later was the fountains in the city exceeded 300. However, Non-operational 35 with existing named the Fontanka. the fountains were gradually deteriorating as no construction, The Summer Garden fountains were plainer maintenance or repairs had been provided over 0Total number 10 of city fountains 20 managed 30 by Vodokanal 40 – 81 50 fountains. sanitary and than in Peterhof, but they embellished the park a long time. Fewer than 20 fountains were in environmental nicely. Later, the fountains of the new capital operation by the end of the century. In 2015, Vodokanal has taken for • the fountain “Lighthouse” in the St. Petersburg 300th Anniversary standards. were constructed in the noblemen’s estates apIn 1996, in order to improve the situation, economic management the fountains at the Park (Lit. L, 74, Primorskiy pr.). pearing on the banks of the Neva, the Fontanka it was decided to transfer the fountains to SUE following addresses: Capital repair works for the fountain “Globe” in Malaya Sadovaya and the Moyka in a great number, however, these “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. 65 fountains were • Lit. A, Block 1, 22 Gospitalnaya str., str. were also completed, the technical equipment and decorative elespaces were closed and fountains were only handed over to Vodokanal operation in the period Pavlovsk; ments were replaced, as well as the clock function was restored. for “private fun”. When landscape parks gained from 1996 to 2015. • Lit. A, Block 1, 4, Slobodskaya str.; Design works were started for capital repair of four fountains in popularity, fountains went out of fashion. But • Lit. A, Block 1, 148, Nevskiy pr.; Kronstadt: “Fish”, “Pearl”, “The Water Carrier”, “Near the Tower”; and the they came back in the second half of XIX century, In 2006, the fountain complex was built in the Moskovskaya Square. The Government • Lit. A, Block 1, 30, Fontanka emb.; fountain in Kolpino near the cinema “Podvig”. when public gardens and parks were opened. • Lit. A, Block 1, 32, Kamennoostrovskiy pr.; The following is planned for 2016: Moreover, the construction of fountains was of St. Petersburg was the Employer and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” performed as the • Lit. A, Block 1, 7, Krasnogo Kursanta str.; • completion of design works, capital repair and start-up of the facilitated by the development of St. Petersburg • Lit. A, Block 1, 57, Liteiniy pr.; fountain near the cinema “Podvig” in Kolpino; water supply system and rapid improvement of General Contractor for this construction. The Company conducted all the necessary • Lit. B, Block 1, 3, Aleksandrovskiy Garden; • commencement of construction and installation works to renoconstruction technologies which resulted in • Lit. G, 13, Karpovka emb.; vate the fountain “Crown of Glory” in Moskovskiy Park of Victory (Lit. F, a significant reduction of the hydraulic structures organizational and a part of construction work. The fountain complex in the Moskovskaya Square • Lit. A, Block 1, 41, Lermontovskiy pr. Block, 188, Moskovskiy pr.);. construction costs. The fountains in AleksanThese fountains were transferred in non-op• commencement of construction and installation works to renoconsists of 11 fountains. Their parameters such Construction of such unusual facilities as fountain as jets height, dynamics, flow rate, change of jets erational condition, the building structures are vate the fountain in Aleksandrovskiy Garden (Lit. F, Block 1, 3, Admiralteiscomplexes has become significant developments illumination color are set by a special software checked and repeatedly inspected, and the litter kiy pr.). in the city landscaping of recent years. The first such program built-in multimedia panel of the control is collected. It is planned to commission the fountains at the following complex was the light and music fountain complex cabinet. Fountain complex operation equipment In 2015, the following fountains were put addresses: is located in four underground rooms. into operation: • Lit. A, Block 1, 30, Fontanka emb.; functioning dynamically in the square in front of • the fountain “Near the Market” • Lit. B, Block 1, 3, Aleksandrovskiy Garden; Finlyandskiy Railway Station. The fountain was opened (559, Primorskoye Shosse, Zelenogorsk); • Lit. A, Block 1, 10, 3rd Krasnoarmeiskaya str. on 22 September 2005 together with the ceremonial • the fountain in Primorsky Victory Park on start-up of South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant. Batareinaya Road, which became a new architecOn this day, the fountain square was visited by the tural dominant of the park; President of Russia Vladimir Putin. 160 161 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Public Toilets In 2015, Vodokanal operated 569 public toilets. tems to ensure the personnel security. Over number of all municipal toilets is equivalent to “1 seat per 557 people”. 500 people are involved in the operation and Overhaul program will give opportunity to meet regulatory requirements maintenance of toilets. and increase the toilets service life. In 2015, installation of modular toilets There are 673 public toilets in the economic management was performed near underground stations and in the places approved by Such types as mobile sanitary and hygienic district administrations. of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, including: complexes on MAZ chassis and modular toilets Toilets are open from 9:00 a.m. till 9:00 p.m. In order to inform the citizens about the location of public toilets, • 215 stationary toilets; with storage containers are operated only in On public holidays toilets are open accordVodokanal in cooperation with the Press Committee undertook meas• 155 modular toilets; seasons with ambient temperature above zero. ing to a special schedule. ure to include the placement of the public toilet addresses into the city • 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexThe number of toilets increases during the advertising program. es installed on vehicle chassis; city festive events since additional mobile toilets Information about public toilets is posted on Vodokanal website • 283 mobile cabins. are provided. Moreover, Vodokanal can extend the open www.vodokanal.spb.ru/kanalizovanie/tualety/ in the section “Interachours if necessary, especially, during public tive map of public toilets”. The map shows all public toilets managed by events. Vodokanal sets up additional mobile the Company. The information about each toilet is specified on the map toilets during the city festivals, such as the New including its type (modular or stationary), whether it is open only in sumYear, Christmas, Victory Day, Day of the City and 180 mer or all the year round, working hours. The nearest toilets can be found 156 157 Scarlet Sails. 160 146 by typing the specific address or just the street name in the search box. In 2015, Vodokanal overhauled two 140 In September 2015, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” 118 122 Vodokanal issues technical specifications toilets. Two toilets were commissioned after 120 116 launched a mobile application for users to find public 105 108 for mandatory construction of public toilets reconstruction. 97 toilets on the map. The application is free of charge; the program is 100 85 in newly-built shopping centers in compliance Under the sub-programme “Development supported by the devices on Android and Apple iOS platforms. It can be 80 with the “Sanitary Rules for public toilets and maintenance of public services and utilities” downloaded via Apple Store and Google Play. All stationary toilets have 60 47 50 arrangements and operation” approved by the of the St. Petersburg State Programme on Imlight boxes with the Company logo and are easily recognizable from a big 40 Deputy of the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of provement and Environment Protection in distance. Modular toilets also have information about their owner. 20 the USSR no. 983-72 dated 19 June 1972. St. Petersburg for the years 2015-2020, overhaul The Order of the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support 0 Today, almost every big shopping center has of 25 toilets is planned till 2020, including the no. 74 dated 9 April 2015 “On Implementing the St. Petersburg Govfree public toilets for all categories of visitors. overhaul of nine stationary public toilets in the ernment Decree no. 295 dated 24 March 2015” sets the charge in the Vodokanal has modern mobile sanitary period from 2016 to 2017. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 amount of 20 Roubles for the public toilets operated by Vodokanal. and hygienic complexes installed on vehicle The reconstructed toilets will be in operation Stationary toilets Modular toilets chassis providing services of better quality for a long time due to the application of modern compared to mobile toilet cabins. Currently, construction methods and use of new materials design works are being carried out to manufacresistant to ambient exposure. ture new mobile sanitary and hygienic complexDevelopment of public toilets network will es to increase the number of public toilets in lead to the increase of the number of toilets in The right of free use of public toilets is granted to: the city districts. operation, extension of the service life, improve• disabled persons and participants • heroes of the USSR, the Russian In 2015, three Vodokanal has been operating public toilets Mobile sanitary and hygienic toilet comment of quality of life of St. Petersburg populaof the Great Patriotic War; Federation, and holders of full set public toilets since 2001. In December 2001, the Order of the plexes and modular toilets help to handle the tion and enhancement of urban environment. • disabled persons of 1, 2 and 3 of Orders of Glory; were transAdministration of St. Petersburg no. 1492-ra situation with public toilets in the central city The standards defined by the set of rules group; disabled persons that have • home front workers; ferred to SUE “On the development of St. Petersburg public districts. “Urban Development. Planning and development restrictions in labor activity of I, II • victims of political repressions; toilet network” was issued. Vodokanal St. PetersPursuant to the Resolution of the City of urban and rural settlements” (SNiP 2.07.01and III degree; • former prisoners of concentra“Vodokanal of burg undertook responsibility for maintenance Landscape Development Department no. 8 89) are used to estimate the number of toilets • combat veterans; tion camps; St. Petersburg” of public toilets owned by the City of St. Pedated 16 June 2011 “On arrangement of public required. In accordance with the rules, the number • citizens awarded the “Resident • military conscripts; for economic of toilets should meet the following requirement: of Sieged Leningrad” badge; • disabled children under 18; tersburg and for contracting repair, renovation toilets in city parks”, SUE “Vodokanal of St. management. or development works. In accordance with the Petersburg” installs modular toilets in public one seat per 1000 people. At present, the • children under 7. All of them Order of the City Property Management Comgreen areas (gardens, parks, garden squares, were included mittee the city public toilets were transferred to boulevards) for every summer season. Places into the SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” for economic of modular toilets are selected taking into acrehabilitation management. Transferring of public toilets to the count the needs of the citizens and city guests program. Company control was necessary as the city public and in accordance with the regulations. toilets network needed to be rehabilitated. Major The outsourced trained personnel work part of the facilities, handed over to the Company in every public toilet operated by the Company, for economic management, is downfallen and in and Vodokanal specialists supervise their work non-operational condition. on a regular basis. The toilets have security sys162 163 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 Permanent Snow-Melting Stations and snow collection points A Permanent Snow-Melting Station big-sized garbage away from the snow melting is a utility system located in sewers and sewchamber. erage networks comprising energy and pumpThe snow melting chamber is a reinforced ing equipment, piping systems and valves, as concrete tank designed to provide necessary well as residential and production areas. The snow melting conditions. Snow is melted in liquid whole system provides 24/7 snow masses flow without mechanical agitation and suspendreceiving, melting and discharge of snow melt ed substances are partially settled. Construction and operation of permanent snow-melting waters into the sewage system with subsequent treatment at Vodokanal wastewater Grit channel is installed next to the melting chamber treating wastewater up to the standstations and snow collection points is an important activity treatment plants. Sewage heat (the average temperature of ards acceptable for domestic sewage system. The flow rate in the melting chamber and sediof Vodokanal. 16-18°C) is used for snow melting in the stations. Wastewater for snow melting is fed via pressure mentation tank ensures settling of inert materials (sand, gravel and other debris); floating garbage pipelines. is removed with special basket screens installed The snow from roadways is delivered by at the end of the grit channel. All settled garbage dump trucks with a body capacity of 10-20 m3. is removed by an excavator during the chamSt. Petersburg is the most highly Two dump tracks can be simultaneously unloaded at the PSMS. Snow masses are unloaded ber cleaning and transported by dump tracks to landfills. After settling, the entire volume of populated city in the Baltic Region. through the intake plant equipped with separator wastewater resulting from snow processing is crushers for crushing ice and snow discharged discharged into the city collector and transported Environmental issues are particularly into the snow melting chamber. Crushing of the to have full treatment cycle at the wastewater acute for the modern megalopolis snow mass accelerates melting process. At the treatment plant. same time, separator crushers intercept and take with five million citizens. Snow, exported from the city highways, on diversification of plants and vegetation In 2015, in addition to ten PSMSs four The total is greatly polluted with coarse substances development. Accumulation of large snow more Permanent Snow-Melting Stations designed (mainly street litter, gravel and sand) and oil masses in the city streets results in environ(previously managed by the city road service capacity products. Soil pollution with oil products causmental problems. In spring and summer, mud companies) were transferred to the Company of 10 PSMS es changes in soil structure, soil geochemical flow and air dust volumes increase having for economic management, as well as two is 59,000 m³/day. properties, as well as has toxic effect on living adverse influence on environment and huPermanent Technically Equipped Snow Collection organisms and long-term negative impact man health. Points were arranged at the Company facilities in Kurortniy district. In 2016, it is planned to commission a new Snow Melting Station located in Sector 9 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has in Shkiperskiy Protok str. focused on a new activity – design and construction of Permanent Snow-Melting Stations (PSMS) – since the end of 2011. In 2014-2015 season Vodokanal operated 10 Permanent Snow-Melting Stations and about 632,500 m³ of snow were processed. 164 165 ANNUAL Results of Activities in 2015 REPORT 2015 PSMS Addresses and Volumes of snow received Designed Capacities Volumes of snow received in the no. Address season of 2015/2016 Maximum volume of snow processed in the 1 2, Oktyabrskaya emb. 212,009.6 Address specified season, m³ 2 77, Peterhofskoye shosse 52,217.5 Lit. A, 1, Admirala Greiga str., Kronstadt 65,274 3 Lit. B, 83, Stachek pr., 62,853.0 Block 5, 24, Obvodnogo Kanala emb., St. Petersburg 120,000 4 Lit. А, 69, Krasnoputilovskaya str., 126,726.2 5 Section 2, Sevastyanova str., Kolpino 28,954.0 Lit. A, Block 2, 127, Gostilitskoe shosse, Peterhof 60,000 6 Lit. A, 45, Rizhskiy pr., 129,429.0 Lit. A, 6, Novo-Nikitinskaya str., St. Petersburg 46,650 7 123, Volkhonskoye shosse 16,536.0 “Sludge Beds”, Lit. A, 93, Lenina pr., Kurortniy District, 8 2, Rybinskya str. 130,239.3 60,000 Zelenogorsk 9 Mebelnaya str./Mebelniy Proezd 153,065.5 Sestroretsk WWTP, 7, Transportnaya str. 30,000 10 9, Kushelevskaya Road 177,517.4 Total for Snow-Melting Stations: 1,089,547.5 Snow is received, stored and naturally melt of the dump up to the height of 6m. When the “Sludge Beds” at the Snow Collection Points. Snow melt water unloading area is full, a bulldozer comes to this 1 26,658.8 Lit. A, 93, Lenina pr., Kurortniy District, Zelenogorsk is discharged into sewage system and transportarea starting to push the snow upwards. Sestroretsk WWTP ed to Vodokanal wastewater treatment plants. The trucks are unloaded in unoccupied space. 2 46,679.0 7, Transportnaya str. The site foundation has watertight coating Filling the site with snow starts from the far end and the site area is banked up. Snow, collected of the site with gradual approach to the site 3 Lit. A, 1, Admirala Greiga str., Kronstadt 54,204.1 from the city streets, is delivered to the snow entry as far as the site is filled. The dump height collection point by trucks, then it is unloaded and is 6 meters, slopes grade is 1:1.5. The slope of 4 Lit. A, 6, Novo-Nikitinskaya str., St. Petersburg 26,354.0 stored. bulldozer snow moving area is 1:3. The snow dump has the form of a 6m high The snow, arriving to the snow collection 5 Block 5, 24, Obvodnogo Kanala emb., St. Petersburg 140,695.9 prism made by a bulldozer. The working area point, contains significant amount of wastes is divided into two parts: unloading area and including large volumes of traffic road sand. 6 Lit. A, Block 2, 127, Gostilitskoe shosse, Peterhof 48,438.0 storage area. The snow mass is dumped out of Therefore, the site is cleaned up and wastes trucks in the unloading area. A bulldozer works in are transported to the landfill in the end of Total for Snow Collection Points: 343,119.0 the storage area moving unloaded snow on top winter period. In 2015–2016 season Vodokanal received, An automatic snow metering system is used to measure the volumes of received snow. In 2015-2016 season, the automatic snow measured and disposed snow masses at The system collects, processes, stores, displays metering system with laser scanning was and transfers the data (tables, report forms, ten Permanent Snow-Melting Stations and receipts, etc.), keeps records of vehicle traffic and introduced at the Snow-Melting Station losix Permanent Technically Equipped Snow the volumes of snow delivered to the snow-meltcated in 2, Rybinskaya str. ing stations. It is an integrated hardware-softCollection Points. The Season 2015–2016 ware system consisting of two levels: level 1 The principle of this automatic snow metering system is the laser scanning of the moving broke the record in terms of received – operator workstation, and level 2 – hardware object at the velocity rate of 5-10 km/h through and software system in Beliy Island. snow volume: ten Snow Melting Stations the frame and pictures recording system. The laser scanner records the object contours every and six Snow Collection Points processed 2–5 cm. The recorded contours are processed. 1,433,000 m³ of snow exceeding the Geometric data of the object width, height and length are used to calculate the snow masses total result of three past seasons. volume. The pilot project of snow mass measuring was acknowledged successful. 166 167 INNOVATIONS 168 169 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 Implementation of New Water and Wastewater Technologies quality parameter is colour. None of the previThe instrument demonstrated good correlaously used online water monitoring devices could tion with the laboratory monitoring results. give reliable measurement results for water The instrument can be used for water quality colour in the Neva. monitoring in the Lake Ladoga – River Neva In 2015, a water quality analyzer manufacsystem. S::can company (Austria) is considering Vodokanal St. Petersburg is implementing up-to-date tured by S::can company (Austria) was tested. production of such instruments in the Russian Federation. technologies on a large scale to ensure provision of high-quality water and wastewater services to its customers and to minimize negative impacts on the environment. 3. Updating the buffer zones project for the surface water sources used by Vodokanal. a) to establish borders of buffer zones and each of their constituent belts; Water Supply In 2015, the buffer zones project for the b) to draw up a plan of water protection surface water sources used by Vodokanal was actions with a view to improve the sanitary state approved. The project aims to establish borders of buffer zones and to prevent pollution of water and procedures of the buffer zones around 1. Implementation of novel equipment to cal transmission measurement instrument was water supply sources, and to approve actions sources, specifying relevant business entities in to be supplied for the project. However, in 2015, St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region; control the UV dose under the UV disinfecit was decided to test the Russian AF1.001 to be taken within three zone belts, specifying c) to define rules and procedures for busicompletion dates, responsible organizations tion system modernization project for Northinstrument produced by a Petersburg company in line with the import substitution policy. and financing sources, in particular: ness activities within the area of three SIP buffer zone belts. ern, Southern, Volkovskaya, Main, Kolpino As the UV systems had been installed in the existing WTP schemes, problems arose and Petrodvorets WTPs and Moskovskaya because of the lack of space for the installation and Frunzenskaya pumping stations. of a standard flow monitoring device (flow meter) Wastewater Disposal at each UV chamber to maintain effective UV The key elements of the drinking water UV dosage. However, Vodokanal specialists found a disinfection control system are industrial analyzgood solution. A double-channel flow metering ers for control of optical transmission coefficient system based on variable pressure drop flow meand the monitoring system to check water flows ters proved to be a suitable device to measure 1. Review of engineering solutions The tests were made with a view to: • figure out how to use the resulting Formulation through the UV chambers. Initially, a Swiss optiwater flows through the UV units. of ash-based for removal of heavy metals decontaminated material in compliance with the artificial soil, Russian environmental law; from the ash produced by sewage • search for appropriate methods of heavy fertilizers and basalt-like sludge burning at Central sludge metals-containing waste handling in compliance blends is incorwith the Russian environmental law. incineration plant (SIP). Research has demonstrated that, techniporated in the plan for 2016. cally, different ash fractions can be used in the Vodokanal has long been focused on the 2. Selection of instruments for water quality selection of viable and cost-effective technoloproduction of pigments, additives to (bituminous) concrete, dry mixes, and fire extinguishing monitoring in the Lake Ladoga – River Neva gy for recycling of the ash produced by sludge agents; and for recovery of metals. incineration utilizing the useful properties of ash. Marketing studies have been made to system. In 2015, the Company tested a heavy metals reidentify the goods that can be produced using At present, Vodokanal is working on a waquality of water in the Lake Ladoga – River Neva moval technology on the ash produced at Central ash from sludge incineration, such as artificial ter quality monitoring project for the Lake Ladosystem and by short-term and seasonal foreSIP and assessed the performance. soil for road building and landscaping, fertilizers, ga – River Neva system. The system is intended casting of potential water quality fluctuations at basalt-like blends, etc. to improve the performance of Vodokanal’s waVodokanal’s water intakes. The key element of ter treatment plants by monitoring and analyzing the system is online monitoring of water quality the condition of the water bodies influencing the in a water body. The most important water 170 171 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 2. Search for, and testing of new engineering In 2015, Vodokanal continued solutions for the cleaning of gaseous The test results demonstrated good gas to develop methodology emissions from wastewater facilities. treatment performance and reduction guidelines. of foul smell from the sewage pumping station’s emissions. In 2016, a MSD-500-based In 2015, different gas cleaning devices gas cleaning system will be constructed were tested at Vodokanal’s treatment plants to at Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping station prevent propagation of foul smell from wastewater facilities. located in a residential area. Pilot tests of filter cartridges (FC) intended 1. Vodokanal, in cooperation • calculate the non-performance risk; Wastewater facilities produce foul smell for manholes have been made. FC uses with the Environmental Research • classify actions by the extent of risk; because the so-called malodorous gaseous suba special gas sorbent to absorb and neutralize • rank actions by their relevance for minimization of the non-perforstances (mainly, ammonia, hydrogen sulfide and the harmful gases passing through the FC air Institute, finalized the methodmance risk; mercaptans) are emitted in the process. ducts. ology guidelines for integrated • analyze scenarios in consideration of external influencing factors; In 2015, pilot tests of two gas cleaning The cartridge for gaseous media is • select, taking into account the investment volume, an optimal solutions were made at Vasileostrovskaya a cylinder divided into communicating compartassessment of Vodokanal’s investpackage of actions to minimize the non-performance risk as concerns the pumping station: ments that contain filter elements. The housing ment program performance using Company development and modernization; • Aerolife-KNS photocatalytic gas cleaning is made of polymeric composite materials • assess the effectiveness of actions aimed at the Company develmethod; that meet the hygiene requirements and have innovative criteria, best available opment and modernization; • MSD-500 ozone-producing UV lampsbased technology. proper strength properties and performance characteristics. The cartridge body is a polymertechnologies and considering the • establish the sequence of actions under the long-term investment program taking into account investment volumes and priorities of the Aerolife-KNS cleans air in a photocatalytic ic tube. A custom-made reusable filter medium risks of non-performance of the actions; block where volatile organic compounds on the designed for severe climatic conditions is used • assess the performance of the Company development and modphotocatalyst surface are oxidized to carbon as sorbent. key program actions. ernization investment program in general. dioxide and water by the oxygen in atmospherA FC can be quickly installed in any reinThe guidelines are intended to achieve the ic air. forced-concrete manhole in the networks withgovernmental policy objectives in the sphere of The implementation of the methodology by Vodokanal will give In the MSD-500, suspended matter is out dismantling the hatch base plate. For this water supply and wastewater disposal as specithe following benefits: removed from air by filtration, then the air purpose, a special retainer system is used to fix fied in the Federal Law dated 7 December 2011 • improvement of sustainability and quality of water services; flows through a UV reactor where pollutants the cartridge to the lower edge of the cast-iron no. 416-FZ “On Water Supply and Wastewater • minimization of environmental, economic, political and social risks are oxidized by ozone, and, finally, it goes to hatch base plate in a manhole. Disposal”. related to any disruption of water supply or wastewater disposal services; sorption-catalytic tertiary treatment in a carbon Six month long testing of filter cartridges With the guidelines in place, Vodokanal • better implementation of actions aimed at Vodokanal development filter where foul-smelling substances and residproved that the above devices can efficiently is able to: and modernization; ual ozone are decomposed. clean gas emissions from manholes. • establish the criteria for categorizing ac• improved environmental and economical feasibility of investment tions as essential and including them into the plan projects; in consideration of health-related, environmental, • overall feasibility of the planned development and modernization economic, etc. risks; actions. 3. Search for, and testing of new engineering solutions for the improvement Wastewater disinfection is a rather complex process that should strictly follow the pre-calcuof wastewater treatment processes lated scheme in consideration of every factor and (including disinfection) and for the treated condition influencing the process flow. 2. The methodology guidelines • develop the energy saving and energy efficiency improvement effluent quality control with a view to mitiToday, Vodokanal disinfects treated on energy saving at Vodokanal’s program; effluent by UV lamps and sodium hypochlorite. gate negative impacts on water bodies. The UV disinfection method is effective against water and wastewater facilities • prepare monthly reports on fuel and energy consumption; • evaluate the results of energy saving efforts at different both bacteria and viruses, but very expensive have been developed. divisions; to use (high investment and operating costs). • calculate water consumption and wastewater disposal balances. The wastewater disinfection technology Vodokanal’s energy policy defines the The adherence to the methodology guidelines by Vodokanal Vodokanal intends to select the most to be used by Vodokanal should meet the energy efficiency management as one of the allowed to: viable and cost-effective technology for disfollowing requirements: Company’s prioritized focus area. In 2015, “The • describe in every detail the energy saving actions implementinfection of treated effluent. Since 2015, the • disinfect treated effluent effectively methodology guidelines on energy saving at ed at the Company; Company has been considering disinfection of regardless of weather conditions or other Vodokanal’s water and wastewater facilities” • develop the concept and strategy of energy saving; treated effluent by a combination of ultrasound factors; have been developed. • propose a set of estimates to define energy performance and sodium hypochlorite. Presumably, this tech• be economically sound; The methodology guidelines are used to: in physical terms; nology will intensify the treatment process and • have no negative impact on the bioceno• draw up fuel and energy consumption • propose approaches to the draft methodology guidelines improve the disinfection performance. sis of water bodies. plans for the Company divisions; regulating energy saving actions. 172 173 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 Development of hydraulic modelling On 25 November 2015, the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre held the international workHydraulic regimes in water distribution networks are simulated shop on “Hydraulic simulation to solve operational tasks and plan the development as an instrument to increase of Vodokanal’s water supply system. water and wastewater systems efficiency”. Representatives of water companies, institutions of higher educaHydraulic calculations are made for water tower in Lisiy Nos community, to deterpressure zones, water supply districts or other mine the operating regimes of Kronstadt water tion and design organizations specified areas depending on a specific task. networks taking into account the transition to a participated in the workshop. Hydraulic models are used to determine closed-loop hot water supply scheme, etc. hydraulic parameters of the water network In 2015, the selection of sewer/water netPresentations were made by operation (mainly, water pressure and flow) work construction and reconstruction projects experts with many years of and to predict how they would change during and determination of network parameters as ordinary maintenance or emergency repairs, part of the updating of the St. Petersburg Wapractical experience in hydrauconstruction or rehabilitation of the network sections, or in the event of water consumpter and Wastewater Master Plan for the period up to 2025 with an outlook to 2030 adopted lic simulation and by develoption fluctuations. Hydraulic models were used by the Resolution of St. Petersburg Governers of simulation software. to optimize pressure zones of the pumping ment no. 989 dated 11 December 2013, were stations in Krasnoe Selo and the neighboring based on hydraulic calculations. Different approaches communities, to optimize the operation of the to implementation of hydraulic modeling in Russia and foreign countries were evaluated, and targets for development and improvement of efficiency of hydraulic modeling in Russia were formulated. 174 175 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 Geoinformation system development The geoinformation system (GIS) is created to provide to relevant Vodokanal divisions timely, reliable and comprehensive geoinformation about the Company facilities and the city infrastructure, to consolidate all types of accounting, through records of technical parameters, events, monitoring of reconstruction works at required engineering networks, the Company assets and levels; to register property rights, to exchange information with state flow meters; processes sewer flushing requests; • Support of integrated water network provides a navigation function for line crews and inspection – maintains and browses the register authorities and to provide data support to production processes. emergency teams using a mobile workstation. of the planned water network inspection, • Administration – management of user visualizes the works completed as part of the accounts; disables editing function for registers integrated water network inspection. open to several users at a time, maintains lists • Navigation – positions network elements of users, tasks, roles and news in IS “Baltika”. on the map and visualizes them by means • Integration with external information of double-frequency GLONASS/GPS receivers The GIS comprises hardware, software, of land parcels held on lease or leased out; issusystems and resources – updates information (accuracy in differential mode – 2m or more, Vodokanal’s cartographic database and data ing reports on current or scheduled payments; about facilities and their addresses; establishes and in RTK, real-time mode, – 0.20 m or more). communication channels. update information about buildings, facilities, primary links between the accounting data and IS “Baltika” is a distributed, MapInfo MapXnetworks and movable assets. technical records; specifies the location of breakdown upon request from IS “Hot Line”; interacts treme-based graphics and information system. • Technical record-keeping – updates with IS “Customer Service Centre” and software The use of cutting-edge technologies It has an open-architecture core and a powerful information about the status of manholes and graphics engine. network sections, records changes in technical module “Passport of the Facility”; on-line location for the development of the Company’s and recording of object position from the mobile parameters of networks; deals with network write-off, planning, renovation and preparation workstation; builds and transmits to SYNERown information system allowed to adIS “Baltika” operation is based for cadastral registration; maintains thematic GEE WATER up-to-date models of engineering dress the problems of security-related renetworks. on 10 interacting subsystems and registers of housings, discharges, boosting • Simulation and shaping of water service strictions faced by the users working with pumping stations, sewage pumping stations, their software modules which support water meters, tunnel collectors, connection interruption areas, with optimization option cartographic data, such as location and – shapes service interruption areas, makes lists the following functions: points, water wells, zones, etc.; supports the issuance, follow-up and closure of network flushof disconnected customers and passports of characteristics of engineering networks, disconnected sites; simulates the shaping of ing requests on the basis of reporting documendisconnected areas, and automates the search by installing the certified information • Cartography – performs standard GIS tation; supports inventories, drafting and making operations with spatial objects, service carof contracts with customers; provides informafor redundant valves. security software WIN 7 PRO tographic operations, operations on technical tion support to electrochemical protection of steel pipelines. • Monitoring of the Southern Water Supply no. 2180 STEK RS in their workstations. records; supports vector and raster data sets, and defines the coverage of territorial zones. • WEB – access – performs standard Zone reconstruction phases – supports the WIN 7 PRO № 2180 СТЭК РС. • Property accounting – supports manageGIS operations with spatial objects, service ment of the Company property; keeping records cartographic operations; supports browsing 176 177 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 The following improvements • improved display of buildings not supplied with cold water in Siemens technological were made under the IS “Baltisectors cartogram; IS “Baltika” cartographic database ka” maintenance contract: • improved database for the GUION Inventory (Southern Zone); contains over 150 regularly updated • the page of the Ministry of Emergency cartographic layers, including: • a function to transfer the information on St. Petersburg state property inventory Situation is improved in WEB-subsystem; • WEB-application was updated by a new to the St. Petersburg Committee for Property DevExpress registers display version; • existing cadastral plan of the St. Peters• orthophotomaps of the St. Petersburg Relations was developed; • development of automatic standard opburg Committee of Property Relations; territory produced on the basis of the aerial • the speed of obtaining the data conerations execution service (correlation between • data of the St. Petersburg urban-plansurvey; tained in nodes and links between the nodes buildings, land plots, nodes and links between ning information system from the Committee for • digital surface map of St. Petersburg, in WEB application of IS “Baltika” was optimized; the nodes and the territorial zones; validation Urban Development and Architecture; where all types of surface (lawns, bushes, as• the networks inspection route planning of the nodes and links between the nodes, as• information about investment projects phalt, tile, etc.) are presented in the form of areal function was developed; signment of addresses to the nodes associated received from GU “Investment Management”; objects (1:2000); • collection, analysis and systematization with the links, etc.); • the 1:10000 digital map of St. Peters• digital map of the Leningrad Region within of the system software errors identified during • development of a function to integrate burg dated 2005; a radius of 30 km from St. Petersburg and the the system operation; approval of error recovery the relevant networks; • raster tablets (1:500, 1:2000); map of the town of Luga; algorithms and time schedules, troubleshooting; • updating of physical assets cartogram in • thematic information about engineering • analysis, troubleshooting and remedy of IS “Baltika” rich-client to represent availability/ networks, land plots, buildings and facilities of the IS “Baltika” malfunctions at the users’ workstalack of CSC IS contract; Company. tions; development of recommendations for the • development of a database for training client’s system administrators on how to restore activities under the Water Academy Project; the client-side functionality; • WEB-application providing compatibility • development of a cartogram for the regwith IS “Maintenance and Repair Management” In 2015, IS “Baltika” was developed ister of Siemens technological sectors: the water was improved; in the following way: supply network related to the sector + buildings (linked to the sector via connection points which • a register of hydrodynamic sewer network flushing events was improved for WES-apare linked to the sector via the points which do plication; • Updating of the existing fundamental A module for planning integrated not get water supply according to the GUION • reference books and classifiers were cartographic base. reconstruction of sewer networks data) + links between the connection points and improved; • Downloading of the orthophotomap to be used for sewerage basins and the buildings of the relevant sector; • “Building Inspection Results” module produced in 2014 (resolution – 18 cm) under the a module for planning and control • transfer of the results of preliminary bindfor Kronstadt database was improved; data exchange agreement between the Comof hydrodynamic flushing and teleing of house connections with connection points • the telediagnostics register was immittee on IT and Communications, Committee diagnostics of sewer networks, using IS “LIVS” as a separate Oracle display; proved; for Urban Development and Architecture, State • implementation of OrtoPhotoMaps • the integrated reconstruction works were put into operation. The modules Institution of Investment Management, and 2014 display function; register was developed; allowed to automate the planning Committee for Property Relations • improved IS “Baltika” records of integrat• the description of IS “Baltika” database of St. Petersburg. of integrated reconstruction of ed facilities of IS “LIVS” in the Customer Service was updated. • Development of the package of interresewer networks and hydrodynamic Center (CSC); lated information-computing tasks and models. flushing and tele-diagnostics of sewer networks as well as to control The system maintenance flushing and tele-diagnostics of sewer networks, and to promptly evaluation has shown a 15% obtain current information on the increase in the number of references status of the works. to IS “Baltika” at Vodokanal in 2015. GIS supports development of calculation/ of combining the data storage and processmodeling/simulation software modules, visualing logic in a single information visualization ization of production processes, and thematic unit. GIS has a wide range of functionality for and situation modeling for decision-makers. implementation of data management systems The structure of distributed GIS is built using making it possible to use the geographic inforadvanced methods of large information system mation system as the core tool for heterogenedesign and surpasses standard ISs in terms ous data integration. 178 179 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects Vodokanal St. Petersburg is one of the biggest energy consumers in St. Petersburg. In 2015, the energy consumption of the Company accounted for 662.2 Mio. kWh. In 2015, the following activities were IS “NEMO-Aqua” uses integrated measureIn 2015, carried out under the automated water supply ment data from meters to issue online analytical Vodokanal management system project for the Southern reports on Vodokanal’s water supply system experts particizone of St. Petersburg”: performance, to calculate non-revenue water pated in conferIn 2015, The Company is strongly focused on energy existing blowers with controlled-air-feed blow• 32 intersectoral flow meters were and water losses, and to keep records of water saving and energy efficiency improvement. ers, was carried out under the Northern WWTP ences, seminars electricity installed to implement the distribution network quality and energy consumption. This task is solved by using innovative Reconstruction Project. A similar replacement of and panel consumption zoning principle and to enable calculation of water Today, the System is an essential tool technologies and equipment and improving the blowers was carried out at Central WWTP. The discussions reduced by 4.2% balance for each sector in the Southern water for operators who analyze water consumption energy saving management function. works will be completed in 2016. dedicated to as compared to supply zone of St. Petersburg; by Vodokanal customers. In the 4th quarter of The main activities aimed at energy saving The thermovision inspection of building • 6,192 flow meters with consumption data 2015, the System helped reveal illegal water conenergy efficienthe previous and improvement of energy efficiency envelopes (717 thermograms of building facades storage and transfer capabilities were installed sumption by a customer from a house conneccy and energy year. The main at Vodokanal are as follows: were made) identified the defects which were and pre-commissioned on the consumer side; tion. The theft of over 2,000m3 of water was management. factor of ener• creation of a water supply management corrected afterwards. • 128 pressure transmitters were installed prevented. Besides, there was a case of illegal gy consumption system including modernization of boosting From late 2014 to mid-2015, the City reduction is and pre-commissioned on water distribution water consumption from a reserve fire pipeline pumping stations (installation of energy efficient Authority for Inventory and Real Estate Appraisal networks to ensure continuous monitoring of the where the pipeline was promptly closed by workVodokanal acfrequency-controlled pumps) and pressure control (GUION) inspected, by order of Vodokanal, the network condition. ers of the relevant water supply district. tivities related according to the measurements at the water buildings and non-residential facilities located in To implement the “proximity to the customSince 2012, Vodokanal has implemented to the conservanetwork checkpoints; the Southern Water Supply Zone of St. Petersers” principle, the “Customer Personal Account” and certified the energy management system tion of natural • creation of a wastewater disposal manburg and connected to the centralized water service was added to Vodokanal website. The (EnMS) under ISO 50001:2011 “Energy Manageresources which agement system including replacement of pumps and sewerage systems including those under service enables customers to promptly obtain ment Systems. Requirements and User Manual”. result in the with more energy-efficient ones and installation economic management of Vodokanal. reliable information on cold water consumption, The Company’s existing energy managereduction of of frequency converters. In total, 11,978 buildings and 8,423 to identify the date and time of taking the meter ment system ensures efficient control over suswater consumpIn 2015, the energy performance of the non-residential facilities were inspected. The readings and, consequently, to acknowledge total tainable use of energy for water and wastewater tion volumes main processes (drinking water production and information on the actual use of buildings and correlation between the water consumption data services, and supports timely decision-making distribution, wastewater treatment and transnon-residential facilities, rightholders, cold/hot recorded by Vodokanal and by the customer, and aimed to increase the energy efficiency of and implementaportation) in the centralized water supply system water consumption, wastewater disposal volto ensure transparency of relations between the Vodokanal operations. tion of energy was better than that of 2014. The improvement umes, availability of networks and meters for hot water supplier and consumers. saving measures was achieved, among other things, due to the water, gas, electricity, etc., was collected. The water consumption metering and acenvisaged by the Investment implementation of water supply management The analysis of inspection materials counting system (IS “NEMO-Aqua”) was put into a In October 2015, Vodokanal’s energy system, installation of energy-efficient equipment identified 604 non-residential facilities for which program. at the pumping stations in the Southern water contracts had to be made (amended) to reflect full-scale operation in the Southern Water Supply Zone. Due to the obtaining of analytical data and management system was successfully supply zone of St. Petersburg, reconstruction the change of tariffs for water and wastewater online monitoring of the balance between water recertified for compliance with ISO of machine room no. 2 at Southern WTP and services used by such facilities. supply and sales in each water supply sector, operation of frequency converters at Southern The inspection results were checked by the system could improve the efficiency of water 50001:2011 by Certification Association (machine rooms no. 3 and 5), Main, Northern (machine rooms no. 1 and 2), Volkovskaya and Vodokanal specialists, uploaded into information systems, and are used to amend contracts with supply. “Russian Register” and SAI GLOBAL. Kolpino WTPs. customers and for the automated Southern In 2015, the reconstruction of two bigger water supply zone management system project. third-lift water pumping stations – Murinskaya PS The database with the inspection results including and Kushelevskaya PS, as well as the reconstructhe collected data on all kinds of resources was tion of Petrogradskaya boosting pumping station delivered to the St. Petersburg Committee of and second-lift pumping station in Northern Property Relations to be integrated into the WTP, was going on. The reconstruction of the regional information system “St. Petersburg air blower station including replacement of the Geo-Information System”. 180 181 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 Patents The main principles of Vodokanal intellectual property policy are: Vodokanal established According to Vodokanal’s needs, (by the Company Directive 21 patent searches in the following • provision of timely legal protection no. 207 dated 31.12.2015) focus areas were carried out in 2015: of intellectual property in compliance with the intellectual property law; a working group for interaction • preventing any violation of the Compawith higher education insti• Wastewater treatment methods Moreover, ny’s exclusive rights to the intellectual property; • monitoring of scientific and technical tutions in St. Petersburg and (removal of substances resistant to oxidation); the “device to • New coagulants for water and wastewaremove small information, search for new cutting-edge techscheduled visits. The working ter treatment; water volumes nical solutions, determination of scientific and technological level of solutions. group is made up of deputies • Filter media for tertiary treatment (removal of iron and alkalization); from hardto-reach places” representing nine higher educa• Medium for cartridge filters used in storm was tested water tanks; SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” has and made a presentation under the protion institutions: • Chemicals/water mixing devices for aerain 2015, and its ject “Concepts of the long-term national tion tanks, flocculation and coagulation chambers; practicability 92 valid patents for inventions and utility intellectual property strategy” developed 1) St. Petersburg State University of Archi• Chemical disinfectants to remove pathowas estimated. tecture and Civil Engineering; models, and 3 trademarks. by the Inter-Agency Working Group on the long-term national intellectual property 2) St. Petersburg State Technological Instigens and viruses from wastewater; • Macerators; In 2015, applications to obtain patents strategy (order by Ministry of Education and tute (Technical University); • Submersible sewage pumps; Science no. 251 dated 17 March 2015). The 3) St. Petersburg State Technological for 9 inventions were lodged; documents presentation abstracts were sent to the University of Plant Polymers; • Tertiary treatment methods; • Removal of heavy metal salts from sewto implement 10 inventions and utility All-Russian Research Institute for Inter-Indus4) Military (Engineering) Institute at the Military Academy of Logistics named after age sludge; try Information (FGUP “VIMI”) for publication. models were executed. The comprehensive inventory of the inArmy General A.V. Hrulev; • Sewage collector shafts made of polymeric materials; tellectual deliverables was taken and the data 5) Peter the Great St. Petersburg Polytechnic University; • Magnetic – pneumatic ash separation To support the inventive work, was entered into the “St. Petersburg Propermethods; Vodokanal developed and put into service an ty” Software System, “Intellectual Property” 6) Military Space Academy named after A.F. Mozhaiskiy; • Recycling of carbonate sludge produced Intellectual Property Directory and issued a section. by water treatment processes; Priority Production Problems Register. As a technical information monitoring 7) National University of Mineral Resources “Gorny”; • Chemical dosing devices for water and In 2015, Vodokanal’s Intellectual Propactivity, the Company made a catalogue of wastewater disinfection; erty Policy was developed and adopted by thematic exhibitions and a thematic data8) State University of Sea and River Fleet named after Admiral S.O. Makarov; • 0.4 kV and 6 kV frequency converters order no. 101 dated 29.05.2015. Vodokanal base of patent searches and investigations of domestic manufacture; began to improve its standards for developand included them into Vodokanal’s Intellec9) St. Petersburg National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and • Grinders; ment, legal protection and use of intellectual tual Property Directory. Patented technical • Sludge scrapers; property. solutions of universities, design and research Optics. • Equipment for coagulants and flocculants Vodokanal specialists participated in institutes were monitored. Thematic workdosing; the round-table meeting “Development of shops were organized at the premises of the • Inventions of interest for Vodokanal patthe national intellectual property strategy” Information and Training Center. ented by St. Petersburg vocational colleges. 182 183 ANNUAL Innovations REPORT 2015 Development of information infrastructure To ensure secure data exchange between 2) An Automated Process Control System St. Petersburg executive authorities as well as was implemented at Kushelevskaya pumping between the city rapid-reaction and emergency station giving the following advantages: response services, Vodokanal was connected to • desired accuracy and proper regulation In 2015, The following has been done under the To enhance automation of production-rethe Integrated Multiservice Telecommunications of network pressure; as a consequence – a 40% a printing pilot project: lated business processes, a time schedule for Network. reduction of pipe breakdowns in the service area infrastructure • deployment of the control and audit upgrading the computer-based metrological Vodokanal Security Department retrained of the above pumping stations; control and system; information system developed by the IT Departrelevant responsible employees in the use of • reduction of total production costs, audit project • testing of the system operability in ment was approved. The system practicability Vodokanal’s Information Security Management reduction of equipment downtime and increase was launched Vodokanal information environment; was confirmed: it is now used by all production System (ISMS). The trainees passed the final of efficiency up to 75%; • close scrutiny of the system functions, departments providing metrology support to optimize tests and got certificates under the Program • reduction of energy consumption by 10%; capabilities and tools; for the Company. The feedback from users costs, enhance “ISMS introduction, implementation and internal • better performance and quality; efficient • formulation of requirements to further contained many requests for modification and control over audit to confirm the compliance with ISO/IEC design, reliability and high availability. development of the system; upgrading of the system. the Company’s 27001:2005”. Thanks to timely retraining of • preparation of reports on pilot works. In 2015, the pilot operation of “Maintemultiple copiers personnel, Vodokanal passed the comprehensive Full-scale implementation of the printing nance and Repair” information system was and printers inspection of the Automatic Process Control infrastructure control and audit system will completed. The personnel began to use the sysand improve the enable the Company to keep detailed records tem as a daily tool for planning and recording System status carried out by the Federal Service for Technical and Export Control for the NorthIn 2015, IS “NEMO Aqua” was put information all works on water and sewer networks. Moreoinfrastructure. of the number of printed copies made by Vodokanal departments and by each individual. ver, the system functions related to equipment West Federal District, and underwent successinto a full-scale operation. The system fully an external audit of ISMS compliance with The first proThis function will allow to control and optimize in treatment plants were considerably extendISO/IEC 27001. ensures online collection of the meters the cost of printer/copier maintenance and the ed. In 2016, IS “Maintenance and repair” will ject phase (the pilot project) cost of consumables. Currently, the Company be implemented at all water and wastewater In pursuance of the order of the Federal readings and real-time processing and Service for Technical and Export Control of the has been comis making preparations for a full-scale project treatment plants to plan and keep records of Russian Federation no. 31 dated 14.02.2014 analysis of water flow data. and continuing examination of Vodokanal sites maintenance and repair works. pleted by now. and the additional requirements of the regulatoThe NEMO Aqua is based on high-tech and inventory of the existing printers/copiers to To ensure Vodokanal compliance with the ry authorities, the segregation of process-related hardware and software. Its lower level is based draw up proposals on further extension of the environmental standards established by the and office networks at some water and wasteon the open M-Bus protocol which allows to system. Russian Law, the “Chemical Balance” Module water facilities began in 2015. The project will use any type of M-Bus measuring instruments The analysis of automation possibilities which supports the collection, storage and probe completed in 2016. The scope of the project (EN 1434/IEC870-5). The simplicity of the protoand optimization of the existing solutions are cessing of water sample data and the issuance will be further expanded to the entire production col and, consequently, the reliability of instrumade to develop, and improve the performance of reports according to the regulations, was infrastructure of the Company: examination of ments ensure stable operation of the system. of, the information systems to be used for audeveloped as part of “Excess Discharge Fee sites is going on to prepare specifications for The system is flexible: any device can be added tomation of the Company business processes. Calculation” Information System. the next phases of the networks segregation without modification of the software. The sysAutomation of customer interaction proproject, and the information security system tem can be used with other standard industrial cesses is a prioritized activity in this field. is designed for the Automatic Process Control protocols (ModBus, ProfiBus) to integrate variA number of actions adding value for Vodokanal A key achievement of 2015 related to commuSystem. ous measuring instruments. The system upper customers were planned for 2015, such as completion of IS “Customer Service Center” nications development was the transition level is based on a powerful software package modernization, introduction of the “Customer of some Vodokanal sites to VOICE communi“Energy IP™” which collects and analyzes large Personal Account”, implementation of the webcation. The Company’s switching nodes were amounts of data (up to 20,000,000 meters) site/bank card payment service for individuals upgraded to use the IP packet-switching without downturn of performance and makes In 2015, the following results were and entrepreneurs. Almost all of them were imtechnology for voice communication. real-time calculations. The software package achieved in the sphere of process automaplemented: the bank card payment service was can process all major and most of the minor pation: launched in February, the “Customer Personal rameters of utility networks and deliver high-ac1) The following facilities were put into a curacy data on flow rates using the mathematic Account” on Vodokanal website became availfull-scale operation: simulation. The data can even be provided for able for customers in October. The “Customer • machine room no. 2 of the second-lift the network sections without meters or with Service Center” system has been upgraded and pumping station at Southern WTP; an insufficient number of meters. The software is being tested by relevant departments. • the first-lift pumping station at Main WTP; package can forecast breakdowns and emergen• boosting pumping station no. 12 cy situations based on the actual network (47 Kazakova st.). status analysis. 184 185 Social Responsibility 186 187 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 AwarenessBuilding Youth Environmental Center In 2002, the Youth Environmental Center (YEC) of Vodokanal was established to raise awareness among population, especially among the younger generation, under the Company environmental policy. An important part of Vodokanal activities is awarenessbuilding. The Company information policy, public relations via mass media and social Internet-resources The Youth Environmental Center (YEC) is located in the former machine house of Main WTP More than 30,000 as well as the Youth Environmental Center (YEC) and (built in 1858). The first YEC project was “Let’s people take part in the YEC save water together!”. The project participants programs annually. The Universe of Water museum complex (both being part (about 1,000 people) attended classes at the center, measured water consumption at home, of the Information and Training Center) put a special reflected about careful water use and came up with ideas how to save water. emphasis on developing careful and responsible attitude More than 320,000 people participated in YEC programs in 13 years and over 50 big (also towards the environment. international) projects were implemented. In 2010-2011, YEC was reconstructed. At present, several The recent years’ trend towards reduction of water interactive halls are opened consumption is the result of Vodokanal’s awareness-building in the Center building: efforts. • Hall of First Discoveries; • The Baltic Sea Hall; • 3D cinema hall; • Media-hall; • Technical hall of the former machine house. 188 189 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Every day, YEC offers interactive Vodokanal’s YEC activities In 2004 , YEC was awarded the programmes for children and are recognized both in Russia and National Environmental Prize of V.I. Vernadskiy young people of different age groups by request of educational In 2015, YEC specialists prepared Foundation for its contribution to the strengthin foreign countries: ening of environmental safety and sustainable development. institutions: a number of career guidance projects In 2005 , YEC project “Baltic Sea – and programs for the city educational Our common home” was announced the sixth • for 5–7 year old children: institutions which were recommended winner of PROBA-IPRA GWA public relations “Droplet’s Journey”, “Sea Adventures on Your award in the nomination “Best PR-Project of Birthday”; to schools by the St. Petersburg the Year”. • for 1–5 year schoolchilGovernment Committee for Education. In 2007 , YEC was awarded the Certificate of the European Environmental Agency dren: “Water on the Earth”, “Water in EveryIn 2015, YEC specialists developed and tested the multi-visit ticket for for teaching young people how to conserve the day Life”, “Mysteries of Nature”, “Big, Little Sea”, environment and the Baltic Sea. “Learn from the Nature”, “Sea Adventures on Your the program “In Search of MysterBirthday”; ies” offering visitors an integrated educational In 2013 , the Youth Environmental route in the museum complex “The Universe Centre was declared the winner of the Environ• for 6–10 year school stuof Water” and the Youth Environmental Center mental Year First National Prize in the nominaand introducing the concept of “safe access tion “Eco-Leader of the Year 2013”. dents: “The Sea Nearby”, “Secrets of the to water”, engineering solutions in the field of Baltic”, “The City by the Sea”, “Proficient in the the city water supply and the Company’s most Baltic”, “Water Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow”, in-demand professions. “Water – A Global Resource”, “Water, Environment In 2015, special attention was given to and I”; the family audience by means of proposing the multi-visit ticket “Water + I = Friends”. Fam• for 8–11 year school stuily groups attended a course consisting of three dents and college students: classes at the Youth Environmental Center on weekends. Children and their parents made “Water Quality Test Lab”, “The Sea Nearby”, “Seexperiments with water together, performed crets of the Baltic”, “Water for a Big City”, “Water creative tasks, learned how to save water and Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow”, “Water – A assessed their impact on the Baltic Sea. Global Resource”, “Water, Environment and I”. The main task of YEC is to help the youngTraining seminars for teachers and parter generation realize the value of water, to raise nership projects are implemented by the Youth the culture of water use, and to teach children Environmental Center to promote ideas simple skills of using water resources sparingly. of effective environmental education and susWorking with children and teenagers, YEC tainable development. presents new technologies and development YEC is an advanced interactive center trends of the Company, and describes its objecoffering interactive classes for preschoolers, tives and concerns. Children are eager to share schoolchildren, college students and families; The career-oriented project “Water for with each project description and time schedule their knowledge and experience with their it implements environmental projects, offers a Big City” was designed for high school and aim to develop habits of sustainable use of families and schoolmates. Thus, environmeninformational and methodological support to students, the project “Water +” – for 6-8 year natural resources, to raise environmental culture tal awareness of the city inhabitants is raised teachers and organizes festive thematic events. students. among children, young people and their families, through children in an indirect way. YEC is an active participant of regional and This activity area of SUE “Vodokanal of St. and to provide career guidance for the young. YEC activities are based on the ideas international programmes and projects. Petersburg” acquaints young people with the In 2015, at the request of educational of sustainable development; it makes good engineering, blue-collar and other professions, institutions, project teams were created and use of information technologies and active requirements to specialists and career opportunitrained at YEC workshops, following which learning methods. ties. Students get an insight into importance of they performed independent tasks, research or In 2015, twenty-one environmental and career engineering solutions for sustainable water use creative works. The participants presented their guidance projects were implemented at the Youth in a big city; learn about comprehensive solutions results in the final and got recognition of their Environmental Centre, including 12 citywide, 2 regional and achievements in the public utilities sector by achievements. The young people share the expeand 7 international ones. 36,927 people were involved the example of Vodokanal. rience and knowledge gained in the course of the The Youth Environmental Center and the project with their families and schoolmates and in YEC activities including 2,129 teachers of educational Museum Complex have the facilities for visual use them in their everyday life. institutions in St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region. presentation of Vodokanal operations and professions needed by the Company. Career guidance techniques for children and young people were developed in consideration of special features of the venues. The YEC project-related activities are carried out throughout a year in accordance 190 191 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Key projects implemented Participation in organization and As for the regional and international implementation of the International by YEC in 2015: UN Model Youth Conference – accredprogrammes implemented in 2015, YEC: ited program of the Hague UN Model 1) “Water +” – environmental awareThemed tours, interactive programs The Youth Environmental Center took part • organized and implemented the city contest “Fundamentals ness-raising, career guidance project for 6-8 at Water Museum and YEC, festive events, in the organization and implementation of the of Safe Water Use” in the framework of All-Russian School Olympiad year students; campaigns and exhibitions were organized Environmental Committee and the Baltic Sea in Life Safety, the city round; 2) “Water for a Big City” – career guidance throughout the year under the program for Forum (March 2015) attended by 135 youth • implemented the interactive programme “Your Success project for 9-11 year students; children from the Orphanage no. 23 and other delegates from 14 countries. is in Your Hands” for the students – participants of the citywide Youth 3) “In Search for Mysteries” – environorphanages and boarding schools. For example, mental awareness-raising project with career career guidance quest game “The Engineer’s Moreover, YEC specialists and Environmental Forum; guidance elements for 1-6 year students; Secret Archive”, the festive programme “Funny the youth core group were actively • co-organized VI All-Russian Scientific Environmental Conference 4) “ECOgames” project for secondary and Lessons with Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, the involved in the events of the Internation“Water – Source of Life on Earth”; senior school students dedicated to the Earth programme “Energy and Power Engineering: al Environmental Forum “The Baltic Sea Day” • organized and implemented the programme dedicated to the Day; Our Choice!” dedicated to the Earth Day, the in March 2015, at the summer Internation70th anniversary of the Victory Day within the frame of the Interna5) “ECOsummer” project for the particicreative festival “Knowledge and Creativity – al Environmental Camp dedicated to tional Museums At Night Event (18 May 2015); pants of the summer camp programs; Energy for the Future!” etc. studying the Gulf of Finland (Finland, July 2015) • participated in IV All-Russian Environmental Education Confer6) New Year event “New Year in the Old in partnership with the public organization ence in Moscow; Tower” and other. “Friends of the Baltic” and the Eco-Biological • participated in VII Research and Practice Conference “EnvironCenter in Krestovskiy Island. mental Culture and Awareness-Raising” for schoolchildren in KrasThe Youth Environmental Center co-ornoselskiy District; • participated in the XII city conference of senior school students In 2015, implementation of the program ganized the XXI International Festival of Environmental Films “The Green “The Younger Generation”; “How to Make Friends with Water” for children Look”. The best video films shot under YEC • participated in the “TELESTART” Festival of Children’s Broadcast Journalism; projects were presented and commended by from orphanages, boarding-schools and social the jury in different nominations. • prepared and implemented the thematic programme “Energy rehabilitation centers continued. and Power Engineering: Our Choice!” for residents of orphanages; • organized and implemented the Creative Festival “Knowledge and Creativity – Energy for the Future” dedicated to the Teacher’s Day, International projects implemented for residents of orphanages and their tutors; • organized and implemented career guidance programmes Special attention was paid to reduction by YEC in 2015: of individual loads on the Baltic Sea and discusfor school students “Professions in a Big City” on request of the sion of international solutions for sustainable St. Petersburg Labour and Employment Committee’s Curriculum Awareness-raising of the young through the water consumption. and Instruction Center; International Advanced Water Technologies Centre In the course of the project, the school • co-organized and participated in implementation of the Forum in association with Lahti Region Development LADEC Ltd teams not only received information but also “Turning the Pages of History” dedicated to the 70th anniversary conducted awareness campaigns at school. Video of UNESCO for UNESCO associated regional schools; 2,712 people (2,529 school students and reports on school projects were presented at the • developed the concept of, and coordinated the inter-museum 183 university students) participated in the proVideofilm Festival “The Baltic Interlude” at the citywide project “Order to Survive” dedicated to the 70th anniversary ject in 2015. Youth Environmental Center. The best works of Victory in the Great Patriotic War; prepared and implemented the A series of lessons in “The need and of the festival participants are posted thematic interactive programme “Order to Survive: Lenvodokanal!”. approaches to mitigate anthropogenic load on on Vodokanal’s official website. the Baltic Sea” and field classes at Vodokanal’s One of the project activities was a visit South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant were of Finnish schoolchildren to St. Petersburg in organized and held for students of non-water November 2015 and a visit of St. Petersburg sturelated higher educational institutions. dents to Lahti (Finland) in May 2015. During the Interactive classes and workshops providstudy tours, the students tested water quality ing knowledge about the special features and together, visited Vodokanal’s wastewater treatenvironmental problems of the Baltic Sea were ment plants, presented project results, and pardeveloped and held for St. Petersburg school ticipated in joint seminars and interactive lessons teams in 2015. devoted to local environment and the Baltic Sea. In 2015, the YEC teaching and learning activities comprised workshops, In 2015, the satisfaction conferences, consultancy and trainings for teachlevel of YEC visitors was ers and managers of the city educational institutions to acquaint them with YEC programmes, 98% according to the survey Russian-German project “ECOvision” in partnership with the General Consulate of Germany ed their ideas of sustainable urban development new trends and effective methods and forms of results. in videofilms. environmental education and awareness-building. During the German Days in St. Petersburg At the project final, the youth and internaFourteen thematic workshops (April 2015), St. Petersburg senior school stutional jury summed up the festival results and were delivered in 2015. In total, 652 dents met the project organizers: representatives announced winners in each of 12 nominations teachers from St. Petersburg and the Leninof the Office of the Senate of Hamburg, Urban and the Audience Award. The best works of grad Region attended them. Development and Environment Committee of “ECOvision” festival are presented on Vodokanal Train the trainers programmes aimed to Hamburg, the Consulate General of the Federal website. disseminate effective education methods and to Republic of Germany, Vodokanal specialists and The project “ECOvision” became a particmake teachers more competent in selection of Russian sustainable development experts, at the ipant of the All-Russian Competition of Enerrelevant topics for modern environmental lessons. project opening ceremony. gy Saving Projects ENES-2015 (North-West) Under the project, the students and teachand was awarded the diploma as a winner in ers were trained at YEC environmental workthe nomination “The best project to promote shops and master classes on cinematography energy-saving lifestyle among preschoolers and and animation and, thereafter, students presentschool children”. 192 193 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 The Universe The exhibitions in the Water Tower were opened in 2003 – of Water it was Vodokanal’s gift on the 300th anniversary of St. Petersburg. The former clean water reservoir was transformed into the Universe of Water museum in 2008. In 2013, the exhibition was renewed and supplemented with multimedia installations and interactive models on Museum the occasion of the 150th anniversary of Vodokanal. Complex Visitors of the museum complex (NUMBER of persons) The Universe of Water museum complex is an open social In 2015, the project of SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg . Here, water 250,000 225,515 Universe of Water museum knowledge is offered from wide variety of perspectives – 202,408 215,769 204,553 218,848 220,183 complex and YEC were visited 200,000 historical, cultural, social, scientific, and other. 191,733 189,645 183,398 183,256 by 220,183 people. 150,000 100,000 90,552 66,560 67,820 69,265 50,000 37,052 0 2003–2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of visitors Museum and YEC taken together The Universe of Water museum complex The museum complex comprises 0.4% 0.3% three exhibitions: The results of opinion survey 8.5% • Classical museum exhibition treatment plants. Here, they can also look conducted among the “The Water World of St. Petersburg” at a model of the historical center of St. PetersSt. Petersburg citizens showed (in the former Water Tower). The exhibits – burg. The model was made by the Institute of documents, pictures, objects, collections Architecture by the order of Vodokanal. that overall satisfaction with 23.4% of sanitary equipment and hatches – show • Multimedia exhibition “The Unithe performance of the museum Rather dissatisfied the history of water supply and sewerage verse of Water” (in the former underground origination and development. clean water reservoir). It is a unique storage complex was 99.3% in 2015. 67.4% Dissatisfied • Multimedia exhibition “The Unof modern water knowledge. The exhibition Satisfied derground World of St. Petersburg” is based on multimedia technologies, stereo (in the left annex to the Water Tower). Visitors effects and textual explanations. Over thirty Rather satisfied can trace the route of water from the intake video-films disclosing various aspects of the Very satisfied to treatment plants, then to the flats via water element are demonstrated there. distribution networks and back to wastewater 194 195 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Key projects 4. During the autumn school The museum specialists developed a thematic programme “Ready or not, here I come” vacation (October – November in the historical exhibition for children aged 5–8. The programme was included into the main 2015), the museum complex par1. The Universe of Water museum ticipated in the City Festival route of the Festival. It was attended by 4,523 people. complex is a long-term participant of the During the Museums at Night event of children’s museum pro2015, the Universe of Water museum international Museums at Night event. complex was visited by 8,046 people. grammes “Children’s Days This event helps draw attention of a vast At the Museums at Night 2015 event, in St. Petersburg”. audience to water-related topics. visitors of two museum exhibitions were offered a special Memory Program dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War: the exhibition “I am with Vodokanal: I have memories and pride!” based on materials from family archives of Vodokanal 5. In 2015, in the framework The project was implemented in partnership with 11 city museums. Each of the museemployees told about the military and labor of the 70th anniversary of the ums came with an exhibition showing how feats of their relatives. A concert program and the city was supplied with vital resources: an open air cinema were organized at the premGreat Victory, Vodokanal’s Water water, energy, transport, communications, etc., ises of the Information and Training Center. Museum contrived and organized during the siege. the inter-museum citywide interactive project “Order to Survive”. 2. In January-May 2015, the Universe The number of Water participated in the city interof participants was 1,268 people. museum project “The Big Regatta”. Under the project, the Museum specialists developed a special educational excursion to the historical exhibition “Water World of St. Petersburg”. 6. The thematic installation dedicated to Vodokanal operations during the Great Patriotic War, the exhibition of photos, documents, war-time letters from family archives of Vodokanal employees “I am with Vodokanal: 3. The museum complex and YEC participatEnvironmental master classes and I have memories and pride!”, and the interactive museum ed in the city’s thematic environmental proa competitive educational programme were organized for the festival guests. The museum programme “Order to Survive: Lenvodokanal!” ject “EcoOkhta” organized together with the and YEC programmes were supplemented with were opened in the Universe of Water museum complex Administration of Krasnogvardeyskiy District an exhibition of special vehicles provided by ZAO “Emergency Response Center”. under the “Order to Survive” project. in St. Petersburg. 196 197 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 In 2015, the following exhibitions were organized: 7. From 18 December 2015 to 5 January The new-year programmes 2016, the museum complex offered envi2015 were 1. From 15 January to 8 February, the exclergy, the Union of Artists and social organizaronmental awareness-raising interactive attended hibition “Valaam. Portrait. Landscape” tions attended the opening ceremony. by 5,610 people. was opened. It was the sixth exhibition programmes “New Year in the following the tradition of art shows dedicated Old Tower” for children of Vodokanal to the Isle of Valaam at the Universe of Water museum complex. The representatives of the The number of participants was 1,150 people. employees and the city school students. 2. From 6 March to 20 March, the exThe opening ceremony was arranged to coinhibition of patchworks by the leading artists cide with the International Women’s Day. from St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region The exhibition was attended “Touch the Spring Well” was arranged. by 1,320 people. 3. From 28 April to 18 June, the exhibition War, was opened to the public. Vodokanal “I am with Vodokanal: I have memoveterans were honorary guests at the opening ries and pride!” showing documents and ceremony. personal belongings from Vodokanal employees’ private archives and dedicated to the 70th The exhibition was visited anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic by 3,720 people. 4. From 23 September to 25 October, a record-breaking number of exponents: the exhibition of creative works by Vodokanal 130 artists presenting their paintings and employees and members of their families: works of graphic and applied art. Each expo“Water – Source of Inspiration!” was nent received a commemorative exhibition organized. Traditionally, the employees demondiploma. strate their creative achievements during the celebration of Vodokanal anniversary The exhibition was visited on 10 October. The exhibition 2015 had by 2,860 people. 8. Special interactive thematic pro5. From 28 October to 9 November, the unique exhibition “Finding at the Far Side I.S. Shimanovskiy and a replica of the baby mammoth Lyuba were showed there. grammes for schoolchildren and families of the World” was opened under the Russian Arctic Project. Exhibits from Yamalo-Nenwere designed and implemented by the ets Autonomous Area, collections of the Yamal The exhibition was museum specialists in 2015: • Cleanliness is the Best Beauty – for the International Women’s Day on 8 March; Museum and Exhibition Complex named after attended by 4,800 people. • Tune into the Baltic – for the World Water Day and the Baltic Sea Day; • My Water Weekend! – the weekend • The Fountain of Wishes – for the All-Rusthematic programme; sian Family, Love and Faithfulness Day; • Where Do Crayfish Winter? – during • Cast off the Lines! – for the Russian the first-graders’ vacation in February; Navy Day; 6. From 13 to 28 November, the XIII Protection Committee of the Leningrad Region • Make a Date at the Water Museum – • The Odyssey of Water – dedicated to regional exhibition of artworks by elderly and coincided with the International Day of Older for Saint Valentine’s Day; the World Water Day and the Baltic Sea Day disabled people “Good Hands Craft” was Persons and the International Day of Persons • Fair Winds and Following Seas! – (22 March) – for secondary and senior school organized. The exhibition initiated by the Social with Disabilities. for the Fatherland Defender’s Day; students. 198 199 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Da-Voda Website Da-Voda website (da-voda.com) has been working since 2010 with the support of Vodokanal. The website is dedicated The fiction video film “Everyone Needs Water” tells the audience that water has been to careful attitude to water resources and tells how to save an indispensable resource throughout the history of the mankind, and the life of future generawater at home without impairing the comfort. tions depends on our careful attitude to water. The Da-Voda TV team also prepared video stories about remarkable environmental campaigns: the all-Russian cleanup of the shores of water The main character of the portal is the bodies “Let’s Do It 2015” and the stocking of the Gulf of Finland with juvenile whitefish with Neva Crayfish. The Neva Crayfish has the participation of Vodokanal. his pages in the social networks, such Da-Voda website has several regular columns. One of them, the Gadgets, offers inforas VKontakte, Facebook and Twitter. mation on different devices and simple methods It addresses his friends in Russian and that help reduce water consumption. In 2015, the portal visitors learnt, for example, what English. His friends had numbered over recipes or utensils should be chosen to save water in the kitchen, how to water orchards and 12,000 by the end of 2015. vegetable beds, and what toys can help teach children careful attitude to this vital resource. The tips posted in this column helped visitors understand how their choice of transport, hotels and even souvenirs can affect the environmental In March 2015, at the international forum roughly 50 companies presenting more than footprint. and exhibition “The Environment of Big Cities”, 120 videos. The grand prize of the competition In 2015, the column “Thirst for SocializVodokanal showcased the results of its Baltic was “The Apple Branch”. ing” presented interviews with famous artists, Sea protection activities. In the framework of In December 2015, the Russian-German the exhibition held at the Congress & Exhibition project “ECOvision” results were summarized politicians and scientists, such as the TV anchor Nikolay Drozdov, the movie and theater The growing popularity of Da-Voda is evCentre “Expoforum”, one section of Vodokanal at Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre. stand showcased the Company’s social projects: The video “Everything Depends on Us” by the stars Anastasia Melnikova and Ivan Krasko, idenced by the site traffic data: in 2011, and the politician and writer Irina Khakamada. activities of the Youth Environmental Centre and team from school no. 599 was awarded a The glaciologist and member of the Russian Antthe average number of visitors was the Universe of Water museum complex, the special prize from Vodokanal Department for Da-Voda website (www.da-voda.com) encourInformation and Public Relations: a certificate for arctic Expedition Alexey Ekaikin, the founder of 135/day, while in 2015 there were the unique Orphaned Bear Rehabilitation Center aging careful attitude to water. The information participation in environmental journalism master Valentin Pazhetnov, and the Head of the Space 430–500 visits a day. about the Marine Mammals Research and classes at the editor’s office of Da-Voda website. Research Institute at the Russian Academy of Conservation Centre in the town of Repino “Video-lessons” is a popular section on the Sciences Igor Mitrofanov, were also interviewed and about the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund portal where the Neva Crayfish acts as a teachby Da-Voda. established with strong support from Vodokanal er. The total number of views of short animated Since 2015, the Da-Voda experts have and highlighted on da-voda.com, was presented cartoons about careful attitude to water was given tips on careful attitude to water in the in every detail. nearly 115,000. online cooking magazine “Bread and Salt” edited In April 2015, Vodokanal became one One of the most popular sections on the by Julia Vysotskaya. of the winners of the video film competition website is Da-Voda TV. Video films on various “Understanding Water Means Understanding environmental topics are often posted there. the Universe” organized by the Russian Water In 2015, most of them were dedicated to the Association. Vodokanal’s video film “The Neva Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Crayfish and Its Friends” telling about the main Center, the “kindergarten” for seal pups, and character of the website, the Neva Crayfish, was the release of the recovered and healthy parecognized the best in the nomination “Water tients into the wild. One of Da-Voda TV characwill Find its Way” (the best animation telling ters is the Baltic ringed seal Little Inger – about water or the activities of an RWA member the patient who stayed in the Center over winter company). The competition was attended by due to injuries. 200 201 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Rehabilitation of Marine You can make donation to help the seals under rehabilitation in the special website section Mammals “How you can help us”: www.balticseal.org/donation Account no.: 40703810490200000024 Bank name: In 2015, the project launched by Vodokanal and the zoologists additional office “Lesnoy” Vyacheslav Alexeyev and Elena Andriyevskaya and aimed Bank “Saint-Petersburg” OJSC Correspondent account no.: at the rescue and rehabilitation of marine mammals 30101810900000000790 in the Baltic Sea region, was going on. Seal pups are treated The Baltic ringed seal Little Inger stayed North-Western Main Branch of the Central for continued rehabilitation in the Centre over and rehabilitated at the Marine Mammals Research and the autumn-winter period for the first time in the Bank of Russia, St. Petersburg Centre history. The seal was found on the beach Conservation Centre located at Vodokanal WWTP in Repino. of Kandikyulya village (Lomonosov district, the BIK: 044030790 Leningrad Region) on 21 April 2015. She had exOKPO code: 09804728 tensive phlegmons (inflammation of soft tissues) on her face, corneal clouding and a compound INN: 7841292080 fracture of the lower jaw making the nutrition KPP: 784101001 process difficult. Inger underwent surgery to remove the affected tissues and her health OGRN code: 1147800004989 In 2014, the Centre was began to improve. In autumn 2015-winter 2016 season, Little Inger stayed in the outdoor pool SWIFT: JSBSRU2P opened after of the adaptation area in the Marine Mammals “Saint-Petersburg” OJSC, in-depth renovaResearch and Conservation Center. The seal tion and installearnt how to survive on ice alone. Saint-Petersburg, Russia. lation of adThe zoologists trained her hunting skills by Hot line: +7 (812) 699-23-99 vanced medical throwing live fish into the pool. Inger’s long-lastequipment and ing rehabilitation in the Centre was only possible www.balticseal.org research tools. thanks to the concerned citizens who had conVodokanal tributed more than RUB 250,000. The request for donation was addressed to all concerned involvement in people by the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund. the rescuing of Everyone can participate in the rescue seal pups was of the Baltic ringed seals and other marine a logical mammals by making a voluntary donation to follow up the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund (the Fund of its Baltic Sea was established in 2014, www.balticseal.org). environment Donations will be used to finance the rehabilitaimprovement tion of marine mammals’ pups (purchase of fish, activities. medicaments and other things) and the scientific research related to the conservation of marine mammals and their habitats. In March 2015, the Centre was visited In 2015, 14 patients (9 Ladoga ringed Among other members of the Fund’s by the participants of the Forum dedicated seals, 4 Baltic grey seals and 1 Baltic ringed Public Council is the Governor of St. Petersburg to the Completion of the Gulf of Finland Year seal) were rehabilitated in Repino. The seal pups G.S. Poltavchenko, the Director General of SUE Project: the Minister of Natural Resources rescue season lasted from 27 March till 29 July. “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” F.V. Karmazinov, and Environment of the Russian Federation The zoologists noted that, in season 2015, the Chairman of the Union of Journalists S.E. Donskoy, the Governor of St. Petersburg they faced the most complicated cases of seal of St. Petersburg L.D. Fomicheva. G.S. Poltavchenko, the Governor of the Leninjuries and diseases. Many seals were in a critingrad Region A. Yu. Drozdenko, the Director ical condition. Another problem faced by zooloGeneral of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” gists in 2015 was inavailability of vendace in the F.V. Karmazinov and representatives of Finland shops. Vendace is the best food for seal pups. and Estonia. S.E. Donskoy mentioned after For a while, the zoologists had to feed their the Centre visit: “The Centre is impressive due patients with other fish types not quite suitable to its in-depth approach to animal managefor Ladoga ringed seals (and the fish quality was ment and subsequent release into the wild”. not good either). Therefore, the rehabilitation process slowed down. 202 203 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Environment Protection In 2013, the Company developed and Policy and improved the new Environmental policy, as the 2008 policy commitments had been fulfilled to a large extent. The objectives of the Company in the sphere of environmental safety are to: Management During 2015, Vodokanal continued • stop the discharge of untreated domesconsecutive development of the environmentic wastewater; tal management and energy management as • reduce the discharge of untreated integral parts of the Company management. runoffs; in the Sphere Along with traditional approaches (protection • stop the discharge of untreated flush of water bodies against wastewater pollution water; in the region, introduction of safe and effective • decrease negative impact on water bodwastewater disinfection methods, reduction of ies when the treated effluent does not comply of Environment drinking water losses during its production and with the specified standards; transportation, awareness-raising activity in • reduce land plots used for wastewater ecology and resource saving), new approachsludge disposal; es have been developed and implemented in • cut down emission of bad-smelling subProtection the Company – reduction in power and heat stances from sludge disposal landfills; consumption by optimizing processes, use of • implement the advanced wastewater vehicles equipped with energy efficient engines. disinfection processes at WWTPs. The Company considers the issue of applying To achieve the defined objectives alternative energy supply sources. Vodokanal implements the St. Petersburg WaManagers of all levels are responsible for ter and Wastewater Master Plan for the period the compliance with environmental safety in up to 2025 with the outlook to 2030 approved the course of development and involvement by the Decree of St. Petersburg Government St. Petersburg is the largest city located at the Baltic Sea coast. of processes and for the involvement of all no. 989 dated 11 December 2013, the investemployees into activities targeted to mitigate ment programme and discharges/emissions Our city and, consequently, Vodokanal, bear a special the environmental load. reduction plan. Under the obligations undertaken by responsibility for the Baltic Sea condition, for the the Russian Federation to fulfill the Helsinki conservation of the Baltic Sea basin, for the health of both – Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea, the Company the St. Petersburg citizens and the population of the countries makes a lot of efforts to reduce the untreated wastewater discharge and remove nutrients In addition, the Company performs, in accordance with the established procedure, the environmental located one the Baltic Sea coast. (nitrogen and phosphorus) from wastewater. In 2015, Vodokanal launched the conmonitoring of the quality of wastewater coming to struction of the network to divert wastewater wastewater treatment plants and discharged into from Metallostroy WWTP to the Central WWTP. water bodies, as well as discharges from industrial Implementation of this project will stop the companies, atmospheric air in the sanitary protection discharge of poorly treated wastewater from zone, wastewater sludge, soil and waste management. Protection of the environment and the the Baltic Sea countries, particularly, in the Metallostroy WWTP, which does not meet The obtained data is used to assess the impact of the Baltic Sea, sustainable use of natural resources framework of the International Convention of HELCOM recommendations, and close the Company on the environment, take managerial decision and responsibility to future generations for the the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Comsub-point 18.15 of the hot point 18 defined by on all levels, develop relevant measures and reduce results of the Company activities are the key mission (HELCOM). HELCOM in the Baltic Sea Region. the anthropogenic LOAD on the nature. priorities of Vodokanal and constitute the ComTo provide the efficient implementation pany’s values and strategic targets. of its environmental conception the Company Vodokanal’s environmental concept is introduced and certified the environmental manbased on the understanding of its role in creatagement system according to ISO 14001. ing a positive environmental situation throughIn 2012, Vodokanal implemented and cerout the Baltic Sea Region. The key international tified the energy management system accordarea of the Company’s activity is participation ing to ISO 50001, which enabled to maintain in social and intergovernmental structures of a high level of energy efficiency in the Company. 204 205 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Reduction Pollutants discharged into water bodies of St. Petersburg (from wastewater treatment plants and untreated wastewater discharges), emissions and generated waste of Impact Parameter Wastewater flow Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 on Water Bodies discharged into wamlnter bodies from the 1,034.6 970.4 952.1 931.6 931.6 879.5 826.8 796.9 m3/a municipal sewerage system The impact on water bodies is mitigated • continued the designing of the sewerage Construction in two ways: network and tunnels to close ten untreated of the wastewaSuspended solids wastewater discharges into the Neva along ter treatment • closure of untreated wastewater disthe Kutuzova embankment, two discharges into discharged into t/a 21,845.4 15,826.9 14,120.8 13,706.9 12,382.2 9,353.6 8,289.3 7,239.4 plant in the charges; the Kronverskiy strait along the Mytninskaya water bodies • construction, modernization or rehasettlement of embankment, one discharge into the Malaya Molodezhnoe is bilitation of wastewater treatment plants to Neva in the Petrogradskiy district, two dischargmeet the HELCOM Recommendations and the in progress. es into the Neva Bay and the Karasta River in the BODmax disRussian regulations on wastewater treatment town of Lomonosov and one discharge into the charged into water t/a 28,627.3 18,718.2 17,677.9 15,635.6 13,311.7 11,271.2 9,573.6 7,005.2 and disinfection. Bolshaya Izhora River in the settlement bodies of Pontonny. In 2015, Vodokanal carried out the following A new wastewater treatment technology activities under a stepwise closure of the untreated with membrane bioreactors will be implemented wastewater discharges: at Molodezhnoe WWTP for the first time ever in Total nitrogen dis• implemented the project on the reconSt. Petersburg. The project on the construction charged into water t/a 11,048.2 10,729.6 10,003 10,048.6 9,627.7 9,303.4 8,616.7 7,973.9 struction of the sewerage tunnel along the of Molodezhnoe WWTP includes the construction bodies Admiralteyskaya embankment and construction of the main pumping station, (mechanical and of the sewerage network in the Repina Square to biological) treatment units, sludge handling unit, divert the untreated wastewater discharged into chemical preparation and storage facilities and Total phosphorus the sewerage system; a gas cleaning system. The capacity of Molodischarged into t/a 1,177.8 759.9 677.7 492.4 491.8 433.6 355.2 291.6 • as a result, seven untreated wastewater dezhnoe WWTP will be 2,500 cubic meters per water bodies discharges were connected to the sewerage day and will ensure treatment of all wastewater system (previously, six of them discharged the coming from three settlements (Molodezhnoe, untreated wastewater into the Bolshaya Neva Serovo and Smolyachkovo). Gross emissions and one – into the Fontanka River, totaling about To improve wastewater treatment at WWTPs Vodokanal carried of pollutants into t/a 4,538.2 4,653.9 4,790.0 3,952.0 2,745.8 2,035.7 2,496.3 1,867.6 thousands of cubic meters per day). Today, this out the following activities: atmosphere wastewater is transported to the Central WWTP to undergo a full treatment cycle; • came close to the completion of the first stage of reconstruction • launched the construction of the Okhta of Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant including implementation of the tunnel collector to stop the discharge of untreatUCT technology by SWECO (Sweden) for enhanced nutrients removal. Quantity of waste ed wastewater into the Okhta River basin; The first stage of reconstruction included replacement of mechanical and produced by the t/a 511,100.8 543,365.6 519,025.4 524,738.9 510,426 500,907.2 517,307.9 455,816.1 • finalized the design works and comelectrical equipment in eight primary sedimentation tanks and reconstrucCompany menced the reconstruction of storm water sewtion of the building structures; construction of a new raw sludge pumping erage in Murinskiy Park. This project will result in station; reconstruction of the aeration tank no. 2 (5 sections) with the diverting seven untreated runoff discharges into implementation of the enhanced nutrients removal process; replacethe sewerage tunnel and further transportation ment of the existing air blowers (5 pcs.); replacement of mechanical and Quantity of the of this wastewater to the Northern WWTP, thus electrical equipment in six (out of 12) secondary sedimentation tanks and t/a 429,862 449,188.4 413,458.6 420,259.4 409,244.0 397,379.1 397,639.8 342,499.6 dewatered sludge enabling to improve substantially the environmenreconstruction of the building structures; construction of a new pumping tal condition of the Murinskiy stream; station for the return and excessive sludge. The completion of the first • commenced the construction of the stage is scheduled for 2016; pressurized sewerage network to divert waste• continued upgrading of the aeration tanks no. 5 and no. 6 at Cenwater from Metallostroy WWTP to Rybatskaya tral WWTP including implementation of the JHB technology for enhanced Quantity of sludge t/a 257,583 346,799.3 380,000.1 399,697.9 370,335.3 378,872.9 389,734.2 328,321.4 wastewater pumping station and then to Central nutrients removal; completed reconstruction of air blower facility and incinerated at SIPs Wastewater Treatment Plant. Implementation replacement of the old air blowers with new ones with the regulated air of the project will allow to stop the discharge of delivery; insufficiently treated effluent from Metallostroy • completed the modernization of sand traps at South-West WWTP; WWTP, which does not meet HELCOM recom• finalized reconstruction of one section of the aeration tank at Quantity of the mendations, and close the sub-point 18.15 of the Kolpino WWTP including implementation of the enhanced nutrients ret/a 35,805 43,481.3 49,769.5 51,333.0 47,993.7 51,236.5 48,001.0 42,158.0 moval and installation of a new tube-type membrane aeration system. produced ash hot point 18 defined by HELCOM in the Baltic Sea Region; The effectiveness of Vodokanal’s activities aimed at the elimination • continued the construction works to close of untreated wastewater discharges and reconstruction of wastewater the untreated wastewater discharge into the treatment plants is proved by reduction of pollutant discharges into Malaya Nevka in Krestovskiy Island; water bodies of St. Petersburg. • continued the designing of the sewerage network to close the untreated wastewater discharge in the settlement of Metallostroy. This project will result in the elimination of the untreated wastewater discharge into the Slavyanka River; 206 207 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Reduction of The geotube method comprising Impact on the chemical treatment and static dewatering of sludge in geotubes Atmospheric Air is applied for the processing of the sludge accumulated at Severniy landfill. As of 1 January 2016, 21% of wastewater sludge was processed. The impact of Vodokanal facilities on the (adjacent residential areas). The instrumental atmosphere is estimated by means of instrucontrol is performed by the accredited laboramental control of industrial emissions and tories in line with the plans on compliance with pollutant emissions into the atmosphere in the target values and the programmes on systemsources of emission, at the boundary of saniatic field measurements of the air quality in the Since 2013, the automatic deodorant tary protection zones and in the affected area affected zones. spraying system for odour removal (with the total length of 5 km) has been operating at Severniy and Volkhonka-2 landfills. The spraying system operation is adjusted according to the data of the connected meteorological station, which checks the wind direction. The bigger In 2015, the following activities According to the results of measureamount of chemical solution is supplied to the were implemented: ments of pollutants in industrial emissions and the atmospheric air in downwind side to produce the required odour removal effect. that air flows to a coal filter where evil-smelling buffer zones and zones affected by Due to the fact that since 2009 the substances and the remaining ozone are fully • control of pollutants content at 184 sources of industrial emissions Vodokanal facilities, no exceedance landfilling of sludge was stopped and the destroyed. Upon the positive results of the (1,970 analytical measurements); of limit values in the sources of emisbiodegradation in sludge beds partially ceased, pilot tests it was decided to implement this • control of air quality and noise level sion and health-based exposure limits the aggregated emission of pollutants into evil-smelling substances removal technology in the buffer zones and the areas affected by for the atmospheric air in residential the atmosphere from sludge landfills reduced at Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping station. 86 Vodokanal facilities (3,830 analytical measareas were recorded in 2015. by more than 2000 tones between 2009 and The existing network of tunnel collectors urements in 133 points); 2015. is mainly located in the historic center, residen• control of performance of 21 gas and A range of devices and technologies are tial areas and can cause discomfort to citizens dust removal facilities, including 6 flue gas implemented and tested at Vodokanal facilities with the odour nuisances spreading through for the reduction of negative impact on the manholes and shaft hatch covers. In order treatment facilities at sludge incineration plants (SIP). At Central and South-West SIPs To reduce negative impact atmosphere and prevention of odour nuisance to eliminate unpleasant odors the first pilot flue gases undergo a two-stage treatment in produced by sludge landfills spreading. In 2015, a photo-sorption gas cleaning projects were implemented which included the installation of air purifier in shafts and sealed electrostatic precipitators and the scrubber systems equipped with acid and alkaline columns; on the atmosphere and to plant (MSD-5000) underwent pilot testing at perforated hatch covers to protect those filters Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping station at Northern SIP they undergo a two-stage prevent odour nuisance from to remove organic (aromatic hydrocarbon) and from mechanical stress and ensure free release of the cleaned air. The pilot projects were treatment in electrostatic precipitator and are dry-cleaned in bag filters using chemicals sludge landfills, Vodokanal takes non-organic (ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, sulfur implemented at the Sverdlovskaya and Pedioxide, mercaptans, etc.) substances. trogradskaya embankments, in Prosveshcheni(activated carbon and sodium hydrocarbonate). the following measures: The air cleaning technology works in the ya and Tovarishcheskiy avenues. The air purifier following way: the contaminated air from the is designed to remove harmful evil-smelling sub• full elimination of the negative impact sewer comes into the UV chamber and stances (hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, mercaptan produced by sludge landfills by way of processis distributed throughout the chamber. Ozone sulfur) from the air. Operation results showed ing the deposited sludge to the environmentally is generated in the UV chamber and ensures that no unpleasant odour was observed near safe condition; initial reduction of evil-smelling substance; after the collector shafts. • prevention of odour nuisance spreading from sludge landfills. 208 209 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Labour Safety The international audit carried During 2015, Vodokanal carried out the out in October 2015 confirmed following activities to achieve the goals Life and health of the employees are the first priority that the Occupational Health of the Occupational Health & Safety of St. Petersburg Vodokanal in all types of its activities. & Safety Management System Management System: In accordance with the requirements of the international standard of Vodokanal functioned in com• working conditions at twenty two production facilities of the OHSAS 18001-2007 and applicable Russian laws Vodokanal’s pliance with OHSAS 18001-2007 Company were improved due to the introduction of the advanced, safe practices and modern technologies that ensured reliable and requirements. Occupational Health & Safety Management System is targeted failure-free operation as well as reduced the rate of injuries and professional diseases; Accident prevention made it possible to to the minimization of risks, prevention of industrial injuries decrease the number of insurance events per • monitoring and assessment of safe labour conditions at 1,438 working places of the Company was organized and carried and occupational diseases. 1000 employees in Vodokanal: Vodokanal’s average – 0.63, industry average – 1.22. out by way of instrumental measurements of hazardous and harmful Industrial safety compliance inspection workplace factors; is organized and implemented in the Company • 100% of employees are provided with personal protective Vodokanal employees and all stakeholders ficient functioning and continuous improvement in accordance with Article 11 of the Federal equipment; are informed about the Company’s occupational of the Occupational Health & Safety ManageLaw no. 116-FZ dated 1997 “On industrial • 2,477 employees of the Company underwent training and health and safety policy. This policy forms the ment System. safety at hazardous production facilities” and knowledge checks with regard to occupational health and safety basis for the occupational health and safety The efficient functioning of the Occupationthe Rules for Organization and Implementation issues. goals and implementation programme. al Health & Safety Management System of Control over Industrial Safety at Hazardous The Company commits to observe law at St. Petersburg Vodokanal also includes Production Facilities approved by the Decree Accident Rate by Years 14 requirements in the field of occupational health the employee’s health safety management. of the RF Government no. 263 dated and safety of the Russian Federation, involve Programs for disease prevention and health im10 March 1999. On the grounds of the Rules, 12 employees in occupational health and safety provement of employees, monitoring of working the Company developed the Regulation “On 12 activities, create conditions (including motivation conditions and health of employees, as well as control over industrial safety in the course of 11 mechanisms) when each employee becomes monitoring of efficiency of implemented measoperation of hazardous production facilities of 10 9 aware of it responsibility for his/her own safety ures are an important element of the OccupaSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” approved by 9 8 and for the safety of other people and ensure eftional Health & Safety Management System. the Director General in July 2014. 8 7 The Orders “On control over industrial safety at the hazardous production facilities 6 6 6 of the Company” were issued. Action plans are 6 5 6 5 The monitoring system includes: annually developed to ensure compliance with industrial safety requirements in the course 4 5 4 3 • monitoring of working environment • monitoring of health status of employof operation of hazardous production facilities. 2 (assessment of sanitary and hygienic condiees (health survey for detection of early sympInformation about the organization of contions of labour, organization of labour and toms of diseases, biological monitoring, polling trol over industrial safety is provided to the 0 maintaining favourable social-psychological of employees). North-Western Department of Rostekhnadzor. 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 environment at work); As of December 2015, 43 hazardous production facilities were registered and operated by the Company. Vodokanal operates (III class) hazardous facilities according to relevant licenses issued by the North-Western Department of Rostekhnadzor. 210 211 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Personnel Creation of conditions Personnel management is based on a comprehensive approach with the main focus for efficient on the following: • effective use of labour resources; labour, • improve basic remuneration and incentive systems, employees motivation; • achieve global standards in labour and industrial safety; personnel • create favorable conditions for labour and recreation, social support to retirees; • create conditions for professional growth and self-realization of the youth; management • develop consistent system of training, promotion, development and evaluation of employees; • develop dynamic corporate culture, approaches which facilitates effective interaction of employees and accelerates integration of new assets and employees; • maintain appropriate age/professional Proper selection, rational and efficient composition of the personnel; • build-up relations based on social partuse of the personnel targeted for the nership, mutual responsibility and trust. increase of Vodokanal’s effectiveness and customers’ satisfaction is achieved through: The Company applies a comprehensive approach, includ• effective use of the workforce capaciEngagement of the personnel into active ing recruitment adaptation, tutorship, candidates and ties; professional work depends not only on the new employees’ appraisal procedures to employ and • improvement of the personnel develcompetence of each employee but also on select the personnel. One of the key areas of work opment; correspondence of the employee’s personal with personnel is fast adaptation of newly employed • maintenance and development of the interests with the applied strategies and persons including their professional development workforce capacity; objectives. Opinion of the employees with and optimization of their integration into the Compa• increase of the personnel satisfaction. regard to training opportunities, career ny’s social environment. Tutorship procedure is sucgrowth, optimal working conditions and best ways of achieving the goals is taken into cessfully used to develop the personnel; it is applied consideration when developing the Company’s to young employees and students who do practical policy, strategy and plans. training in Vodokanal. 212 213 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Personnel Assessment Recruitment, of Personnel Motivation Satisfaction and Appraisal To determine the level of the personnel motivation and demotivation factors as well as to define potential staff turnover, Vodokanal performs regular assessments One of the key tasks under the personnel recruitment of personnel satisfaction. process is implementation of the effective technology of relatively quick search and qualitative selection of all It is targeted to: categories of personnel. • increase the employee satisfaction with work; • decrease the employees’ turnover; Workforce planning covers a number Adaptation and tutorship procedures • determine motivation preferences of goals, the most important of which is the are applied to newly employed persons, which of employees; provision of the Company with qualified staff. provide for fast and effective entering into • identify the main problems of the Developed and reviewed in the course of the the position (profession). To improve employpersonnel. workforce planning demand for human reees’ professional skills the ongoing from-workAchievement of these targets leads sources is the starting point in recruitment and er-to-manager training is carried out. to creation of the optimal conditions for effiselection of candidates for vacant posts. Tutorship procedure is applied not only cient work of each employee. Personnel recruitment is performed in with regard to blue-collar jobs but also to higher To increase the efficiency of work, the compliance with the Company standard “Relevels which ensures stable provision of high assessment of personnel satisfaction is carried cruitment and Employment Procedures” and is skilled personnel and reduces staff turnover out in the form of polling/questionnaire and based on the demand for human resources and in the first year of employment. different sociological surveys focusing of areas applications given by heads of structural units. of business or on a specific process. The sysUnder the recruitment process, work with The system targeted at highly-efficient tematic assessment allows to clarify and track the internal and external labor market is perwork of personnel, continuous develdown the aspects of Company activities that formed including the internal succession pool. opment of the personnel and increase are appreciated by employees, as well as those The internal succession pool ensures continuity that are unpopular, cause discomfort, reduce of the management and mitigates the risk of personnel satisfaction includes both effectiveness and lead to the loss of valuable of loss of control in the Company. The succesfinancial incentives (bonuses, salary inspecialists. sion pool is formed on a regular basis during crements, lump-sum remunerations, extra appraisal and training events in compliance with paid holidays, material and targeted social the standard “Work with Succession Pool”. Emassistance) and non-financial incentives ployees included in the Company’s Succession (recognition of personnel services, mediPool are assessed according to the Company cal support, rest and recreation, cultural standard “The Personnel Appraisal System”. events, insurances for employees and their In 2015, Vodokanal for the first time In October 2015, a new project was families). organized polling survey to monitor the satislaunched by the Company – training and appraisal of 148 candidates from the succession faction of the young blue-collars and white-colpool. Based on the results of the training and lars with the obtained professions. The polling appraisal, the individual career plans for 2016 was conducted among young employees were developed together with the relevant of Vodokanal (under 35) who work in the Commanagers. pany for not more than 3 years. 44 employees Modern HR-technologies are used for took part in the polling. The polling results search and selection of candidates from the show high satisfaction of young employees. external labour market: e-recruitment (web-resources), career fairs, the official Company’s web-site, non-specialized print media, targeted training in higher educational institutions. To form the external succession pool of young experts, the Company organizes pre-graduation practice, on-the-job and introductory training. 214 215 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Personnel Training and The number of professional skill contests “Best Professional” Development In the framework of cooperation with the 20 18 19 19 19 19 Water College, Vodokanal provides hands-on 18 18 16 training for the College students. In 2015, 20 15 14 All achievements of Vodokanal are based on the competence students got hands-on training in Vodokanal. In addition, Vodokanal provides training for the 12 10 12 of the personnel. Therefore, the Company pays special attention College professors, PG students and foremen at the Company’s production sites. 8 10 10 to the professional growth on all levels to create and maintain 6 4 a high level of the personnel proficiency and motivate the 2 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 personnel to most efficient work with maximum use of employee’s potential. The number of contest participants 300 245 245 250 The Company applies a comprehensive cialists in the following spheres were identified: 222 224 214 206 210 multi-module training programme that makes it technicians of chemical and biological labora200 200 possible to adopt the personnel in a short time tories; pump operators; electricians for repair 175 182 170 172 to changes in legislation and business environand maintenance of electric equipment; electric 150 158 ment, optimize costs by way of determining and gas welders; operators of excavators and 150 120 exact training needs (with due consideration of truck-mounted cranes; nurses; drivers; repair 120 108 102 the short-term and long-term objectives of the and maintenance workers; instrumentation 100 100 100 Company) while maintaining the high quality of repairmen; operational engineers; specialists training. for occupational safety, industrial safety and 50 The training process in Vodokanal is improduction control; health and safety inspecplemented according to the Company standard tors. Competitions for environmental manage“System of Planning, Organization and Control ment and quality management system auditors 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of Personnel Training”, in compliance with the were organized. Best emergency repair teams training schedule for the current year, which in water supply and wastewater sectors were planned actual is compiled subject to the training needs and identified. Moreover, in 2015, Vodokanal yearly applications from the Company structural representatives participated in interdisciplinary units. professional skill contests. In each particular case, Vodokanal orThe majority of Vodokanal’s professional ganizes the training which is optimal in terms contests is organized in the Water Utilities Satisfaction level of the contest participants of content, scope, duration, cost and other Department of the Water College, which is parameters, which is possible due to a flexible equipped in line with up-to-date requirements 99% 99.5% 100% 99% 99% corporate training system. Various forms of and has facilities that comply with difficulty 100% 98% training are offered: internal and external trainlevel of professional contests. Professional ing, partnership training projects (Water College, re-training and qualification improvement of 90% International Advanced Water Technologies Vodokanal employees are performed at the WaCentre, and Water Academy), cooperation with ter Utilities Department of the Water College. 80% scientific institutions and higher educational institutions. 70% A two-staged professional skill competition is organized by the Company to achieve and maintain high proficiency of the personnel, 60% ensure dissemination of the advanced and innovative working methods and techniques as well 50% Organization Facilities Methodological as access of the employees to the knowledge of the contest and equipment support and experience accumulated by the Company. 2014 2015 In 2015, 19 final professional skill competitions – “Best Professional” were conducted. 215 people took part in the competitions, 81 employees became the winners. The best spe216 217 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Succession pool establishment is one of the areas of the Company HR-management. High level of proficiency of blue Succession pool management is performed in collars is confirmed by the awards accordance with the corporate standard “Succession Pool Management” and aims at the received by them in the interdisciplinary development and maintenance of the personnel professional skill contests: potential. The succession pool comprises the existing succession pool, perspective succession pool and the Talent Group. To develop the 1. The interdisciplinary professional skill contest “Best capacities of the employees included into the Professional” among the workers of housing and pubTalent Group, the training courses are organized • 1 place – repairman for such employees in the Succession lic utilities and consumers sector of St. Petersburg and (Wastewater Directorate) D.V. Vasilyev. Pool School. the Leningrad Region (12 March 2015) • 1 place – driver Distribution of trainees by internal and external In order to form the external succession (Transport and Logistics Branch) V.V. Kolymkov. training programmes in 2015 pool, including the search for the talented 3 participants from Vodokanal, one second • 2 place – electrician youth, the Company organizes meetings with placed winner – electric welder D.G. Sokolov (Wastewater Directorate) N.P. Ivantsov. the professors of the sector-related leading ed(Water Supply Directorate). • 3 place – excavator operator ucational institutions and implements the work At the (Transport and Logistics Branch) N.L. Shpak. Water College practice programme for students. The work At the 2. Contest of the authorized specialists for occupationpractice gives the opportunity for the students At the International 178 pe. 1% Water Academy al safety of housing and public utilities and consumers to get theoretical knowledge and practical Advanced Water 2% 44 pe. 5. Stroymaster 2015 contest (11 November 2015) Technologies Centre sector of St. Petersburg (22 April 2015) experience, develop professional skills, learn 576 pe. 1 winner from Vodokanal – K.S. Soboleva • 1 place – electricians for repair and about the advanced production technologies maintenance of electric equipment N.P. Ivatsov and obtain a unique practical experience. 7% (Water Supply Directorate). (Wastewater Directorate). In 2015, practice was organized for 226 stu3. All-Russian Contest “Russian builder-2015” • 1 place – driver Yu.V. Lebedev dents. (30 July 2015) (Transport and Logistics Branch, vehicle diviThe Company creates a favourable training 16 participants from Vodokanal, six winners sion no. 2). climate and considers the training costs to be 46% in two nominations: • 2 place – crane operator A.M. investments in the fixed assets leading to optiInternal training • emergency repair team in wastewater Polevchuk (Transport and Logistics Branch, mal use of the employee potential. 3,521 pe. disposal – foreman D.V. Chernogryazskiy vehicle division no. 5). In total, 7685 employees were trained (Wastewater Disposal Directorate). • 2 place – excavator operator A.M. in 2015. (Company employees may take several 44% • repairman R.V. Bakashkin Shcherbin (Transport and Logistics Branch, trainings a year). External training (Wastewater Disposal Directorate). vehicle division no. 2). In 2015, 444 Vodokanal employees under(contract training) • 2 place – repairman A.V. Bolshakov 3,375 pe. 4. Professional skill contest “Best Professional” went professional training, refresher courses (Water Supply Directorate). and advance training for workers, among them in Rostov-on-Don (15 July 2015) 178 persons – at Water College premises. 15 participants,15 winners. 5,798 employees took training in comTrainees satisfaction with educational Best emergency repair team: pliance with the RF legislation requirements activities in 2015 • 1 place – repair team in labour safety, fire safety, traffic safety and (water supply) foreman A.V. Anokhin. sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the • 2 place – repair team (wastewater dispopulation. 98% 99% 98% 98% 98% 99% 100% posal) foreman S.V. Ogorodov. 536 persons underwent training in com• 1 place – electric and gas welder puter literacy and communication skills. 90% (Water Supply Directorate) D.G. Sokolov. 907 persons participated in seminars and advanced trainings for managers and special80% ists, among them 567 persons took the training course “Advanced water and wastewater 70% Distribution of trainees by types of training technologies” within the frame of the workshop 60% programme of the International Advanced Wa7,000 ter Technologies Centre. 50% 6,513 Computer courses Water College International Advanced 6,000 5,798 Water Technologies Centre 2014 2015 5,000 4,000 2014 2015 3,000 pe. 2,000 1,000 799 907 501 444 505 536 0 Compulsory training Professional training, Corporate Seminars in compliance with refresher courses and computer and advanced the RF legislation advanced training literacy and trainings for requirements in labour for workers communication managers safety, fire safety, skills programs and specialists traffic safety and sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population 218 219 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 In 2012, Vodokanal began to support the educational initiatives of the personnel, which enabled to optimize the scope Satisfaction survey results of training and gave the opportunity for the employees to show initiative in training 100% 98% 99% 98% 99% 97% 98% 99% 100% (to undergo training on their own and at their own expense): 80% 60% • Self-education programmes for 40% the Company personnel (18 programmes): 20% • MS Word text editor – the level 1, 2; • Computer processing of images in Corel0% • MS Excel spreadsheets – the level 1,3; DRAW system; Curriculum content Organization Equipment and facilities Quality of teaching of teaching process available for teaching • Basics of the Internet. Email; • Microsoft Access. Database Design; • Overview of MS Office software: • MS Access, Basic course; • MS Power Point; MS Visio; MS Project; • MS Office in economic activity; 2014 2015 • Presentations in Power Point and work • Information System (MS Office) in Outlook; for Executives; • Fundamentals of Information Security; • PC Manager; As of 1 September 2015, 89 people • Adobe Photoshop graphics; • Business Statistics and forecasting • 3D modeling in AutoCAD; in MS Excel. underwent training in four higher educa• Business Graphics in MS Visio; tion institutions of the city, 17 people are children of the Company’s employees. 11 people graduated from higher educaTraining under self-education programmes tion institutions in 2015. 3,500 3,178 3,000 State St. Petersburg Transport State University 2,500 University 2 pe. 3 pe. 2,000 1,687 1,500 State University of Architecture and Civil Engineering 1,000 State University 3 pe. of Maritime and 500 Inland Shipping 81 pe. 0 2014 2015 • Commercial computer courses (10 persons underwent training under 7 programmes): • Work in AutoCAD 2010 System; • MS Word text editor – Level 1; • MS Word text editor – Level 2; • MS Excel spreadsheets – Level 1; • MS Excel spreadsheets – Level 2; To date, Vodokanal focuses on optimizaeducation and development system that • MS Excel spreadsheets – Level 3; tion of personnel training, refresher courses is inextricably connected with the sector • MS PowerPoint presentation program. and advanced training, improves the personnel development strategy in general. Basic course. 220 221 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Outreach to Young Almost 600 persons participated in the meetings between young employees and the Company management organized at Employees In 2015, fourteen employees under 35 years of age with a five-year record of fullall corporate divisions. At the meetings young people could communicate with top time work with the Company were awarded lapel badges “The Best Young Worker of SUE managers and ask them different quesVodokanal is strongly focused on youth outreach. “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg””, a monetary tions in informal surroundings. reward and free vouchers (for each awardee plus one member of his/her family) for a 7-day The comprehensive training program sojourn at Burevestnik Sanatorium, in recogni“Leadership for Trade Union Core Group” for tion of their professional achievements. members of the Youth Council launched in As of 1 January 2016, the young Professional development and career 2014 was going on. It included mass sporting employees numbered advancement are supported by professional events (seasonal sports and tourist rallies, workmanship contests where young employSpartakiads) bringing together many young 2,714 accounting for 32.5% of ees are actively involved, and by programs for people, and excursions to the Company’s the total Vodokanal workforce. young professionals included in the Company’s production facilities where young people could Vodokanal implements projects aimed succession pool. Young employees account for learn about the Company operations. at young professionals career development, 47.3% of the succession pool. The talent pool For the purpose of improving the Compaengagement of talented youth, creation of envihas 33 young specialists. ny image, corporate teams engaged in citywide ronment for their professional development and The “My Initiative for Vodokanal” project and national amateur sports championships, efficient involvement in the Company activities. triggered by the Youth Council has begun. in wits & humour competitions for teams It is a competition for the best process improverepresenting St. Petersburg companies and ment initiative proposed by young employees. organizations, and in the International Best One of the events intended to foster Youth Outreach Contest in the town of Yugorsk employee commitment to the Company is the where the Youth Council’s “Professions in a Big “Games for the Young” Festival (the fifth festival City” Project received a grant in the nomination was held on 17-19 April 2015). The objective of “Career Guidance”. the Festival is to build a corporate spirit among Young people were involved in thematic the young, develop a creative networking envievents, such as the business game “Feel the ronment and provide opportunities for detection Value of Water”, environmental quest “Success and development of creative capabilities of the Is In Your Hands”, and intellectual game “SharpSeveral projects intended to retain young. 300 people participated in the Festival. shooter”; participated in all-Russian, citywide The program of events dedicated to the Youth and corporate events, in veteran outreach, young employees at the Company Day (26 June 2015) included a training session and co-organized events dedicated to comand ensure their effective adaptation in efficient teamwork principles. Young employmemorative dates. ees – members of the talent group, succession were implemented in 2015: pool, and primary trade union organization’s Youth Council, as well as the Company’s best Vodokanal’s young employees provided support • “Welcome to Vodokanal” event for the newly employed young people. The objective Another youth engagement workers, 40 persons in total, participated in this to the annual Museums At Night event organized is to initiate young employees into the Compaproject (the Future Generation event. by the Universe of Water museum complex ny history, traditions and innovations, tell them in the framework of the International Museum about career opportunities and social programs. Project) covers: Day; were actively involved in the nationwide Two welcome events for 232 new employees • outreach to students and graduates environmental campaign “Clean Banks for Our were held in 2015; of universities and colleges (introduction into Rivers and Lakes!”, and acted as volunteer helpers • Adaptation and Tutorship procedures. 559 new employees were adapted in 2015. practice, on-the-job training, pre-graduation practical training). In 2015, Vodokanal organized Youth Council for Polyanka animal shelter. The tutorship procedure was organized on-the-job training for 118 higher school stufor 57 persons; dents and 50 students of professional colleges; • The adaptation procedure “Young • outreach to the Water College stuVodokanal’s Youth Council supported by ny-specific challenging issues and willing to Specialist’s Training” has been organized since dents (on-the-job training and job placement the Company management and the primary disseminate the values and principles followed September 2015 to introduce young employees for graduates). Twenty-two students received trade union organization participates in the by Vodokanal. to the Company operations. Four groups, on-the-job training and 32 were employed by development and implementation of the corIn particular, the Youth Council 15 persons in each, have been trained. the Company in 2015. All in all, 105 Vodokanal porate youth policy. engages young employees in the trade union employees are graduates of the Water College. The Youth Council unites the young activities and the Company’s social life, proemployees under 35 years of age (regardless motes creative and innovative initiatives of of their length of service or position) seeking the young, advocates healthy lifestyle, and professional and cultural self-development, organizes sporting and cultural events. interested in the discussion of the Compa222 223 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Career Guidance The program is implemented using the The key objecassets of the Universe of Water museum tive of career complex, the Youth Environmental Centre, guidance is Vodokanal’s production facilities, and the involvement training ground of the Water College. Under the of young people program, students attend an excursion to the in the search Career guidance is one of the Company approaches Under the project, the students get inforUniverse of Water Museum, the interactive lesson “Water for a Big City”, and an excursion to for their promation about Vodokanal operations, implement fessional identito creation of an external succession pool. their own mini-projects, test water quality, and one of Vodokanal’s treatment plants. The final phase of the program offers a simulation exerty and advocacy learn how to mitigate the burden on the Baltic cise “Water and Cities” where the participants of the profesSea water environment. design and defend their water supply project sions demanded The International Centre avails of the for a hypothetical city, and a “Professional Testby the Company. wide spectre of resources offered by the YEC, ing” competition at the Water College training This focus area is supported by offered different projects and programs for chilMuseum and production facilities of Vodokanal ground. Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre (YEC) dren and young people to get knowledge about St. Petersburg and Lahti. Every year, the best The program format gives the students and Museum Complex. Vodokanal activities, various water treatment project participants go on study tours to Lahti reliable knowledge of the city infrastructure, They provide information on Vodokanal and distribution technologies, and environmenwhere they visit industrial sites and communioffers a chance to visit production facilities, activities for staff members and visitors, stir tal aspects of water management. cate with their peers. communicate with Vodokanal specialists in the young people’s interest in water-related Every day, the Museum and YEC offer “Water +” career guidance project – for different fields, gain practical experience, simuprofessions, and foster a responsible attitude different programs and excursions for students 7-11-year school students. Under the project, late actions and take decisions in the near-real to water. Moreover, career guidance is a tool for of secondary and higher school aiming to give the students are asked to set up “design game environment. the Company to create an external succession them understanding of Vodokanal role in the bureaus” where they will design water supply Furthermore, career guidance is one of the pool. city life, technical, economic and environmental and wastewater disposal systems for a hyCompany approaches to creation of an external In 2015, the Youth Environmental Centre aspects of its activities, and the professions pothetical city. At the first phase, the particisuccession pool. and the Universe of Water museum complex demanded by modern water companies. pants attend training classes at the YEC and excursions at the museum and then present their own projects. Project defense is arranged as a role-playing game where each particiCareer guidance comprises pant is to obtain approvals for his/her project from several authorities, such as technical the following activities: Examples of daily programs are: directorate, financial directorate, environment • Participation of Vodokanal delegates protection committee, etc. The project objective in citywide recruitment fairs; Excursions to “The Underground World is to demonstrate what technical, intellectual • Participation of Vodokanal delegates of St. Petersburg” and to the historical exhibiand financial resources are required by water in recruitment fairs organized by vocational tion “The Water World of St. Petersburg” in the operators. or higher schools; Water Tower. Interactive programs: “Water “My Choice: Knowledge. Profession. • Participation of Vodokanal delegates for a Big City”, “Water – Yesterday, Today and Success” – the career guidance program for in youth career forums; Tomorrow!”, “The City at the Seaside” at the students of senior high school and secondary • Participation of Vodokanal delegates Youth Environmental Centre, etc. vocational school helps the young people make in educational forums and roundtables; a sensible and well-thought-out choice of pro• Meetings with students of secondary fession and seeks to raise the prestige of engivocational schools and undergraduates. neering and blue collar jobs in the eyes of the Targeted projects and career guidance young. The program offers the students deeper programs have been developed and insight into the existing municipal infrastructure and the public utilities sector, in particular, offered to the city’s educational Vodokanal activities, focusing on its liaison institutions. with other businesses and industries; gives the students knowledge about the engineering, blue collar and other professions, requirements The Engineer’s Secret Archive – a program Vodokanal’s Youth Council at various venues in to personnel, and career opportunities by the In 2015, Vodokanal participated for 2-6-year schoolchildren. They learn about the 2015. In 2016, the program will be replicated engineering solutions used for water treatment during offsite events. example of the Company’s production facilities; in 11 of the above events. demonstrates the importance of good engiand distribution in different historical periods. Awareness-raising of the young through neering solutions for sustainable use of natural A special focus is given to advanced technolthe International Advanced Water Technolresources (water) in a big city, etc. ogies. The children use the knowledge and expeogies Centre – a project for high school and rience they have acquired in game situations, college students. and simulate production processes. Throughout a school year, senior schoolSuccess is in Your Hands – an interactive children and students of non-core colleges from career guidance game program for high school St. Petersburg and Lahti (Finland) meet water and college students. The program was develspecialists and learn the best practices used by oped and tested by the YEC specialists and Russian and Finnish water companies. 224 225 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Personnel In 2015, for the purpose of career guidance, the Company strongly liaised with the St. Petersburg Labour and Employment Committee and the Committee for Youth Policy and Relations with Public Organizations; had a meeting with representatives of the St. Petersburg Central District Employment Facts Centre where agreements were reached regarding Vodokanal participation in citywide recruitment fairs and career guidance events As of 1 January 2016, the actual headfor 61%, female personnel – 39%. Young (unorganized by the St. Petersburg Labour and count was 8,514 people. der 35) employees are 32.4%. Employment Committee and the distribution of Blue collars prevail in the staff composiThe average age of the personnel career guidance materials in the Central District tion – 51%, the second biggest group is speis 44.4 years. schools. cialists and office staff – 30%, and managers The manpower turnover was 4.6%, the account for 19%. Male personnel accounts turnover of young employees – 8% in 2015. Labour turnover,% 10.49% 8.01% 6% 4.6% 2012 2013 2014 2015 38.6% of the Company employees The following career guidance have a college degree; 35 employees projects are being implemented: hold a Candidate of Science degree, 5 hold a doctorate. 1. Specialized department of the employees’ children (6 persons) and the best Average length of service in the Company – St. Petersburg State Technology Institute. graduates of the Water College (14 persons) 11 years (in RF – 3 years). The department trains specialists in: “Chemto study “Environmental Engineering and WaEducation level istry and Water Technologies”, “Nanoporous ter Management”. of the Company sorbent technology for safety products and For the purpose of identifying the best Length of service in the Company employees life support systems”. students (not only in the target group but also The department has knowledge and in other water sector-related groups), a regular resources for R&D in the field of water, gas meeting with participation of the group menand soil treatment for the needs of Vodokanal. tors decided to organize, starting from 2016, In July and September 2015, the Technical a competition of term and graduation projects Council meetings with participation of the on the subjects of interest for Vodokanal. 21.7% St. Petersburg State Technology Institute Moreover, nineteen persons were placed and water sector-related higher schools were for extramural training (7 of them – in “Envi38.6% held where the key R&D areas of interest ronmental Engineering and Water Manage30% for Vodokanal were determined. ment”, and 12 – in “Civil Engineering”) 40% 2. Target groups for training of high at Vodokanal’s expense to upgrade their skills. 21.6% professionals at the State Sea and River Fleet In addition to its own projects, Vodokanal University named after the Admiral annually sends aspirants to job competitions S.O. Makarov. under the federal programme giving them In 2015, an intramural target group (20 a guarantee of further employment according 18.1% students in total) was made up of Vodokanal to the needs. 30% Higher General secondary Basic vocational Secondary vocational Under 5 years 5–10 years Over 10 years 226 227 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Social Policy and Corporate Culture Social Major areas of social policy: The corporate social policy is implemented through social programs that are attractive for the employees and aim at engagement • staff development, enhancement of the and retention of high-qualified personnel in the professional qualification of employees; Policy Company. Social programmes are aimed at the repro• formation of corporate culture; • improvement of health and organization duction and development of high-quality labour of recreation activities for the employees and resources, qualified management and corporate their family members; Principles culture. • attraction and support of the youth, including educational projects; • sports programs; • material assistance; • assistance to long-service employees; • implementation of different children’s programs. Vodokanal’s social policy is an important element of its personnel, production and economic potential. The key principle of the The social policy takes a special place in motivation and self-excorporate social policy pression of the personnel. The social policy is an integral part of the Company’s Strategic Plan and it comprises a number of activities is that of social responsibility In 2015, social support provided targeted to the provision of additional privileges and services to the according to which the to the employees and veterans Company employees. St. Petersburg Vodokanal improves continuously the mechanisms Company: of labour was as follows: of social support provided to the Company employees, members • builds its strategy with due regard of their families and retirees. to the interests of the society as a whole; The social policy is implemented in accordance with the current • to employees, who reached jubilee age (50 years) and retire• complies with the law; ment age (55 years for women and 60 years for men) – 374 people law and in compliance with social responsibilities specified in the • complies with generally accepted moral Collective Agreement for 2014-2016 and regulatory acts of SUE (RUB 13,774,800); and ethical standards; • to employees with an uninterrupted service in the Company for “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. • respects human rights; 25, 30, 35, 40 years – 178 people (RUB 14,879,200); • is committed to ensure a balance of in• financial assistance on childbirth– 254 people (RUB 3,840,000); terests of the stakeholders including personnel, • financial assistance for medical treatment – 202 people consumers and other social groups which are (RUB 2,127,800); linked in one way or another to the Company’s • payments after death of a relative – 284 people activities; (RUB 3,880,100); • considers the interests of future gen• payments in other circumstances – 110 people erations aiming at maximizing prudent use (RUB 1,015,200); of natural resources and improving the living • targeted material assistance to the war veterans conditions for the population; (on the Day of Complete Lifting of the Siege of Leningrad, on Victo• works consistently on ensuring health ry Day; to the veterans who served in the Armed Forces during war and safety of the personnel. times the material assistance is provided on a monthly basis) – 322 people (RUB 10,043,000); • quarterly targeted material assistance to retired employees – 1705 people (RUB 4,774,700). 228 229 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Recognition of Employees’ Provision of material assistance to the employees, pe. Achievements and 880 860 Corporate Awards 840 832 824 814 820 SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg values its employees 800 780 and recognizes their contribution to achievement of goals 757 762 760 and Company development. 740 720 Number of the awarded employees, pe. 700 680 1,000 899 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 900 829 800 736 700 647 628 600 500 400 300 200 300 270 263 277 284 263 250 240 239 254 252 240 100 200 169 0 155 158 147 149 153 141 150 116 120 99 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 100 50 0 On childbirth For medical treatment For funeral Under other circumstances 2015 13 246 14 320 54 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 10 291 15 273 39 2013 12 256 11 389 231 2012 13 164 608 44 2011 13 128 527 68 Honorary Labour Best young Certificates of honour External employee veteran employee and gratitudes awards 230 231 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Awarding the title Social and certificate, as well as money reward. An Honorary Employee has a right “Labour Veteran of to receive a free voucher to Burevestnik Sanatorium for recreation and resort treatment. Vodokanal St. Petersburg” The title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” is awarded to employees who In 2015, the title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was bestowed on 13 employees. The total money reward Subsistence and Privileges have the record of service of at least 20 years amount was RUB 325,000. in the Company. At the same time the winner is awarded a lapel badge and certificate, as well as a money reward in the amount of a month The lapel badge salary. In 2015, the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was bestowed “The Best Young Emof the Employees on 246 Vodokanal employees. The total money ployee of Vodokanal reward amount was RUB 7,256,600. St. Petersburg” The lapel badge “The Best Young EmployAwarding the title ee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” is bestowed on the employees under the age of 35, who “Honorary Employee of have a 5-year unbroken record of service, for Vodokanal St. Petersburg” personal contribution to management and production, introduction of modern technoloThe title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” is bestowed on gies to water supply and wastewater disposal (at the request of managers and co-workers) processes, improvement of the service quality, the Company employees and other persons professional skills promoting the development for contribution to development of the water of Vodokanal, active participation in the social supply and wastewater disposal systems of life of the Company. St. Petersburg. The title can be bestowed for In 2015, the lapel badge “The Best Young development, adoption and implementation Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was of cutting-edge equipment and technologies, bestowed on 14 young employees. The total money reward amount was RUB 140,000. application of forms and methods of labour In accordance with the organization leading to a significant economic effect, improvement of the positive image of local regulatory acts, the Company in Russia and abroad, mentoring, strengthening of corporate culture and high St. Petersburg Vodokanal professionalism. provided the following At the same time the winner is awarded a lapel badge “Honorary Employee” social privileges in 2015: 1. Vouchers to the Company employees • employees of Vodokanal given the title and members of their families, former employ“Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. PetersCorporate prizes and prizes from ees to Burevestnik Sanatorium at a partial cost; burg”; • employees of Vodokanal recognized as regulatory and administrative 2. In accordance with the local regulatory exposed to radiation after Chernobyl Accident; acts, free vouchers to Burevestnik Sanatorium • employees of Vodokanal recognized authorities of the Russian Federation were provided to: as combatants under the law of the Russian and St. Petersburg • former employees of Vodokanal – who Federation; served in the Armed Forces during the Great • employees of Vodokanal who had seriIn 2015, 54 employees were awarded departmental prizes Patriotic War; ous illnesses and operations and needed health as well as prizes from legislative and executive authorities: • employees of Vodokanal – veterans of improvement and rehabilitation as certified the Great Patriotic War, residents of besieged by the dispensary department of Vodokanal’s Leningrad, homefront workers, former captives Medical Centre; • 2 employees were awarded departmenof Nazi camps; • employees of Vodokanal being single tal prizes; • former employees of Vodokanal – vetparents (the voucher is provided to children • 43 employees were awarded prizes erans of the Great Patriotic War, residents of and a parent subject to the relevant average from executive authorities of St. Petersburg; besieged Leningrad, homefront workers, former salary); • 9 employees were awarded prizes from captives of Nazi camps; • employees of Vodokanal with two or legislative authorities of St. Petersburg; • former employees of Vodokanal given more children (free voucher is provided for • 320 employees were awarded the the title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. children excluding the elders child). Vodokanal certificates of honour and gratiPetersburg”; 3. Public catering at preferential prices. tudes. The total money reward amount was RUB 1,273,000. 232 233 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Organization of Recreation for the Burevestnik Sanatorium – a comfortable, modern recreation and rehabilitation Due to a well-developed infrastructure, the sanatorium offers a wide range of modern 8,777 employees were Company Employees facility which is located near the town of Luga (the Leningrad Region) and consists of three sites: Burevestnik, recreation and health improvement services. Holiday-makers can use swimming pools, Finnish sauna and Russian steam room, accommodated in Burevestnik in 2015, which fitness facilities, gym, tennis courts, outdoor and Members Omchino and Zvyozdiy. The territory of Burevestnik is guarded around-the-clock. The rooms are cozy and playgrounds for badminton, volleyball and basketball. There is a library, a café, cinema and concert hall. A multi-functional sports complex is 2% more than in 2014. of their Families comfortable. is also available for the holiday-makers with a gym, rooms for ping-pong, billiard, two swimming pools and a dancing floor. There is a zoo and a horse riding centre in the sanatorium. One of the social policy priorities of St. Petersburg Vodokanal is organization of recreation and health Number of sanatorium guests improvement for the employees and members of their families, promotion of healthy lifestyle, development of dynamic corporate culture, corporate integrity, strengthening 10,000 8,064 8,652 8,777 of interpersonal relations and friendship among staff members. 8,000 6,221 7,252 6,000 To implement these goals of the social policy, the Centre for Implementation 4,000 of Socio-Economic Programmes 2,000 (the Company’s branch) was established in 2008. The activities of the Centre 0 are targeted to: 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • increase the labour productivity and social protection of the personnel by way Major performance criteria of implementing the adopted social proof the Centre for ImplemenIn the territory of Burevestnik there is a A package of recovery treatment programmes aimed at satisfying the needs of the employees with regard to comfortable working tation of Socio-Economic Promodern Medical Centre. The diagnostics division grams and diagnostic techniques is developed of the center applies new methods of prevenand implemented for Vodokanal employees conditions, public catering and prevention grammes are as follows: tion, diagnostics and treatment of different working in harmful and hazardous labour of professional diseases; 1) satisfaction with organization of recreation and types and forms of diseases. In 2015, 255 conditions. Such employees are provided extra • satisfaction of employees working health improvement for the personnel (92% in 2015); health care vouchers were given to the employleaves (over-leaves set forth by the legislation in harmful conditions in terms of provision 2) satisfaction with public catering – 91%. ees and retirees (participants and veterans of of the Russian Federation). 164 Vodokanal of a high quality rehabilitation and recreation the Great Patriotic War, residents of besieged employees spent their rehabilitation holidays in opportunities; Leningrad, homefront workers, former captives the sanatorium in 2015. • creation of conditions and satisfaction of Nazi camps). of needs in terms of a proper recreation and health improvement for the employees and members of theirs families in Burevestnik Sanatorium; • creation of a positive image of the Company as socially responsible, technology intensive and most advanced company in the sector. 234 235 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 During school holidays the Company organizes recreation for the children of the employees in Zvyozdny chilIn 2015, the following Yearly, Spartakiada games, festivals dren’s health camp. All the conditions for children (comas well as traditional winter and fortable and safe accommodation, leisure and cognitive events were held summer competitions are organized activity) are arranged in Zvyozdny. The camp territory in Burevestnik Sanatorium: for the Company employees in is guarded around-the-clock and illuminated at night; the territory of Burevestnik Sanaday-and-night video monitoring is provided. The camp • From 27 February till 1 March – tratorium. These events included into has its own fire station. The fire station hosts regular ditional winter championship for Vodokanal the corporate programme for health training lessons for children who spend their holidays teams. Ten teams took part in the competition improvement and sports promote in Zvyozdny dedicated to the basics of fire safety. which accounted for about 400 people. development and maintenance • From 3 till 5 April – the Festival “Family of healthy lifestyle, corporate Games” was held in Zvyozdny. About 300 peointegrity, strengthening ple took part in the event. of interpersonal relations and Each session in the children’s health 2) The indoor riding hall for horseback riding under the guidance of instructors. Children • From 17 till 19 April – the Festival friendship among staff members. “Youth Games”. Young employees, members of camp has its tailor-made programme are given a full set of equipment. jury and, of course, fans came to Luga totaling 3) Open playgrounds with up-to-date targeted to a comprehensive developfloors for playing tennis, ping-pong, basketball, about 300 people. • From 22 till 24 May – The sports comment of the youth. A well-developed volleyball, badminton and football. petition with the participation of sportsmen 4) The Svinechnoe Lake with comfortable infrastructure of the camp keeps the beaches and bathing places for children. from the Society of Sports and Physical Trainchildren entertained. It includes: 5) The cinema and concert hall. ing “Rossiya” was held in Zvyozdny. Vodokanal To strengthen the international relations team consisted of 40 employees. 6) The zoo where you can find a family • From 28 till 30 August – traditions XIX among water companies, from 20 till 1) The multipurpose sports facilities: of camels, a brown bear, ostriches, peacocks, • gyms: volleyball, basketball, mini footpheasants, mandarin ducks, Barbary wild summer competition was organized in Zvyozdny. 9 teams, fans, the Company top manage22 November Vodokanal organized the ball; sheep, donkeys, reindeers and a silver fox in open air enclosures. ment, jury members (totaling over 450 people) sports contest “Fellowship” in Burevest• tennis and ping-pong; came to Luga. • gymnastics, trampoline and fitness 7) The petting zoo for children to take care • From 4 till 6 September – the first nik. About 250 people took part in the facilities; of hamsters and chinchillas and to explore the natural diversity of the Luga Region under the summer competition “Uniting Energy” was events including teams from: • swimming pools for adults and children; organized in Burevestnik. The vice-governor • computer class; supervision of specialists. I.N. Albin was the initiator of this sports event. • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”; • classrooms for arts clubs; The sports competition was organized by the • MUP “Vladimirvodokanal”; • discotheque; Qualified teachers make children’s leisure Committee for Energy and Engineering Support • MP “Vodokanal of the town of Ryazan”; • library; activities interesting and informative. Children and Vodokanal. Thirteen teams made up of the • OAO “Nyzhegorodskiy Vodokanal”; • winter garden. participate in theme-based programmes and representatives of executive bodies took part • MUP “Novgorodskiy Vodokanal”; excursions. in the competition. In addition to the represent• MUP Vodokanal of the town of ChereIn 2015, the programme devoted to the atives of the city committees subordinated to povets; Year of Literature in Russia was implemented in I.N. Albin, teams made up of administration of • OOO “Aleksandrov Vodokanal”; Zvyozdny children’s health camp. The objective the vice governor, Housing Committee and the • AO “Vodokanal of the town of Yakutsk”; of the programme was to unlock the creative Committee for Municipal Improvement took • MP “Vodokanal of the town Velikie Luky”; potential of each child by involving the child part in the competition. As a result, aver 500 • AO “Leningradskie oblastnye kommunalinto learning and entertaining activities and people came to participate in the sports event. nye sistemy”. satisfy the child’s need in personal fulfilment and recognition of personal pertinence by other programme participants. Number of participants in the events organized by the Company Event 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1,219 children of school age Winter sports competition 380 400 400 400 (6–15 years old) spent their “Youth Games” Festival 300 291 300 300 300 holidays in the camp in 2015. “Family Games” 200 350 300 Summer sports competition 500 700 700 700 450 “Fellowship” contest 350 200 250 250 250 236 237 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Healthcare, A distinctive feature of the occupationNumber of employees who underwent regular al medicine in the Company is the integrated medical check-ups and periodic and preliminary approach, focus on preventive measures and medical examinations continuity at all stages of medical care from Major preliminary medical examinations for new employees, periodic medical examinations, outpatient observation, vaccination, outpatient treatment to medical rehabilitation. 14,000 12,000 10,000 1,879 1,282 1,077 957 942 1,651 Parameters In 2015, about 8,400 employees received with medical services. Over 315,000 medical services were provided by the branch divisions. An important activity of the Medical Centre 8,000 6,000 4,000 4,877 4,150 5,047 4,300 3,436 5,633 Branch is a long-tern follow-up care which 3,323 3,408 4,589 4,365 5,164 4,986 2,000 includes regular medical check-ups with health screening and preventive and curative interven2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 tions in case of socially significant diseases. Timely identification of such diseases allows Periodic medical examination providing proper medical care to the group of Regular medical check-ups patients to prevent dangerous complications. Preliminary medical In 2015, regular medical check-ups and periodic St. Petersburg Vodokanal has a system of medical care aimed and preliminary medical examinations were conducted in accordance with the set performance at maintaining professional health and longevity, reduction indicators of the branch. Number of photofluorography tests made of industrial injuries and days away from work, improving the For the purpose of preventing tuberculosis 12,000 9,420 9,613 10,000 9,149 quality of life of employees and members of their families. and for early detection of respiratory diseases, all employees of the Company undergo diag8,718 7,455 8,000 nostic testing of the chest (photofluorography, X-ray, computer tomography). 6,000 5,213 The medical care is provided for the ComThe branch staff consists pany employees by the Medical Centre Branch, of 54 nurses of higher category 4,000 which mission is the provision of high quality and 53 physicians (12 candidates The Company has established and conmedical services. of medical sciences, 6 doctors of stantly uses the system of pre-trip and post2,000 medical sciences and 4 professors). trip medical examinations for vehicle drivers. To ensure high availability and efficiency of 0 Currently, the structure of the Medical medical service, the health posts and medical 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 rooms are located at large production faciliCentre Branch includes the following ties of the Company in different city districts, Photofluorography tests units: thus the medical service is pushed ultimately • Diagnostic and Treatment Centre; Such structure of the medical Centre closer to production facilities. In 2015, more than 384,000 medical examinations of vehicle Number of pre-trip and post-trip medical • Dental Clinic; Branch enables to establish the model of Д drivers were made. examinations made • Medical divisions of the production medical care which includes the occupational branches (11 health posts and 28 rooms for medicine, up-to-date outpatient care, high-tech500,000 An important area of healthcare work 393,220 411,779 pre-trip medical examination of vehicle drivers); nology methods of diagnostics, recreation and 379,194 384,579 of the Medical Centre is the conduction of 400,000 335,405 • Medical Centre of Burevestnik Sanatorehabilitation facilities. rium. mandatory vaccination and revaccination of the 300,000 Company employees attributed to the decreed categories. 200,000 Model of medical care in St. Petersburg Vodokanal Regular vaccination made it possible to 100,000 achieve a zero disease rate of typhoid fever 0 and viral hepatitis A over the period of 10 years. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of medical examinations of drivers Medical divisions of production branches Employee of the Company Number of vaccinations against viral hepatitis A, typhoid fever and flu Medical Centre 6,000 Diagnostic Health and Treatment Center, Branch of care facilities 5,000 Dental Clinic St. Petersburg 4,000 1,787 1,656 1,900 1,800 Vodokanal 3,000 1,758 2,000 1,426 1,700 1,978 2 350 1,460 1,000 963 1,409 559 528 849 1,134 729 910 0 Medical Centre 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of Burevestnik Sanatorium Viral hepatitis A Typhoid fever Flu 238 239 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Successful functioning of the medical care model makes it possible to evaluate the health Support The disease rate of viral hepatitis A by condition of the employees and draw a conclusion on positive downward trend in morbidity with temporal disability. Since 2010, the quantity of morbid events and days away from work of Sports years is shown in the diagram below. has decreased by 21% and 23%, respectively. Implementation of a comprehensive corporate health Morbidity with temporal disability Disease rate of viral hepatitis A (per 100 employees per year) improvement program and arrangement of sports events contribute to the development and support of healthy 1,300 90 lifestyle, corporate integrity, strengthening of interpersonal . St. Petersburg Days of temporal disability relations and friendly ties. Numver of days away from work (per 100 employees per years) Events Number of morbid events (per 100 employees per year) Vodokanal of St. Petersburg 68.2 66.6 70 . 63.3 1,100 58.4 1,024.2 Spartakiada games, festivals and tradiVodokanal teams took part in sports com978.8 54.1 54 50 tional winter and summer competitions are held petitions arranged by the Society of Sports and . . annually for Vodokanal employees in BurevestPhysical Training “Rossiya” (1st place winner), the . 931.2 . . . . . 6.4 900 nik Sanatorium. Interregional Trade Union Committee . 30 (1st place winner), the Central District of St. Petersburg (2nd place winner). In 2015, the following 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 778.6 787.4 787.1 events took place In 2015, Vodokanal employees 700 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 10 in Burevestnik Sanatorium: also participated in the following sports activities: • Vodokanal winter sports competitions The performance of the Medical Centre with regard with the participation of over 500 employees; • Mini Football Cup organized by Head of the Central District; Vodokanal • sports contests “Fellowship” of the St.Petersburg to the maintenance of health of Vodokanal employees can Russian water companies with the participation • Friendship Mini Football Cup organized organized by the Central District; be assessed by such an important indicator as the percentage of teams from Nizhny Novgorod, Cherepovets, • Mini Football Championship among sports comVologda, Velikiy Novgorod, Vladimir, Ryazan, petitions for of healthy and apparently healthy people (I-II health groups). Yakutsk, Vilikie Luky as well as the partner-comveterans; the Company • Russian Kayak and Canoe Paddling In St. Petersburg Vodokanal this indicator accounts for 40%. panies (over 250 people in total); • the festival “Family Games” with the parChampionship among veterans; branches in 15 kinds of ticipation of around 350 people; • 1st League City Football Championship; • Volleyball Championship (amateur sports. Over An important element of the medical care system of the ComIn 2015, the refurbishing of the Medical • the Youth Games Festival allowed more 1,000 employees than 300 young employees to demonstrate their league). pany is a common information space which includes a single medical Centre divisions with new medical equipment participated sports achievements; The major event of 2015 was the success information system, electronic medical (patient) charts, system of precontinued. in such competi• Vodokanal summer sports competition of Vodokanal sports teams at the All-Russian trip and post-trip medical examinations for vehicle drivers, automated In 2015, staff members of the Medical tions. with the participation of over 600 employees. championship among production companies system for collection and processing of managerial and financial reCentre participated in workshops and conferin the town of Penza. ports and telemedicine network for video consultations with physiences to exchange knowledge and adopt best cians at a distance. practices. The training course under the topic Sports events are one of the most imporIn 2015, the Medical Centre continued to register and issue elec“Health Management. Occupational Medicine” tant elements of Vodokanal corporate life. tronic medical charts, which e-memory enables to process and store was organized for top-managers of health clinSports grounds, gyms and swimming pools are To develop further sports events rented for sports activities and physical training. medical reports, results of instrumental examinations and clinical-laboratory analyses. ics from different cities and towns of Russia at the premises of the Diagnostic and Treatment The trade union of Vodokanal leases 12 swimand health improvement activities, The Medical Centre established a unique database on the Centre. ming pools in different districts of the city attendVodokanal defined the following tasks: grounds of the single medical information system which made it ed by more than 900 employees of the Company. possible to analyze the health condition of a substantial social group Today, the medical care model of the Vodokanal has permanent sports teams in volley1. Optimize the system of sports and of the population – over 180,000 people (employees of the Company, Company is formed on scientific principles ball, football, table tennis, swimming, ski race and physical training events; promote healthy members of their families and city inhabitants). In 2015, the Center of the organization based on the introduca football team of Vodokanal veterans. lifestyle: launched the upgrading of the single medical information system. tion of innovative technologies for optimal • increase the number of events; Today, any physician can use electronic medical charts and obtain necuse of human and financial resources. • implement innovative forms of events; essary information about the patient. Through the use of this system • organize new sports events and compethe Center exchanges information with the Territorial Compulsory titions. Medical Insurance Fund. Data from this information system forms the 2. Develop further the infrastructure for basis for statistical reporting provided to the St. Petersburg Public sports and physical training. Health Committee and Rosstat. The confidentiality of the personal data of patients is maintained. 240 241 ANNUAL Social Responsibility REPORT 2015 Principles and Instruments of the Corporate Social networking Culture In April 2015, Vodokanal opened its official accounts in popular social networks – VKontakte and Facebook. The Company’ pages in social networks are one of the instruments for developing corporate Development communication system and maintaining trust and open relations among staff members. Opening of the public pages in VKontakte and Facebook was considered as an additional opportunity to inform the public about the Company news, programmes and exhibitions of the Universe of Water Interaction with staff members is an • Internal corporate portal – vodokanal-info Museum, recreation offers from Burevestnik Sanatorium and Zvyozdniy children’s health camp. important component for the strengthenThe corporate portal (vodokanal-info) was News about Help the Pinnipeds Project, work of the Baltic established on 19 May 2011. Every employing and development of Vodokanal corpoee, who has a computer, has access to the Ringed Seal Foundation, the warning about the closedown or limiting of traffic due to the repair works; stories about staff members, their rate culture and is implemented through corporate portal. The portal provides regularly work and achievements are regularly posted in the social network. updated information about Vodokanal, news, a multilevel system of internal communiannouncements, congratulations of the staff The stories about staff members are focused not only on the best performers but also on family dynasties, long-service employees and cations including: members. Photo albums from corporate events young employees who just start their career in the Company. Videos and production facilities and videos are posted and photographic reports telling about different professions are made on the portal. Corporate newspaper makes refand results of the professional skill competition “Best Professional” • Regular meetings of the staff • “Vodokanal News” Corporate erences to the corporate portal which contains are posted to enhance the prestige of the blue collars. members with the Company top manNewspaper more photos and videos related to the topics As of the end of 2015, over 900 users of social network (more agement to inform the staff about “Vodokanal News” Corporate newspaper covered by newspaper articles. than 600 users in VKontakte and more than 300 users in Facebook) the future Company development. has been issued since 1998. This newspaper Portal contains information about the were subscribed to Vodokanal news. In December 2015, the Director General has a circulation of 4 000. The main feature work of the Primary Trade Union Organization, of St. Petersburg Vodokanal Felix Karmazinov of the newspaper is devoted to operational the Youth Council and the current Collective met with young employees including the Youth and social issues. For instance, in April 2015 Agreement. Council of the Primary Tarde Union Organizathe newspaper issue was devoted to the Vodokanal-info portal offers information tion. Regular meetings are held with the partic70th Anniversary of the Great Patriotic War. about the provided medical services, current The Centre for Implementation of Soipation of the top managers of the production According to the tradition, each newspaper insurance programmes, recreation services cio-Economic Programmes regularly branches and the production branch personnel. issue contains information about professional for employees and members of their families, Official awarding ceremonies are organized to contests, medical care, personnel insurance physical training and sports activities, contact conducts opinion surveys to find out the congratulate the staff members with the honorary titles. The honorary title “Labour Veteran and congratulations of the staff members with anniversaries. “Vodokanal News” informs also details of persons responsible for social activiopinion of staff members about the qualities in relevant divisions and branches. of St. Petersburg Vodokanal” is awarded to about the organized corporate events including The internal corporate portal is integrated ty of the following services: blue collars and technical engineering personnel sports competitions, “Welcome to Vodokanal!” with the information system of the Company • public catering at the Companies facilities; for introduction of cutting-edge technologies event, exhibitions of creative works made by the and all external Internet resources • recreation services in Burevestnik Sanatorium; in water supply and wastewater disposal, Company employees and members of their staff. (www.vodokanal-museum.ru, www.vodokanal• recreation services in Zvyozdniy children’ health camp. contribution to the improvement of the service In 2015, persons responsible for recreazagorod.ru, www.vodokanal-ecocenter.ru, quality, performance of nature conservation tion services drew up a list of questions from www.med-vdk.ru ), as well as web-sites of the activities, implementation of the environmental Vodokanal employees relating to recreation partners (www.da-voda.com, www.balticseal.org). policy and active participation in the public life services in Burevestnik Sanatorium and ZvyOn the grounds of the obtained data: of the Company. ozdniy children’s health camp. Answers to the The Company develops and fulfils the action plan on eliminating To maintain efficient interaction of the questions were given by representative of the the drawbacks and implementation of the suggestions made. Company top management with personnel Centre for Implementation of Socio-Economic Information about Burevestnik Sanatorium is posted on the and to solve promptly the pressing issues, Programmes and the Medical Centre Branch. website – www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru and the internal Internet portal. Vodokanal organizes reception days for staff They were published in the special section of Information about recreation services in Burevestnik Sanatorium and members to discuss personal matters. There the corporate newspaper “Recreation activities Zvyozdniy children’ health camp is regularly published in the corporate is a special section on the corporate portal in details” devoted to Burevestnik Sanatorium newspaper “Vodokanal News” and social networks. Staff members of the Company (vodokanal-info), where you in September and October. receive the information by e-mail. can find the schedule of reception days and In summer, the newspaper office conductcontact telephone numbers. On the corporate ed the opinion survey among the Company portal there is a feedback form by means of staff members with regard to the content which you may pose a question to the Director and design of the newspaper. The employees General or directors of relevant branched and approved the current newspaper design and departments. proposed some new sections. As a result, new sections were introduced into the newspaper: “Learning English” and “Put out your paw, my friend!” 242 243 Tariff Policy 244 245 ANNUAL Tariff Policy REPORT 2015 Legal Tariff Framework Policy for Tariff Principles Regulation Tariff policy principles are determined by provisions of the federal laws regulating water supply, wastewater disposal In 2015, the tariff policy The liquidation of the Federal Tariff Authority of the Russian Federation was a significant and heat supply. of St. Petersburg Vodokanal in water event in the sphere of tariff regulation in 2015. For the purpose of improvement of government supply and wastewater disposal was control in the sphere of antimonopoly and tariff The Law “On Water Supply The Federal Law no. 190-FZ dated governed by the established in 2014 regulation, the Federal Tariff Authority was liquidated and its functions were transferred and Wastewater Disposal” 27 July 2010 “On Heat Supply” system of main normative legal acts: to the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service by the Decree of the President of the Russian Federno. 416-FZ dated 7 December establishes the basic principles ation no. 373 dated 21 July 2015. At the level 2011 provides for basic princiof national heat supply policy: of St. Petersburg as the subject of the Russian • the Federal Law no. 416-FZ “On Water Federation, control over the observance of the ples of national water policy: • availability of thermal energy (power) Supply and Wastewater Disposal” dated 7 December 2011 (hereinafter, the Water requirements set forth by the laws of the Rusfor customers; • provision of potable water and sewerSupply and Wastewater Disposal Law); sian Federation and the city of St. Petersburg • heat distribution costs of public utilities age services to the citizens is a priority task; • the Resolution of the Russian Federawith regard to tariff regulation is performed as shall be economically justified; • creating a good investment climate tion Government no. 406 dated 13 May 2013 before by the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee. • sufficient funding of any measures in the water sector, guaranteed repayment “On Government Regulation of Water Tariffs” of private investments; required to ensure reliable operation and develwhich provides for pricing principles for water The St. Petersburg Tariff Committee opment of heat supply systems; • the balance of economic interests supply and wastewater disposal and water issues separate orders establishing tariffs for • motivation of energy efficiency and between water companies and their consumers tariff regulation rules; drinking water, technical water, wastewater cost-efficiency of heat supply; shall be achieved and maintained; • the Regulated Water Tariffs Calculation disposal and thermal energy services for each • the regulation of heat prices (tariffs) • water tariffs shall be based on economiGuidelines put into effect by the Order of the regulated period. shall be transparent and visible to any consumcally justified expenses of water companies; Federal Tariff Authority of the Russian Feder• creating stable and non-discriminatory ers including households; ation no. 1746-e dated 27 December 2013 In addition, the St. Petersburg Tariff Com• control over the observance of the legal conditions for business in the water sector; (hereinafter, the Guidelines). mittee sets (on case-by-case basis) the tariffs requirements regarding the improvement of • equal access to water services for all and fee for connection (technological connecenergy saving and energy-efficiency for the customers; General provisions of water tariff policy tion) of facilities to the centralized water supply purpose of reducing energy losses, including • transparent activities of water compaset forth in the Water Supply and Wastewater and sewerage systems. requirements to the development and implenies and the federal authorities, authorities of Disposal Law are expanded in pricing principles mentation of energy-saving/energy-efficiency RF subjects and local administrations responsifor water supply and wastewater disposal and programmes and to energy metering. In 2015, thermal energy tariffs were ble for regulation of water sector. water tariff regulation rules. The Guidelines, in their turn, amplify the provisions of the latter regulated in line with the Federal and present them in formulae and tariff calculaLaw of the Russian Federation no. 190-FZ tion forms. dated 27 July 2010 “On Heat Supply”, the RF Government Resolution no. 1075 Thus, the legal and regulatory framedated 22 October 2012 “On Pricing in Heat work of tariff regulation for water supply and Supply” (hereinafter, Pricing in Heat Supply), wastewater disposal may be considered fully Procedural Guidelines for Calculation established. The main targets of the system of Regulated Prices (Tariffs) in Heat are as follows: transfer to long-term tariff Supply approved by the Decree of the regulation, expansion of off-budget financing Russian Federal Tariff Authority sources for investment programmes, implemenno. 760-e dated 13 June 2013 and tation of reliability/service/energy-efficiency other by-laws. quality indicators and improvement of availability of connection to engineering infrastructure for customers. 246 247 ANNUAL Tariff Policy REPORT 2015 Tariffs for Thermal Energy Tariffs The 2015 tariffs for thermal energy tariffs for the thermal energy supplied by for Vodokanal supplied by Vodokanal were determined by St. Petersburg Vodokanal to consumers the Order of the Tariff Committee no. 486-r located in St. Petersburg, for 2015”. dated 12 December 2014 “On establishing Services in 2015 Tariffs for thermal energy supplied by St. Petersburg Vodokanal to consumers located in St. Petersburg, for 2015 Tariffs for Drinking Water, Technical Water and Sewerage Services Tariffs for thermal energy Water tariffs for 2015 were established sewerage services to be provided by St. PetersLive and Period Tariff type Pressurized extraction steam by the Order of the Tariff Committee no. 594-r burg Vodokanal in the territory of St. Petersreduced steam dated 19 December 2014 “On establishing burg in 2015”. from 1.2 from 2.5 from 7.0 Over tariffs for drinking water, technical water and up to up to up to 13.0 kg/cm² 2.5 kg/cm² 7.0 kg/cm² 13.0 kg/cm² Tariffs for drinking water, technical water and sewerage services of Consumers paying for thermal energy production (those who receive thermal energy from the producers’ collectors) St. Petersburg Vodokanal in 2015 from Single-rate tar01.01.2015 till – 981.02 – – – iff, RUB/Gcal 30.06.2015 2015 no. Tariffs from with the calendar breakdown Single-rate tar01.07.2015 till – 1,084.22 – – – from 1 January 2015 from 1 July 2015 iff, RUB/Gcal 31.12.2015 till 30 June 2015 till 31 December 2015 Note: the tariff is shown without the value-added tax. 1. Tariffs for drinking water 1. Service providers 17.82 19.60 2. Households (incl. VAT) 21.03 23.13 3. Other 21.84 24.46 Since 1 January 2015, the tariff has been According to the request of St. Petersburg reduced by 1.7%. From 1 July 2015, the tariffs Vodokanal, since 1 January 2015 the 2. Tariffs for technical water were raised by 10.5% as compared to the first St. Petersburg Tariff Committee has set, 1. Service providers – – half of 2015. together with the tariffs for thermal energy, the tariff for heat carriers. 2. Households (incl. VAT) – – 3. Other 3.95 4.42 Tariffs for heat carrier supplied by St. Petersburg Vodokanal 3. Tariffs for sewerage services to consumers located in St. Petersburg, for 2015 1. Service providers 17.82 19.60 2. Households (incl. VAT) 21.03 23.13 3. Others 25.60 28.67 Type of activity no. Customer Tariff type Period of 2015 water steam Note: The tariffs are shown without the value-added tax except for the Household group. Tariffs for heat carrier supplied to customers In 2015, the tariffs were determined with the following calendar breakdown: from 01.01.2015 – 28.34 • since 1 January 2015, the tariffs have been maintained at the level determined Single-rate tariff, till 30.06.2015 on 1 July 2014; 1. Other customers RUB/m3 from 01.07.2015 • on 1 July 2015 the tariffs were raised for service providers and households by 10%; – 31.40 till 31.12.2015 for other customers – by 12%. In 2015, the annual average tariff grew 9.1% compared to 2014. from 01.01.2015 – – Households Single-rate tariff, till 30.06.2015 2. (incl. VAT) RUB/m3 from 01.07.2015 – – till 31.12.2015 Note: the tariff is shown without the value-added tax. 248 249 ANNUAL Tariff Policy REPORT 2015 Connection Tariffs for the Reception and Processing of Snow Masses at Fees Stationary Snow-Melting Stations In 2015, the tariffs for reception and St. Petersburg Tariff Committee (Resolution In 2015, fees for connection (technological In line with the Guidance, the amount processing of snow masses at stationary of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee no. 5-r connection) to the centralized water supply of the fee for connection to the centralized water snow-melting stations were established by the dated 30 January 2015). and sewerage systems were established in supply and (or) sewerage systems shall be calculated accordance with the provisions of the Guidance by the company, which provides connection Tariffs for reception and processing of snow masses at stationary snow-melting stations for calculation of the regulated tariffs in water (technological connection) services, by two of Vodokanal located in St. Petersburg with further transportation and treatment of the supply and wastewater disposal approved methods depending on the connected capacity: generated wastewater, for 2015 by the Oder of the Federal Tariff Authority no. 1746-e dated 27 December 2013 (hereinaf• in accordance with the tariffs established by the ter, the Guidance). St. Petersburg Tariff Committee (for the facilities which no. Customer Unit of measure Tariff connected capacity is less than 10 m3 per hour); Tariffs for connection (technological connection) St. Petersburg state government agency • on a case-by-case basis for each connected facility 1. to the centralized water supply and sewerage systems “Centre of Municipal Improvement” in accordance with the fee established by the St. Peterswere set by the Resolution of the St. Petersburg burg Tariff Committee (for the facilities which connected 1.1. Variable costs RUB/m³ 13.49 Tariff Committee no. 573-r dated 18 December 2014. capacity is more than 10 m3 per hour). RUB per 1 day of process1.2. Fixed costs 87,403.34 ing (winter period) Tariffs for connection (technological connection) to the centralized cold 2 Other customers RUB/m3 34.58 water supply system of Vodokanal located in St. Petersburg, for 2015 Note: the tariffs are shown without the value-added tax. no. 1. Tariff rate Tariff rate for the connected capacity of the water network Unit of measure RUB/ m per hour 3 Rate amount 17,330 Reasons for Tariff Growth Similar to the other production companies Vodokanal performs the reconstruction of existing facilities, 2. Tariff rate for the length of the water network St. Petersburg Vodokanal is exposed to the constructs new water supply and sewerage installations and actively 2.1. 40 mm – 70 mm (inclusive) diameter RUB/m 11,160 influence of macro-economic factors. Among introduces cutting-edge technologies to provide high quality services 2.2. 70 mm – 100 mm (inclusive) diameter RUB/m 11,270 the main factors are the growth of tariffs for to the customers and fulfil more stringent legal requirements in water electric and thermal energy, inflationary price sector. 2.3. 100 mm – 150 (inclusive) diameter RUB/m 11,690 increase for services and products of other orSt. Petersburg Vodokanal tariffs are established by the tariff 2.4. 150 mm – 200 mm (inclusive) diameter RUB/m 12,490 ganizations, which are used in the main operaregulation authority with the consideration of the municipal service tions of the Company. To minimized the impact payment limits determined by federal authorities, the tariff affordabilof the inflationary price increase on the growth ity principle and achievement of target reliability, quality and energy of tariffs of St. Petersburg Vodokanal, the Comefficiency parameters. pany implements resource-saving technologies Tariffs for connection (technological connection) to the centralized and optimization of operating processes. sewerage system of Vodokanal located in St. Petersburg, for 2015 no. Tariff rate Unit of measure Rate amount 1. Tariff rate for the connected capacity of the sewerage network RUB/ m per hour 3 16,420 Transparent Tariffs 2. Tariff rate for the length of the sewerage network 2.3. 100 mm – 150 mm (inclusive) diameter RUB/m 19,750 Vodokanal discloses information related Vodokanal follows a consistent transparency policy aimed to 2.4. 150 mm – 200 mm (inclusive) diameter RUB/m 21,330 to water supply and wastewater disposal in acfacilitate access to the information that must be disclosed. All inforcordance with the Russian Federation Governmation referred to in the Information Disclosure Standards, and any ment Decree no. 6 dated 17 January 2013 information regarding establishment and application of tariffs Note: Tariffs for connection (technological connection) to the centralized water sup“On the Standards for disclosure of information in St. Petersburg, can be found on the official websites of Vodokanal ply and sewerage systems are applied to the facilities with the connected capacity in the water sector” (hereinafter, Information and the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee, in the Internet or in the offiof less than 10 m³ per hour without the value-added tax. Disclosure Standards). In heat supply sector cial journal of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee -“Vestnik Komiteta Vodokanal discloses information according to po Tarifam Sankt-Peterburga” (Order of the St. Petersburg Governthe Resolution of the Russian Federation Govment no. 223 dated 21 February 2011; Certificate of Mass Media ernment no. 570 dated 5 July 2013 “On the no.TU 7800675 dated 27 August 2010). Standards for disclosure of Information to heat The above resources are convenient official platforms for censuppliers, heat distribution network operators tralized, consistent and timely disclosure of information in compliance and regulating authorities”. with the Information Disclosure Standards. 250 251 Financial Statement 252 253 ANNUAL Financial Statement REPORT 2015 Main Financial Indicators of St. Petersburg Vodokanal In the current economic situation St. Petersburg Vodokanal managed to reduce the losses as compared to the previous year. Loss reduction was achieved through some Indicators, MRUB 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 organizational and technical measures, savings in the tendering procedures and import substitution. Nevertheless, Turnover 22,797 23,649 25,276 24,945 26,003 in this report year Vodokanal had operating losses which were caused by: Operating costs 19,853 19,546 21,311 23,041 24,463 • reduction of the Company’s turnover due to the reduction of water consumption and wastewater volumes; • unfavorable exchange rate differences Operating profit 2,944 4,103 3,965 1,904 1,540 (due to the change of the euro exchange rate at the end of 2015. As of 31 December 2015, the EUR/RUB exchange rate was 1 – 79.6972, as of 31 December 2014 it was 1 – 68.3427); Net profit (loss) 404 1,074 (291) (4,623) (2,414) • the increase of property tax due to the cancellation of property tax privileges of the Company. Profitability of core 14.8 21.0 18.6 8.3 6.3 operations,% Indicators 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Equity to Total During 2010-2013, the growth of the 0.90 0.88 0.88 0.87 0.86 Assets main financial indicators provided financing different actions aimed to achieve the service Financial 0.11 0.14 0.14 0.15 0.17 quality targets in line with the long-term develLeverage opment strategy of the Company. The indicator “profitability of core operations” is high compared with that of other municipal utilities. Vodokanal is a company with a high The Company’s profit was used for connection capital coefficient. The share of fixed assets to water supply and sewerage networks implein the balance sheet structure is over 90%. mented under the investment program. The Equity to Total Assets Ratio is high which means that the Company capital structure is stable. 254 255 ANNUAL Financial Statement REPORT 2015 Balance Sheet As of As of As Clarifications Item Code 31 December 31 December of 31 December 2015 2014 2013 1 2 3 4 4 5 CODES II. CURRENT ASSETS OKUD as of 31 December 2015 0710001 9 Inventories 1210 1,958,400 1,735,776 1,561,915 Date (day, month, year) 31 12 2015 from Line 1210 Organization SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg OKPO 03323809 Raw materials, materials, Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 1211 1,116,504 1,109,371 1,000,572 etc. 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, Type of business OKVED 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 Deferred assets 1212 841,896 626,405 561,343 Form of incorporation/Type of ownership 1 52 42 13 State Unitary Enterprise/RF subject owned OKOPF/OKFS Value-added tax on pur1220 40,958 18,720 83,134 chased valuables Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUB OKEI 384 Location (address): 42, Kavalergardskaya st., St. Petersburg, 191015 10 Accounts receivable 1230 10,063,072 9,175,919 8,183,767 from Line 1230 Accounts receivable due As of As of As beyond 12 months after the 1231 1,548,013 1,266,943 928,787 Clarifications Item Code 31 December 31 December of 31 December reporting date 2015 2014 2013 from Line 1231 Buyers and 1 2 3 4 4 5 12311 92,328 83,830 56,950 Clients ASSETS Accounts receivable where I. NON-CURRENT ASSETS payments are expected 1232 8,515,059 7,908,976 7,254,980 1 Intangible assets 1110 310,995 404,125 373,521 within 12 months after the reporting date 2 R&D results 1120 63,641 38,315 2,727 from Line1232 Buyers and 12321 6,776,262 5,751,242 5,194,495 Clients Intangible development – 1130 – – – assets Financial investments (other 7 1240 – – 608,000 than cash equivalents) – Fixed development assets 1140 – – – 3–5 Fixed assets 1150 219,781,934 200,038,805 175,560,010 Monetary resources and * 1250 1,861,718 2,179,091 4,708,496 cash equivalents from Line 1150: buildings 1151 19,528,245 19,779,575 18,403,136 Other current assets 1260 – – – structures, transfer devices 1152 173,401,907 157,050,584 136,081,286 machinery and equipment, Section II, TOTAL 1200 13,924,148 13,109,506 15,145,312 1153 6,349,981 6,809,312 6,671,925 vehicles 6, 9, 10 Construction in progress 1154 20,326,299 16,201,903 14,198,056 BALANCE 1600 235,681 565 214,924,366 192,070,022 Income-bearing investments 1160 – – – in inventories 7 Financial investments 1170 117,795 117,795 117,795 Deferred tax assets 1180 476,474 775,938 412,225 8 other non-current assets 1190 1,006,578 439,882 458,432 Section I, TOTAL 1100 221,757,417 201,814,860 176,924,710 256 257 ANNUAL Financial Statement REPORT 2015 As of As of As of As of As of As of Clarifications Item Code 31 December 31 December 31 December Clarifications Item Code 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 1 2 3 4 4 5 1 2 3 4 4 5 LIABILITIES V. SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES III. CAPITAL AND RESERVES 11 Borrowings 1510 5,667,932 3,854,618 3,905,642 ** Registered capital 1310 4,851,580 4,851,580 4,851,580 from Line 1510 Loans repayable within less Own shares bought out than 12 months after the 1511 4,154,089 1,849,247 3,894,765 1320 – – – from shareholders reporting date Credits repayable within Revaluation of non-current less than 12 months after 1512 1,513,843 2,005,371 10,877 ** 1340 102,149,668 102,190,823 88,461,197 assets the reporting date Additional capital 11 Accounts payable 1520 15,544,769 8,958,383 7,370,387 ** 1350 96,700,689 78,517,654 69,101,465 (not revaluated) from Line 1520 ** Special-purpose receipts 1351 571,135 1,627,950 2,232,445 suppliers and contractors 1521 6,344,994 2,993,969 3,251,549 Subsidy on capital investpayroll debt 1522 194,466 191,938 182,359 ** ments in capital construction 1352 263,266 – – facilities of state property debt to state extra-budget** Reserve fund 1360 86,339 86,339 86,339 1523 97,525 80,185 78,470 ary funds Undistributed profit (uncov** 1370 (5,149,756) (2,770,324) 1,741,289 ered loss) tax arrears 1524 1,417,347 1,426,094 1,130,061 Section III, TOTAL 1300 199,472,921 184,504,022 166,474,315 advances received 1525 7,249,545 4,094,011 2,579,057 other creditors 1526 240,892 172,186 148,891 IV. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Deferred income 1530 2,836,402 2,830,832 2,565,255 11 Borrowings 1410 9,000,046 9,287,959 8,480,338 12 Estimated liabilities 1540 690,916 596,170 597,353 from Line 1410 Other liabilities 1550 – – – Loans repayable beyond 12 months after the report1411 9,000,046 9,287,959 6,486,338 ing date Section V, TOTAL 1500 24,740,019 16,240,003 14,438,637 Credits repayable beyond 12 months after the 1412 – – 1,994,000 BALANCE 1700 235,681,565 214,924,366 192,070,022 reporting date * Cash Flow Statement ** Statement of Changes in Equity Deferred tax liabilities 1420 804,200 693,199 608,480 Director____________________________________________________________________________G.V. Zadorozhnaya Estimated liabilities 1430 – – – (power of attorney dated 27.11.2015№01-30-1082/15) (signature) (name) Other liabilities 1450 1,664,379 4,199,183 2,068,252 Chief Accountant_____________________________________________________________________G.A. Khachaturova Section IV, TOTAL 1400 11,468,625 14,180,341 11,157,070 (signature) (name) 28 March 2016 258 259 ANNUAL Financial Statement REPORT 2015 Income statement CODES ClarifiOKUD Item Code 2015 2014 cations as of 31 December 2015 0710002 Result of non-current assets revaluation Date (day, month, year) 31 12 2015 not included into the net profit (loss) 2510 – 13,912,762 of the period Organization SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg OKPO 03323809 Result of other transactions not included into 2520 – – Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 the net profit (loss) of the period 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, Type of business OKVED Cumulative financial result of the period 2500 (2,414,343) (9,289,437) 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 Form of incorporation/Type of ownership FOR REFERENCE 1 52 42 13 State Unitary Enterprise/RF subject owned OKOPF/OKFS Base profit (loss) per share 2900 – – Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUB OKEI 384 Diluted earnings (loss) per share 2910 – – ClarifiItem Code 2015 2014 cations Revenue 2110 26,002,990 24,945,533 Cost of sales 2120 (24,462,681) (23,041,299) Gross profit (loss) 2100 1,540,309 1,904,234 Commercial expenses 2210 (–) (–) Administrative expenses 2220 (–) (–) Sales profit (loss) 2200 1,540,309 1,904,234 Income from participation 2310 426 687 in other organizations Interest receivable 2320 28,091 17,628 Interest payable 2330 (695,861) (603,612) Other income 2340 2,753,729 663,976 Other expenses 2350 (5,630,576) (6,884,130) Before-tax profit (loss) 2300 (2,003,882) (4,901,217) Current profit tax 2410 (–) (–) incl. constant tax liabilities (assets) 2421 (812,145) (698,778) Director____________________________________________________________________________G.V. Zadorozhnaya Change of deferred tax liabilities 2430 (112,488) (84,931) (power of attorney dated 27.11.2015№01-30-1082/15) (signature) (name) Change of deferred tax assets 2450 298,881 366,369 Other 2460 (908) (3,573) Chief Accountant_____________________________________________________________________G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) Net profit (loss) 2400 (2,414,343) (4,623,325) 28 March 2016 260 261 Contact Information STATE UNITARY ENTERPRISE “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” 42 Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg 191015, Russia Documents Division: YOUTH ENVIRONMENTAL CENTER Tel.: +7 (812) 372-58-28, fax: +7 (812) 274-13-61 56, Shpalernaya str., St. Petersburg e-mail: office@vodokanal.spb.ru Tel.: +7 (812) 438-43-96 Hot Line Service: +7 (812) 305-09-09 Е-mail: dec@vodokanal.spb.ru You can submit your CV to: personal@vodokanal.spb.ru www.vodokanal-ecocenter.ru www.vodokanal.spb.ru THE UNIVERSE OF WATER MUSEUM COMPLEX: CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTRE 56, Shpalernaya str., St. Petersburg 19, Komsomola str., St. Petersburg. www.vodokanal-museum.ru Open hours: Tel.: +7 (812) 438-43-75 (Guidance Department), Consultancy on connection to the networks: +7 (812) 275-43-25 (Excursions to the multimeMonday-Thursday: 09:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., dia complex “The Underground World Friday: 09:00 a.m. – 4:00 a.m., of St. Petersburg”), +7 (812) 438-43-01 (Excurroutine break: 12:00 a.m. – 12:30 a.m. sions to the multimedia complex “The Universe Consultancy on prolongation/amendment/ termination of the contracts for cold water of Water”)Open hours: supply and/or wastewater disposal: Wednesday – Sunday. The museum is open Monday-Thursday: 09:00 a.m. – 5:42 p.m., 10.00 a.m. -7.00 p.m. Tickets can be bought Friday: 09:00 a.m. – 4:42 p.m. till 6.30 p.m. Contact telephone numbers: Consultancy on connection to the networks: BUREVESTNIK SANATORIUM tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-27, +7 (812) 438-44-11 – www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru Customer Service of the Connections DepartOffice in St. Petersburg: ment of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, 7, Zelenkov per. (Sea Location on Map) administrative office (documents registration), Tel./fax: +7 (812) 438-44-85 consultancy on connection to the networks and Tel.: +7 (812) 329-34-40, obtaining approvals (technical specifications, con+7 (812) 329-34-84, +7 (921) 965-65-50 nection conditions, connection contracts), Office in Luga: tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-13, +7 (812) 438-44-33 – 16, Zapadnaya Street Division for Drafting and Approval of Permitting Tel.: +7 (813-72) 4-33-03, Documentation (technical specifications and +7 (813-72) 2-36-60. connection conditions), tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-88 – Service for Approval MEDICAL CENTER BRANCH of Facilities Layout, www.med-vdk.ru tel.: +7 (812) 438-47-16 – Division for ConnecЕ-mail: medcenter@vodokanal.spb.ru tion Contracts Support. You can make an appointment with a doctor via Consultancy on prolongation/amendment/terMedical Assistance Group mination of the contracts for cold water supply Tel.: +7 (812) 326-52-78. and/or wastewater disposal: Treatment & Diagnostic Center: Tel.: +7 (812) 329-34-53, 438-47-98 – Customer Lit. Я, 42, Kavalergardskaya str. Service of the Customer Service Centre of SUE Tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-20 “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” – consultancy on Open hours: prolongation/amendment/termination of the Monday-Friday 8.00 a.m. – 8.00 p.m. contracts for cold water supply and/or wastewaSaturday and Sunday – closed. ter disposal; Treatment & Diagnostic Center Tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-12 – consultancy on availa(including X-Ray Diagnostics Department): bility and registration of the signed contracts for Block 2, 103, Moskovskiy pr. cold water supply and/or wastewater disposal Tel.: +7 (812) 438-47-77, +7 (812) 326-52-78 Administrative office (registration of documents) – Open hours: Tel.: +7 (812) 329-34-96, Monday – Saturday 8.00 a.m. – 8.00 p.m. Fax: +7 (812) 438-47-94. Dental Clinic: Lit. AK, 56, Shpalernaya str. Tel.: +7 (812) 326-53-19 Open hours: Monday-Thursday 9.00 a.m. -8.00 p.m., Friday 9.00 a.m. – 7.00 p.m., Saturday and Sunday – closed. 262
