Sustainability Report 2015 Posti Annual Report 2015 List of contents Sustainability 1 Sustainability at Posti 1 Highlights in 2015 5 Posti in society 7 Tax footprint 2015 11 Cooperation with stakeholders 15 Engaged multi-skilled employees 19 Responsible employer 21 People responsibility indicators 23 Reducing environmental impacts 27 A pioneer of green logistics 30 Environmental responsibility indicators 32 Responsible supply chain 35 GRI reporting 37 GRI content index 39 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability at Posti Sustainability has been a cornerstone of Posti’s operations for nearly 400 years, since the early days of postal operations. Since then, our business operations and their geographical coverage have been significantly expanded. Our commitment to responsibility has become even more important – it is part of our strategy, it is based on our shared values, and our customers also expect it from us to an increasing extent. Posti announced its new strategy in the summer, with the primary objectives of renewing Posti to make it a customer-oriented, first-class service company and pursuing profitable growth in new services. For this reason, we also updated our material sustainability aspects and targets for the coming years. The materiality analysis consisted of an information collection stage based on interviews with key individuals, stakeholder perspectives, and an analysis of the megatrends and peer companies. Based on the results of this work, the corporate responsibility steering group updated Posti’s material sustainability aspects in a workshop, the results of which were validated by the Management Board. We divide our sustainability into four areas: responsible service provider, sustainable business, creating value for stakeholders, and engaged multi-skilled employees. The figure below describes the content of each area in more detail. The four areas of sustainability This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 1 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti Management of sustainability Sustainability is part of our daily work and management. At Posti, management is based on our values: succeeding together with the customer, driving for improvement and innovation, taking responsibility, and winning together. Good management supports the achievement of these targets and fosters a positive work atmosphere. Posti is committed to operating in a responsible and ethical manner. Posti’s way of working is documented in more detail for personnel in the company’s Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct covers compliance with laws and regulations, good business practices, non-discrimination and equality, conflicts of interest, ethical commercial practices, and environmental responsibility. The Code of Conduct also specifies the anonymous whistleblowing channels established by the Group for employees to confidentially report suspected cases of misconduct or other problems. In accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, we are also committed to promoting employees’ rights, environmental protection, anti-corruption work, and human rights. We require our suppliers to make the same commitments. Sustainability is the responsibility of our Vice President of Stakeholder Relations, who is a member of the Management Board. Sustainability issues are discussed by the Board of Directors' Audit Committee and the Group's Management Board at least once a year. During the review period, we updated our sustainability action plan for 2016–2018. The indicators and targets are described in the table below. Indicators and targets of sustainability This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 2 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti Indicators and targets of sustainability Management of sustainability risks We update our sustainability risks twice a year as part of our comprehensive risk management process, and they are reported as a separate item in the Group’s risk report. The risk report is processed by the Posti Group Board of Directors and its Audit Committee, the Group’s Executive Board, and corporate responsibility steering group. Sustainability risks include, for example: outsourcing measures related to potential personnel arrangements that can have a negative effect on our reputation and, consequently, cause us to lose customers; potential information leaks and information security deviations, particularly those related to personal information; possible accidents that cause extensive damage to the environment. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 3 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti Compliance risks include, for example, corruption as well as risks related supplier management and the failure of internal control. These are particularly important in Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries. We process all information in strict confidence, taking information security issues into account. Our corporate security policy determines the minimum level for all of our countries of operation. Exceeding legal requirements, our policy is based on international standards (SoGP, ISO/IEC 27001 and TAPA), which determine our targets, responsibilities, and implementation methods in information security management. Our policy takes into account the information security requirements of our customers, the business environment, and risk management. In terms of protection, we see as particularly important customer and personnel information as well as our and our partners’ confidential information and the related systems and business processes. Our risk management unit prepares information security guidelines and supports the management in implementing them. In all of our Group companies, the management is responsible for implementing our corporate security policy as part of their daily work. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 4 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Highlights in 2015 Highlights in 2015 Some of Posti Group’s sustainability highlights of the year are described below. Q1 January‒March Posti’s carbon neutral Posti Green concept was expanded early in the year to cover all of Posti’s services in Finland: postal services, parcels, transport and freight services, as well as warehousing services. With its 100% carbon neutral services, Posti is a pioneer in green logistics in Finland. Finnish representatives Heikki Toikkanen and Päivi Blom took first place in the Drivers' Challenge driving habit competition organized by Posti and the International Post Corporation (IPC) in Ivalo in March. The competition involved driving efficiency and safety tests as well as customer service-oriented tasks. In addition to vehicle handling skills, points were awarded on the extent of the postal companies’ commitment to environmental objectives and sustainable development. Q2 April‒June Posti started a cooperation with Lassila & Tikanoja to reuse and recycle pallets. Pallets that can be fixed are renovated and stored, while those that cannot be fixed are chipped and recycled as fuel for energy. Posti also started a pilot with L&T to recycle plastic used for binding and sheeting. In late spring, we launched a new online training program to put Posti’s Employee Code of Conduct into practice. The Code of Conduct documents the common ethically acceptable procedures that apply to everyone at Posti. The training is mandatory for all employees. Posti participated in the Responsible Summer Job campaign and hired 1.900 summer employees all together. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 5 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Highlights in 2015 Q3 July‒September The Group’s sourcing system harmonization project was completed in Finland and the Baltic countries, which supports the monitoring of compliance with the sourcing policy. Posti’s sourcing policy documents our commitment to an ethical and responsible way of working. Posti participated in the national Energy Awareness Week by engaging in active communications to personnel on how to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and other environmental impacts from operations by using energy and materials sensibly. Posti participated in the PopUp Electric Car event at Senate Square in Helsinki. Posti uses several alternative fuel vehicles, some of which are in test use and some are permanently part of the fleet. They include electric vans and cars powered by biodiesel and biogas as well as dual fuel trucks and very large eco-trucks. Q4 October‒December Posti’s meal delivery service concept won PostEurop’s CSR Coups de Coeur corporate responsibility award in the Society category. Posti’s headquarters organized a campaign to collect household linen and cutlery for reception centers operated by the Finnish Red Cross. Posti also supported the refugee assistance operations of the Finnish Red Cross by transporting meals and supplies to reception centers in cooperation with partners. In November, we partnered with the Finnish War Veterans Federation and the Union of Front Veteran Soldiers to organize a campaign encouraging people to send thank you cards to the veterans of Finland’s wars. The campaign was well received and Posti delivered some 15,000 cards to veterans before the Finnish Independence Day. Posti’s personnel magazine, Me postilaiset, was recognized as the best personnel magazine in Finland. We donated our customer and partner Christmas gift funds to support the operations of SOS Children’s Villages Finland. SOS Children’s Villages provides diverse family care and child protection services to families and children in need. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 6 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society Posti in society Posti’s most significant task in society is to ensure a smooth daily life for Finnish consumers and businesses. Each weekday, we visit the front door of some 2.8 million Finns, and we serve approximately 200,000 business customers per year. Our well-functioning and efficient infrastructure enables us to provide reliable services for all of our customer groups in a socially responsible manner. We deal ethically, openly, and transparently with all of our stakeholders. We use various channels to provide our stakeholders with information and enable them to interact with us. Posti is the largest logistics company in Finland. We have nearly 400,000 m² in warehousing capacity in Finland, more than 4,000 vehicles, and we drive over 100 million kilometers on Finnish roads every year. We offer the most comprehensive nationwide logistics network. The strategy in parcel services is to act as an enabler of online shopping for Finnish companies and consumers. Our basic business is undergoing a transformation as digitization erodes letter and publication delivery volumes. Letter and publication delivery volumes are declining by some 10% annually, and it is estimated that letter delivery volumes will fall to half of their current level by the end of the decade. Nevertheless, providing premium mail services to everyone across the country is our main mission in Finland. We ensure that the letter and parcel services that fall within the scope of universal service obligation are available to everyone. We are the only operator in Finland to provide five-day delivery services that cover the entire country. The universal service obligation covers the entire country, with the exception of the Åland Islands, and its fulfilment is supervised by the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority. We delivered items that fall within the scope of the universal service obligation on five weekdays to all households in accordance with the Finnish Postal Act. In areas that are difficult to reach, we deviated from the five-weekday obligation in the case of approximately 106 households, with the allowed maximum being 300. Posti handled 2,894 inquiries related to normal letters during the year. Altogether 1,749 inquiries were unresolved, and 178 items were declared as having been lost, while 967 lost items were found. Inquiries related to letter items represented 0.00033% of the total volume. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 7 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society The Postal Museum has an important social mission Owned by the Postal Museum Foundation, the Postal Museum is located in Museum Centre Vapriikki in Tampere. Established in 1926, the Postal Museum studies, records, and exhibits phenomena related to postal operations, mail communications, and data and goods traffic. It houses extensive collections of Posti’s artifacts and photographs as well as every stamp released in Finland and various philatelic special collections. The Postal Museum offers a variety of interesting experiences. The experience-oriented Messengers exhibition illustrates the long history of postal operations and communications in Finland, from the 1600s to the present day. The museum also organizes exhibitions on special themes as well as a broad range of events for various target groups. In 2015, the theme exhibition On the Move! – To a New Home touched on a current topic of interest. The exhibition highlights the experiences of evacuees from Karelia as well as refugees who have migrated to Finland for humanitarian reasons. The main mission of the Postal Museum Foundation is to maintain and develop the Postal Museum and to preserve and present the cultural heritage of Finnish postal operations. The Postal Museum Foundation is responsible for the archival, presentation, and information services related to Posti’s history under a service agreement. Financial responsibility Posti’s financial responsibility is based on transparency and profitability. We want to grow profitably, as only a financially sound company can implement its responsibilities in terms of society, personnel, the environment, and all stakeholder groups. We plan our finances from a long-term perspective, anticipating changes in the market, customer demands, and risk scenarios in Finland and abroad. Financial responsibility management is supported by our risk management policy, internal control principles, and corporate governance principles. We are a state-owned company that operates on market terms, and our operations are entirely based on the revenue received from our customers. We implement our financial responsibility by reforming our business operations and improving our profitability in line with our strategy. Our financial targets are that the company’s operating profit percentage exceeds 5%, return on invested capital is at least 10%, gearing does not exceed 35%, and more than 10% of the Group’s net sales comes from new business areas in 2018. The financial impact of our operations is comparable to those of the banking and telecommunications sectors, as our services are used by hundreds of thousands of private and public sector operators every day, in addition to consumers. Financial impact in accordance with the income statement This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 8 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society Financial impact in accordance with the income statement We support development and well-being throughout the country. Our Group’s operations span the entire country, and we are an important employer in Finland. In addition to providing employment, our operations generate well-being in and tax revenue for Finland. At the end of 2015, we had 16,874 employees in Finland. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 9 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society The geographical distribution of our employees in Finland on December 31, 2015 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 10 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Tax footprint 2015 Tax footprint 2015 In its tax footprint reporting, Posti adheres to the country-specific tax reporting guidelines for companies of which the state is the majority shareholder, provided by the Ownership Steering Department on October 1, 2014. Tax strategy All companies in the Group have committed to operating responsibly and to meeting all obligations and requirements defined by the valid legislation of each country. Posti Group companies pay their taxes in the countries in which their actual business operations take place. All taxes are to be paid on time without delay. The Group’s long-term target is to ensure that the Group’s effective tax rate is at the same level as the corporate income tax rate valid in Finland at each particular time. According to the Group’s tax strategy, taxation is always a consequence of business operations, which means that tax solutions must also be based on business needs. Posti does not practice tax planning that would aim at artificially decreasing the Group’s taxable income. In tax-related issues, the Group operates within the framework of legislation and legal practice in planning the taxable profit of Group companies. This can include the utilization of tax losses accrued in a subsidiary or the granting of group contributions, for example. In transfer pricing between subsidiaries, Posti aims to always ensure that the prices are marketbased. To clarify taxation practices, some situations may involve contacting the tax authorities for either verbal guidance or a written decision on the taxation treatment of the planned action. Management of tax-related issues The management of tax-related issues is centralized to the Group Finance unit, which is responsible for managing and monitoring tax-related issues at the Group level. Decisions related to taxation are made at the Group level. Significant matters of principle are presented to the parent company’s Board of Directors for decision-making. The Group’s CFO reports regularly on taxation-related issues to the Group’s Audit Committee. The key task of the management of tax-related issues is to ensure that all Group companies comply with the regulations of tax legislation in all countries of operation. Tax risk management is part of the Group’s risk management process. Principles observed in tax reporting The information presented in this report is based on information collected from the Group’s accounting systems. Taxes refer to taxes or tax-like fees paid to public sector entities, whether they are paid or remitted by the company. The nature and amount of taxes vary significantly from country to country. Taxes payable refer to taxes paid by the Group companies which are, as a rule, expensed in the company’s Financial Statements. Taxes remitted refer to taxes or fees collected by the companies which are remitted to tax collectors, often on behalf of parties other than the company itself. The company has restricted its tax reporting to only cover substantial operating countries. Based on this decision, country-specific tax information is only presented for Finland and Russia. Nearly 84% of the Group’s net sales comes from these countries. According to the Group’s strategy, these countries are its main markets. Other operating countries are grouped under Scandinavia and Other countries. Posti also uses the same geographical categorization in its Consolidated Financial Statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 11 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Tax footprint 2015 For countries other than Finland and Russia, information is presented on a country group-specific basis as the information reported is not of material importance and the presentation of country-specific information might jeopardize the non-disclosure of confidential information, such as customer or pricing details. From the Group’s perspective, the amount of information reported is not of material importance when the taxes payable for an individual country do not exceed EUR 5 million. The Group operates in nine countries. In addition, Posti has companies in countries where the Group no longer has business operations. When assessing the materiality threshold, net sales of EUR 1 million for each individual subsidiary is considered the threshold for non-materiality. Non-material companies are excluded from the reporting, as the amount of taxes paid by the companies is minor in proportion to the figures disclosed by the Group. These companies are in the categories Scandinavia and Other countries. Changes in Group structure during the financial period are described in more detail in the Group’s Financial Statements release. In 2015, the Group’s effective tax rate was 17.1% (2014: 3.4%). The divestment of logistics operations in Scandinavia in fiscal year 2015 had a significant effect on Posti Group’s position with regard to taxation. Posti’s sale of postal center properties in spring 2015 resulted in significant taxable profits. Tax disputes The Large Taxpayers‘ Office has partly approved Posti Group Corporation’s petition for the deduction of losses by foreign subsidiaries merged into the company. Based on a decision made in October 2015, these losses were approved in the amount of EUR 2.4 million. At the same time, Posti’s petition for the deduction of losses in the amount of EUR 39.0 million was refused. Posti considers the decision erroneous in this respect and has decided to lodge an appeal regarding the tax authority’s decision with the Board of Adjustment of the Large Taxpayers' Office (Konserniverokeskuksen oikaisulautakunta). The Group's tax footprint 2015, MEUR Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Net sales 1,265.3 118.5 140.4 126.1 Result before taxes 133.9 -14.6 -9.7 0.6 Number of personnel 16,874 2,809 417 1,498 Paid taxes 43.7 7.5 5.6 5.0 Remitted taxes 274.8 10.4 13.5 6.8 Received public support 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 2014, MEUR Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Net sales 1,358.8 171.8 211.5 116.5 Result before taxes 76.6 7.5 -21.3 0.9 Number of personnel 18,033 3,063 656 1,400 Paid taxes 31.7 10.8 6.1 3.3 Remitted taxes 305.5 18.0 13.3 6.0 Received public support 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 12 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Tax footprint 2015 Taxes by category and by geographical area Paid taxes 2015, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Income taxes 18,092 16,061 345 490 1,196 Real estate taxes 3,675 2,588 1,087 0 0 Employer taxes 26,278 11,240 6,082 5,115 3,841 Environmental taxes 13,184 13,184 0 0 0 Other taxes 567 567 0 0 0 Paid taxes 2014, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Income taxes 1,873 1,436 536 -288 190 Real estate taxes 4,314 2,636 1,566 112 0 Employer taxes 29,830 11,691 8,744 6,272 3,124 Environmental taxes 14,152 14,152 0 0 0 Remitted taxes by category and by geographical area Remitted taxes 2015, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Value added taxes 172,389 155,400 6,505 8,918 1,566 Salary taxes 132,154 119,262 3,206 4,463 5,223 Other taxes 830 79 646 88 17 Remitted taxes 2014, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Value added taxes 197,208 178,478 12,523 4,463 1,745 Salary taxes 144,916 127,065 4,830 8,819 4,202 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 13 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Tax footprint 2015 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 14 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Cooperation with stakeholders Cooperation with stakeholders The postal industry is undergoing a profound transformation, which is why Posti must actively engage its stakeholders. Our key stakeholders are customers, personnel, the state as our owner, political decisionmakers, authorities and the media, as well as our partners in subcontracting, research and the industry. The table below presents our key stakeholders and their expectations, as well as the key tools and forms of stakeholder interaction during the review period. Stakeholder Expectations Key interaction tools and results in group 2015 Customers Reliable high-quality postal and We made effective use of customer logistics services and financial satisfaction surveys and feedback. management services for a We expanded the carbon neutral reasonable price Posti Green portfolio to cover all Information security and protection operations in Finland. of privacy in all services We operate in an environmentally Commitment to ethical principles responsible way by reducing the Modernization in response to emissions of our vehicles, for example. customer needs Since 2011 the emissions of Posti’s Solutions for digitization delivery vehicles have decreased by 8 Environmental efficiency %. Personnel Responsible management and Posti is in the midst of an industry supervisory work transformation, which is why we have Equal treatment of personnel placed a significant focus on change Competitive and fair rewards management and the training of Development of well-being at work personnel. Approximately 180 Engagement and flow of information supervisors participated in the Changemakers training, while some 450 supervisors participated in line management training for production operations. The bonus plan covers the entire Group. The Group invested in occupational safety and organized safety walkabouts for management, for example. Posti organized Ideatalkoot (Idea Drive), an innovation competition for personnel, which saw nearly 90 employees submit a total of 57 ideas for business development. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 15 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Cooperation with stakeholders Employees have a channel for submitting feedback on issues related to the Code of Conduct and topics discussed by the equality committee. Feedback can also be submitted anonymously. We continued to actively cooperate with our personnel, and managers and employee representatives met regularly at cooperation meetings. Owner, Reliable high-quality postal services The revised Employee Code of political for reasonable prices throughout Conduct was deployed among decisionFinland personnel. In 2015, the Group makers, and Profitability and solvency completion rate for the training was authorities Good governance and transparency 63%. of operations Active dialog with political decisionEmployees’ status and rights, and makers, interest groups, and environmental responsibility authorities. Increasing ownership value in a sustainable and responsible manner Partners in Transparent sourcing criteria and Permanent membership of PostEurop, subcontracting, equal treatment of suppliers the Universal Postal Union (UPU), and research, and Pilot and research projects for new the International Post Corporation the industry technologies and business models (IPC). An active role in international Membership of the Finnish service industry associations sector employers’ association Palta, the Finnish Federation for Communications and Teleinformatics (FiCom), and Finnish Business & Society (FIBS). The media Fast and reliable flow of information We issued approximately 300 media High level of availability and swift releases during the year. services We organized meetings with representatives of the media and offered reporters information on news and current events in our industry. Our MediaDesk serves journalists: we received nearly 700 contact requests from the media. We generally responded to all requests for an interview within 30 minutes. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 16 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Cooperation with stakeholders Stakeholder survey results At the turn of the year, Posti surveyed its stakeholders’ views regarding the regulation of the postal industry, the future of the industry, as well as their perceptions related to corporate responsibility. The survey was sent to consumers and business decision-makers, as well as representatives of the public administration and labor market organizations. The results of the survey indicate that consumers, business decision-makers, and influencers in the public administration all understand the need for change in the postal industry and support the customer-focused development of the business. According to the respondents, the most important objectives related to regulatory reform in the postal industry include ensuring reasonably priced postal services throughout the country, on the one hand, and easing regulation to curb the increase in delivery costs, on the other hand. The respondents were asked about how to best secure the availability of postal services in the future. The most commonly held view was that services are best secured by improving the profitability of Posti’s business and easing the regulation of the postal industry. Subsidizing postal operations from the state budget or by a separate postal tax was not a popular option among the respondents. Consumers value Posti’s comprehensive retail network and accept that Posti must develop its cooperation with partner companies to ensure the availability of postal services. With regard to responsibility, the themes highlighted as the most important by the respondents included ensuring confidentiality and information security for customers as well as ethicality and transparency in business. Promoting occupational safety and the well-being of the personnel as well as improving energy efficiency and reducing emissions from transport operations and properties were also rated as important issues for Posti’s image as a responsible company. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 17 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Posti in society / Cooperation with stakeholders Measuring the customer experience Recognizing that the customer experience is key, we constantly request feedback from our customers in order to further improve our operations. We conduct customer satisfaction studies both on a project and incidentspecific basis and with more comprehensive customer satisfaction surveys that are conducted regularly once or twice a year. In Finland, we conducted one extensive consumer and business customer survey in 2015. The consumers’ overall rating of Posti as a whole declined from the previous year. The overall assessment represents more than the sum of customer experiences, as it is related to a broader view of Posti’s position in society. Customer ratings related to parcel delivery, however, improved substantially from the previous year and remained at a high level. This was particularly attributable to a high level of satisfaction with regard to home-delivered parcels and Parcel Point services. The overall satisfaction rating for customer service decreased slightly from the previous year, but the ratings for selfservices provided at Posti outlets and via the online and mobile channels remained at a good level. Among business customers, the Net Promoter Score (NPS) increased from the previous year for postal services as well as parcel and logistics services. Customers have been satisfied with Posti’s parcel services for several years. Customer satisfaction among freight and supply chain customers in Finland also improved from the previous year. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 18 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees Engaged multi-skilled employees Posti is the largest private employer in Finland. We are an equal, international, multicultural, and tolerant workplace community. Our aim is to be the best workplace in the industry by 2020. During the year, we received 27,504 job applications. In Finland, we entered into 338 new permanent employment contracts. Seasonal changes are significant in our industry, and we hire the highest number of seasonal employees in the summer and around Christmas. We provided summer jobs for approximately 1,900 people across Finland. We prepared for the Christmas season by hiring 3,350 seasonal assistants in different parts of the country. Most of the seasonal assistants worked in mail delivery, sorting, and transportation. We also participated in the national Responsible Summer Job campaign, alongside many other companies, making a commitment to its principles: a meaningful job and reasonable pay, a good applicant experience, employee orientation and guidance, fair and equal treatment, and a written employment contract and reference. Multiculturalism is a significant resource for our company. In Finland alone, our employees represent 80 nationalities. Since 2012, we have been a member of Diversity Charter Finland, which is coordinated by the corporate responsibility network FIBS. We were among the first companies in Finland to sign the charter. Diversity Charter Finland offers its members information on best practices in the management of diversity and support in business development. The dimensions of diversity include age, sex, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, operational capability, and religion, among other aspects. Me postilaiset wins best personnel magazine award in Finland Posti’s personnel magazine, Me postilaiset, was recognized as the best personnel magazine in Finland in the annual Procom Magazine Review. The jury characterized Me postilaiset by stating that the best personnel magazine of the year is “a modern, clear, high-quality, and professionally produced publication. The Posti Group employees who produce Me postilaiset have understood that a personnel magazine must foster a positive spirit and a sense of togetherness. The jury finds that employees are presented in the magazine as interesting personalities.” Me postilaiset is a magazine for all Posti Group employees in Finland. Its circulation is approximately 19,000 copies and it is delivered to employees’ homes. The purpose of the magazine is to communicate to employees the Group’s objectives, financial development, and changes in operations. Focus on well-being at work This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 19 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees Focus on well-being at work Posti’s goal is to provide a healthy and safe working environment for its employees. No employees should suffer injuries or illnesses, neither physical nor psychological, at work. This goal can be achieved through proactive measures including the prevention of occupational accidents, good ergonomics, and work design. Posti is committed to promoting the well-being at work of its personnel and their ability to cope with work to ensure that employees are healthy and motivated in different life situations and through the various stages of their employment relationship. Putting well-being at work into practice is part of the daily work of supervisors. Every Posti employee is also responsible for promoting psychological well-being in the working community. Posti provides a diverse range of well-being services to its employees, including occupational health care, support for independent physical exercise under a sports program, sport and wellness events via the Foundation for Well-being at Work, as well as support for workplace meals. Posti employees have access to comprehensive health care and medical services aimed at supporting the employee’s well-being at work, work ability, and occupational safety in all career stages. Since 2006, Posti has had its own Foundation for Well-being at Work tasked with promoting the physical and psychological health of employees. The Foundation’s operations are divided into measures improving wellbeing at work and research activities. Events organized by the Foundation include sports festivals and Kuntoremontti fitness overhauls, for example. The activities are intended for all Group employees in Finland. Promoting occupational safety is high on the agenda Reducing our accident frequency is one of our most important areas of development. Altogether 1,739 (2014: 1,971) accidents were recorded at Posti in Finland during 2015. Figures include both accidents that happened at the workplace and during commutes. Posti’s LTA1 figure, which reflects the frequency of occupational accidents per one million working hours, was 38.8 (2014: 39.1). The figures do not include OpusCapita. We continued to conduct safety tours by senior management during the year. In 2015, we focused particularly on increasing safety observations and corrective actions. We achieved a new record in safety observations with 7,786 observations, and we increased their rate of completion from 45% to 78% during the year. We also began to monitor proactive measures on a monthly basis with regard to safety walkabouts and turvavartti safety updates. A total of 1,712 safety walkabouts and 1,515 turvavartti safety updates took place during the year. We also organized an occupational safety seminar, occupational safety week, and accident awareness day for our personnel. The focus of these events was on proactive occupational safety measures and discussion on occupational safety. We took a pioneering role by joining the Institute of Marketing to launch a Specialist Qualification in Management focused on occupational safety management, with 27 managers and supervisors from production operations participating in the program. We also provided Occupational Safety Card training, with content customized to Posti’s operations, to a total of 48 participants (46 early-morning delivery supervisors and two experts). This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 20 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees / Responsible employer Responsible employer Posti conducts a personnel survey annually. The Voice survey assesses the extent to which employees are dedicated to their work and their employer, and the extent to which the employer is successful in facilitating good performance. The survey is divided into eight themes: employee commitment, facilitating performance, teamwork and cooperation, future and leadership, performance management, well-being, strategy, and cultural change. The survey was conducted in September in Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Russia. More than 11,000 Posti employees completed the survey, which represents 62% (2014: 59%) of all personnel. Based on the results, the employee dedication index was 47% (2014: 48%). This means that slightly under half of employees expressed a positive attitude towards the four aspects measuring dedication. When compared to the norm in the postal and logistics industry on a global scale, the result can be considered low. Posti is undergoing a major transformation, which may be reflected in the results of the personnel survey. Linking one’s own role and activities to the strategy is a key factor in assessing dedication. The results also revealed clear differences between different units and employee groups. The results indicate that the implementation of strategy has reached the management, supervisor and expert levels of the organization to a good extent. At 58% (2014: 58%), the performance facilitation index was higher than the employee dedication index. It measures the extent of an organization’s commitment to producing excellent customer service and highquality products or services and to basing its operations on the practices of continuous improvement. Cooperation with one’s closest colleagues, in particular, was rated at a good level. Uusi polku program helps employees get a new start Posti’s business is undergoing a major transformation and, in recent years, we have had to carry out several cooperation negotiations with personnel representatives based on production-related and financial reasons. In these difficult situations, it is important for Posti to operate responsibly and seek solutions related to personnel impacts in cooperation with personnel organizations. As a responsible employer, we have invested in helping our personnel to cope with the changes in the industry. In 2014, we launched the Uusi polku (New Path) support program for our personnel. The support program offers personal counseling and services to those who are interested in a new career, retraining or starting a business. In addition to the services, Posti offers a monetary lump sum in compensation, proportional to the duration of the employment relationship, for those who volunteer for the program. As of December 31, 2015, a total of 1,327 employees have applied for the program, and 925 have been accepted. We are actively monitoring the impacts of the program on its participants. Based on a survey of past participants, a significant proportion of the respondents (80%) have been successful in realizing the plans they had when leaving the company. They have either found a new job, found a place of study, started a business, or retired. The remaining 20% of the respondents indicated that they were out of work at the time of the survey. A total of 29 respondents indicated that they have started a business during the time the program has been in effect. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 21 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees / Responsible employer In 2015, personnel reductions amounted to a total of 423 person-years. Out of this total, 328 person-years were related to production and finance and 42 person-years were reduced through voluntary resignation and pension plans. In addition, 53 person-years were related to acquisitions. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 22 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees / People responsibility indicators People responsibility indicators At the end of the year, we employed a total of 21,598 people. Our average number of personnel was 22,219. A total of 17,360 people on average were employed in Finland. Women made up 39% and men 61% of our employees in the Group. Our Supervisory Board has 12 members and our Board of Directors has eight members. The Executive Board is composed of eight members, and the Management Board is composed of 13 members. Our Board of Directors has an equal number of men and women as members, while men constitute the majority on the Supervisory Board, Executive Board and Management Board. Of our total personnel, 80% are covered by collective labor agreements. In Finland, 99% of our employees are covered by collective labor agreements. The Baltic countries, Poland, and Russia do not have binding collective labor agreements. The employees represented by the labor protection committee make up 78% of our total personnel. In Finland, the ratio between the basic salaries of women and men was 97%. The share of the personnel within the scope of regular personal development discussions and performance reviews is approximately 2,175 people. The discussions are held at least twice a year. With the people working in production in Finland, the accomplishments of the previous year as well as the objectives and targets for the coming year are discussed with the working group once a year. In addition, a personal discussion is held in relation to personal development and well-being at work. Personnel per country on December 31, 2015 Finland 16,874 Russia 2,809 Poland 568 Sweden 260 Estonia 419 Norway 157 Latvia 164 Lithuania 259 Germany 88 21,598 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 23 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees / People responsibility indicators Number of operating locations 2015 2014 Finland 596 662 Russia 21 21 Other countries 30 30 Total 647 713 Accidents and sickness related absences* 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Sickness related absences (%) 6.2 6.2 5.7 5.9 6.0 Lost time accidents (number) 931 1,027 1,306 1,329 1,318 Accident frequency** 38.8 39.1 46.7 48.7 45.1 Disability pensions 68 78 76 84 89 Part-time disability pensions 80 62 74 103 76 Total disability pensions 148 140 150 187 165 Average age for retiring on disability pension 56 56.3 56.7 56.5 56.1 Average retirement age 62.5 62.5 60.9 60.7 60.4 Retired 320 301 342 315 400 *Group level, Finland **Excluding OpusCapita Employee leaving rate in Finland Leaving rate, Finland Leaving rate Females 9.7% under 25 years 26.1% 25–34 years 8.5% 35–44 years 5.9% 45–54 years 4.8% 55 years or older 22.4% Males 9.0% under 25 years 20.9% 25–34 years 10.6% 35–44 years 6.5% 45–54 years 3.8% 55 years or older 14.0% Total leaving rate 9.3% without seasonal employees This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 24 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees / People responsibility indicators This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 25 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Engaged multi-skilled employees / People responsibility indicators This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 26 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts Reducing environmental impacts Posti’s environmental management is based on environmental management standards, particularly ISO 14001, as well as legal and official requirements, and the UN Global Compact principles. Our quality and environmental policy covers all of our countries of operation. The targets for our environmental work are determined by our corporate responsibility steering group. Our business groups determine more detailed operating programs as part of their management model. Environmental issues are discussed by our Management Board and the Audit Committee at least once a year as part of more extensive corporate responsibility reporting. Our environmental program aims to reduce our carbon-dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020, in relation to net sales (compared to 2007). In addition, we are party to a freight traffic energy efficiency agreement in Finland and have made a commitment to improve our energy efficiency in our transport by 20% by 2016 (compared to 2008). Transport and emissions from vehicles represent approximately 85% of our carbon-dioxide emissions in Finland. As the largest transport and delivery company in the country, we play an important role in the development of environmentally friendly and energy-efficient transport operations. We improve the environmental efficiency of transport operations primarily by planning routes efficiently, ensuring a high utilization rate, combining deliveries, and driving in an environmentally responsible manner. As part of our ISO 14001 management system, we increase our employees’ environmental awareness through training and employee orientation. Environmental issues are also regularly discussed in our internal communication channels. At the end of 2015, our certified environmental management systems covered 88% (2014: 88%) of the Group’s employees. We have an ISO 14001 compliant environmental management system also in our warehouses in Russia. Continuous improvement in energy efficiency Between 2007 and 2015, Posti’s carbon dioxide emissions relative to net sales have decreased by 16%. Absolute carbon dioxide emissions decreased by over 30,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide, or by 20%, during the period. In 2007, the International Post Corporation (IPC) set a common goal for its members to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of the postal industry by 20% by 2020. In 2015, IPC members achieved their collective 20% emission reduction target six years ahead of schedule. In addition to vehicles, Posti has also focused on buildings in its systematic efforts to improve energy efficiency. In Finland, electricity consumption fell by 3% and heating by 17%. Temperature-adjusted heat consumption decreased by 9%. Posti’s Finnish properties use electricity generated 100% by renewable hydroelectric power. During the year, Posti conducted an energy audit at its properties pursuant to the requirements of the Finnish Energy Efficiency Act. An energy audit involves assessing the energy consumption profile of all the operating This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 27 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts locations of a company or Group and identifying opportunities for energy savings. We have centralized our waste management services to a single operator in Finland, which helps us ensure energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The aim of waste management is to minimize landfill waste and increase recoverable waste. With our waste management partner, we have set a target of improving our recovery rate by 1% per year. In 2015, our recovery rate was 98% (2014: 95%) and recycling rate 67%. Each of our ISO 14001 certified operating locations has a documented waste management plan that includes a list of what waste fractions the property collects, related operating models, as well as illustrations of the placement of waste containers at the property. With regard to the continuous improvement of energy efficiency and environmental efficiency, Posti is committed to: complying with all applicable environmental laws and standards, including ISO 14001 reducing the fuel consumption of our vehicles reducing the energy consumption of our facilities improving recycling and reducing landfill waste considering environmental aspects in sourcing, subcontracting, and investment decisions engaging in open discussion with our stakeholders in order to minimize our environmental impact ensuring sufficient resources for maintaining and continually improving our environmental operations reporting our environmental impact annually and providing our employees with information and opportunities in order to operate in an environmentally efficient manner. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 28 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts Convenient repairs and recycling for pallets In order to increase our recycling rate and reduce waste volume, we collect surplus and decommissioned pallets at our warehouses, postal centers, and terminals. The pallets are handed over to Lassila & Tikanoja, where they are sorted. Mendable pallets are repaired and delivered for further reuse for customers. Pallets that are beyond repair are chipped and recycled as fuel for energy production. Posti receives compensation for the pallets, and at the same time, the amount of wood waste is reduced. The properties gain a cost benefit through lower property maintenance costs charged by Posti Kiinteistöt. The service is part of Posti’s waste reporting system. By monitoring the reports, we can verify the savings we have achieved. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 29 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts / A pioneer of green logistics A pioneer of green logistics All of Posti’s delivery, transport, freight, and warehousing services in Finland are carbon neutral Posti Green services that involve no additional cost to customers. By using Posti Green products, our customers can reduce CO2 emissions in their supply chain processes. Posti Green services are part of Posti’s environmental program, which is aimed at decreasing carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020. As part of Posti’s environmental program, the carbon dioxide emissions arising from operations are actively reduced by route optimization, the efficient combination of deliveries, and using an ecological driving style. The remaining emissions are neutralized through participation in climate projects. In practice, if transporting a letter produces 20 grams of carbon dioxide, or transporting a parcel produces approximately 900 grams, we use certified climate projects to ensure that an equal amount of emissions is reduced somewhere else. Our fleet of approximately 4,000 commercial vehicles in Finland recorded a total of 108 million kilometers last year. Posti plays a significant role in developing environmentally friendly delivery and transport. We have taken a pioneering role in this area by actively participating in the testing of alternative fuels. In 2006, we were the first company in Finland to roll out natural gas vehicles in delivery operations. Our fleet currently includes approximately 40 biogas vehicles that run on 100% renewable Finnish Gasum biogas. Biogas produces no harmful particles and practically no greenhouse gas emissions during its life cycle. We are also participating in the Dual Fuel research project by VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland to investigate the combined use of biodiesel and biogas in heavy vehicles. In 2014, we equipped all of Posti’s delivery and transport vehicles with driving habit monitoring devices. The devices are a daily tool used in production activities, including supervisory work, planning, and operations management. Some 10,000 drivers have received training on the use of the monitoring device, which provides them with reports on their driving economy, safety as well as improvement targets on their driving habit. The driving habit monitoring devices help reduce fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. They also make it possible to set and monitor area-specific targets for both consumption and emissions. During the year, the monitoring devices and the improved utilization rate of our vehicles allowed us to reduce the number of traffic accidents as well as our maintenance costs. The average fuel consumption of vehicles used in mail delivery operations increased by 0.8% from the previous year. There were significant changes during the review period with regard to the operating model and the use of vehicles. The same vehicles were used to carry mail, parcels, and freight. The fill rate of vehicles improved substantially, which led to an increase in the average consumption in spite of an improvement in the driving habit index. We also deliver mail by foot and by bicycle. A total of 1,900 delivery routes are handled by bicycle and foot every day which is 36% of all the routes. We also use environmentally friendly electric carts, 1,200 electric bicycles, and electric cars. Increasing the number of electric cars in delivery operations has thus far been challenging, as electric cars suitable for winter conditions in Finland are not available. About half of the mopeds we use are electric. Posti Green service model This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 30 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts / A pioneer of green logistics Posti Green service model All of our services in Finland are carbon neutral Posti Green services which cause zero emissions for our customers. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 31 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts / Environmental responsibility indicators Environmental responsibility indicators EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Terajoules (TJ) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Renewable Biogas 1 4 2 1 0 Non-renewable – facilities and own vehicles Natural gas 158 267 165 188 197 Fuel oil 0 1 1 5 6 Traffic fuel 730 778 879 672 620 INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Renewable Electricity, Finland 313 337 265 271 212 Non-renewable Electricity, other countries 204 207 303 280 335 District heating 278 324 352 346 337 Traffic fuel – outsourced, Finland 547 612 664 572 507 EN15–EN17 The Group's CO2 emissions Tons 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Fuel use in buildings – energy generation, Scope 1 8,900 15,020 9,268 10,724 11,254 Fuel use in transport – Posti's vehicles, Scope 1 50,014 53,396 60,406 46,169 46,005 Electricity and heat use in buildings, Scope 2 40,266 44,199 38,272 46,496 49,604 Subcontracted transport by vehicles* and air, 65,298 70,801 73,490 59,287 50,818 Scope 3 Business travel flights, Scope 3 1,512 2,139 2,190 2,260 2,221 Total 165,991 185,555 183,625 164,936 159,902 *Includes subcontracted transport in Finland This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 32 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts / Environmental responsibility indicators EN21 Emissions to air – own vehicles 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Tons/year Finland Finland Finland Finland Finland CO 54 59 60 56 54 HC 16 16 16 14 13 NOx 137 130 166 97 84 Particles 5.4 5.8 5.9 4.7 4.5 SO2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 Source of information: VTT/LIPASTO emissions of traffic, fuel consumption and kilometers driven of own vehicles. EN23 Waste management in Finland 2015 2014 Properties included in waste management agreement, tons* Finland Finland Recycle and reuse 8,862 6,706 Other recover 3,247 3,010 Inceneration 357 813 Final disposal 241 463 Hazardous waste** 468 89 Total 13,175 11,081 Recovery rate, % 98% 95% *Excluding properties where waste management is included in the rent. The figures have been revised since 2014. **of which 434 tons is refrigeration devices and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 33 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Reducing environmental impacts / Environmental responsibility indicators This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 34 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Responsible supply chain Responsible supply chain Posti has a Group-wide uniform sourcing policy that determines how the sourcing function and supplier cooperation is managed. The sourcing policy supports Posti’s strategy and environmental program, as well as the company’s social responsibility and ethical principles. It outlines decision-making responsibilities and responsibility boundaries, and it specifies the minimum requirements for suppliers and the sourcing organization. As part of our approach to responsible sourcing, we have defined a Supplier Code of Conduct and require all of our service providers and suppliers to adhere to it. In addition to legality, the Supplier Code of Conduct includes principles related to corruption, human rights, child labor, discrimination, working conditions, and environmental concerns. Each approved supplier must have an agreement saved in Posti’s agreement archive and must have conducted a self-assessment. In 2015, we harmonized our sourcing processes and systems in Finland and the Baltic countries, which supports the achievement of cost savings and facilitates the monitoring of compliance with the sourcing policy. We also launched a Compliance project in sourcing in late spring 2015 with the aim of ensuring that everyone in Posti Group complies with the common practices. During the year, more than 90% of Posti’s sourcing in Finland originated from domestic suppliers. We also favored local suppliers in our other countries of operation. Of the suppliers approved during the year, 86% were within the scope of self-assessment, representing a combined purchasing volume of nearly EUR 470 million. Sedex and EcoVadis – responsible sourcing networks Posti belongs to the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) network as a service provider. We hold B membership of the network. With more than 30,000 members, Sedex is the largest collaborative platform for managing and sharing ethical supply chain data. In addition to Sedex, we have joined in the EcoVadis system in the Supplier role. Through EcoVadis, we can provide our current or potential customers who have joined the system with information about responsibility and ethical issues related to our operations. As for our customers, they can use the EcoVadis system to assess our corporate responsibility and to manage responsibility information. Posti was awarded gold-level recognition by EcoVadis for its CSR performance in 2015. With our score of 65 out of 100, we ranked among the top 5% of companies in all industries worldwide. EcoVadis assesses the overall CSR performance of suppliers annually in the areas of environmental responsibility, social responsibility, business ethics and sustainable procurement. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 35 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / Responsible supply chain Business activities and human rights Published in 2011, the UN principles concerning business activities and human rights have become a global standard that guides corporate responsibility in relation to human rights. The principles require companies to respect human rights in everything they do. Companies are obligated to assess the human rights impacts and risks of their operations, create systems to prevent risks, and develop processes for corrective action. In spring 2016, Posti will participate in a series of training events organized by the Finnish corporate responsibility network FIBS, aimed at reviewing the practical implementation of the UN’s guiding principles in business operations. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 36 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting GRI reporting Our sustainability reporting is based on the GRI G4 guidelines (the Global Reporting Initiative). In addition, we comply with the reporting requirements of our owner, the Finnish State. In accordance with the guidelines, we focus on factors that are key to our operations and essential to our stakeholders. This report complies with the GRI G4 guidelines and covers the key areas of economic, social, and environmental responsibility. Posti has self-declared its sustainability reporting to be in accordance with the Core level of GRI’s G4 guidelines. Accordingly, Posti reports material sustainability details and indicators related to its operations so that the report provides a sufficient and balanced view of sustainability and its impacts. The comparison of the report content with the GRI G4 guidelines is presented in the GRI index. The report has not been the subject of external assurance. The accuracy of the information presented has been verified internally. An external party has assessed the compliance of the materiality assessment process with the GRI G4 guidelines. Reporting description and boundary The data is reported on an annual basis, and the reporting period runs from January 1 to December 31. We report the key indicators of the sustainability areas to the Board of Directors at least once a year. Unless otherwise mentioned, the reporting covers all operations of our parent company and subsidiaries. It also covers all Group functions in all countries of operation. The reporting does not, as a rule, include the operations of subcontractors or affiliated companies. The coverage of the indicators is reported in conjunction with the indicators. The information on personnel is primarily included in GRI reporting in Finland. With regard to personnel, we have calculated the key indicators in accordance with the Accounting Standards Board’s general guidelines on annual reports. Since 2009, our environmental reporting has covered all of our countries of operation. The indicators for environmental responsibility cover our operations with the greatest environmental impact in all of our countries of operation. In Finland, the environmental calculations also include the environmental impact of subcontracted transport. The calculation of carbon dioxide emissions covers all of Posti’s business operations. The key standards applied in our environmental calculations are: The WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, and The GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector, which includes more detailed instructions for the postal industry. The data and indicators for financial responsibility are obtained from the Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards approved by the European Union. The notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in compliance with Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 37 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting As an issuer of two publicly listed bonds, we are obliged to disclose periodic information to a limited extent. Our duty of disclosure is based on the Finnish Securities Market Act and the rules and regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. A more detailed description of our financial communications policy is available on our website at www.posti.com/financials. In connection with our Financial Statements, we also publish our Corporate Governance Statement, referred to in Recommendation 54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code of the Securities Market Association. Contact information Noomi Jägerhorn, Head of Sustainability: noomi.jagerhorn (at) posti.com Hannele Parkkinen, Corporate Responsibility Manager: hannele.parkkinen (at) posti.com This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 38 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index GRI content index Code GRI Standard Disclosures Reference page Remarks Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO's statement President and CEO's review G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Group strategy Board of Directors' report 2015 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Posti Group Corporation G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Posti Group in brief G4-5 Location of the organization’s Posti Group's headquarters is headquarters based in Helsinki. G4-6 Number of countries and names of Posti Group in brief countries with major operations or that are relevant to sustainability issues G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Share capital and shareholding G4-8 Markets served G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Key figures G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, Indicators for people employment contract, region and responsibility gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered Indicators for people by collective bargaining agreements responsibility G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Responsible supply chain G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting No significant changes during period regarding the organization's size, the reporting period. structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary The precautionary approach approach or principle is addressed by and principle has been taken the organization into account in accordance with statutory requirements. G4-15 Externally developed economic, Sustainability at Posti environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as Cooperation with industry associations) and/or stakeholders national/international advocacy organizations This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 39 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Posti Group in brief the organization Group companies G4-18 Process for defining report content and Sustainability at Posti aspect boundaries GRI reporting G4-19 Material aspects Sustainability at Posti Cooperation with stakeholders G4-20 Aspect boundary for each material GRI reporting aspect within the organization G4-21 Aspect boundary for each material GRI reporting aspect outside the organization G4-22 Restatements of information provided in No significant changes during previous reports the reporting period. G4-23 Significant changes from previous No significant changes during reporting periods in the scope and the reporting period. aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Cooperation with the organization stakeholders G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Cooperation with stakeholders with whom to engage stakeholders G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder Cooperation with engagement, including frequency of stakeholders engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been Cooperation with raised through stakeholder stakeholders engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period GRI reporting G4-29 Date of most recent previous report March 19, 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding GRI reporting the report or its contents G4-32 GRI content index Self-assessment has been made, no external assurance. G4-33 The organization's policy and current GRI reporting practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the Governance organisation and committees G4-35 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 40 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-35 Delegating authority Governance G4-36 Executive-level positions with Sustainability at Posti responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics G4-37 Consultation with stakeholders Cooperation with stakeholders G4-42 Board of Directors’ role in setting Corporate Governance purpose, values and strategy Statement G4-45 Board of Directors’ role in the Corporate Governance identification and management of risks Statement G4-46 Reviewing the effectiveness of risk Corporate Governance management Statement G4-47 Frequency of risk reviews Corporate Governance Statement G4-48 Formal approval of the organisation's GRI reporting sustainability report G4-49 Communicating critical concerns GRI reporting G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Board and Remuneration senior executives Statement G4-56 Organization's values, principles, Sustainability at Posti standards and codes Values Responsible supply chain G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for Sustainability at Posti seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Sustainability at Posti reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity Code Indicators Reference page Remarks Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Category: Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Posti in society distributed Tax footprint 2015 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from Other operating income government G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Responsible suplly chain suppliers at significant locations of operation This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 41 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index Category: Environmental G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Indicators for organization environmental responsibility G4-EN5 Energy intensity Indicators for environmental responsibility G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Reducing environmental impacts G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Indicators for (Scope 1) environmental responsibility G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Indicators for emissions (Scope 2) environmental responsibility G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Indicators for emissions (Scope 3) environmental responsibility G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Indicators for intensity environmental responsibility G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Reducing emissions environmental impacts Forerunner of green logistics G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Indicators for emissions environmental responsibility G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Indicators for disposal method environmental responsibility G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant An accident occurred at a spills Posti freight terminal in June involving the release of hazardous resin-based fluid onto the terminal floor and its subsequent vaporization. The personnel were evacuated from the terminal, with 12 people sent to the hospital to be checked for respiratory exposure. Serious injuries were avoided and the accident did not have any negative impact outside of the terminal area. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 42 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of Forerunner of green environmental impacts of products and logistics services G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and No significant fines or total number of non-monetary sanctions sanctions during the for non-compliance with environmental reporting period. laws and regulations G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Reducing transporting products and other goods environmental impacts and materials for the organization’s Forerunner of green operations, and transporting members logistics of the workforce Indicators for environmental responsibility G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Responsible supply screened using environmental criteria chain Category: People G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Engaged multitalents Covers mainly operations in employee hires and employee turnover Indicators for people Finland. More information is by age group, gender, and region responsibility available on Indicators for people responsibility. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Responsible employer operational changes, including whether Indicators for people it is specified in collective agreements responsibility G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Engaged multitalents occupational diseases, lost days, and Indicators for people absenteeism, and total number of workresponsibility related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Indicators for people regular performance and career responsibility development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Indicators for people of women to men by employee responsibility category, by significant locations of operation G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Responsible supply screened using labor practices criteria chain G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor There were five grievances practices filed, addressed, and resolved about labor practices filed, through formal grievance mechanisms addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. After addressing the matters no reason for action was found. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 43 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of One reported discrimination discrimination and corrective actions incident that was resolved in taken settlement. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Responsible supply screened using human rights criteria chain G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human There were no grievances rights impacts filed, addressed, and about human rights impacts resolved through formal grievance filed through formal mechanisms grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Category: Society G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiTraining of the Employee corruption policies and procedures Code of Conduct is compulsory for all employees of the Group. In 2015, the completion rate for the training was 63%. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and No incidents of corruption actions taken during the period under review. G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Posti Group does not support country and recipient/beneficiary any political parties or institutions. G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiNo legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and competitive behaviour or monopoly practices and their outcomes significant fines or other sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and Legal proceedings No significant fines or total number of non-monetary sanctions sanctions during the for non-compliance with laws and reporting period. regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Responsible supply screened using criteria for impacts on chain society G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of nonNone during the period under compliance with regulations and review. voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Cooperation with satisfaction stakeholders This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 44 Posti Annual Report 2015 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of nonNone during the period under compliance with regulations and review. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated Sustainability at Posti complaints regarding breaches of Posti in society customer privacy and losses of customer data G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Legal proceedings No significant fines or non-compliance with laws and sanctions during the regulations concerning the provision reporting period. and use of products and services This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2015 45 posti.com
