Report of Remmontazh in area sustainable development 2015 Content 1 Message from the Director……………………………………………... 3 2 About us………………………………………………………………... 4 2.1 The company Remmontazh ………………………………………….. 4 2.2 Production efficiency…………………………………………………... 6 3 Description of practical actions………………………………………… 8 3.1 Human rights…………………………………………………………… 8 3.2 Labour relations………………………………………………………… 10 3.3 Environment protection………………………………………………… 11 3.3.1 Environmental policy…………………………………………………... 11 3.3.2 Impact on the air………………………………………………………... 18 3.3.3 Impact on water bodies………………………………………………… 19 3.3.4 Industrial environmental monitoring…………………………………… 21 3.3.5 Environmental monitoring……………………………………………... 22 3.4 Anti-corruption………………………………………………………..... 27 2 1 Message from the Director Our stakeholders: We present the first report on sustainable development activities in 2015. I am pleased to confirm that the company Remmontazh proves its commitment to support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The Sustainability Report contains the most complete and reliable information about the activities of our company and its impact on the environment and society. A significant achievement of the Company is the development of the concept of zero waste . In this annual communication on progress made, we describe its work on the implementation of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily activities. We also commit ourselves to provide this information to our stakeholders through the media. Yours sincerely, Zakiryanov Radik Ahnafovich Director of Remmontazh 3 2. About us 2.1 The company Remmontazh LLC Remmontazh the young, dynamically developing company, which provides services for the collection, transportation and disposal of waste hazard class VI in the Kirov and Baryatinsky District, Kaluga region. The organization operates under a license obtained in December 2015, to carry out activities for the collection, transportation, processing, recycling, disposal and disposal of waste I IV classes of danger. We have sufficient potential for further stable growth, are in the process of continuous improvement and development company in the field of waste management. LLC Remmontazh when working on the collection and disposal of municipal solid waste tends not to cause harm to the environment. LLC Remmontazh» Equipment also provides environmental safety in accordance with existing regulations. 4 The landfill of municipal solid waste (MSW) is located in the Kaluga region, Kirov region, d. Zimnitsa. Power MSW landfill is 260 ths. Tons. The actual placement of the waste in 2015 amounted to 15,000 tons. MSW landfill is located in the state register of objects of accommodation facilities. At the landfill, the following activities: receiving, warehousing and accommodation TKO. Waste placed on storage cards with insulated ground or other insulating material. All work related to storage, sealing and insulation on the landfill of waste carried out mechanized. Unloaded from trucks waste is stored on the working map. Not allowed indiscriminate storing waste landfill throughout the area outside the court. At the entrance to the landfill manager on duty at the checkpoint provides a visual and radiation monitored in order to avoid unauthorized storage of waste containing radionuclides explosive elements or hazardous waste, as well as waste, prohibited for placement at the site. 5 2.2 Production efficiency In a market environment of services in the field of waste management and, at the same time, state-regulated tariffs for placing (dumping) of waste, strict state supervision over compliance with legislation in the field of environmental protection and ecology, LLC Remmontazh constantly focused on improving the efficiency of production, as a basis for further development of the company. It uses in the activity of modern information technology in logistics, to accounting education and waste movement, in controlling the quality of services in the field of communication management, which is very positive effect on productivity growth. During the reporting period, the company has focused on strategic areas related to the provision of quality services, increase financial and economic indicators, cost reduction. 6 The effectiveness of the production activity of the company is reflected in the achieved financial results. Revenue associated with activities such as the organization of the collection, transportation and disposal of MSW are income related to the performance of works and provision of services. Expenses decreased by transport logistics, ie, garbage trucks move about the city, through the use of Glonass system, which allows to see in real time the position of transport on a map and view its location at any given time and to control consumption. On the cost reduction significantly affected the mechanization of the collection, removal and transportation of bulky waste. Due to this, in 2015. Revenues from sales of works and services increased by 11,15 %. The total profit of the company increased by 35,2 %. After analyzing these figures, it can be concluded that in 2015. the company has improved its performance and achieved strong financial results. 7 3 Description of practical actions 3.1 Human Rights Respect for workers' rights is an integral part of the social policy of Remmontazh . The company strictly complies with the norms of the Labour Code of the Russian Federation: not allowed forced labor and discrimination at work; are provided with the right of every worker to fair working conditions, including working conditions that meet safety and hygiene requirements, the right to rest, providing weekend and public holidays, paid annual leave; ensuring the right of every employee to timely and full payment of a fair wage. Remmontazh LLC receives disabled workers, guided by the program of incentives to create jobs for people with disabilities. The company has developed a personnel policy aimed at improving the efficiency of work, which is focused on the following principles: 1. The principle of compliance with the quality and quantity of staff and the direction of development of the organization; 2. The principle of compliance with the individual requirements of the labor potential of employee positions and job 8 3. The principle of placing personnel and their integration in accordance with the organizational structure and capabilities of the labor potential. 4. The principle of comprehensiveness account the working conditions and their impact on personnel. 5. The principle of continuity and control the process of personnel development. The company clearly met the highest standards of occupational health and safety. Emergency situation at the landfill TKO is the fire of buried waste. Employees undergo fire drill. Subsequent frequency of instruction at least twice a year with the registration in the appropriate register. Control of fire, the duty worker at the map and the manager on duty at the checkpoint, guided by the Instruction on the landfill of municipal solid waste fire safety measures , approved by the LLC Remmontazh . When a fire dispatcher on duty shall be guided by the Regulations on the procedure for action in the case of municipal solid waste at the site of fire , approved by the director of LLC Remmontazh . 9 3.2 Labour relations The company signed a collective agreement regulating social and labor relations. The collective agreement provides for forms, systems and amount of payment; working hours and rest periods, including the provision and duration of holidays. The staff promptly pass a medical examination. The number of management staff of 11 people. Of these, four men and seven women. Employees are often involved in seminars, pass distance learning to increase their own professionalism. In 2015 The seminar was attended by four people. Much attention guidance LLC Remmontazh gives to increase the skill level of their employees actively using the opportunities of the Kaluga Chamber of Commerce, will organize a seminar of experts training. The company organized a training of 16 employees responsible for waste management and the implementation of production control in the field, on the program Training people for the right to work with 1-4 class hazard waste (112 hours) Ltd. Company Ecoanalytics . Trained employees have the relevant certificates (certificates) for the right to work with the waste I-IV classes of danger. 10 3.3 Environmental protection 3.3.1 Environmental policy In 2015, OOO Remmontazh developed and started to implement the Program Zero Waste . As part of that, for the first time in the Kaluga region, LLC Remmontazh introduced a separate collection of waste in preschool institutions, schools, the premises of state and municipal authorities and, at the same time, carries out environmental education of schoolchildren and the population of the Kirov and Bariatinskii areas of the Kaluga region. Wastes are divided into four fractions. They are formed separately from each other. Each group of these types of waste designated certain color. Black color we have established household waste. Yellow is paper and cardboard. Blue plastic and PET bottles. Green glass and aluminum cans. 11 Remmontazh LLC made a special ballot box corresponding to the color and the inscription of each of the specified categories of waste. Sami bins paper and, therefore, environmentally friendly. If the urn is deteriorated, it immediately goes to recycling and must be replaced. These boxes also match the color of the containers, which are stored for the temporary storage of sorted waste. The environmental component of the project for the separate collection of waste is to reduce the volume disposed at the landfill MSW waste, and as a consequence, to reduce the harmful effects on the environment. 12 It organized a working group on environmental education and environmental responsibility society, which includes Remmontazh LLC. The main tasks of the working group are: education of the population, especially the youth, sustainable skills and concepts of environmental conservation and responsibility of society; creation of conditions for activities contributing to the development of a responsible attitude to the environment; analysis of the environmental skills of the population; ensuring cooperation between all stakeholders; creation of a system of methodical activities for environmental education; providing advice on environmental education; the development of educational materials. In organizing this work we have shown that separate collection of waste and environmental education a single process. The goal of environmental education to educate the younger generation, and to instill in the public a model of environmentally responsible behavior in their life, as the separate collection of waste the practical implementation of this model. 13 All schools and kindergartens of the city conducted environmental education activities. At these events the boys told about the need for separate collection, clearly shows to what rubbish is this or that urn. In the classroom children learn that separately collected waste it is not garbage and recycled materials, from which you can get the needed products, without increasing the burden on the environment. By organizing activities of environmental education Remmontazh OOO Kaluga attracts students from leading universities. They also explain to the younger generation, the idea of separate collection of solid waste is to not mixing, sort them. This prevents the decomposition of solid waste and hazardous substances from entering into the atmosphere, soil, water bodies. 14 Environmental education activities LLC Remmontazh took place in the middle and senior groups of preschool educational institutions, junior high and high schools. Students of leading universities of Kaluga conducted environmental lessons in high schools. The company is planning, together with the Kaluga scientific community, students and volunteers to put this work at the system level. 15 Also in pre-school educational institutions and schools are monitored by separate collection of municipal solid waste, the diagram of which is shown in Figure 1. Figure 1 Diagram of monitoring in the pre-school educational institutions and schools This diagram shows the seven institutions participating in the separate collection of municipal solid waste in 2015. Of these, four pre-school educational institutions and three schools. In the diagram shown in green are designated institutions that good at separate collection. Yellow there is a slight re-grading. Red bad cope with the sorting of waste. And as you can see most of the kindergartens and schools share a good waste of the respective boxes. 16 As part of the Zero Waste Program Specialists LLC Remmontazh we developed the technical design of the automated waste sorting line with capacity of 18,000 tons per year (while working in one shift). The contract for the supply of equipment. Conducted survey and geological surveys. An agreement on the construction design with the project organization. Started execution of financial conditions under the concluded contracts. It is planned to conduct voluntary certification of design and construction of the facility for compliance with green standards . Automated sorting of waste will fully fulfill requirements of federal legislation prohibiting dumping and placing the landfill TKO of certain types of waste coming into force from 01.01.2019 year. The goal reducing the anthropogenic load on the environment and improvement of ecological situation in the south of the Kaluga region. 17 3.3.2 Impact on the air Laboratory monitoring of air quality is carried out under contract with TsLATI, «Center for Hygiene and Epidemiology in the Kaluga Region in the Kirov region», «Center for Hygiene and Epidemiology in the Kaluga region in Lyudinovsky District. The main sources of air pollution at the landfill is operating the landfill area maps; vehicles transporting waste; vehicles operating in the territory of the landfill. In the atmosphere of harmful substances get 15 items from available sources: First class of danger no; The second hazard class hydrogen sulfide, formaldehyde; The third class of danger nitrogen dioxide, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, soot, xylene, toluene, etilbenzin, suspended solids; The fourth class of hazard carbon monoxide, benzene, ammonia; Shoes kerosene, methane. Production control of chemical pollution of the atmosphere is divided into two types: 18 Control directly on the sources of emissions; Control of harmful substances in the atmospheric air on the border of the sanitary protection zone. The main objectives of industrial sources of emissions monitoring is to assess the qualitative and quantitative composition of emissions directly to the emission sources. As a result of analysis, the excess as compared to the MPC is not found, then Remmontazh LLC does not have a negative impact on the atmosphere. 3.3.3 Impact on water bodies On the territory of the landfill TKO near the village. Zimnitsa, not by organized waste water discharge into surface water bodies. water pollution can occur as a result of planar flushing pollutants along with stormwater and meltwater. Thus, within the framework of production and environmental control is carried out quality control of surface water p. Bolva (target number 1) and p. Shrink (target number 2) with respect to the background cross-sections of rivers (500 m above the test site, where there is no influence on them polygon). 19 The source of the contamination of underground aquifers may be filtering the water leaked through the body of the landfill and contaminated with hazardous substances. Thus, production and environmental monitoring of groundwater contamination is carried out by the ratio of water quality in the background and monitor wells. Background wells should be placed above the landfill border to 100 m. At the same distance below the current landfill groundwater observation well is number 2. Observation well number 1 is on the boundary of the landfill. Laboratory quality control of water bodies is also carried out under an agreement with TsLATI, FGUZ Hygiene and Epidemiology Center in the Kaluga Region in the Kirov region. LLC Remmontazh does not have a negative impact on water bodies as a result of the studies, water samples meet the requirements SaNPiN 2.1.5.980.-00 Wastewater populated areas, sanitary protection of water bodies. Hygienic requirements for surface water protection , therefore, we are acting within the framework of environmental legislation. 20 3.3.4 Industrial environmental monitoring The objectives of production control in the field of waste management are: Compliance with Russian Federation legislation, the environmental field at the landfill TKO; Implementation plans and environmental programs at the landfill TKO; Compliance with environmental requirements in the field of waste management at the site, established by regulatory documents; Timely and prompt elimination of the causes of potential emergencies (fires, pollution of surface and ground water); Obtaining information about the current impacts on the environment to fill the forms of primary accounting documents; Compliance to the completeness and accuracy of information in the field of environmental protection used in the calculation of charges for negative impact on the environment. Monitoring compliance with the regulations and limits established by the relevant permits and licenses; Injury prevention, the environment caused as a result of operation of the landfill; Monitor the implementation of regulations of officials exercising the state environmental control. 21 3.3.5 Environmental Monitoring Surface water monitoring. Contamination of surface waters is due to discharge of groundwater and surface runoff. At the landfill located near upland ditches should be placed at two points on each side of the sampling above and below the landfill with the flow of surface water. The sample upstream of a background. Sampling is carried out also from the nearest watercourse (river). One sample is taken above the landfill location and the other below. 22 Monitoring of groundwater. Be monitored by means of 3 wells to monitor groundwater contamination. The wells should be placed in the cross-sections at different geomorphological conditions, in a direction from the landfill to the surface waters (river). The first well should be located at a distance of 20-30 meters from the site of the storage, and the second at a distance of 200-250 meters, third in the SPZ boundary below the landfill. One well should be placed above the landfill body (background). Measurements treatment of observations and assessment of pollution of surface and groundwater should be carried out in accordance with GOST 2490281, STB 17.06.03-01-2008, 2.1.5.10-21-2003 GBV, GBV 2.1.5-29-2003, GOST R51592 -2000 and ND for MM (measurement procedure) of the individual components. 23 Ambient air monitoring. Air monitoring is as follows: monitoring of the landfill from the surface of the working maps with holes; air screening at the border of the SPZ. Measurements treatment of observations and air pollution assessment should be carried out in accordance with GOST 17.2.3.01, GOST 17.2.1.03, GOST 17.2.4.02, GOST 17.2.6.01, 17.2.6.02 GOST according to regulatory and methodological guidance documents of the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental monitoring and Federal service for Supervision of consumer rights protection and human welfare (Rospotrebnadzor). Evaluation of air pollution should be carried out separately for each substance and each substance combination in a summation unidirectional harmful actions. The degree of air pollution established by the multiplicity of excess in the SPZ of harmful components of the measurement results on the average daily maximum permissible concentrations (MPCs) with regard to the risk class, the total biological effect of air pollution at a particular frequency of exceedances MPCs. 24 Monitoring of soil. Sampling should be done in accordance with GOST 17.4.3.01, 17.4.4.02 GOST and GOST 28168. Testing is recommended from the surface layer by the envelope (mixed sample on an area of 20-25 m2) at a depth of 0,0-0,9 m . Evaluation of the chemical contamination of heavy metals and arsenic soils, technogenic soils and sediments is assessed on the total indicator of chemical pollution (ZC), which is an indicator of the adverse effects on public health. In the absence of evidence for a regionally-controlled background content of chemical elements in the soil is allowed to use reference materials. 25 Monitoring of noise pollution. Monitoring of noise pollution is carried out in the garbage truck unloading area and laying waste in accordance with GOST 27409-97, ECE regulations UNPO number 48-03, ext. 1-3 and SNIP 11/12/88 and on the border of the SPZ. Evaluation of situational radiation. Assessment of radiation situation is performed as part of environmental monitoring as storing waste in landfills does not preclude situations involving accidental or premeditated hit the disposal of radioactive substances in the technogenic ground, representing the radiological hazard. Also, in order to ensure radiation safety of the personnel performing the work on laying waste must be in the process of implementing conduct radiation survey of man-made soils and adjacent territory. Radiation survey of landfill soil is carried out to meet the requirements of the joint venture 2.6.1.758 pp 5.1.-5.3 (NRB-2010) in terms of limiting public exposure man-made and natural sources of ionizing radiation. 26 3.4 Anti-corruption In 2015, OOO Remmontazh became a participant of the Global Compact the UN initiative for sustainable development. Global Compact Network in Russia and the UN Global Compact held a special session held in the framework of the St. Petersburg-sixth session of the Conference of States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption. As head of the Russian network of the UN Global Compact participant, the director of the company Remmontazh Zakiryanov RA He spoke at the sixth session of the Conference of the States Parties to the UN Convention against Corruption, held on 2 6 November 2015. He spoke about the successful practices of small private enterprise in the field of public procurement and execution of contracts for municipal services in the field of waste management in the Kaluga region. R.A.Zakiryanov noted that he and his colleagues evaluated the current practice of public procurement and execution of contracts as a progressive, successful and open. But a number of problems related to corruption risks, while still relevant. 27 Zakiryanov offered to small and medium-sized businesses under the auspices of the Russian Global Compact Network in the near future to create a platform for discussion of such issues. It is planned that this format will allow to speed up work on the introduction of technical regulations on all sectors of the economy, which are carried out government procurement, to introduce standard documents to eliminate random and (or) intentional errors, difficult to read and compose proposals documentation, as well as to organize an open and versatile evaluation contract system by the public oversight bodies and public associations of legal entities, non-governmental organizations. I would like to note once again an important for us the entrepreneurs working in the market of more than one year a positive trend of change in the field of procurement, offers good opportunities for good business concluded R.A.Zakiryanov. These changes are systemic, and already noticeable impact on how our company is developing more rapidly and successfully. I hope for further fruitful cooperation with international experts and the UN Global Compact in the field of anti-corruption organization accessibility of public procurement, as well as in other areas. Within the framework of the Conference of States Parties to the UN Convention against Corruption, on the proposal of the Russian Federation, the St. Petersburg declaration to promote public-private partnerships in preventing corruption and combat it. Co-authors of the document were representatives of more than 25 states. The Russian Foreign Ministry stated: This is a significant policy document, which aims to promote cooperation between the state and business in the fight against corruption and sets the main vector of further international cooperation under the aegis of the UN on this track. 28
