UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Lantrade Global Supplies Ltd Communication on Progress 2015 Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support 3 The 10 Principles of the Global Compact 4 Human Rights 4 Labour Standards 6 Environment 9 Anti-corruption 11 Summary 12 Conclusion 14 Page | 2 Statement of Continued Support Lantrade Global Supplies (LGS) continues to be as committed as ever to developing and practising the principles laid out in the UN Global Compact. After 22 years of providing professional solutions to all aspects of the electoral process we have excelled in operating as a responsible corporate citizen. We strive to constantly better the prices and quality of both our products and procurement services, providing a cost effective and streamlined supply chain for overseas projects run by international organisations. Our team has grown and developed over the years to become a vibrant multinational, multicultural and highly talented network working across several continents. This has provided us with many new opportunities to explore new business in emerging markets and has developed our understanding of our responsibility as a community based entity. We strive to provide a positive influence on the communities we work for worldwide and are committed to working with international organisations on increasingly complex areas of governance, social matters and the environment. LGS prides itself on consistently bettering its practices in relation to the principles laid out in the UN Global Compact. As an organisation we have retained our principled approach and this is best reflected in our global team of staff who continue positive global interactions to manage increasingly complex risk situations and opportunities. Lynda Nye Managing Director Page | 3 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights. LGS’ commitment to comply with international human rights guidelines begins with its employees. We ensure every new member joining our team is made aware of the importance of upholding the human rights of all workers, locally and globally. Our values, of course, are not limited to the immediate workplace but involve all operations across a wide range of culturally diverse regions. Our global economic interactions have led our teams to acquire valuable local knowledge and insight, encouraging business growth in an environment committed to respecting the protection of human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. It is our policy to never engage in business with any company that is seen to be breaching human rights. We provide our employees with the Page | 4 tools for awareness and commitment to ensuring these values are upheld not only at an organisational level but internationally. By providing a working environment that is free from discrimination we aim to facilitate promotion of our values on a global level. We aim to encourage our suppliers to examine their practices as a result of our zero tolerance towards human rights abuse. Page | 5 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: The business should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As a small company LGS is unable to form a trade union. Despite this we value the choices and opinions of our employees and actively encourage communication at all levels of the business. We believe that respecting and listening to employees both informally and through formal meetings between employees and managers leads to an improved working environment, greater employee satisfaction and enhanced business outcomes. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our company policies state that all our employees are required to have an employment contract, and in doing so we take full responsibility for providing our employees with fair employment conditions, rights, responsibilities and duties. In cases where we have Page | 6 limited control over preventing unfair work practices we have adopted procedures to ensure that our chosen suppliers are not involved in any form of forced and compulsory behaviour. We regularly visit sites and communicate with our suppliers and their employees. Among our employees we are lucky enough to have a multinational and multicultural team that enables us to gain insight into our suppliers’ work practices. In addition we employ local people to help ensure that site employees are protected. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. LGS is committed to ensuring that it never engages with companies who practice child labour. We fulfil our commitment in a number of ways, including frequent visits to sites and regular contact with suppliers and their employees. Where an incident of child labour is uncovered LGS uses its influence on suppliers to promote ethical labour standards. We commit to working towards changing the practices of the company or changing our supplier to ensure we send out a message of zero tolerance towards any practice of child labour. Page | 7 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The LGS team is made up of a wide range of nationalities, cultures and talents. We value the skills and experience our employees bring to LGS and offer training and scope for promotion in an environment which promotes diversity and equal opportunities. We believe our multinational mixed sex team to be the driving force behind our success. By facilitating communication across cultures throughout the supply process we strive to lead by example and encourage our suppliers to adopt the same non discriminatory policies. Page | 8 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. LGS continues to prioritise preservation of the environment in all areas of its work. Our office and site employees are trained to practice environmentally friendly administration, recycling and disposal. We also encourage ecologically sound practice among our suppliers by continuing to improve sea freight services we offer so that they choose this over the less environmentally favourable air transport. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. LGS strives to promote greater environmental responsibility starting with its employees and stakeholders. We inform and encourage our staff to consider the Global Compact guiding principles in their work and ensure that they are equipped with the skills needed to identify new strategically sustainable practices and innovations in line with these principles. Page | 9 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LGS has committed to ensuring that it will always source and utilise the most environmentally favourable technology. We encourage our staff and suppliers to report on market innovations and carry out market research and evaluation. We also monitor sites through spot checks on factories and effective communication with suppliers to ensure that the best possible technology is used in production. Page | 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. LGS continues to promote a zero tolerance culture towards any form of corruption and we continuously strive to achieve the highest levels of good governance to facilitate this. We ensure our staff fully understand the global nature of corruption through provision of internal training and development programs. These offer insights into best practice and ensure we are able to stay abreast of national and international related legislation. Our good governance and value centred leadership ethos is reflected in our continued support of the Howard League for Penal Reform, a charity that focuses on encouraging less crime, safer communities and fewer people in prison. Page | 11 Summary Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy To support and respect the Implementation of appropriate internal and To acquire the knowledge to be able to To constantly refine our protection of internationally external recruitment and training programs. interact with communities in a culturally understanding and practice of the acclaimed Human Rights and legally sensitive way so that we are guiding principles of the Universal able to provide sustainable, credible and Declaration of Human Rights mutually beneficial economic growth for all parties. To be non-complicit in human Constant evaluation, innovation and To foster a corporate environment free of To provide ongoing re-evaluation of rights abuses reinforcement of the guiding principles fear, functioning transparently and our business practices, in order to Universal Declaration of Human Rights and honourably in the communities we trade ensure we best reflect and enact the CRC. with. these guiding principles To uphold freedom of association Structured communication forums across the To ensure employees and partners feel To continue empowering our staff and effectively recognise the right organisation, and with stakeholders, empowered to take responsibility, at a and stakeholders, enriching their to collective bargaining including suppliers, partners and personal level, for positive corporate insight and understanding of the manufacturers. citizenship within the communities we guiding principles. work. To uphold the elimination of all Regular personal presence on site. To promote a corporate environment free To become an increasingly positive forms of forced and compulsory Engaging positive influences in culturally of fear, functioning transparently and influence against forced and labour sensitive environments. honourably in the communities we trade compulsory labour. with. To uphold the effective abolition Rigorous adherence to a zero-tolerance To interact with communities in a To explore opportunities to invest in of child labour policy towards child labour. culturally and legally sensitive way in order child-related charities supporting the to provide sustainable and mutually communities in which we operate. beneficial economic growth for all parties. Page 12 Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy To eliminate discrimination in Implementation of appropriate internal and To provide a diverse and all-inclusive team To continue our program of internal respect of employment and external recruitment and training programs. of employees with equal opportunities to training and evaluation so that we occupation Provide suitable and appropriate working acquire the skills necessary to advance in are continuously more able to environments which meet Health and Safety the workplace. identify strengths and weaknesses standards, and which secure our investment and focus on correcting any in duty of care for our staff. potential imbalance. To support a precautionary Ongoing research to keep abreast of global To provide economically beneficial services To continue empowering our staff approach to environmental environmental challenges. in a manner that supports the protection and stakeholders, enriching their challenges and sustainability of the environment. insight and understanding of the guiding principles. To undertake initiatives to Constant evaluation of existing interactions. To provide a cost-effective yet To continue our program of internal promote greater environmental Strategic selection of sustainable practices. environmentally sound business model. training and evaluation, in order to responsibility best identify strengths and weaknesses, and focus on correct any potential imbalance. To encourage the development Constant research, networking and To provide a constantly improving offering, To selectively focus on key methods and diffusion of environmentally evaluation of innovations and opportunities one which meets the need for the to improve the information and friendly technologies in technological advancement. sustainability of global environments. research channels. To work against corruption in all Application of rigorous standards of To provide a transparent service to our To refine and develop our forms, including extortion and compliance internally, with a zero-tolerance clients and our stakeholders, in which all recruitment and training methods, bribery policy towards corruption, extortion and parties strive to achieve best practice and internally and externally, to provide bribery. responsible corporate citizenship. a better universal understanding of the problem, and the solutions. Support for the Howard League for Penal Reform. Page 13 Conclusion Every effort is made to fulfil LGS’ commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles. We are continuously vigilant in the many complex situations in which we operate and revise practices wherever necessary. Our program of self-governance has evolved over the years to become a highly structured program of self-assessment. Our staff and supplier training schemes aim to reinforce best practice and raise awareness of key issues. Debriefing programs following each major project also allow us to review performance, highlighting any key weak areas and facilitating ideas for improved future business. We consider our commitment to the 10 Global Compact guiding Principles to be an extremely important part of our business processes and procedures. As we refine our adherence to these principles we become more and more involved in a business community of increased integrity which, in the long term, will benefit all stakeholders, locally and globally. 14
