UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JUNE 2016 Allens is an independent partnership operating in alliance with Linklaters LLP. > STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT This is my first year as the Managing Partner of Allens and I am proud to have the opportunity to lead a firm that has a strong commitment to responsible corporate citizenship and to taking a leading role in our profession with respect to the upholding of the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In the increasingly globalised context in which we and our clients operate, the UN Global Compact clearly identifies best practice with respect to corporate responsibility. Allens was the first organisation in Australia to sign the Compact and since signing in 2001, we have continued to develop, implement and promote activities within our business that enable us to uphold the Compact’s 10 principles. This report outlines some of the practical actions we have taken during 2015 to implement the principles across the four areas of the compact. We have included measures of our outcomes in relevant areas. Richard Spurio Managing Partner, Allens 2 > ABOUT ALLENS Allens is a leading law firm with partners, lawyers and corporate services staff across Australia and Asia and, through our alliance with Linklaters, has a global network spanning 40 offices and 29 countries. Our clients recognise us for our commerciality, professionalism, integrity and technical expertise. We have some of the world’s longest ongoing client relationships, stretching back more than 175 years, and we work with many of the world’s leading organisations – including 55 of the world’s top 100 companies and more than 75 of Australia’s top 100 companies. We see our extensive client relationships as an important component of our corporate responsibility and aim to support our clients and the market in moving toward a sustainable economy. 3 > HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMMITMENT Every human being is entitled to basic human rights – that is, freedom, equality, justice and the right to life. However, not everyone has access to the help or resources required to uphold these rights. Allens has developed lasting relationships with non-government organisations and others within the community who are working to advance human rights. We recognise that these groups are often in the best position to identify the issues, while we have the resources and expertise to assist. Allens works hard to achieve its human rights-related goals, as set out by the firm’s various community committees. Allens demonstrates our commitment to supporting and respecting human rights through our commitment of extensive pro bono work and the ongoing implementation of our Reconciliation Action Plan, as well as through our philanthropic support for community organisations. PRO BONO Allens is proud of our longstanding commitment to our pro bono practice and we work to make the most meaningful contribution possible within the communities in which we work and live. By working directly for disadvantaged individuals and also, for non-governmental organisations that work to protect human rights, we are able to strengthen the impact of our work. The largest focus of our pro bono practice is human rights work. 4 Pro bono legal work to help asylum seekers assert their rights Every year, millions of people around the world are forced to leave their homes, some because of religious and political persecution, others because of their race, gender or ethnicity. One thing these asylum seekers share is a wish for a safe place to live for them and their families. Sadly, what is also very common with refugees seeking asylum is the limited access they have to legal representation to help them navigate the very complex world of immigration law. One of Allens’ pro bono focus areas is work for asylum seekers and over the past seven years, we have directly represented many asylum seekers in appeals cases and also provided legal and other assistance to many organisations that support asylum seekers. One of our recent clients is Plaintiff M150, a 15-year-old Ethiopian boy who came to Australia as an unaccompanied minor. We successfully challenged the cap to the number of protection visas granted during a financial year that the Federal Minister for Immigration and Border Protection had imposed which meant that M150 would not have received a visa. After the High Court ruled unanimously in favour of our client, thousands of asylum seekers who had already been found to be genuine refugees were eligible for visas. Work on HUMAN Work on Work on LGBTI related pro bono matters RIGHTS related pro ENVIRONMENT bono matters related pro bono matters 642 hours 8,898 hours 1,118 hours (a subset of our human rights related pro bono work) RAP In 2015, Allens was proud to launch its fourth Reconciliation Action Plan. The preparation of the RAP provided an opportunity for us to reflect on our work and contribution towards reconciliation and a chance to update our actions and commitments for the following two years. We have developed strong relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities and our new RAP ensures that we continue to build on those relationships and play our part in influencing social and economic change for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and communities. Further details follow in this report, outlining some of the key activities undertaken by Allens through our RAP. 5 Pro Bono and financial support to Ganbina Based in regional Victoria, Ganbina provides a range of training and engagement programs to Indigenous youth, to support them through secondary and tertiary education and into meaningful careers. Allens has supported Ganbina for a number of years, including in 2015, through both pro bono legal work and philanthropy. Empowered Communities Empowered Communities is a joint project between Indigenous leaders from eight Australian regions, the Australian Government and the Indigenous organisation Jawun. It aims to close the gap on the social and economic disadvantage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders to enable the cultural recognition and determination of Indigenous Australians. Allens seconded a senior lawyer to work on the project for three months during 2015. She worked alongside secondees from a range of other companies, for the Darkinjung Local Aboriginal Land Council on the NSW Central Coast, on the design and implementation of a new governance model for the region. Jawun Operating in nine regions around Australia, Jawun is an organisation that partners government and corporate organisations with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses and leaders to support the development and long-term sustainability of their communities. Allens has been a proud partner of Jawun since 2011, with a total of 21 staff now having undertaken secondments and a number of senior leaders joining executive visits in several of the regions supported by Jawun. In 2015, Allens seconded six staff (senior lawyers and corporate services staff) to provide a total of 22 weeks of skilled support in a number of Indigenous communities around Australia Supplier Diversity As a founding member of Supply Nation (formerly AIMSC), we seek to engage Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander suppliers in commercial relationships within Allens. Procurement decision-makers across the firm are encouraged to explore opportunities to diversify our supply chain and, where appropriate, to provide mentoring advice to businesses to assist in capacity building. In 2015, we joined the supplier diversity sub-committee of the Business Council of Australia Business Indigenous Network, working with other corporate organisations to develop mutually beneficial commercial relationships and contribute to building a sustainable Indigenous business sector. 6 Allens has spent $1,251,000 on the procurement of goods and services from Supply Nation-certified Indigenous businesses since 2009 THOUGHT LEADERSHIP In the past year, Allens has actively participated in thought leadership on business and human rights including through the UN Global Compact and the UN High Commission for Human Rights. In conjunction with Global Compact Network Australia, Allens has developed a CPD training program based on the UNGC’s Guide for General Counsel on Corporate Sustainability. 7 > LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. COMMITMENT Allens maintains employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. The firm opposes all forms of forced and compulsory labour and seeks to abolish child labour. Allens is also active in working to eliminate all forms of discrimination in the workplace. ACTIVITIES Equal Employment Opportunity Allens is committed to the principles of Equal Employment Opportunity and takes a zero tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment and bullying in the workplace. Providing a safe and supportive workplace that values difference is critical to the engagement of our employees and the sustainability and growth of our business. Our Equal Employment Opportunity, Bullying and Harassment Policy is supported by: • a Grievance Policy that details the steps an employee can take if they feel they have been bullied, discriminated against or harassed; • access to an independent, free and confidential counselling service for all staff and their immediate family members; and • compulsory online EEO training upon commencement with the firm, and every two years thereafter. 8 Allens reports annually to, and is compliant with, the Australian Federal Government Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. This legislation is overseen by The Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) and aims to improve and promote equality for both women and men in the workplace. Inclusion and diversity at Allens We are committed to providing an inclusive workplace that celebrates diversity and values the contribution that different backgrounds and life experience bring to our firm. We recruit, develop and promote talented people, and we – and our clients – benefit from the different backgrounds, experiences and points of view that shape their thinking. Our diversity and inclusion strategy is built on seven segments: gender, flexibility, reconciliation, cultural competency and relationships (including family), Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual , Transgender and Intersex, and disability. Our Inclusion and Diversity Council is chaired by our Managing Partner and oversees Allens’ inclusion and diversity strategy and progress. We are one of 76 organisations in Australia recognised by WGEA as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality – a citation we have held continuously since 2005 and that recognises our active commitment to gender equality and our sustained focus on removing the structural and cultural barriers that prevent the full participation of women at work. Our approach to flexibility is broad and recognises that employees’ flexibility needs will be different for each individual, and vary at different life stages and ages, particularly when family commitments change. Currently 15 partners in the firm work on a formal flexible arrangement (seven men and eight women). Celebrating Women at Allens We are committed to building a culture of genuine diversity to support the success of women in the firm. We are proud of our policies and initiatives that support this commitment, including our career model, our approach to flexibility, parental leave transition program and development programs – all of which have a strong emphasis on the engagement, career and professional development and promotion of women in the firm. Our Women at Allens Committees believe in the importance of fostering and assisting the firm to build a culture that supports the success of women, drives the engagement and promotion of talented women and harnesses their capability to achieve their full potential. We were one of the first organisations in Australia to become a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. These principles provide the reporting framework for the firm’s annual Equality and Diversity Report. 9 Our Equitable Briefing Policy aims to achieve equal access as a barrister for women and men by eliminating briefing practices that consciously or unconsciously limit opportunities for female barristers. Mental Health Allens recognises that mental illness is one of the most significant problems confronting the legal profession and is committed to raising awareness and understanding of mental health. We play an active role in the legal profession Depression and Anxiety Working Group, which is a collaboration between the Managing Partners and Chief Executive Partners of some of Australia’s largest law firms and professional training college, The College of Law. The Working Group aims to build resilience and raise awareness and understanding of the nature and impact of stress, depression and anxiety across the legal profession. In 2015 we offered Mental Health First aid for our people leaders and HR business partners. The 12-hour Mental Health First Aid course teaches adults (18 years and over) how to provide initial support to adults who are developing a mental illness or experiencing a mental health crisis. LGBTI rights Our LGBTI network, ALLin, is for all partners, employees and clients who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or intersex, as well as their allies within the firm. We were the first law firm to partner with Pride in Diversity, Australia’s first and only national not-for-profit employer support program. We entered the Australian Workplace Equality Index for the first time in 2015 and were ranked the highest law firm for workplace inclusion, and equal 14th overall. We also launched our Transgender Policy in 2015. Pro bono work on LGBTI rights A focus of the firm’s human rights-related pro bono practice is advocacy to advance LGBTI rights. During 2015, we undertook 642 hours of pro bono work on a range of matters pertaining to LGBTI rights including the rights of LGBTI asylum seekers, the expungement of criminal records for consensual homosexual sex and a survey of legal mechanisms available for the furtherance of trans rights. Allens is committed to In 2015, 15 of our gender equality in the partners were on workplace for both men formal flexible working and women. In 2015, our arrangements graduate intake was just over 50% female. 10 > ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMITMENT Allens has long been committed to sustainability and to supporting the environment. Our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint have culminated in the firm achieving carbon neutral certification in 2015 under the Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Program. We consider that true sustainability comes from consistency in best practice, ranging from our procurement practices and the education of staff, to the way our offices are managed and maintained. Allens has implemented many changes to reduce our impact on the environment. These initiatives have been driven by our people. From the Executive Committee and partners to our staff and suppliers, everyone is charged with considering the environment in all aspects of their work. Our commitment to being sustainable leaders is driven and formally monitored by the office-based Allens Footprint Committees. The Footprint Committees’ goal is to reduce Allens’ environmental footprint as much as possible in the areas of energy, water, waste (reuse and recycling), greenhouse emissions and procurement. Our priority is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, with the balance of our impact offset by carefully selected carbon credits. Reduced greenhouse gas Reduced energy use by 7.6% emissions by 13.5% (FY14/15) (FY14/15) 11 ACTIVITIES Allens has a long standing focus on environmental sustainability and we have committed to reducing our material environmental impacts and striving for continuous improvement in our firm-wide Sustainability Policy. Allens has implemented an Environmental Management System in our Australian offices and in 2015, we achieved certification of our EMS under the AEMS framework (modelled on ISO14001). AEMS is an EMS framework developed by the Australian Legal Sector Alliance and tailored for the legal sector. Through our AEMS we have assessed our environmental risks and identified and assessed our most significant environmental impacts as emission of greenhouse gases through energy use and business travel, use of resources (specifically paper) and generation and disposal of waste. For each of these impact areas, we set reduction targets, implement mitigation measures and monitor and report on our progress. In 2016, we plan to extend our EMS to cover our offices outside of Australia. The firm’s sustainability program is driven by the Footprint Committees, which are made up of partners and employees. Our program is still a very strong grassroots program, but our commitment has continued to grow and mature. In 2015, we appointed a Community Engagement Manager with responsibility for the firm’s environmental program and our carbon neutral commitment. In 2015, Allens maintained our certification as carbon neutral under the Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Program for our Australian offices. Cutting the firm’s emissions remains our priority and last financial year we reduced greenhouse gas emissions in our Australian offices by 13.5 per cent. ‘After working for many years to reduce our emissions, the next logical step on our journey was to become carbon neutral. Integrity was key, so we chose to purchase high quality, accredited offsets that align with our community programs and objectives, and to seek carbon neutral certification under the National Carbon Offset Standard.’ PHILLIP CORNWELL, PARTNER AND CHAIR OF THE NATIONAL FOOTPRINT COMMITTEE In 2015, Allens implemented a number of initiatives to reduce our environmental impacts, including the following significant energy efficiency and technology upgrades: • migration to 100% virtualisation of all production servers; and • upgrading to more energy efficient multi-function printing devices and introducing ‘follow me’ printing across all of our offices. 12 Over the next 12 months, we will be focusing on improvements to our electronic document management systems and processes, which we expect to lead to ongoing reductions in paper use. Allens also contributes to positive environmental outcomes through ongoing programs and initiatives including: Waste management and recycling Allens provides employees with a suite of recycling options, ranging from organic to battery recycling. We also encourage our staff to reduce the use, reuse and recycle. In 2015, we celebrated National Recycling week in our Australian offices by running a campaign to recycle and reuse excess and disused stationery and we also offered a soft plastics recycling program in our Melbourne office. Environment and Pro Bono Allens provides assistance to environmental organisations, including Bush Heritage and WWF Australia, through our pro bono program. In 2015, lawyers in our Brisbane office worked with our long term pro bono client Bush Heritage Australia to set up a secret reserve to protect the rare and elusive night parrot. Night parrots were thought extinct until live sightings were confirmed three years ago in Queensland. Allens lawyers assisted Bush Heritage with the acquisition of 56,000 hectares from a local grazier and the Pullen Pullen Reserve, the local Aboriginal name for the night parrot, was declared by the Queensland Government. Relationships Allens promotes greater environmental responsibility through our Sustainable Procurement Policy and processes, our participation in industry groups, and our staff education and awareness raising events. In 2015, Allens’ Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth offices joined the CitySwitch Green Office Program, Australia’s flagship sustainability program for business, and Allens was awarded the National New Signatory of the Year in recognition of our emission reduction initiatives and achievements. Through our CitySwitch membership, we exchange knowledge and share information about our environmental initiatives with other office-based organisations in Australia. Through our membership of the AusLSA, Allens contributes to knowledge sharing and collaboration within the legal sector, and we publicly report our sustainability performance alongside other Australian law firms in the AusLSA annual report. Allens is currently participating in a sector-wide project led by AusLSA and the New South Wales Office of Environment & Heritage to identify and implement ways to improve the sustainable delivery of legal services in New South Wales. Staff engagement and education is an important part of our environmental sustainability program. In 2015, our staff participated in Earth Hour and Ride to Work Day, attended seminars about carbon offsetting and natural capital and were challenged to create a ‘Magna Carta for the Earth’ as part for our World Environment Day celebrations. 13 The firm has a sustainable procurement policy and guidelines, with the aim of reducing our indirect environmental and social impacts and encouraging our suppliers to adopt practices to minimise their impacts. As a certified Fairtrade workplace, Allens also purchases Fairtrade certified products and supports and promotes fair trade. Financial support to FareShare In 2015, our Charity Committee supported FareShare – an organisation that collects and redirects quality food that would otherwise be wasted, helping to ensure one of the basic needs of economically disadvantaged people is met. Through our donation, FareShare was able to purchase a commercial vegetable tumbler, allowing volunteers to cook and pack an extra 400 meals per day. 14 > ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT As a leading law firm, Allens is committed to ensuring that our employees abide by the law. This includes laws that prohibit corruption in all its forms. ACTIVITIES Allens has a range of policies that aim to prevent corruption in all its forms, including a Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy. Two of the firm’s anti-corruption activities are outlined below. Ethics Committee and Office of General Counsel Allens’ Ethics Committee and Office of General Counsel continue to help our people deal with ethical issues encountered during the course of their work. The Office of General Counsel is closely involved in a wide range of training at the firm, covering issues of ethical conduct, professional responsibility and anticorruption. Anti-Corruption Policy The Anti-Corruption Policy aims to ensure that Allens personnel, as well as third parties that act on behalf of Allens, do not engage in corruption and aims to minimise the risk of Allens breaching anti-corruption laws. All Allens partners, employees and contractors are responsible for the prevention of corruption when acting on behalf of Allens, and must ensure their own actions do not result in corruption. Additionally, all personnel have an obligation to report suspected corruption. Our work with clients Given the rise in anti-corruption monitoring and enforcement at both a domestic and international level, coupled with increased opportunities for investment in foreign and emerging markets, there is a need for clients to ensure robust compliance programs and due diligence tools are in place to respond to these risks and Allens has developed a well-recognised expertise in providing this. Our tools include: • Tailored jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction geographic and activity risk analysis. We have conducted antibribery risk assessments for clients across the Asia-Pacific. 15 • Development and implementation of recommendations and internal policies following a risk assessment including tailored anti-bribery and corruption training programs. For example, we have advised on, prepared and implemented global anti-bribery policies, compliance and training programs for a range of companies in the energy and resources, agriculture, technology and other sectors. These training programs are designed so the clients can undertake the training on an annual basis. More broadly, we continue to run ethics sessions across our Australian offices as part of the Corporate Counsel Seminar Series, our continuing professional development program for clients. Specific UN Global Compact anti-corruption related activities During 2015, Allens engaged in a range of activities that demonstrated support for the UN Global Compact principle on anti-corruption. These included: • Holding seminars for clients detailing compliance requirements according to Australian and overseas anti-bribery laws, including a seminar and roundtable on anti-bribery enforcement with representatives of the Australian Federal Police and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; and a 101 training session on anti-bribery for GNCA members in an effort to assist Australian corporates educate junior staff members; and • Leading the work of the UN Global Compact Australian Network’s anti-bribery leadership group. 16 www.allens.com.au Allens is an independent partnership operating in alliance with Linklaters LLP. 15812D
