Sustainability report Belarusian portal TUT.BY 2014-2015 About the company The Belarusian portal TUT.BY is a leading information and service website, designed to provide news on home and foreign affairs for people who live in Belarus as well as those who reside abroad and are interested in current affairs in Belarus. The target audience of TUT.BY is all the users of Belarus' internet sector, including the population of the country and readers interested in Belarusian news. Broadly speaking, anyone browsing Belarus' internet sector belongs to TUT.BY's target audience. Currently this amounts to over 5 million Internet users in Belarus, who go online at least once in three months’ time. Our goal is to be number one media source in Belarus. This translates into our respect of the right to freedom of speech and efforts to be the most objective (without any political or other afﬁliations) news and information website in the country. TUT.BY remains the most widely read website We are aiming at becoming a resource that can offer the most in Belarus. contemporary approaches to reporting news, voices different opinions and provides the best (most effective and 44,5% user-friendly) local internet services. Our mission is to give each user a possibility to receive unbiased information they are interested in, broadening of Belarusian Internet users read TUT.BY. outlook and enriching their lives. The Belarusian portal TUT.BY was founded in 2000. In the beginning it offered free e-mail service, news with an archive, weather forecast, exchange rates, fuel prices, forums and hit 850 000 real users per day counters. Later it began to provide paid website hosting and sell online advertising. Gradually new sections, services and projects appeared on TUT.BY. In 15 years TUT.BY has developed into a successful group of 8 000 000 companies with different Internet businesses and a team of pages are viewed every day over 300 professionals. Over these years the company has gained signiﬁcant experience in doing business online and has become the leading resource in the scope of the country. In addition to news coverage, TUT.BY provides to its audience specialized sections and handy services, solving daily needs. These include a variety of information from weather forecast and events calendar to exchange rates. The specialized sections are either leaders in respective segments; or belong to the Top-3 most popular thematic online resources. TUT.BY also invests into several promising IT-projects, supports social initiatives and charities, and expresses interest in start-ups. Foreword In 2014 the Belarusian portal TUT.BY joined the UN Global Compact, a voluntary initiative based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. In our daily work we make every effort to implement the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles regarding human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Overall, we had been trying to bring change to the way of doing business in Belarus and act as an example of corporate social responsibility for the Belarusian society even before we joined the UN Global Compact. TUT.by’s daily agenda always has some important social issues, related to the Yuri Zisser implementation of the Global Compact’s Principles. We Chairman of the general board of TUT.BY MEDIA LLC participate in various associations and support socially signiﬁcant events on the national scale, in order to improve what surrounds us including not only our customers and clients, but also the market, the society, the environment, etc.. Another priority for our company is also to provide support for start-up movement. The Belarusian portal TUT.BY launches and organizes its own socially important initiatives. For example, a popular annual specialized international conference “Business Internet” was launched in 2006, in 2010 we opened the art space “Gallery TUT.BY” which hosts public exhibitions and recitals, courses of the Belarusian language “Mova TUT”, meetings of the literary club “Grapho”. TUT.BY is also a co-founder of the Association of the companies working in the Information and Communication sector “Belinfokom”. We genuinely believe that our way of doing business contributes to the improvement of wellbeing in Belarusian society. Human rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights Human rights policy The editors carefully check that the news on the website is relevant, attractive, well written, presented in a variety of of TUT.BY MEDIA LLC genres, unbiased. These principles are formulated in our internal guidelines and implemented on daily basis. The TUTBY Media conducts business in accordance with the company closely monitors the convenience and safety of the principles of sustainable development and corporate social services provided, giving everyone an opportunity to ﬁnd and responsibility. We respect the Universal Declaration of Human get relevant information, helps users to form their own attitude rights and local Media Law, which complies with the Universal to the current affairs and interact with each other. Declaration of Human Rights, the Constitution of the Republic of Belarus, the Law of the of the Republic of Belarus “On Mass Respect for human rights is inextricably linked with the Media”, which are the main documents, proclaiming human mission of the Belarusian portal TUT.BY. We work to make the rights and freedom of speech. life of users and society better by introducing advanced Internet technologies. Our values, mission and goals are formulated in the company's The Belarusian portal TUT.BY supports the UN brandbook, available on the corporate website, as well as in the Global Compact since 2014. “Guide for beginners”, an internal document that is presented to all newcomers and is available to employees on the internal portal. Values and norms of behavior Relationship with employees Based on respect for human rights, the company has developed three core corporate values: We consider safety in the workplace a top priority. We regularly make sure that our employees have comfortable work 1) freedom; environment, consult them on speciﬁc risks associated with the sphere the company operates in. In particular, the set of 2) right to make mistakes; editorial rules “Dogmas and rules of TUT.BY editor” contains a 3) honesty. section dedicated to personal safety. If necessary, we also provide legal help to our journalists. Since the new edition of the Law of the Republic of Belarus Freedom “On Mass Media” came into force in 2015, we have been Freedom means independence, i.e. freedom of choice, decision-making and acting. That is why freedom necessarily implies personal responsibility for holding regular workshops for journalists on the rights and individua’s opinion and choices, as well as for the results of individual’s personal safety of media workers. decisions and actions. Right to make mistakes No incidents of violation of rights and We believe that mistakes accompany us on our way to experience that will help us avoid mistakes in future. However, when mistakes become repeated freedoms of employees within the company evidence of incompetence, it contradicts our understanding of this value. were detected in 2014-2015. Honesty Our work is based on trust. Our clients trust is vital to us; so, we treat our publications, obligations and agreements very carefully. We trust our employees, and we expect effective performance and accomplishment of corporate goals in return. These values serve as guidelines that form relations both inside, and outside the company in the process of interaction with clients, partners, contractors, government agencies etc. The company encourages personal responsibility and initiative, and believes that this is the best way to improve the quality of life of employees and society in general. Human rights Human rights issues and pressing Editors and journalists pay special attention to the safety and security of the people featured in the articles. Measures to social problems coverage prevent revealing of personal information are taken if necessary. We want human rights to be observed both inside and outside the company. In the articles, TUT.BY highlights problems in social sphere, particularly in healthcare, education, culture, public services, The news department responsible for covering topics related to public catering, passenger transport and regional development the life of society has 6 journalists and is the biggest one in the a lot. editorial department. In 2014 TUT.BY opened several ofﬁces the in regional centers of Belarus to cover more local news. Such attention of the editorial staff to social problems helps to unite caring people from all over Belarus, attract public authorities’ attention and speed up solving issues. TUT.BY journalists cover topics of personal freedom, the rights for social care, the rights of people with disabilities, minority Case. Freezing Grannies groups’ rights, etc. When preparing such articles, they consult The article by TUT.BY helped two 88-year-old women to improve the experts in the ﬁeld of human rights to ensure high-quality their living conditions. After the article was published on the website, and well-written publications. In addition, journalists visit gas boilers that were out of work were quickly replaced by specialists of the corresponding services. roundtables devoted to human rights issues. Discover more Journalists actively cover human rights issues, the issues related to political prisoners, the debate around the use of death penalty in Belarus. TUT.BY regularly publishes rankings of countries, compiled by international organizations. Since these ratings are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and describe conditions necessary for the development of an individual, we ﬁnd it important to inform the readers about the performance of Belarus in international rankings. In 2013 the Assembly of NGOs awarded TUT.BY with the 1st degree diploma in the Case. The protests of medics category “Media of the Year”. In February 2014 a series of articles “The protests of medics” on TUT.BY was devoted to the problem of inadequate quality of working environment and low salaries of ambulance workers in Zaslavl (Minsk Region). A series of publications helped to draw the attention of ofﬁcials to the issue. The emergency medical workers station was In 2015 the Belarusian Federation of Futsal sent the journalists a relocated to a new building of the local hospital, while salaries of letter of gratitude for the organizational support of the doctors and medical staff were increased by 40% starting April. development of sport and promotion of healthy lifestyle in the country. Discover more Human rights TUT.BY also performs educational and enlightening function In 2015 the Belarusian portal TUT.BY was by publishing information on UN initiatives. named socially responsible media for active The company plans to stick to its internal policy of protection and regular coverage of the social projects and observing the rights and freedoms of employees in future, implemented by the Belarusian business at improve mechanisms for the settlement of incidents related to these issues and extensively cover the achievements in the the annual Corporate Social Responsibility sphere of human rights in Belarus. Award, established by the International Socio-Economic Fund “Idea”. Case. Help.blog.tut.by Help.blog.tut.by was launched in 2007. It is a blog dedicated to people – children and adults – who suffer from serious diseases and need help. The blog publishes appeals by parents and relatives asking for help in collecting money for treatment of their dearest ones who are sick. The blog is administered by a professional doctor. All document conﬁrming diagnoses are carefully checked before publication, bank accounts' details and arrangements with clinics are checked as well. The idea to start Help.blog.tut.by was inspired by numerous letters that readers of TUT.BY sent to news boards asking to tell their stories to many people in hope to get help. During these years, the resource helped to save many lives and strengthen faith in people and human compassion. The project HELP.TUT.BY was named the Best social project in the media by the charity fund “Touching Life” (“Prikosnoveniye k zhizni”) in 2013. It was named the Best social project in the media by the Belarusian Union of Women the same year. Help.blog.tut.by Human rights Case. Snowmen for Andryusha The story of a 4-year-old Andrei Semilet and his mother who Under direct guidance of Alena Sheremet-Andreeva, TUT.BY-TV came from Ukraine to the Republican Scientiﬁc-Practical chief editor and initiator of the action, a group that Center of Radiation Medicine and Human Ecology in Gomel to manufactured and delivered snowmen to Europe was set up in cure the boy's acute lymphoblastic leukemia appeared in BYnet Warsaw. in November 2015. The boy and his mother were collecting money for Andrei’s treatment by making snowman toys and The public reaction to TUT.BY's initiative of helping the ill boy selling them online. The story touched many people as the Andryusha was enormous: thousands of volunteers all over photos of Andrei and the snowmen spread across social Belarus mucked in. Workshops were organized in Minsk, Gomel, networks. Orders for snowmen started coming from different Bobruisk, Slonim, Soligorsk, Brest and Gorki. Thousands of toys countries. People wanted to help the family. were made and all orders were completed. The Belarusian portal TUT.BY decided to help Andrei Semilet to The boy's mother made all ﬁnancial accounts complete orders for toys. A big workshop was held in Gallery TUT on December 4, 2015. The company paid for all the public by posting them to pages on social materials (foam beads, fabric) necessary for toys, invited networks. Alena transferred almost $10 craftsmen and animators to participate and help volunteers thousand that were left after the sale of the make snowmen. remaining snowmen for treatment to other Aside from toys, people also donated money. 625 US dollars, 30 children from Belarus and Ukraine. euros and over six million Belarusian rubles were collected in one evening. We also managed to organize the delivery .The volunteers ﬁrst delivered 2.5 thousand and later 1.5 thousand snowmen to Gomel and Moscow. Human rights Alena Semilet boy's mother The way the whole story with snowmen turned out was a surprise for us. When my husband's parents watched the video ﬁlmed during the workshop in TUT.BY they couldn't believe that such things happen in real life. As for my boy, he would watch the video many times for several weeks and keep on smiling. Andryusha's cancer cells have come back to normal. They are now below 5%. Tests show that he is in 100% remission. This is not just a hope. There’s a 95% probability that the disease will not manifest itself in the next three years. Andryusha's treatment will take a long time, about a year and a half. We are going to leave the hospital room and move into an apartment soon. Alena Sheremet-Andreeva TUT.BY-TV chief editor, mastermind of the action I came up with an idea to make snowmen after our article about a sickboy from Ukraine, who was making toys together with his mother to earn money for a course of treatment, was shared on social networks many times. At some point, there was such a big demand for snowmen, that Andryusha and his mum Alena could not cope with the orders anymore. Being a widow myself, I know how difﬁcult it is to be alone with a child, especially in such a hard situation. At ﬁrst I proposed that we make some toys together with our colleagues but then I thought of Gallery TUT.BY, where we could draw everyone indifferent to the boy's story. That is how a spontaneous, kind and touching movement “Let's make snowmen for Andryusha” spread, involving thousands of people around the country. During four preparation days I answered dozens of calls, wrote hundreds of e-mails and messages on Facebook. Hundreds of volunteers came to Gallery TUT.BY in the evening on December 4, 2015. Later workshops were held in different cities of Belarus, volunteers made thousands of snowmen for Andryusha. Discover more Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour Personnel management strategy The Belarusian portal TUT.BY respects personal and labor The HR policy of the company is aimed at maintaining a rights of people. The company’s internal documents regulating friendly and democratic environment, promoting mutual labor relations within the team are based on the best respect and attention to each other. international practices in the ﬁeld of personnel management. The company opposes all forms of discrimination in employment, and considers the use of child and forced labor unacceptable. Gender composition Responsible executives vs. professional staff members Length of employment 39% 15% 16,5% 4,4% Men Responsible less than 1 year 10 years more executives 16,2% 5-10 years 85% 61% Professional staff 29,5% 33,4% Women member 1-2 years 2-5 years Integration of new employees Remuneration system The company developed “A guide for beginners”, where the The management pays serious attention to salary-setting mission and values of the company, the rights and duties of mechanisms that help build a fair and just relationship between employees, salary-setting mechanisms, information on career a worker and the company. HR department continuously prospects in the company, as well as information on extra monitors the labor market. Personal achievements and educational and recreational options, available to the workers, professional growth of employees are being tracked, ﬁnding its are outlined. “A guide for beginners” is provided to new reﬂection in fair and transparent remuneration. employees as part of the “Newcomer package” that also contains all the necessary workplace stationery. On the ﬁrst working day a new employee is given their personal Working hours integration plan with the names of their supervisor and a colleague mentor who would help a newcomer to settle, to get The company has ﬂexible working hours that help employees to acquainted with the company's structure and start fulﬁlling ﬁnd a perfect balance between professional activity and their responsibilities. personal life. In addition to the social package, guaranteed by the Labour Code of the Republic of Belarus, TUT.BY grants its workers a possibility to change their working schedule in consultation with their supervisors, as well as provides ﬁve Search for talent additional “social days” per year. “Social days” are paid days off but can be used only for personal needs. For example, an The company also practices “Recommendation of hiring new employee can use them to stay at home for a couple of days in employees” program. Employees can recommend candidates case of illness without registering a sickness leave, or solve whom they are conﬁdent in based on their acquaintances for personal issues that require visit to government institutions vacancies in the company. The selection procedure for operating on a ﬁxed schedule, or for in case of any unforeseen recommended candidates is the same as for external circumstances. candidates. In case a recommended candidate gets hires, a referee will receive intangible and tangible reward. Labour Training and professional development of employees The company creates conditions for the development of its Internal training system is functioning in the sales department: employees and believes that such investments directly its employees share their experience and views on business contribute to the development of business. books they read, external conferences, seminars, master-classes they attend, hold joint viewings of educational There’s a library with business literature in the ofﬁce, videos, followed by discussion of sales techniques and tools. employees can receive periodicals by corporate subscription. The Belarusian portal TUT.BY encourages its staff to grow professionally: English language classes are held in the ofﬁce, employees can attend educational events (conferences, workshops, seminars) in marketing communications, management, strategic planning, law, etc. organized by TUT.BY or its partners. Special attention is paid to the professional development and formation of managers, as it secures long-term sustainability of business. That is why the company’s heads of departments and services attended two training courses — “Effective management” and “Interviewing skills and motivational leadership” — in 2015. TUT.BY programmers have access to the latest information on new approaches in software development by watching online broadcasts from the relevant conferences, broadcast rights being purchased by the company and screenings organized in the ofﬁce. Labour Case. Infographic school “Infographics TUT” Vadim Shmygov The ﬁrst course “Infographics TUT” was launched in spring “Infographics TUT” curator 2015 on the initiative of Vadim Shmygov, infographer and visual journalist of TUT.BY. The course lasts for four months and teaches the basics of infographics and data visualization. I decided to start this school because of a sad situation with The school has already prepared two groups of students — data on our information market that was full of low-quality, journalists, designers, programmers, editors, analysts and unprofessionally made infographics. I felt I needed to teach my marketing specialists working for such companies as TUT.BY, colleagues, so that we could change this situation together. Wargaming, EPAMSystems, Yandex, IBA, BelaPAN, Information in words comes and goes, while information Belagroprombank, Kyky.org, Radio Liberty, European Radio for presented as an image sticks in memory. It is much easier to Belarus, Radio Unistar, prognoz.ru, “Timer” magazine, analyze anything that can be systematized and visualized. That “Ideanomiks” publishing house. The ratio of applications to is why well-structured and reliable information is valued so available seats for the second course made 4 people per one much today. A visual image helps to understand information, place. and recall it later. One of the main tasks of an infographics is to make a system out of data and show it in an understandable Course students meet three times a week in Gallery TUT.BY, in form. meeting rooms of the TUT.BY ofﬁce or in TSEH creative space. Lectures during the course are conducted by renowned foreign About the curator professionals in the sphere. Course enrollment is open to everyone. Practical tasks are carried out in groups, students Vadim Shmygov graduated from the Institute of Journalism of the Belarusian State University. He worked as a designer and secretary in the republican weekly also receive individual tasks. “Belaruski Chas” in 2003-2009, then in BelaPAN news agency. Since 2013 Vadim has worked as a visual journalist for TUT.BY. Participants do not pay tuition fees, instead they donate Br Achievements and merits: 800,000 for charity once a month. The best works by students 2015 — “Tableau” — “TOP-5 International Best New Authors of 2014” are published on TUT.BY. 2014–2015 — “Tableau” — “Viz of the Day”, “Viz of the Week” 2014 – “AdNak” — “Diploma of Belarusian Advertising Contest AdNak” 2009 — “Zolotaya litera” — “Best media designer” Students of the second group “Infographics TUT” made a book with their impressions, photo and works as a gift to their teacher Vadim Shmygov. Students’ impressions Maria Tkachenko, Lead Systems Engineer, EPAM Systems For me, the main result of the course is that I now have a clear idea of what “good infographics” is. The topics of seminars, lectures and practical tasks touched upon various ﬁelds: design, journalism, management and teamwork, analytics, web development, and even cartography. It was an amazing immersion in such a diverse world. Olga Nesteruk, designer, Wargaming It was a dynamic course with many tasks, many “Infographics TUT” school graduates interesting meetings, lots of new graphic and infographic tools. The most valuable experience for me personally were lectures and classes with speakers. It really boosted my creativity. Examples of projects by the students of the course Muslim dress-code To love all ages yield surrender Labour Care about leisure and health of employees The company's ofﬁce has a comfortable working environment, Corporate parties are organized by the company. Besides and health activities are held on a regular basis: entertainment, we assign them with additional meaning, associated with the company's values. The company is growing, • here is a leisure room with sports equipment, ping pong table and not all employees know each other. Therefore, it is and massage chairs; important for us to provide them with an opportunity to meet • the ofﬁce has a kitchen with hot drinks, snacks, seasonal each other and learn the company better from different angles. fruits and vegetables; For example, to celebrate 15th anniversary of the portal in 2015 • hot meals available for purchase are delivered to the ofﬁce employees from different departments mixed in 15 teams and every day; were solving tasks of various difﬁculty, that helped them to get • in the Gallery there is an electronic piano that employees can acquainted with the history of the company and ﬁnd 15 play music on; symbols of TUT.BY's success through the game. For 2015 New Year's party teams from different departments competed in • an articulate workout, the so-called “IT-workout”, is held by a creativeness, presenting and “defending“ the costumes they specialist twice a week in the morning; made. • employees can visit massage sessions with a professional massage therapist who comes to the ofﬁce twice a week. Labour Gallery TUT.BY Gallery TUT.BY is the art space located in TUT.BY's ofﬁce. It The gallery's curator is Tatiana Bembel, a Belarusian art expert regularly changes its exposition, becomes a venue for personal and critic, art historian and dealer, professor, author of exhibitions and art meetings, music evenings, lectures on the television programmes and documentaries, member of the history of Minsk, lessons of the Belarusian language for Belarusian Union of Artists, the Union of Belarusian designers, children and adults “Mova TUT”, meetings of the literary club the Union of Cinematographers of the Republic of Belarus and “Grapho”. The entrance to the gallery is free, it is open from the International Council of Museums ICOM. 9.00 am to 6.00 pm on workdays. Exhibition “Spravazdacha-2015” opening Photo from the exhibition “Spravazdacha-2015”. Photographer: Eugene Erchak Labour Labour relations in TUT.BY Vocational guidance excursions are organized for students at the request of educational institutions, as well as at the request of children's asylums and children's villages. Working conditions Subscription to specialized periodicals, library with business literature, book-crossing, webinar and online-conferences watching, training sessions with internal and external coaches, Educational establishment “Osipovichi state specialized trainings for management, joint watching and discussion of general education boarding school for children with thematic movies, free entrance to events organized by the locomotor system disorders” expressed gratitude to TUT.BY for contributing to the fund of educational and company (“Pro business.” events, “Business Internet”), partner methodical literature and equipment of the school's events. library with computers. Professional and personal growth Parking for employees, a comfortable ofﬁce with a panoramic view in a business center, seven meeting rooms, necessary equipment and stationery, clothes with TUT.BY logo (T-shirts, hoodies), leisure room, kitchen, meals delivery, articulate Coverage of topics related to labour workouts, massage, snacks, seasonal fruits and vegetables. relations Leisure The Belarusian portal TUT.BY promotes fair labour relations, Corporate events for employees, playing intellectual quizzes built according to the conventions of the International Labor and sports tournaments (IT-Olympics, “What? Where? When?” Organization, the Constitution of the Republic of Belarus and games) against other companies in the industry, a closed the Labor Code of the Republic of Belarus. For instance, Facebook group “We work TUT”, cultural events in Gallery FINANCE.TUT.BY publishes reviews of the average salary rates TUT.BY, birthday celebrations in departments. for different positions in the country on a regular basis. The news department, covering topics related to the life of society, Family collects and releases comments of professional lawyers on new Flexible working hours, social days, children's celebrations, legislation in the ﬁeld of labor relations. ﬁnancial assistance in emergency cases, the possibility to plan the return to work after a maternity leave in advance. Case. Lawyer's advice Internships and excursions A weekly column “Lawyer's advice” with Tatiana Semeshko, member of the Minsk Regional Lawyer's Association, has been published on the portal since 2015. Lawyers answer users' questions in the ﬁeld of law and requiring a qualiﬁed explanation. The company cooperates with Belarusian universities to help in professional training of students, who can apply for Professional help was provided to a young graduate who was ﬁred by an employer without wage and employment record book. educational, on-the-job and pre-diploma practice in all divisions of the company. Overall, 43 students received training Discover more in 2015. Those students who do well during their internship often continue to cooperate with the company on the part-time basis, return for other on-the-job training and even become full-time employees. This is exactly how it happened with the company's current director general Alexander Chekan over 10 years ago. New business lines The company's management believes in productive The portal also supports such projects as TEENGURU— a school co-development of the company and employees and aims to of business for teenagers in Minsk, where they can start support their initiatives. thinking about their own business idea, and master key elements of business — planning, marketing, ﬁnance, sales and promotion on the Internet — at an early age. The company's managers act as tutors in this project, introduce business to youngsters, describe the work of online media, and take teenagers on excursions around the ofﬁce. Labour Case. “Pro business.” – community for Belarusian business Vitaly Volyanyuk In September 2014 a project “Pro business.” was launched as a head of “Pro business.” new line in company's development. The website, created on the initiative of one of TUT.BY's employees Vitaly Volyanyuk, is designed as a community Belarusian businessman and a We met with TUT.BY director general Alexander Chekan and communication platform for representatives if business circles. discussed the idea of creating a media project for Belarusian businessmen. A project that would differ from other existing resources. I had experience of working as a Finance.TUT.BY editor before. At that time, I was developing an existing project, but now it was about launching a start-up. It took us about nine months to think over the details — the website's concept, name, and design. “Pro business.” went online on September 1, 2014. Several months later the ﬁrst ofﬂine event was organized, we began holding meeting with Belarusian businessmen, then conferences, forums and other events followed. I am grateful to TUT.BY management and shareholders for the support of “Pro business.” creation. Initially our team had two people: me and Dmitry Alfer, the editor. Now there are six of us, and we believe that “Pro business.” will continue to develop and grow. Judging by the feedback, the product that we've “Pro business.” team created proved needed for the business community. And this thought inspires us to keep working on it 24/7. Today “Pro business.” grows in both ways. Business owners, top managers, experts communicate their experience, opinion, About the head of “Pro business.”: forecasts on this website. One of the topics for discussion is the Vitaly Volyanyuk graduated from the Institute of Journalism of the Belarusian State University in 2006. Worked as a correspondent in presidential pool for “Sovetskaya current agenda, typical for any company. “Pro business.” Belorussiya” newspaper for ﬁve years, having gained experience in politics and organizes about 36 ofﬂine business events of different formats economy. Became an editor of FINANCE.TUT.BY in 2012, then the editor-in-chief of a year (business forums, conferences, live meetings) with the news agency “ Biznes-novosti”. In 2013 Vitaly returned to TUT.BY with the idea to create a new media for business. famous people where they tell personal stories, public talks and talk shows with Belarusian businessmen. Probusiness.by “Pro business. LIVE” meeting “Pro business. LIVE” meeting Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment Respect for natural resources When organizing events, such as “Business Internet”, we distribute eco-friendly stationery and promo products to our employees and guests attending the events. For example, Belarusian portal TUT.BY observes the principles of biodegradable eco pens made from paper and recycled plastic. Presidential Directive No3 of 14.06.2007 “Economy and thrift Guests of “Business Internet” conference received promo are the main factors of the state’s economic security” and products in textile reusable shopping bags. focuses on responsible business conduct and environment treatment. The main resources consumed by the company are electric and thermal energy, water and paper. We plan to start careful recording of their consumption and work out measures to consume them responsibly. Successful steps in going green The company uses electronic document management system in order to reduce paper consumption. The management carefully monitors resources consumed inside the company. The paper that we buy is checked for certiﬁcates and expert accounts on its conformity with the State general sanitary, epidemiological and hygienic requirements for goods subject to sanitary-and-epidemiologic TUT.BY supports careful and rational use of natural resources. supervision (control), approved by the decision No 299 of That is why we buy locally-produced confectionery and dairy 28.05.2012 by the Customs Union Commission. products for our employees to support Belarusian producers and help reduce carbon emissions during transportation. The company has been collecting paper for recycling since 2010. At the end of 2015 three recycling bins for paper and cardboard collection were installed by “Belgips-ECO” in the ofﬁce. Since then over 30 kg of paper has been collected. In the reporting period the company organized an internal event for children of the employees — an environmental master class, where kids created crafts from recycled materials (PET bottles). In 2015 our employees planted trees in Hugo Chavez park in Minsk. Environment Coverage of topics related to environment Our journalists cover the initiatives promoting collection of TUT.BY is following the country’s progress in recyclable household and publish reports from environmental forums and exhibitions, write about topics related to radiation solving ecological problems. The work of the level and the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster. In 2014-2015 portal was praised by the Center for the portal widely covered the problems of the recycling sphere Environmental Solutions in 2013; TUT.BY and organizations specializing in collection of waste paper, plastics and used batteries. With the help of publications of received an award for the involved coverage materials on these topics the portal contributes to education of problems of chemical safety and waste in and involvement of Belarusians in safe and environmentally Belarus. conscious waste management. Case. The country of swamps Case. Around Minsk with a dosimeter In 2015 TUT.BY journalists explored the problem of drainage of wetlands Last year journalists toured Minsk with a dosimeter to ﬁnd out if the and continuous use of peatlands in Belarus in a special project “The radiation level in public places — in the underground, at railways stations, country of swamps”. In spite of large-scale melioration works that were roads and dump sites — is equal to or above the norm. Measurements of carried out in Soviet time, the country managed to preserve about 863 food and building materials were also taken. thousand hectares of swamps. This seemingly big territory is, however, only one third of the area that swamps stretched over before. Discover more In the articles journalists told about how locals live through the consequences of that catastrophic intervention into the ecosystem (which lead to the disappearance of birds, plants, animals, reduction of drinkable water supplies, caused drying up of rivers, ﬁres in peatlands, ﬂooding of villages), and how cranberries support the life of villagers. When preparing the texts, journalists worked in collaboration with the Head of the Department of International Cooperation of the Scientiﬁc and Practical Center of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus for Bioresources Alexander Kazulin, who dedicated 20 years to the study of Belarusian swamps. Discover more Business integrity Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Business integrity Principles of business integrity The company's business conduct is governed by the following internal documents that contain the norms of behavior and values of the company: Anti-corruption activities inside the team, and in cooperation with business partners and the community is one of the • “A guide for beginners“. company’s priorities. The Belarusian portal TUT.BY values its • “Dogmas and rules of TUT.BY editor“. credibility for business partners, customers, and employees. Therefore, the management uses one of the company's core • “ Rules of behavior in emergency situations“. values — honesty — as a guideline in the company’s Code of Business Ethics. The company observes its ﬁnancial liabilities with contractors Transparent business (lessors, suppliers, etc.) and tries to make payments for services and works rendered in advance. Reputation is one of our The Belarusian portal TUT.BY aims to make its business biggest assets, so we avoid cooperation with organizations transparent according to the code of business ethics. This refers that have shown themselves as unfair players in the market. primarily to the way business processes are organized and the information is delivered within the company. In 2015 the group of companies Heads of departments do their best to make the process of “Beltyazhmash” announced gratitude to the business planning, goal setting, results' control understandable Belarusian portal TUT.BY for signiﬁcant to all employees. Feedback is always appreciated. contribution to the development of Regular meetings of project managers and heads of professional interaction between companies departments are held once a month in the Gallery to discuss interim results during presentations. This helps employees and timely execution of all obligations. learn the latest news from other departments, respond to the questions of colleagues, share experiences, make suggestions The set of editorial rules “Dogmas and rules of TUT.BY editor” on how to optimize the workﬂow. contains instructions on work with various information sources, fact checks, ﬁnding information sources. It has In addition to it, every Monday project managers send internal sections dedicated to communication with heroes of the accounts to the team and managers to inform them about last articles and newsmakers, journalists' ethics, issues related to week's results and updates. the use of pictures. The Belarusian portal TUT.BY respects copyright and sticks to the principle “do no harm” in the The advertising department is separated from the editorial process of writing articles. board in order to prevent any pressure from advertisers on journalists. TUT.BY builds its relationships with employees on mutual trust, expecting effectiveness and fulﬁllment of goals in return. Materials that come as information support of TUT.BY's The company has no attendance control systems, no journals partnerships are marked as “Sponsored statement” or “By for registering employees' arrival and departure time, no TUT.BY PR department” to differentiate them from the logging control on computers (except for those areas and editorial content. processes where logging time is vital and necessary for the quality of service provided to end users), no “wiretapping” (this Journalists cover problems related to corruption among state does not apply to recording of telephone conversations with ofﬁcials, in business sphere and among top managers. clients in order to improve the quality of service), no restrictions on Internet access, no censorship of e-mails and or any other systems for surveillance of the personnel. Transparent ﬁnancial accounts The company invests in the education and development of its employees, helping them to advance and open their potential, The audit of the company's ﬁnancial operations is carried out in return for diligent work. every six months by “Baker Tilly Bel” LLC. Voluntary audit was carried out in 2013-2014, obligatory audit — during 6 months in TUT.BY's clients are always welcome in the ofﬁce and the portal 2015. hopes for mutual respect in business. TUT.BY was not involved in any corruption incidents within the reported period. Contacts For further information, please contact: Maria Vasilyeva PR-manager mv@tutby.com Natalia Iskortseva Human Resources Director in@tutby.com Gratitude We express our sincere gratitude to Alena Katushkina, a graduate of the MSc program in Sustainable Development from St. Andrews University (Scotland, UK), for the help in the preparation of this Sustainability Report.
