Monodraught Ltd Communication on Progress 2017 1 Content About Us Statement of continued support Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption 2 About Us Monodraught Ltd design, manufacture, install and maintain natural ventilation, natural lighting and natural cooling systems to create low energy, low carbon and sustainable buildings for healthier and more productive occupants. Over 40 Years’ Experience Monodraught has been at the forefront of designing and manufacturing low energy, low carbon, and sustainable solutions for over 40 years. Our company is focused around three product sets in which we are recognised as market leaders: natural and hybrid lighting, natural cooling and natural and hybrid ventilation. Our products can be found anywhere from a residential build looking to increase its natural light through to a high impact architectural building such as the Copperbox Arena (formerly the Olympics Handball stadium). A key sector for Monodraught is in Education where our products can deliver real dividends in terms of lower energy and carbon footprint and improved environments for students and teachers. We are part of the VKR Holding group which is a limited holding and investment company that aims to create value through financial investments and ownership of companies that bring daylight, fresh air and a better environment into people's everyday lives. We are proud of our history of developing products from R&D right through to installation and maintenance all right here in the UK, where possible using suppliers local to our head office base in High Wycombe. We strive to continually innovate, remaining focused on delivering highly engineered products that allow end-users to live and work in a more natural environment; whether that be through natural lighting, natural ventilation or natural cooling. 3 Continued… Research & Development Monodraught has a long history of innovating and pioneering the launch of sustainable, low energy products for the built environment. We have partnered with many leading UK universities to research cutting edge technologies and we have an active Research & Development team based at our head office. Nick Hopper, Technical Director, leads the Research & Development team. He has been responsible for many of Monodraught’s innovations. Having spent over twenty years in the energy-efficient technology business, Nick has great insight into the viability of innovative products. He is a named inventor on numerous low energy building product patents covering technologies for enhanced natural ventilation solutions, natural daylighting solutions and optimized phase change material systems. Our commitment to future generations Monodraught has a commitment to supporting and encouraging new engineers to the industry to engross themselves in these new sustainable developments that may hold the key to so many of our dilemmas for our future energy usage. As part of this commitment we continue relationships with leading UK universities including Brunel University and Coventry University where research is being supported into the development of enhanced products in the field of daylighting, low energy ventilation solutions and phase change material. 4 Mission and Vision Statements Mission At Monodraught we believe that harnessing nature’s elements to cool, ventilate and light the built environment provides healthier, lower carbon buildings that are more comfortable places to reside. Our dynamic employees are our most important asset. Through their hard work and dedication to customer service they enable us to maintain our position as the UK’s number 1 in natural ventilation, cooling and lighting. Vision We are and have been the innovators in our field consistently for over 40 years. Our objective is to provide architects, consultants, contractors and building owners with high quality, low maintenance solutions that can drive down building energy costs and reduce their carbon emissions. Delivering the whole solution from research and development through to installation ensures that we are able to implement the latest innovations in a fully supported, quality guaranteed environment. 5 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 14.12.2016 To Our Stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Monodraught Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication On Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely Andrew McCubbin Monodraught Ltd 6 Human Rights 7 Principles 1 2 Monodraught Ltd has a Staff Handbook which is reviewed annually and lists in detail, every Policy and Process that the company follows. Every new member of staff is given Induction training at the start of their employment describing the Company Ethics, Policies and Health and Safety details. All policies are adhered to and should anyone be found to have breached these, disciplinary procedures are followed. Listed below are some of the policies that Monodraught have in respect of Human Rights. • Data Protection Policy – protecting our employees and customers details • Equality Act 2010 – treating our employees fairly • Public Interest Disclosure Policy – protecting our employees • Religious Festivals & Holy Days Policy – respecting our employees religions • Family Friendly Policies – respecting our employees families • Health & Safety Policy – protecting our employees Health and Safety • Flexible working hours in extreme weather conditions – protecting our employees safety • Anti Harassment & Bullying Policy – protecting our employees • Private Medical Health care – giving our employees and their families the best care As a company we also pay into a Pension scheme for all employees, we offer a VDU policy for eye tests and costs associated with this as well as health care schemes and more. VKR have an Employee foundation set up to help the community and all employees within the group cope in difficult times. The facilities that we offer to our employees are of the highest standards. 8 Measurement of Outcome Monodraught ensure that they are working within the defined guidelines of human rights. Reporting processes and response plans are in place within our handbook to identify and respond to alleged abuse or violence against employees and contractors. We have not identified any instances of Monodraught causing or contributing to any adverse human rights incidents. No incidents of grievances related to human rights were filed in 2016 9 Labour 10 Principles 3 6 Monodraught Ltd is a Living Wage Employer and pay all our employees above the national minimum wage. All employees are given an annual appraisal and wage reviews when required, including promotion. As stated in our Recruitment Policy, copies of all relevant identification documents will be requested from new employees and we will ensure all our workers have the right to work in the UK and are employed under UK law. Monodraught Ltd have been awarded an IIP Certificate (Investors In People). Monodraught are ISO 14001 and 9001 accredited We offer flexible working which offers employees the opportunity to request changes in hours due to dependants etc. We sustainably source as many products as we can locally with them all mainly from the UK. Monodraught Ltd employ workers both British and Non-British in origin. All employees are paid the living wage or higher. We are an Equal Opportunities Employer and are part of the Equality Act of 2010, we have an Equality and Non-Discrimination Policy along side this. All new employees are given the relevant training needed. Employees are also offered the opportunity to further educate/train to better themselves whilst at work. 11 MONODRAUGHT ACCIDENT STATISTICS Measurement of Outcome 2016 2015 2014 Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Reduction in minor work related injuries for 2016 (statistics opposite) Recorded Over 3-Day Injuries 1(A) 0 1 Reportable Over 7-Day Injuries 0 0 0 (RIDDOR) Non-British workers make up 17% of Monodraught workforce Reportable Specified Injuries 0 0 0 (RIDDOR) Living wage employer awarded in 2016 Prohibition Notices 0 0 0 Dangerous Occurrences 0 0 0 Safe Contractor accreditation certificate awarded in 2016 (RIDDOR) Minor Injuries (Accident Book) 1 2 2 ISO 9001 and 14001 certificates were awarded in 2016 Near Misses 2(B) Not recorded Not recorded Annual Average No. of 60 60 60 Employees IIP Certification awarded in 2016 Accident Incidence Rate: Reportable accidents x 1,000,000 0 0 0 Average No. Employed Accident Frequency Rate: Reportable accidents x 1,000,000 0 0 0 Total Lost Working Time in Hours 12 Environment 13 Principles 7 9 Monodraught Ltd is an Energy saving company that strives to produce quality products using natural energy to reduce CO 2 emissions wherever possible. All our systems and their components are in constant review by our R & D department and improved whenever necessary. Monodraught have an Environmental Statement which we stick by and promote our employees to do the same. We offer all employees a Cycle to Work Scheme to help with the purchase of a quality bike to enable them to ride instead of taking their car whenever possible. Many of our products are fitted with SD cards which collate the data from our systems including temperature and CO2 allowing us to monitor and control usage. With this data we are able to produce Performance Reviews on each system to ensure they are working correctly. These results are given to the client to show the low energy consumption – resulting in the low running costs and also making sure the systems are constantly maintaining low CO2 levels. Monodraught also have a number of our own products within our Head Office Space and incorporate LED lighting. We recycle all materials on site wherever possible and aim to reuse boxes 3 times prior to recycling. Monodraught are continually taking part in local events – the 30 days wild challenge was recently promoted to all employees. We work with local charities – one in particular that our employees have contact with is Bucks Mind. 14 Measurement of Outcome Monodraught Ltd have their own Sunpipe natural lighting systems within the office to reduce energy usage. In November/December 2016 new LED lighting was installed within the office space. In 2016, Improvements were made within the roof space of our office building to eliminate heat escaping. This has resulted in the office feeling warmer and heating not being relied on so heavily – therefore saving energy. Monodraught continually recycle all materials possible on a daily basis. Monodraught changed 3 of its company cars at the end of their lease in 2016 to Hybrid low CO2 level vehicles in order to help reduce our total vehicle emissions. 15 Anti-Corruption 16 Principle 10 It is Monodraught’s policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all of our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. The purpose of this policy is to: a) set out our responsibilities, and the responsibilities of those working for us, in observing and upholding our position on bribery and corruption; and b) provide information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. c) To communicate our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption to all suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and as appropriate thereafter. This policy applies to all individuals working at all levels and grades, including senior managers, officers, directors, employees (whether permanent, fixed-term or temporary), consultants, contractors, trainees, seconded staff, homeworkers, casual workers and agency staff, volunteers, interns, agents, sponsors, or any other person associated with us, or any of our subsidiaries or their employees, wherever located. 17 Measurement of Outcome Monodraught Ltd has an external audit company to do a number of internal audits every year and the report directly submitted to the Managing Director and Finance Manager. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. All Monodraught transactions are checked and balanced. All records are maintained and cross checked. All monies received are assigned to orders and all information is checked and controlled by the finance and administration department. Monodraught Ltd has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. There has been no such incident reported in the period. 18
