SABANCI GROUP 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENT ABOUT THE REPORT ...................................................................................................................2 1 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN................................................................................................3 LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.................................................................4 ABOUT SABANCI HOLDING........................................................................................................6 GOVERNANCE................................................................................................................................9 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH..................................................................................................19 WORK LIFE......................................................................................................................................28 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT...............................................................................................................43 ABOUT THE REPORT 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT As Sabanci Group we have a business model As in previous year’s report, we assessed 2 trusted by all of our stakeholders that proour sustainability performance in light of our duces social contributions as well as financial commitment to Declaration of UN Women's values. As we raise our societal contribution, Empowerment Principles, Equality at Work we also work to develop financial value we Platform Policies and United Nations Global create. We continue to create value for all Compact Principles and we based on GRI our stakeholders with our corporate culture Guidelines. We prepared our report with committed to social, environmental, legal and Core in accordance option of GRI G4. ethical values. Report covers Sabancı Holding’s, Group Benefiting from feedbacks received after companies’ and Sabancı Foundation’s Turkey publication of our first sustainability report, operations and projects for the January 1we share our second sustainability report December 31 2015 time period. covering our 2015 activities with our stakeholders. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 2015 Our employees are keystone for us to achieve our sustainability SABANCI GROUP goals and create value for our stakeholders. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Güler Sabancı Chairman Dear Stakeholders, Since 1967, we make an effort to deliver under World Economic Forum (WEF) in order 3 the value we created as the Group to wider to fight inequality in gender. stakeholder groups. To enhance this value and make it invariable are possible with susOur employees are keystone for us to achieve tainability and sustainability-oriented growth. our sustainability goals and create value for our Therefore, we consider sustainability in our stakeholders. Thus, creating a work environactivities to be one of the most important ment for the safety and happiness of our emindicatives. We are working to carry our ployees, and conducting applications for them performance achieved through the awareness to develop their skills and talents are among of our social, economic and environmental our basic duties. responsibilities further, and we are happy to The result of signing under applications that share our 2015 sustainability performance will develop our responsible way of doing with our stakeholders. business is to constantly minimize our enviIn accordance with our responsible manronmental impact. We act with an awareness agement perspective that reinforces our of the responsibility of the business world as sustainability approach, we signed UN Global much as the world in the struggle against Compact in 2007. We have been taking part climate change. Carbon Disclosure Project in UNGC Turkey Local Network Advisory Group (CDP) contributes actively to the operation in and we are part of the International Board of Turkey; both the Holding and Group companies Directors of UNGC since 2012. So, we did participate in this project not only put our care for human rights, workWe spread our value through our awareness ing conditions, environmental responsibility of social responsibility, one of the invariable and anti-corruption into practice, but also kept aspects of our management approach. In the our leading role by representing our country in field of social responsibility, we continue our international platforms. contribution to social development with many Equality in work life is a very important topic for projects in education, health, culture-arts and us. As Sabancı Holding, we became the first sports through Sabancı Foundation, Sakıp SaTurkish company who signed the UN Women's bancı Museum, Sabancı University and Group Empowerment Principles in 2011. Moreover, companies. our Group has also been a member of Equality I would like to thank primarily to our employees at Work Platform founded under the auspices and all our stakeholders who contribute to this of the Ministry of Family and Social Policies value that we created as Sabancı Group. LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Dear Stakeholders, At Sabancı Holding, our strategic approach outside the branches. Mechanic automa4 is based on managing our current work tion renewal in branches, which began in perfectly and planning our future for long2010, in the scope of Energy and Emission term competitive advantages. For all of our management, continued in 2015 and 75 business operations, sustainability is an branches were transformed. This applicainvariable part of our work processes. With tion is directly practiced in new branches. the awareness of social responsibility, we Among 66 billion USD of investments in consider modesty, respect to human and Turkey’s electricity market over the last deenvironment, closeness to public, particcade, 11 billion USD are done by Enerjisa. ipation in decision-making processes and Enerjisa which provides a great acceleration collective thinking as the keystones of our in domestic energy resource investments management approach. We have continhas a share of more than 50% renewable ued our activities based on corporal manenergy resources in its installed capacity, agement principles in accordance with the and carbon reduction values created in United Nations Global Compact that we are renewable energy centrals are presented to signatory since 2007. the voluntary carbon market. As Sabancı Holding, we are rightly proud Our goal in cement market is to keep growto have reached our goals in 2015. The ing with profit and increase the value of Group’s combined net sales are 9%, 48 our cement affiliates in our total portfolio. million TL more than last year. While Our cement affiliates Akçansa and Çimsa Sabancı Holding obtained 5.345 million TL continued to be the leaders in the Turkish consolidated activity profit; net profit has market thanks to their successful perforbeen 2.236 million TL. As the Group, we mance in 2015. Our companies actively made 3.7 million TL combined investments work on the topics of decreasing fossil fuel in 2015. usage by increasing alternative fuel usage, In 2015, Akbank put its cash and non-cash rehabilitating mining sites and pits where leases above 185 billion TL and integrated the production has ended, carbon-dioxide digitalization and mobilization effectively and emission control in the fight with climate efficiently on its business conduct. Now, change, dedusting factories and effective 92% of banking transactions are done water usage. 2015 At Sabancı Holding, our strategic approach is based on managing SABANCI GROUP our current work perfectly and planning our future for longterm competitive advantages. For all of our business operations, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT sustainability isSaygılarımla, an invariable part of our work processes. Zafer KURTUL Yönetim Kurulu Üyesi ve CEO Zafer KURTUL Board Member and CEO One of our retail companies, Carrefoursa per ton after 2014. Therefore, Brisa’s sav5 continued to improve its logistics and IT ings from energy efficiency has shown 13 infrastructure in 2015. Having merged times increase compared to 2008. with 202 new markets, local chains are Temsa Otobüs, increased its operational incorporated to Carrefoursa and 61 new profit by 39% with a record number of prostores are added to the portfolio. In addiduction and export, and launched 8 prodtion, we added 196 stores to our portfolio ucts in 2015. Temsa Otobüs continues to by acquiring 85% share capital of Kiler. work with a team of 180 people in its Ar-Ge Teknosa focused on customer financing and center, towards being the most innovative post-sales services. A multichannel busiand entrepreneurial company. ness model is being developed to give 25% shares to online sales. Our success as a Group is possible with our employees. Our employees are the basis of Avivasa reached 19,2% market share in the sustainability of our business. In order the individual pension sector and profited to carry our success to future, we will keep its shareholders 20% after one year of investing in applications that will increase initial public offering. improvement and competency of our emIn 2015, our Industrial Group increased ployees. its total combined net profit 15% from the As the Group, we are sharing the care previous year. As Kordsa Global continued we have for sustainability and our results to lead the sector in technological advancethrough this transparent report for our ments from the Ar-Ge center in Izmit, it shareholders. Our purpose is to expand accelerated in growth. With Bridgestone, our understanding of sustainability into our Lassa, Dayton, Firestone, Bandag and Envalue chain and increase the number of ergizer brands, Turkey’s tire market leader stakeholder groups that our success influBrisa works successfully in order to present ences. In this context, I would like to thank special solutions to its customers, easy to those who enrich us with their valuable accessibility and benefit sustainability with contributions, primarily our employees, the innovation culture of the Company. With customers, business partners and stakeenergy efficiency projects in 2015, Brisa holders. decreased its energy consumption 4,1% ABOUT SABANCI HOLDING 2015 CONSOLIDATED REVENUE CONSOLIDATED OPERATING (BILLION USD) PROFIT (BILLION USD) 17.6 SABANCI GROUP 2.6 2.3 12.7 12.5 2.0 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Established in 1967, today Hacı Ömer international partnerships in many of the 6 Sabancı Holding A.Ş. (Sabancı Holding) is sectors it operates. Group’s international the main company, which represents the business partners include prominent comaffiliates of Sabancı Group, one of Turkey’s panies of their respective sectors such as largest groups. Holding is acting with the Ageas, Aviva, Bridgestone, Carrefour, E.ON, mission to manage a competitive “strategic Heidelberg Cement, Marubeni and Philip portfolio” with sustainable growth potential Morris. to create value for all of its stakeholders. Responsible for the coordination of finance, Distribution Company Customer Base Channel strategy, business development and human resource functions of Group companies, Over 13 million Nearly 1,000 AKBANK customers branches Holding aims to create synergy among the affiliates and to create more value for the More than 2 1,000 financial million private advisors and Group and its large stakeholder network. AVİVASA pension and life branch insurance insurance clients managers Sabancı Group companies are operating market leaders in the rapidly growing 9 million customers and 20 sectors of Turkey, which include financial ENERJİSA million end-users 14 provinces services, energy, cement, retail and industriin electricity als. The companies operate in 16 countries distribution and market their products in regions across 101 million 291 stores in TEKNOSA Europe, the Middle East, Asia, North Africa, visitors annually 81 provinces North and South America. 100 million cusCARRE333 hyper and tomers annually Realizing sustainable growth in its core FOURSA supermarkets businesses thanks to its reputation, brand 3 million 1,037 branded image and knowhow of the Turkish market, BRİSA customers sales points Sabancı Group is a significant player that has been contributing to the development of Turkey’s economy. Group acts with strong 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BANKING INSURANCE 7 AKBANK AKSİGORTA AVİVASA Loans Combined Net Sales TL 153 BILLION (2014: 136 Billion TL) TL 1,9 BILLION (2014: TL 2,0 Billion TL) Capital Adequacy Ratio Combined EBITDA 14,50% TL 81 MILLION (2014: TL 47 Million TL) Return on Equity Consolidated Net Profit 12,10% TL 27 MILLION (2014: TL 41 Million TL) ENERGY CEMENT ENERJİSA ÇİMSA AKÇANSA Combined Net Sales Combined Net Sales TL 11,8 BILLION (2014: TL 11,0 Billion) TL 2,6 BILLION (2014: TL 2,5 Billion TL) Combined EBITDA Combined EBITDA TL 1,8 BILLION (2014: TL 834 Million) TL 776 MILLION (2014: TL 686 Million TL) Consolidated Net Profit Consolidated Net Profit TL 142 MILLION (2014: TL -83 Million) TL 226 MILLION (2014: TL 187 Million TL) RETAIL INDUSTRY TEKNOSA CARREFOURSA BRİSA KORDSA GLOBALTEMSA YÜNSA Combined Net Sales Combined Net Sales TL 7,1 BILLION (2014: TL 6,1 Billion) TL 5,1 BILLION (2014: TL 4,8 Billion) Combined EBITDA Combined EBITDA TL 33 MILLION (2014: TL 232 Million) TL 1,0 BILLION (2014: TL 812 Million) Sales Area Consolidated Net Profit 813.573 m2 (2014: 543.942 m2) TL 520 MILLION (2014: TL 428 Million) ABOUT SABANCI HOLDING 2015 The parent company of Sabancı Group companies, Sabancı SABANCI GROUP Holding is a listed organization, which operates in 16 countries with various international business partners. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This fact necessitates the formation of a modern, effective and exemplary governance model for Sabancı Holding. SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE The Sabancı Family is Sabancı Holding’s Sakıp Sabancı Holding 8 major shareholder with 57.7% of the share Anonim Şirketi 14.07% capital. Sabancı Holding shares are traded on the Borsa Istanbul (BIST) with a free Serra Sabancı float of 40.1%, the largest float percen7.21% tage among holding companies. Holding’s Suzan Sabancı Dinçer 6.94% depository receipts are quoted on the SEAQ Çiğdem Sabancı Bilen International and PORTA. Sabancı Holding 6.94% has controlling interests in 11 companies Other that are also listed on the BIST. 64.84% FREE FLOAT RATES BANKING INSURANCE RETAIL CEMENT INDUSTRY AKBANK 51% AKSİGORTA 28% TEKNOSA 12% AKÇANSA 21% KORDSA GLOBAL 29% AVİVASA 20% CARREFOURSA 2% ÇİMSA 41% BRİSA 10% YÜNSA 36% GOVERNANCE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE APPROACH AND STRUCTURE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS With the legacy it bears, Sabancı Holding Corporate Governance Principles, which is pub9 has been carrying out its activities as one of lished by Capital Markets Board (CMB), forms the most rooted companies in Turkey. The the basis of Sabancı Holding and Group compacore functions of the Holding, are to coornies’ corporate governance approach, which redinate finance, strategy, business developlies on transparency, accountability, equality and responsibility principles. Sabancı Holding comment and human resource functions among plies with all compulsory principles determined the Group, to determine Group’s vision and by the Corporate Governance Statement. strategies and to create synergy within the Board of Directors is responsible for the deterGroup to increase the value created for the mination of corporate objectives, ensuring comstakeholders. pliance with corporate governance principles, The parent company of Sabancı Group comdetermination and management of strategic panies, Sabancı Holding is a listed organiorientations, risk management and ensuring zation, which operates in 16 countries with the operability of control systems. various international business partners. This Sabancı Holding’s Board of Directors, which fact necessitates the formation of a modern, consists of 9 members elected by the General effective and exemplary governance model Assembly for definite periods, is the top-level for Sabancı Holding. In this regard, Holding strategic decision-making organ of the company. 6 of 9 Board members are non-executive and Group companies follow management members pursuant to the principles set forth models based on modern corporate govby the CMB while three of them are indepenernance principles; adopt a transparent, dent members. One of the 3 Executive Board responsible, innovative, active, participatory Members is the CEO of Sabancı Holding. The and strategic governance approach as a functions of CEO and Chairman are fulfilled by principle. different people. The female representation in the Board of Directors is around 45%. At Sabancı Holding, Corporate Governance Committee, Committee for Early Detection of Risks and Auditing Committee have been formed You can reach information regarding the structure and operating rules of Board so as to ensure that the Board of Directors fulfill of Directors and its subcommittees from its mission and responsibilities in a healthy way. www.sabanci.com and Sabancı Holding Corporate Governance Committee also functions Annual Report 2015. as Appointment and Remuneration Committee. GOVERNANCE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Sabancı Group companies manage potential and Credit Committee. Risk-taking levels 10 deflections from the strategic and financial of the Bank are determined in accordance targets in accordance with the stance of with the risk limits approved by the Board of the Group on taking risks by using corporate Directors. Top management of the bank is risk management principles in order to keep responsible towards the Board of Directors the value created for its stakeholders at the for carrying out daily operations in accorhighest level and ensure the sustainability of dance with the pre-defined risk management the Group. A Committee for Early Detection processes and risk limits. Board of Internal of Risks is established within the Board of Auditors, Internal Control and Compliance Directors in order to detect strategic, operaand Risk Management Department, which tional, financial, compliance and other risks, are directly bound to Board of Directors, which would jeopardize company’s existence, carry out activities in coordination with the development and continuity; to take the necexecutive units. Risk models and parameessary measures in this regard; and to manters, which are widely accepted in national age these risks. The Committee is responsiand international practices, are used for deble for determining corporate risk policies, tecting, measuring and monitoring the risks. controlling the efficiency of risk management Studies are carried out for the continuous systems, determining and monitoring the improvement of risk management practices relevant risk levels and reporting to the and methods. Analysis are performed on Board of Directors. While there are similar various scenarios and emergency plans are organizational units in the Group companies developed in line with the risks the Bank may as well, risk management systems vary in be exposed to under extraordinary circumparallel with the sectoral requirements. stances. Various risk reducing technics are employed in order to limit the risks the Bank Risk management in Akbank, finance compamay face and to ensure protection against ny of the Group, is carried out in accordance risks. with BRSA legislation under the responsibility and supervision of the Bank's Board of In Sabancı Group companies, which operate Directors. The Board fulfills its supervision in sectors other than finance, risk manageresponsibility via committees such as Auditment is managed by the senior executives ing Committee, Top Level Risk Committee of the Companies who are responsible for 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT risk management processes and activities gy, green gas emissions and climate change, 11 and Companies’ top management, under the occupational health and safety, human supervision of the related Boards of Direcrights, business ethics and anti-corruption tors and Committees for Early Detection of and supply chain are also managed as part Risks. Companies identify the risks they may of the risk management systems. encounter and prioritize them based on the possibility of occurrence and magnitude of the losses they may create. Prioritized risks are monitored by the company management, You can reach information regarding Sarisk committees and Companies’ Board bancı Holding’s risk management system from www.sabanci.com and Sabancı of Directors with periodical reports. Risk Holding Annual Report 2015. management processes, which include the measures to be taken, are compared, while their implementation and results are monitored. Management of the financial, strateThe Committee is responsible gic, operational and compliance risks of the for determining corporate risk Group companies are also monitored and steered at the Holding level; by the relevant policies, controlling the efficienGroup Presidents, Finance Group Presidency cy of risk management systems, and Compliance Risk Management unit. determining and monitoring the In Sabancı Group, risks are grouped under 7 categories: compliance risks, financial risks, relevant risk levels and reporting strategic risks, operational risks, trademark to the Board of Directors. and reputation management risks, reporting risks and external risks. The main objective of Sabancı Group’s risk management systems is to manage the risk factors that may have negative impact on sustainability of the company. In this regard, sustainability topics such as environment and biodiversity, enerGOVERNANCE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUSINESS ETHICS Sabancı Group companies carry out their opAll Group executives and employees in the 12 erations in accordance with the business ethGroup are informed about SA-Ethics in order ics and codes of conduct outlined in Sabancı to adopt and spread the ethical rules. Group Ethics (SA-Ethics) document. While SA-Ethics Companies organize briefings and trainings are binding for all operations, Board memin order to raise awareness and competence bers, executives and employees of Sabancı on these rules. In this regard, each new Holding and Group companies, all suppliers, employee is provided with ethics training subcontractors, distributors, business partand their signed statements are taken as a ners and similar stakeholders are expected promise for compliance to SA-Ethics. Employto act in compliance with these principles. ees’ knowledge of the issue is updated with trainings that are repeated annually. In 2015, Sabancı Holding's Board of Directors as354 employees in Sabancı Holding were sumes the primary responsibility on adoption, provided with 98.33 person*hour business implementation and compliance to the SA-Ethethics trainings. ics throughout the Group. Sabancı Holding Ethics Committee functions in order to help the Board of Directors fulfill this responsibility. Ethics Committee consists of the director of auditing department, director of the legal affairs and director of the labor relations. Sanctions that might be faced in cases of non-compliance with statutes at large, other legal regulations, ethic rules and defined rules such as company policies and regulations are managed within the scope of compliance risks. Guidance studies are carried out by Holding Compliance Management Directorate in order to support Group companies manage their compliance risks effectively. 2015 ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption is one of the prominent, significant ethics-related SABANCI GROUP problems. Sabancı Group does not tolerate any corruption and bribery and takes measures to prevent such behaviors. Group’s SUSTAINABILITY REPORT approach to anti-bribery and anti-corruption are expected to inform Ethics Committee in is clearly defined in its Anti-Bribery and Ancases of non-compliance. Ethics Committee ti-Corruption Policy. Sabancı Holding Board is responsible to addressing and resolving of Directors and Boards of Group compaall reported matters in strict compliance to nies commit to support the implementation the confidentiality principle. In case of deof the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption tected non-compliances, various sanctions, Policy. from warning to the termination of the employment contract are imposed based Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy is on the importance level of the noncomplibinding for employees and executives as ance. well as all related stakeholders including suppliers, business partners, consultants, Persons who encourage or guide the lawyers and auditors of the Group. In the relevant Group member towards display13 contract made with business partners, coning behaviors noncompliant to the ethics, ditions regarding the compliance with our or persons who approve or overlook such ethical rules and policies are given place. behaviors are also imposed the necessary Ethical trainings provided to employees sanctions. No employees are held responinclude topics present in the Anti-Corruption sible for the losses arising as a result of and Anti-Bribery Policy. compliance to the ethics, i.e. rejecting to pay bribe. The aforementioned document involves behaviors that might be deemed as bribery A notice and help line has been established and corruption, preventive measures and for Group managers and employees to rules to be followed. Prohibitions against report noncompliances of related staketaking parts in any bribery and corruption holders in an easy and confidential way. Adact, facilitating payments that might be ditionally, they can also report and request deemed as bribery and corruption, commisinformation over the internet. Related comsions, royalty payments, cash payments, munication channels are specified in SA-Ethgrants and social aids, preventions against ics document and internet site. Individuals working with firms and individuals, who are noticing the Ethics Committee are under known to be committed bribery and corrupthe protection of the Ethics Committee and tion acts and limitations to gift exchanges they cannot be subjected to pressure, conand accommodation activities are within the straining or penal sanctions with regards scope of this policy. to their actions. Possible appointments and reassignments of the notice owners can Blacklisted individuals and companies are only be pursued with the approval of the followed in coordination with public authorEthics Committee. ities. Hence, suppliers, contractors and customers who are known or doubted to be involved in bribery are detected. Compliance to SA-Ethics and Anti-CorrupYou can reach information regarding Business Ethics Rules and Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy is a duty of tion and Anti-Bribery Policy document Group all executives and employees. They from www.sabanci.com. GOVERNANCE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTERNAL AUDITING Another essential principle of creating a At Sabancı Group, periodical and on demand 14 sustainable business model is to establish audits are conducted with regards to coman effective internal auditing mechanism. At pliance with ethical rules, anti-corruption and Sabancı Holding and Group companies, internal anti-bribery principles, environment and human auditing organizations which are designed in policies as well as corporate policies, working accordance with the international principles principles and legal obligations. Within the and standards guarantee the effectiveness and scope of the audits conducted during the reefficiency of the activities. Auditing Committee porting period, no incidents of non-compliance is the top-level organ that is responsible for were detected in anti-discrimination, human internal auditing within the Group. Auditing rights, union rights and working norms areas. Committee is responsible for controlling the efThere were no incidents of infringements withfectiveness of the internal auditing systems and in the scope of bribery and corruption audits. In processes, identification of the organizations 2015, no complaints or applications were filed that will carry out independent auditing activito Sabancı Holding. ties and the evaluation and reporting the audit During the reporting period, no official comresults to the Board of Directors. Auditing units plaints or legal sanctions were received are responsible for the actual implementation in connection with compliance to the legal of the Internal Auditing activities. requirements in fields such as noncompliance Internal auditing units of the Holding and to competition rules, disclosure and labeling Group companies periodically audit operations, obligations related with the products and sersystems, processes and outcomes based vices, safe and healthy use of the products and on certain criteria. These units evaluates the services, customer information confidentiality effectiveness and integrity of internal controls and supply conditions applicable to products designed for processes and controls if financial and services. records and reporting processes produce acWhile the Group companies carry out similar curate information. Auditing units are responauditing studies within their bodies, they also sible for providing auditing committees formed conduct audits for their suppliers and business within the body of Boards, other governance partners. This way, a sustainable and responcommittees and company top management sible business model is encouraged throughout with objective and independent information. the supply chain. 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT The primary objective of Sabancı Holding’s themes such as environment and climate 15 transparent, accountable and responsible manchange, human rights, business ethics, coragement approach is to ensure sustainability. porate management and corporate social reThe management organization starting from the sponsibility. Group companies translate these Holding’s Board of Directors Sabancı Holding policies to company policies according to their stretching to Group companies’ executive units sectoral requirements. All Group employees is responsible for the realization of this objective. are obliged to act in compliance with these Sabancı Holding’s Board of Directors is repolicies while performing their duties. sponsible for determining the main strategic Sabancı Group adopts it as a principle to deterapproaches for sustainability and objectives as mine time-bound, specific, performance based, well as the execution of the activities in accorrational objectives in social, environmental, dance with these objectives. The strategic deeconomic and ethical areas and to evaluate its cisions taken by the Board of Directors for the performance, within the scope of sustainability Group in general are transmitted to Company management. Strategic approaches defined groups through Group units and Sector Group by the Board of Directors of the Holding are managements. Boards of Directors and senior reflected on the targets of Holding managers managements of Group companies render and strategic planning of Group Companies, and these approaches and targets into company become performance targets of the company. policies, strategies, action plans and targets Results are evaluated with performance evaluain accordance with the requirements of the tion systems and have impact on the remunermarket and competition environment of their ation of employees and managers from each industry. The studies undertaken by company level. . Performance evaluation of managers and managers based on the time and perforemployees is conducted by Human Resources mance objectives are followed. The internal auunits in Group companies. The performance dit function evaluates the performances with evaluation and pricing for senior managers regards to objectives and the performance and members of the Board is under the responresults are reported to company and Group sibility of Corporate Management Committees of top management and Boards respectively. the Holding and Group companies. Within the body of the Holding, general During the reporting period, we have deterpolicies are formed regarding sustainability mined our material sustainability aspects as a GOVERNANCE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT result of the materiality study we. As we deterSabancı Group adopts a management approach 16 mine the material aspects, we have taken into that encourages participation and common sense. In this regard, it takes it as a principle to direct consideration the material aspects of the secits strategies in the rightest direction by forming tors we operate in. With the study we have dialogs with its stakeholders. Comprised of many undertaken with our internal stakeholders, company subsidiaries, Sabancı Group has a large we have determined our material aspects, in stakeholder portfolio due to its structure. a way that would also reflect upon the views In this regard, Sabancı Group companies considof our larger stakeholder net. In this regard, er employees, shareholders, suppliers, dealers and business partners, labor and management we have determined energy and emission unions, professional associations, public institumanagement, waste and water management, tions, national and international regulatory boards, employee training and development, contribulocal authorities, non-governmental organizations, tion to social development, occupational health universities, and press as the main stakeholders, and safety*, diversity and equality at work* and establishes a healthy, constructive commuand efficient use of natural resources as our nication based on mutual respect. Opinions and demands of stakeholders obtained through this material aspects. All issues determined are effective communication environment are evalmaterial within the group. uated in decision-making mechanisms; and the UN Global Compact Sabancı Group adopts a responsible management approach in its social, environmental, economic and ethical impact areas. It has reinforced its commitment to this approach by signing UN Global Compact in 2007. Sabancı Group companies has been making the 10 principles human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption areas a part of their processes and business culture. Additionally, principles such as protection of human rights, prohibition of child labor and forced or compulsory labor, protection of freedom of association are followed. The referenced international agreements UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO Conventions are complied with. Sabancı Group plays a pioneer role in national and international activities of UN Global Compact. Among the local network founders of Global Compact Turkey, Güler Sabancı, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sabancı Holding, has been a member of UNGC Board of Directors since 2012. * Material also for supply chain. 2015 SABANCI GROUP Sabancı Group adopts a management approach that encourages participation and common sense. In this regard, it takes it as SUSTAINABILITY REPORT a principle to direct its strategies in the rightest direction by forming dialogs with its stakeholders. stakeholders are informed about the decisions, that are taken into consideration are integrity, identical 17 the activities and results via various channels. ethical principles and the existence of a common goal. Tools used in regular communication with stakeSabancı Holding and Group companies Akçansa, holders and the frequencies of practice diversify Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa and Kordsa supports the according to the subject matters and the stakeactivities of and takes charge in the management holder groups. Most frequently used tools include of Business Council for Sustainable Development. meetings and gatherings, researches, annual Sabancı Group establishes a communication with reports, sustainability reports and periodic publicapublic agencies and institutes based on mutual intions, press bulletins, and special case statements. formation exchange and transparency principle. In While the type and frequency of communication this regard, information exchange about company studies vary with regards to the qualities of the operations, and opinion sharing about strengthstakeholder groups, annual report, sustainability ening international competition and development report, periodic publications press bulletins and in the operating sectors are held. Sabancı Group special case statements are among the most does not lobby for the benefit of the company, is frequently used tools. not a party to any political opinions and instituSabancı Group realizes joint projects and collaborations; and does not provide any direct and indirect tions with various stakeholder groups. In choosing the monetary or real support to political parties and stakeholder group to work with, the main elements groups, politicians, and nominees. Memberships to Associations Association Responsibility Turkish Industry & Business Association (TÜSİAD) Membership Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) Membership Turkish Exporters Assembly (TİM) Membership Turkish Quality Association (KALDER) Membership World Economic Forum (WEF) Membership UN Global Compact Güler Sabancı – Member of Board of Directors UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) Membership to Women Working Group Ethics & Reputation Socıety (TEİD) Membership Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) Membership Business Council for Sustainable Development (SKD) Membership GOVERNANCE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Sabancı Group manages a large value chain not tolerated and suppliers are expected to 18 comprised of thousands of suppliers. Group support employees’ freedom of association companies create a great value for the counand right to collective bargaining agreement. try’s economy with their local supply spendSuppliers are expected to comply with SA-Ething. During the reporting period, 10.1 billion ics rules. In cases of non-compliance with the TL supply spending was made, 8.5 billion TL, rules, Group companies follow sanctions that 84% of the total amount was spent on local might include the termination of business resuppliers.1 lations, in line with their purchasing policies. In choosing suppliers, Group companies follow their own purchasing policies; evaluates the suppliers with regards to criteria such as technical and organizational capacity sufficiency, quality and cost effectiveness, environmental performance, competitiveness and development performance. These expectations are included in purchasing contracts. Suppliers are also subjected to audits, and are During the reporting period, supported in developing their systems and 10.1 billion TL supply spending practices in these fields. In addition, Group was made, 8.5 billion TL, 84% of companies contribute to the development of supplier employees with various practices and the total amount was spent on training programs. local suppliers. Group companies strive for spreading the sustainability understanding throughout the supply chain. Suppliers that adopt Sabancı Group’s norms in human rights, business ethics, occupational health and safety and protection of employee rights are preferred. Within this scope, in the supply chain, child �Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Aksigorta, AvivaSA, Brisa, Enerjisa, Teknosa, Temsa, Yünsa, labor, forced labor and discrimination are Çimsa, Foundation and Sabancı University. ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability of our operations is directly linked resources in a reviewable, updatable, continu19 to the reduction of environmental impacts ously improvable and developable manner with arising from our organizations. Aware of this a technological infrastructure suitable for a responsibility, we realize sustainable solutions, transparent and systematic comparison that observe our environmental impacts in all our responds to the requirements of sustainability. processes and make efforts to reduce our In addition to the advanced infrastructure we environmental impact. employ, nationally and internationally recognized standards are actively used. Carrying out the Our environmental performance is managed necessities of the standards and complying with internationally recognized managements with them is a process actively managed. Facilsystems. Group companies’ performance is ities belonging to our companies which conduct followed by related units, objectives that aim production operations (Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, continues improvement are determined and Kordsa Global, Temsa, Yünsa) have ISO 14001 actions plans are formed. Sabancı Environmencertification. tal Committee, which is formed so as to include all Group companies, undertakes a significant Our foremost guiding light in reducing our management model role for the Group compaenvironmental impact is our Corporate Envinies. Within the scope of committee’s activironmental Policy. In line with our policy, we ties, sustainable environmental management, form and implement environmental standards compliance with EU’s environmental regulations beyond legal obligations. While we try to carry and climate change topics are actively studied. our performance further with a proactive The Committee, which reports to Holding’s top approach, we target an advanced performance management, closely follows the environmental with knowledge and experience sharing among topics at national and international levels and our facilities. While we reach our objectives, exchange ideas with public authorities, sectoral we give importance to the spreading of the representative organizations and NGOs. common consciousness among our Group. We closely observe the environmental footprint Through Sabancı Environment Portal, environof our operations via competitive technologies. mental performance can be monitored at the During the reporting period, there has been no levels of CEO, SBU and GM within the Busisanctions for non-compliance with environmenness, Company, Sector and Group. Sabancı tal laws and regulations. Environment Portal is prepared using in-Group ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 2015 SABANCI TOPLULUĞU SÜRDÜRÜLEBİLİRLİK RAPORU 20 Our Corporate Environmental Policy • We establish and implement our environmental standards at a level above and beyond the legal obligations. • We aim at perfection through intercompany information and experience sharing. • We adopt the proactive approach in all our operations for an uninterrupted improvement of our environmental performance. • We identify and manage environmental risks. • We try to apply the best available production techniques. • While monitoring environmental developments and converting them into business opportunities, we contribute to sustainability. • We support environmental awareness and information sharing for purposes of social development. Intergroup Environmental Policy Requirements We observe the environmental law and other statutory obligations • While implementing the environmental applications at a level above and beyond the legal obligations, we ensure the control of compliance. We identify our environmental impacts • We identify all our environmental impacts, develop a systematic approach of targeting, programming and monitoring, review the impacts and take improving actions. We manage the intergroup resource utilization • We determine the organizational roles, responsibilities and authorities in infrastructure, technology, finance and human resources, and ensure that our employees develop environmental awareness. We ensure a systematic approach in our applications and create intercompany synergies • We establish our operational standards with a proactive approach and ensure that they are followed by everyone including our employees, suppliers and contractors. • In the course of our operations, we identify any risks endangering the environment using a proactive approach and try to take the measures to minimize them in a timely and thorough manner. We continually try to improve and review our environmental performance • We set and implement targets for energy and waste management and for natural resource consumption. • While aiming at continuous improvement through clean products and clean production technologies, we also take on the environmental responsibility of our products and services. • While reporting our operations unequivocally, we facilitate access to information. 2015 In this regard, in 2015, we have provided 15,103 person*hour environmental trainings to employees in our Group companies, which SABANCI TOPLULUĞU are within the scope of the report. During the reporting period, we have provided 3,132 person*hour SÜRDÜRÜLEBİLİRLİK RAPORU environmental trainings to our suppliers and subcontractors. To improve our environmental performance In 2015, our Group companies within 21 is possible by spreading our environmental the scope of the reporting have realized approach to larger stakeholder groups. For this reason, we carry out studies that would 34,014,571 TL raise environmental awareness and reinforce environmental protection expenditures our environmental approach. In this regard, and investments.4 in 2015, we have provided 15,103 person*hour environmental trainings to employees in our Group companies, which are within the scope of the report.2 In order to reduce our environmental impact throughout our value chain, we share our approach with our suppliers. While the supplier’s audits conducted by Group companies look out for environmental topics, we spread our environmental approach throughout our value chain via trainings we provide to our suppliers and subcontractors. During the reporting period, we have provided 3,132 person*hour environmental trainings to our suppliers and subcontractors.3 2 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Aksigorta, Akçansa, Brisa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Sabancı University, Teknosa, Temsa and Yünsa. 3 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Brisa, Kordsa Global and Sabancı University. 4 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Aksigorta, Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Sabancı University, Temsa and Yünsa. ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT In Sabancı Group, reducing the environmental In 2015, total energy consumption of our 22 impacts arising from our operations is among companies within the scope of reporting was our material responsibilities. In this regard, realized as 61,290,205 GJ5, while 146,279 we realize practices that would improve GJ6 of this amount was supplied from renewour performance. We determine our risks able resources. arising from our world’s common problem, During the reporting period, total emissions climate change; we develop proactive solu(tons) of our companies within the scope of tions for these risks; and realize improvement reporting was as following: and development studies in line with our objectives. Total Amount of Scope 1 Emissions7 11,960,925 As Sabancı Holding, we participate in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is run Total Amount of Scope 2 Emissions8 665,098 by Sabancı University Corporate Governance Forum and sponsored by Akbank and Ernst & Young. Among our Group companies Akbank, Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa and Yünsa participates in CDP Turkey. In this way, we transparently disclose our performance regarding climate change and protection of natural resources and use opportunities to further improve our performance. 5 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Carrefoursa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Sabancı University, Teknosa, Temsa and Yünsa. 6 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Brisa, Enerjisa and Sabancı University. 7 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Akçansa, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa and Yünsa. 8 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa and Yünsa. 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SABANCI CENTER We began facility efficiency studies in Sabancı Group Headquarters in 1994. With the improvement studies we have In Akbank, the renewal of mechanic automarealized, we reduced our electricity 23 tion belonging to the heating, ventilating and consumption by 31.7% against the base air conditioning (HVAC) systems at branches year 1994, saving 148,292 GJ in total. has begun in 2010. The studies, which aim to In natural gas consumption, saving ratio renew the automations in such a manner that was realized as 49% against the base they function in accordance with the internal year 1996, total savings amounting to air quality, have continued in 2015; studies 15,271.1 GJ. were held in 75 branches. In the newly esIn 22 years, total amount of saving is tablished branches, the practice was directly 18,455 ton equivalent CO2 equals to implemented. With GreenBT program, infrast664,452 and 9,005 ton equivalent CO2 ructures were put into use at 100 branches equals to 327,114 trees in return. And in 2015, which optimize energy consumption also water consumption has decreased of idle computers. At these branches, compu44% from 100,600 m3/year to 56,306 ters that sit idle out of working hours can be m3/year, which equals to 434,668 m3’s turned off remotely, reducing energy costs. As of water. of 2015, Akbank started preparatory studies to build a new data center. The new data cenAs a result of the studies initiated in ter, which will feature “free cooling” technology 1999, now 85 frequency converters are that utilizes the cooler outdoor air, is expected being used in the building. Within the to increase energy efficiency significantly. scope of improvement studies for energy saving at the automation systems of the In Aksigorta, LED lighting products and central building, the number of spots that are automation systems are being used for energy controlled was increased to 12,200 from efficiency. With the Green Office Project initi6,400. Exemplary studies were carried ated during the reporting period, 5% energy out in the infrastructure of heating, saving is targeted. cooling and air conditioning systems. The Akçansa has gravitated to low carbon ecostudies carried out since 1994, were nomy with efficient resource management, presented to the views of our stakeholtechnology renewal, emission control and ders in various conferences and business climate friendly technology use, product design publications. and production technologies. In 2015, the ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT company has invested 15 million TL in effiThe project was implemented in 5 facilities at 24 ciency projects, reaching an energy saving of Kordsa Global Turkey, Kordsa Global Brazil, 118,599 GJ and preventing 18,145 ton CO2 Kordsa Global Thailand, Kordsa Global Indoemissions. nesia and Kordsa Global America. At the 5 facilities; pole twist machines were modified With the energy efficiency projects realized in into ABC systems. The annual energy saving 2015, Brisa has reduced its energy consumpat Kordsa Global facilities were realized as tion by 4.1% against 2014. As a result, the to17,331,800 kWh/year. This saving amounts tal amount of energy saving Brisa has achieved to 11,543 CO2 reduced emissions. through energy efficiency projects increased by 13 times as opposed to year 2008. During the At Teknosa, within the scope of electric energy reporting period, an energy saving amounting saving in air-conditioning systems project to 1.64% of production-purpose energy conthat was initiated in 2013, 5 to 7% savings sumption was achieved through practices such were achieved in the electricity consumption as lighting automation, increasing efficiency in of air-conditioning devices at the 135 stores compressed air generation, hydraulic system where the practice was implemented. In the and new generation isolations. 3rd quarter of 2015, an automation project was realized at 2 stores. While energy saving Enerjisa has redesigned process flow in its was aimed with continuous control over lighBandırma I Hydro investment and placed a ting, air-conditioning and socket groups, 15% hydro turbine on water line that returns to electric energy saving was detected in test the sea. With the produced energy, energy processes. consumption need inside the power station was reduced. While the capacity based on Automation studies are continuing to spread renewable energy resources among Enerjisa’s the practice to all stores. Fluorescent lighting installed power in the facility is more than armatures in the stores are being replaced 50%, carbon reduction values created in with electric energy saving led tube lighting renewable energy power station is presented systems and 50% electric energy saving is to carbon markets. reached. In 2015, Kordsa Global has realized an energy In Sabancı University, 180 GJ energy saving efficiency project at Global Site Game Plan. was achieved by changing lighting armatures. 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WATER AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Efficient use of natural resources is becobranches, the Akbank Head Office (HO) and 25 ming more significant every day. For this the Akbank Banking Center (ABC). In additimatter, we are acting with awareness of our on, in the HO and ABC, photocell taps are responsibility as a Group. We attach imporused in WCs where water is used in great tance to the efficient use of natural resouramounts, in order to achieve water savings. ces at our processes and fully comply with At Aksigorta, with the use of water saving the responsibilities addressed by laws and photocell taps and aerators as well as small regulations. volume reservoirs, water savings were acWastewater arising from our processes is hieved. In addition, with Green Office Project, discharged under legal limits. Our withdrawal awareness studies are realized. or discharge processes significantly affect no At Akçansa, water savings were achieved water sources. In necessary situations, enthrough the building of collecting ponds for vironmental impact assessment studies are surface water, usage of collected water for undertaken and actions are taken accordingde-dusting studies and evaluation of sample ly. In 2015, total water use of our companies return water in waste heat energy production within the scope of reporting was 8,492,102 facility as of 2014. m3.9 207.456 m3 water, corresponding to 2.44% of this amount, are recovered or Brisa aims to reduce its water consumpreused.10 tion by 61% in 2020 as against 2008. In this regard, the company realizes efficiency During the reporting period, exemplary Group projects within the scope of its environmental company practices regarding the efficient use management practices. In order to verify its of natural resources were as follows: performance, Brisa has started ISO 14064 With the aim of achieving water savings, Water Footprint Verification studies and has depressurizing systems and aerators that mix completed certification studies in 2014 and water with air are used in the taps Akbank 2015 via an accredited organization. 9 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Sabancı University, Temsa and Yünsa. 10 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Enerjisa and Kordsa Global. ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At Carrefoursa, with use of photocell taps Prominent waste management practices 26 and repair of broken taps during the reporconducted by Group companies during the ting period, water saving was achieved. reporting period are as follows: At Çimsa, surface water in packaging units and In 2015, 1,365 empty toner cartridges colvehicle wash water are settled in settling basins lected at the Head Office and Akbank Banking and reused in coal stock fields for de-dusting Center were sent to the recycling company. purposes. As of 2015, domestic wastewater Electronic devices that are no longer appropgenerated in Eskişehir factory is treated in riate for use according to Akbank’s standards biological wastewater treatment facility, and are sold to companies in Turkey, as scrap or reused as cooling water in processes. second-hand products for recovery of the metals and electronic parts. In addition, some of In Enerjisa, rain water is collected to be used these devices are donated as per the requin pure water production at WTU. Water ests made to the Bank. saving is achieved as condensate coming from factories is directly channeled to boilers In Aksigorta, waste paper stations and waste without passing through WTU. battery boxes are present. Collected materials are being sent to appropriate recycling In Sabancı University, aerators are placed on centers. taps throughout the campus, and an energy saving of 10,000 m3/year was achieved. In accordance with Packaging and Packaging Waste Control Regulations, Brisa is recollecThe common objective of Group companies in ting a certain amount of packaging materials waste management is to ensure continuous imit launches to market via ÇEVKO (Environmenprovement by reducing wastes at their source tal Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and reusing, regaining and recycling wastes. and Recycling Foundation). In 2015, 1,000 In 2015, in companies within the scope of rekg packaging waste was recycled. Again, in porting the total amount of hazardous waste 2015, Brisa collected 153,253 tons of tire was realized as 1.306,5611 tons while total and ensured their recycling. amount of non-hazardous waste was realized as 18.522,412 tons. 11 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Sabancı University, Temsa and Yünsa. 12 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Brisa, Çimsa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Sabancı University, Temsa and Yünsa. In the reporting period, Brisa continued 2015 “Let Cranes Fly Forever” project, which has SABANCI GROUP been conducted in collaboration with WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Foundation) since 2013 to sustain the crane popuSUSTAINABILITY REPORT lation in Anatolia. Works within the scope of the project are carried out in the Çukurova Delta where 95% of some 10,000 cranes spending the winter in our country take shelter. BIODIVERSITY As Sabancı Group companies, when we carry key (World Wildlife Foundation) since 2013 27 out operations, we avoid processes that to sustain the crane population in Anatolia. might have negative impacts over biological Works within the scope of the project are diversity. Within this scope, when we actuacarried out in the Çukurova Delta where 95% lize investments, we act in accordance with of some 10,000 cranes spending the winter Environmental Impact Assessment Directives. in our country take shelter. During the reporWe ensure that possible risks are audited ting period, a wildlife observation camp was and evaluated by accredited organizations. organized for teachers with the collaboration We evaluate possible impacts over biologiof the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs cal diversity and act accordingly. Within the at Adana Akyatan Wildlife Development Field scope of afforestation studies, which we in order contribute to nature conservation realize in order to protect natural life, our awareness through the agency of teachers in companies within the scope of the report has Çukurova Delta, besides observation studies planted 10,072 plants and saplings in 2015. conducted by WWF-Turkey. In line with the importance it attaches to At Çimsa, areas where materials are taken biodiversity, Akçansa has rehabilitated 17.42 during ore production are rehabilitated as hectares area between 2011 and 2015. activities continue, and their suitability for Quarry Life Award, which is an international reutilization is ensured. Additionally, each competition that aims for promotion and year, rehabilitation projects are prepared education regarding biodiversity at quarries, for areas with forest clearance; information is carried out in Turkey by Akçansa. Mines regarding mining activities and studies to be constitute one of the least affected landscaundertaken in rehabilitation projects are compes and habitats by human activities. These municated to related directorates of forestry. unique habitats hosts extraordinary local flora During the reporting period, with the study and fauna. Heidelberg Cement aims to raise held in collaboration with Cultural Heritage the knowledge regarding mines’ biological Protection Board, a protection cordon was value and contribute to its development. formed between the limestone field in Sağlıklı In the reporting period, Brisa continued “Let province, Mersin and the neighboring ancient Cranes Fly Forever” project, which has been Roman Road; withdrawing mining activities conducted in collaboration with WWF-Turoutside the impact area. WORK LIFE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT THE SABANCI GROUP 13 2015 Employees by Gender Employees by Age Employees by Category 1,440 22,554 SABANCI GROUP 16,219 3% 44% 31% 18,573 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36% 35,335 31,541 29,000 69% 61% 56% Male Female Under 30 Between 30-50 White Collar Blue Collar Above 50 BUSINESS CONDUCT AND FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES Our employees have a great role in the susSabancı Group acts conscious of the fact that 28 tainable development of Sabancı Group, we its firm sense of business conduct consticonsider them as the basis of our corporatutes the basis for their corporate reputation. te success. We work to provide a skill and Sabancı Group conducts all its relations with development-oriented, safe and healthy work stakeholders within the frame of written code environment which is equal and fair, without of ethics. any discrimination and full of diversity for our Sabancı Holding’s Ethics Committee operemployees. We ensure that people with difated by the Chairman is the top authority ferent beliefs and views who share common responsible for investigating and solving the goals in a positive work environment work complaints and notifications of any violation of together in harmony. the code of ethics. In Sabancı Group, where We adopt a human resources management different companies of various activities and that guarantees our employees to fully benefit sizes come together, all companies accept from personal rights, protects their privacy the Code of Business Conduct-SA ETIK as and prioritizes the balance between private their main reference text for their human resources practices. SA-ETIK is prepared lives and work lives, and we form principles, in accordance to the Universal Declaration policies and systems for this objective. We of Human Rights, Fundamental Employment regularly evaluate our human resources Principles of the International Labor Orgapolicies. nization, and United Nations Global ComAs Sabancı Holding, we aim to be a privileged pact. Holding and Group policies aim 100% group for trustworthy, sensitive, ethical, open accordance to the SA-ETIK, therefore these to change and long-term thinking, market-oare the basic principles in all their activities. riented, innovative and collaborative individuDisciplinary actions and precautions in case als to work with. of breaches of the Code of Business Conduct are defined openly within SA-ETIK. Sabancı Holding as a signatory of the UN Global Compact and a supporter of the Fundamental Employment Rights of the International Labor Organization, adopts necessary 13 Consists of data obtained from Group companies within the scope of reporting. 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT policies and actions against discrimination and maintained; to train their employees on 29 at work. It cannot make use of child labor the code of ethics; to submit questions, comand forced labor, respects the rights of their plaints and notifications to the Ethics Comemployees to become a member of any union mittee; to ensure that business processes and puts efforts to make these principles are organized so that it will minimize the risks applicable to their value chain. In Sabancı related to the code of ethics, and to apply Group 17.55514 employees in total are under the necessary methods and approaches that collective labor agreement. ensure compliance with the code of ethics. Human Resources Departments of Sabancı Sabancı Holding works to create and maintain Holding and Group companies are respona fair work environment in Sabancı Group. In sible for briefing employees about the code this objective, there is the “Policy of Creating of ethics, delivering trainings periodically to and Maintaining a Fair Working Environment” ensure clarity of the rules, and continuouswhich embodies fundamental principles of the ly communicating these to the employees. Holding on fair working practices. Under this Ensuring that those newly employed at the policy, Sabancı Holding is in compliance with all Holding and the Company will read the code the relevant applicable laws and regulations on of ethics, sign the Statement of Employment, employment and work life. In processes of huand renew their statements by signing the man resources, it does not act in any way that Code of Business Conduct Compliance Form would discriminate race, gender, language, at the beginning of every year are among the belief, religion, political thought, age, physical responsibilities of Human Resources. disability, and similar other status. It ensures that all practices of human resources such as Sabancı Holding clearly defines the roles remuneration, reward, promotion and social and responsibilities of employees under the rights etc. are fair. SA-ETIK. The directors of Sabancı Group have extra responsibilities in addition to their responsibilities as defined for the employees İş Etiği Kurallarına ve SA-ETİK hakkında under the SA-ETIK. The directors of Sabancı detaylı bilgiye https://www.sabanci. Group are responsible to ensure that a com/tr/sabanci-toplulugu/is-etigi-kurallari/is-etigi-kurallari/i-16 adresinden corporate culture and working environment ulaşabilirsiniz. which support the code of ethics are created 14 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akbank, Akçansa, Brisa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Temsa, Yünsa, Çimsa. WORK LIFE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Sabancı Holding aims to create diversity and Holding supports domestic and international 30 equal opportunities at work. Group comorganizations, and applies pioneer practices panies embrace diversity and differences in this field. In this respect, since 2011 the in processes of recruitment, selection and Holding is one of the signatories of United placement, performance evaluation and Nations Declaration of Women’s Empowerpromotion. ment Principles which consist of principles to guide and strengthen women’s position in Today, Sabancı Group employs 757 physicallabor force and society. As the first Turkly disabled employees in total of 123 women ish company who signed this declaration, and 634 men.15 Sabancı Holding stated that it adopts and Female employee ratio in management level supports women-men equality at work, and is one of the primary indicators followed by leads many companies on this topic. Sabancı Group. Since 2015, 31% of all emAt the same time, Sabancı Holding is a memployees and 23% of the administrative team ber of “Equality Platform at Work” under are women in Sabancı Group. Women labor the supervision of the Ministry of Family and force rates in Sabancı Group are two times Social Policies that is created under the more than Turkey’s average. umbrella of World Economic Forum (WEF) to Promotion mechanism is actively used in minimize the gender gap within the economorder for female employees to participate in ic field in Turkey. For this objective, Sabancı management positions. The total number of Holding undersigned the “Declaration of employees promoted in reporting period is Equality at Work” on behalf of the business 5,073 composed of 2,654 female and 2,419 world. This platform aims for women to be male employees. In other words 52.3% of more involved in labor force, be part of decipromoted employees are female while 47.7% sion mechanisms, benefit from opportunities of them are male employees. In total, 8% of and resources, increase women within the our total employees are promoted while this labor force in Turkish business world in the ratio increases to 8.9% without our subconnext three years and decrease the gender tractor employees. gap up to 10%. With this declaration, SaIn order for women to participate in work bancı Group is committed to voluntarily comlife and to increase gender equality, Sabancı plying with the principles which will eliminate 15 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Teknosa, Temsa, Yünsa, Çimsa, Sabancı Foundation, University and Holding. 2015 5,073 SABANCI GROUP The total number of employees promoted in reporting period is composed of 2,654 female and 2,419 male employees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In other words 52.3% of promoted employees are female while 47.7% of them are male employees. Declaration of Equality at Work • We respect human rights. • We treat all our employees based on the gender-based discrimination, transparently fundamental principle of equality. 31 reporting the progress made to achieve this • We ensure the health, safety, and goal, and leading Turkey to spread these well-being of both our female and male principles across the country. employees without discriminating between genders. • We especially encourage the female labor force participation. Women’s Empowerment Principles: • We define the equal opportunity criteria • To create senior level corporate leaderfor women and men under all our human resources policies. ship for the gender equality, • We act under the policy of equal pay for • To treat women and men fairly at equal work, and follow it. work – respecting and supporting the • We install the necessary mechanisms for human rights and non-discrimination making equal use of career opportunities. principle, • We create and follow up the training • To ensure the health, safety, and well-bepolicies, and especially pay attention to ing of all female and male employees, female participation. • We create such working environments • To encourage the training, professionand practices that maintain the balance al training and career development of between work lives and family lives. women, • We disclose the developments related • To adopt such practices as initiative deto our plans and achievements on equal velopment, supply chain and marketing opportunity through internal and exterthat empower women, nal communication. • We ensure that the declaration spreads • To enhance equality through social initiainto all our spheres of influence (our tives and defense, business partners, our suppliers). • To measure and to publicly report the • We deploy a leadership team at our developments to ensure gender equality. company for the follow-up of considerations involved in the declaration. WORK LIFE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Sabancı Group aims to improve personal Mentorship Program is carried out for 7 years 32 development and organizational success to support new leader development proby investing in the skills of employees. The cesses. In the reporting period, 61 mentors Group make a special effort for creating an and 61 mentees were participated to the environment of development and presenting program. Within the scope of program, 15 opportunities to constantly improve employSabancı Group managers come together with ees and increase their existing potential, Sabancı University students. regularly following employee performance Future Forums Initiative aims to support Saand making communications, creating a bancı Group’s sustainable growth target and qualified, successful, global labor force and builds a management understanding that puts leader pool by establishing a culture where sector and customer oriented point of view into managers are responsible for employee the focus of every business activity. Fundamendevelopment. Group companies organize tal trainings are structured in order to address several employee development programs. different target groups such as senior managOn the other hand, they give feedback to ers, mid-level managers, and marketing speemployees by effective performance evalucialists. In 2015, 17 employees from 5 Group ation practices. In this objective, during the companies were attended to the program. reporting period, 63% of Holding and Group SA LAB Program was initiated this year for employees are subjected to a performance mid-level managers. The program aims to inevaluation process.16 crease awareness about the returns of “value Young Talents of Sabacı Program, carried out oriented management”, to make participants since 2006, to track and steer career develto understand roles and responsibilities in opment of young employees with high potenimplementing value creating strategies, to tial. The program aims to raise managers increase their sensitivity about the importhat will enable Sabancı Group to reach its tance of people management and leadership targets in line with its new vision and stratein corporate performance development, to gies. In 2015, 43 talented young employees make them focus “Business Intelligence” were graduated from the program with the enables them to see the whole picture and experience to run company via simulation and their contribution to it, to enable them to hold networking opportunities. mirror both to themselves and their compa16 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Aksigorta, Brisa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Teknosa, Temsa, Yünsa, Çimsa and Sabancı University. 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AT SABANCI GROUP COMPANIES ny with manager laboratory application. 16 Akbank, through briefings published by the 33 managers from 10 Group companies were Career Maps application in the corporal attended to the first program. portal, they inform employees on the topics of career and work families. Human ReSALT Program has been carried out more sources Team, which is assigned to support than 10 years to develop leaders of Sabancı employees, can find their member’s contact Group at Vice President and Director levels. information and consult for their career develIn 2015, 12 managers were attended to the opment. program. Akçansa, aims the constant improvement SA-EXE Program is carried out at Vice Presiof managers on their way to leadership with dent and Director levels. 14 managers were annual Leadership Meetings, Leadership Style participated to the program, supported by Survey, Organizational Climate Survey and simulations, that invests the future managers Leadership Development Programs. They are E-Executive MBA Program supports to train supported by the development of managers, managers with vision and multi-faceted overdevelopment programs for various needs view of company management. (evaluation practices such as coaching, Corporate Governance Program is carried out mentorships, “Kariyer Çınarı”, “Positive Leadtowards upper level management. 85 managership=Positive Climate” leadership developers from Group companies were participated ment programs, development and evaluation to the program. center, 360 degrees). Value-oriented Manager Program aims to Aksigorta, there are development, diverse provide accumulation of knowledge for actividevelopment, leadership and talent manageties such as the efficient management of main ment programs under the roof of Aksigorta activities in the value chain, firm management, Academy. Leadership Academy covers the strategies, structure of organization, human educational activities of mid and high-level resources management, research and develmanager development and their development opment, and purchases. activities. Talent Management Academy feaWORK LIFE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT tures development and monitoring programs sales competence. Employees who join the 34 for the improvement of labor and administratraining are informed about sales processes, tive competence of employees. Development sales methods, customer and bank relations Academy offers personal development trainmanagement. ings, technical trainings, product trainings, Brisa, Leadership Workshop and Leaderconference and seminars for employees in all ship Development Program are carried out levels. to improve leadership competency of mid AvivaSA, with “Living Talent” system, aims to level managers, supervisors and foremen. create an environment where employees feel In 2015, 41 managers joined Leadership valued, satisfied with the work they do and Workshop and 39 managers benefited from gain competitive skills. Living Talent consists Leadership Development Program. of two processes: goal assignment and perEnerjisa, carries out the Sales School in formance management evaluation, developorder to increase customer and sales focus ment planning and career management. –which is one of the most important goals AvivaSA made a satisfaction survey on formof the sales departmentand improve their ing the talent management process in 2014 knowledge on technical subjects. In this proand got 40 new suggestions from focus gram which supports both personal and techstudy groups. In 2015, these suggestions nical development of employees, there are were executed, 360 degrees competence in-class trainings, e-learning, case and group evaluation process was redesigned based on studies, games and simulation practices. the new model, and 80 managers joined the With Young Energy Program, Enerjisa aims evaluation. that employees use their potentials in the With the First Step to Managing Program, most efficient way. In this program where EnAvivaSA aims to train managers from the erjisa’s values, strategic goals and leadership Corporation. In this 1 year program, there models are the basis, practices such as perare in-class trainings as well as on-the-job sonality inventories, 360 degree evaluations, trainings, e-learning and video content. conversations with executives and mentorship DREAM, TRUST, Sales Ideas Training are are organized. organized for sales teams to improve their Envision Platform designed for high level 2015 Temsa, supports personal and occupational development of SABANCI GROUP employees within its training and development programs under the roof SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Temsa Academy. executive teams aims to create an organizalogues, adopt effective coaching and create 35 tional climate where a common leadership opportunities to utilize coaching tools and language is used. In the Platform, leaders are practices. guided to improve necessary competencies “ULEAD” program is a practice which Teknofor leading their groups in the most influential sa applies to improve leadership competency and efficient way. of assistant managers, managers and direcKordsa Global, runs three programs; “Fountors. In this program, the main purpose for dations of Leadership” for executive level participants is to show the right leadership employees, “Next Generation” for experts, approaches, effectively manage the trans“Global Mentorship” for experts and newformation, and gain management skills while ly assigned managers. While managers they benefit from the knowledge of practical enhance their organization creating skills, and theoretical performance. employees’ relation management skills are Temsa, supports personal and occupational also improved, and personal and occupational development of employees within its training development of both managers and employand development programs under the roof of ees are supported. Temsa Academy. Temsa manages its training Teknosa, offers long-term or part-time activities with 4 groups: in-Temsa trainings, working opportunities for new graduates Human Resources development plan trainand current university students who continings, technical trainings, Sabancı Holding ue their education in Teknosa Master Team trainings. (TMT) Development Program, and ensures employment within Young Talent Program for candidates who complete the program successfully. With “Positive Change: Strapping Leader” program for manager and chief employees, Teknosa aims to provide better communication skills and give fundamental skills and competence to make effective coaching diaWORK LIFE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DEVELOPING AND IMPROVING THE ORGANIZATION As well as investing in the skills of its emgoals are minimized and integrated to the 36 ployees, Sabancı Holding follows their perforgoals of individuals and teams, and their mance carefully. In Sabancı Group, we use competencies are managed to this objective transparent and fair evaluation processes for the whole year. Akçansa performance where talent and success is appreciated and management process starts at the beginrewarded. ning of the year by determining personal and corporal goals through the participation of Sabancı Human Resources aim to continuemployees and managers, and the tracking ously review the organization, human resystem continues until the end of the year. sources, systems and processes, to monitor the performance of highly talented employees Brisa designs the performance management and to direct their skills toward the future, to system by taking every employee into considperform the assignment, transfer, and rotaeration. In this objective, potential, back-up tion practices in the Group for the developand restoration maps are established and ment of employees and the organization. organization scenarios are planned. With the Development Center, in the process of proEvaluation of the innovative ideas of employmotion, Brisa ensures that each employee is ees have great importance to improve and evaluated towards strong development fields strengthen the organization. A suggestion and gets feedback. In 2015, 37 employees system collecting information about the joined Development Center and got feedback. innovative ideas of employees and supporting employee participation provides great beneTeknosa has competencies for work famfit for reaching sustainability goals in Group ilies and levels that are predetermined for companies and increasing the competition. In each duty. Work and competency goals are 2015, 16.193 suggestions were gathered followed constantly throughout the year and from the companies in reporting and 6.027 used for determining the necessary trainings of them are executed.17 in accordance with performance management outputs, pricing and career planning. Akçansa performance management system consists of a process where the company 17 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Avivasa, Brisa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Temsa, Yünsa and Çimsa. 2015 Sabancı Golden Collar Awards Sabancı Group organizes Sabancı Golden Collar Awards since 2009 in SABANCI GROUP order to encourage the sharing of good practices and to reward of employees. 13 companies in Value Creating Category, 18 projects in Innovation and Corporal Entrepreneurship, 11 companies in Equality at Work, 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT companies with 11 projects in Market Focus, 13 companies in Investment in Humans Category, 10 companies with 19 projects in Digitalization, 13 projects in Efficiency Category and 4 projects in Sinergy Category joined the program during the reporting period. EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING In Sabancı Holding practices to increase place is to balance work life and private life. 37 loyalty and motivation of employees are Sabancı Group companies develop practices applied with the belief that the employees where employees can have more time for who are satisfied with their work life will be their private life and they organize off-hour more successful and creative in their jobs. In activities. this end, developing and expanding an open, participatory, and transparent culture which One of the most important topics to balance values diversity and creativity is taken into work life and private life is maternity leave consideration as well as the feedbacks and for employees. In the reporting period, the expectations of employees. Regular satisrate of employees who completed their faction surveys continuously measure the maternity leave and came back to work in satisfaction levels of the employees. Sabancı Holding, Akçansa, Aksigorta, Temsa Akçansa, rewards employees and teams who and Çimsa is 100; this rate is 97% in Akcarry out high performance. Awards and bank; 86% in Avivasa, Enerjisa, Yünsa and recognition practices such as “A Night From Sabancı University. Akçansa”, “Special Performance Prizes”, “ExAkçansa, organizes sportive, cultural and soecutive Committee Special Accolades”, “Year cial activities such as Akçansa Club World, OHS Leaders Award”, “Team Awards”, “Year’s Suggestion Stars Awards” and “Seniority Sabancı Olympics, Dragon Boat, Work SafeAccolades” are given. ly+Live Healthy Eurasia Marathon following the suggestions and expectations of emEnerjisa, guides executives for increasing ployees. In Akçansa Club World, employees employee loyalty through Anahtar search enlaunched the “One Spark Club” for social gine application where suggestions, articles, support in 2015 in addition to Underwater videos and human resources practices take place. Club, Photography Club, Bicycle Club, Travel Club activities. On the other hand, “Family Workshops” where employees can join with Work Life-Private Life Balance their children are organized. One of the main necessities for employee Aksigorta, supports female managers with efficiency and creating a satisfactory work WORK LIFE 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT “Leader Women at Work” training and Brisa, presents sports activities in their 38 coaching processes to protect their work factory facilities, they offer tennis courts, life and private life balance. There is a football fields, table tennis, fitness, swimbreast-feeding room specially prepared for ming pool to support the sportive lives of nursing mothers. With basketball, table tenemployees. nis, bowling, football, theatre, photography, Çimsa, offers side benefits of exchange in diving, social activity clubs, sportive, social “Çimsa Store”. Therefore employees can and cultural development of employees are form their side benefits however they want. supported. Çimsa puts an effort to keep the work life AvivaSA, has 10 social activity clubs to enand private life balance by organizing semirich the social live of employees. These clubs nars with experts where employees can join continue their diving, dance, sailing, travel with their families, picnics in summer, New and gurme, photography, music, theatre, Year dinners, communion meetings in factonature, pet club activities; and trainings in ries and other social activities. these clubs are paid by AvivaSA. Kordsa Global, has women’s club, social reAlso corporal competitions such as karting, sponsibility club, sports, travelling and social swimming receive great participation from activity clubs for employees so they can fulfill companies; bowling, football and basketball their hobbies with joy and ease. tournaments are organized within companies. Teknosa, supports employees’ social and In order to strengthen the relations among sportive life with Football & Paintball Touremployees and increase their communicanament, Teknosa Volunteer Activities, Tekno tion AvivaSA designed a mobile communiLife Pilates and Yoga Club, Bicycle Club. cation application and presented it to all Temsa, organizes football, basketball, tennis, employees. Thanks to this application, emtable tennis, voleyballl tournaments with the ployees can share photos, make comments participation of Temsa employees in their and stay informed about their colleagues’ sports facilities in factory fields. posts. 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Sabancı University, offers membership Sabancı Group believes that every employee 39 opportunities for psychological consultancy has a right to work in a healthy and safe enviservices and sports fields to employees as ronment where the conditions are honorable. much as their students. Also, every seminar Providing safety to employees and protecting in the university is open to the participathem are work priorities. In order to contribution of employees and their families. In the te to the most important factor -“the protectireporting period, “Conscious Parenthood” on of their health”for employees so they can seminars were organized for employees. live a quality and successful life, the Holding and companies launch healthy life programs. Yünsa offers flexible employment and home-office models to provide a balance All the Group Companies aim at zero industribetween the work and private lives of the al accidents and occupational diseases throuemployees. Employees who work in factogh their Occupational Health and Safety Poliries can utilize the hair-dresser service for cies. At Sabancı Group, OHS Management is free and get help for their personal care, undertaken with the goal of zero occupational so one of their spending is decreased. With accident and disease and within the scope of the gym in their social facilities and pilates the law no. 6331 Occupational Health and course in the company Yünsa supports a Safety Law, prepared upon the directives of healthy and quality lifestyle for its employees. World Health Organization and International Labor Organization. Furthermore, OHSAS 18001 standards are applied in the fields of risk assessment, machine safety, work permits system and subcontractor management. Turkish Standards Institution’s (TSE) standards are used in the hygiene measurements and the equipment controls as part OHS. OHS compliance is also audited as part of ISO quality controls that Group companies receive depending on their field of operation. Also, WORK LIFE 2015 The total number of the members of Health and Safety 57 and 26 of which are worker SABANCI GROUP Committees are representatives. 40.768 Group During the reporting period SUSTAINABILITY REPORT employees had 164.744 man-hour, 18.855 supplier employees got 20.505 men-hour OHS training. occupational health safety obligations under the zero occupational accident goal. Occupati40 legal regulations and contracts are practiced onal accident, disease and near-miss statistifully. cs are recorded and reported to the Holding by companies. Besides Sabancı Group employees, there are OHS trainings to increase occupational health and safety awareness of contractors. In this Accident Rates objective, during the reporting period 40.768 Sabancı Holding 3.5 Group employees had 164.744 man-hour, 18.855 supplier employees got 20.505 Akçansa 6.5 men-hour OHS training.18 Brisa 0.8 In Sabancı Group, within legal regulations Enerjisa 10.5 there are Occupational Health and Safety Temsa 1.88 Rules in accordance with the number of Yünsa 21.36 employees. OHS rules work independently and report to Sabancı Holding regularly. Sin22 companies -18 Group companies and 4 ce the reporting period, 26 OHS Committesubcontractors operate within the scope es function in the Group and there are 106 of Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding central admiemployee representatives. Total members of nistration building Occupational Health and OHS Committees are 190.19 Safety organization. In 9 of those companies Latest technologies and practices are folOccupational Health and Safety Committees lowed and integrated to work processes with are available. 18 Consolidated employee data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Avivasa, Enerjisa, Kordsa Global, Teknosa, Temsa, Yünsa, Çimsa, the Foundation, University and Holding; supplier data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Brisa, Kordsa Global, Teknosa, Temsa, Yünsa, the Foundation, University and Holding. 19 Consolidated data consists of data obtained from Akçansa, Aksigorta, Avivasa, Brisa, Kordsa Global, Temsa, Yünsa, the Foundation and Holding. 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. Council 41 functions as supreme board. Supreme board Akbank, pays great attention to comply with legal regulations concerning the meets monthly while other councils meet on occupational health and safety, an Oca quarterly basis. cupational Health and Safety Committee The total number of the members of Health has been constituted at the Head Office and Safety Committees are 57 and 26 of and Banking Center. The Representative which are worker representatives. 841 empof the Employer, the Occupational Health Specialist, the Company Physician, the loyees were trained within the scope of this HR/Social Affairs Representative, and organization. the Employee Representative attend to Within the scope of emergency preparedness the committee meetings held quarterly. scenario, 2 earthquake and 24 fire evacuatiAkçansa, The R5 Application is about on drills are carried out each year. Thus, both that all the employees conduct and resystem controls and employee preparedness cord their own risk assessments before are performed. In this context, Search and each event within their business process, with the motto “5 Minutes for Rescue, Fire Fighting and First Aid trainings Risks”. The objective is to encourage the provided to 294 employees. effective individual participation in OHS Within the scope of employee health protecpractices, and to ensure that employees tion pre-job health examinations and periodic define the occupational hazards from the perspective of Occupational Safety, and inspections are made. Flu vaccination is appassess the risks and take actions. lied based on employee demand. Employees are informed about dieases and prevention Brisa, offers trainings on six main topics methods via Saport “Health Corner”. in Manufacturing Education Center which is established to increase awareness of occupational health and safety for employees. In the reporting period, in the scope of “Occupational Safety Simulation” trainings, 744 employees and blue-collar employees were trained. WORK LIFE 2015 SABANCI GROUP Additionally, within the scope of the program, gender equality training will be provided to SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sabancı Group employees. EMPLOYEE HEALTH PRACTICES AT THE SABANCI GROUP COMPANIES Akbank, informs employees on epidemics or aid, office ergonomy, chronic pain, diabet 42 important diseases on “Health Corner” in Akand nutrition, animal bites, work place temsandık website. Also, e-mail announcements perature, tick-crimeancongo fever disease, are done when there is an emergency. smoking and health, obesity, exercise. Akçansa, with My Neighborhood Project, orTemsa, examines employees in routine ganizes private training sessions on women’s periods. In order to give awareness about health, child raising, parenthood. Akçansa health, Temsa organizes hygiene, interventiemployees are regularly examined by the on in emergency, occupational diseases and company doctor. Also, from time to time protection methods, fighting with psycho-someetings about ergonomi, quitting smoking cial factors, first aid certificate trainings. are held in the company. Through the portal, employees gain awareness on current and important diseases and Aksigorta, in 2015, continues its 2-phase educational practices are organized. occupational health and safety trainings which began in 2014 and in this objective they offer in-class trainings as well as online trainings for employees. AvivaSA, informs employees about health protection and health risks within the scope of occupational health and safety trainings. Employees, who demand, can benefit from flu vaccine. Çimsa, organizes health awareness trainings for employees and their families. Employees go through medical examinations in every 6 months. Enerjisa, gives trainings on topics of occupational health, occupational diseases, first SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sabancı Volunteers Program Sabancı Holding aims to act with an awareSabancı Volunteers Program which is a 43 ness of social responsibility in all its opesocial responsibility program that consists rations with its values including modesty, of all Sabancı Group, aims to initiate our respect for people and closeness to public; employees to lead programs from projewe consider this responsibility an essential ct development to encouraging them for and indispensable part of our management volunteering. Volunteer teams in the Group mentality. We expect all Group companies formed, information for regional meetings to cover social development as a prioritized organized and projects where our employees part of their agendas, and consider contriare the leaders launched. In the first phase, buting to democracy, human rights and susprogram details will be given to team leaders tainable development in our wide operational throughout regional meetings in 40 cities of geography as one of our main purposes. Turkey. In the meetings, trainings for risky stages of business such as project selectiOur activities are not only about engaging soon-development, funding, reporting given, cial, environmental and economic elements then projects designed by team leaders and responsibly, but we also design and realize their teams supported. The theme of the projects and practices within our principle first three years of the program is “woman”, “Sharing what we earn from these lands in the coming periods, “youth” and “physically with these lands.” Through Sabancı Foundatidisabled” -which are other main study fields on, Sakıp Sabancı Museum, Sabancı Univerof Sabancı Foundationwill be added to exissity and Group companies, we contribute to ting projects. Additionally, within the scope social development with various projects on of the program, gender equality training will topics of education, culture-art, health and be provided to Sabancı Group employees. sports. In every project and practice within our corporal social responsibility and policies, we predicate on stakeholder volunteAll details of Sabancı Group Corporal Soering, we ensure the sustainability of our cial Responsibility Policies and Principles are available at the link: https://www. practices by encouraging our stakeholders sabanci.com/tr/sosyal-sorumluluk/sosand our employees to voluntarily join our yal-sorumluluk-ilkelerimiz/kurumsal-sosyal-sorumluluk-politikasi-ve-ilkeleri/i-3336 projects. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SABANCI FOUNDATION Established in 1974 to institutionalize lasting works and completed a project to 44 charities of Sabancı Family and to regulate turn Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University Topimplementations, Sabancı Foundation is the hane-i Amire Culture and Art Center to be leading institution in the field of strategic accessible by disabled individuals. The Founcharity. The foundation -where the resourdation also continued its nonstop support ces are created by charities from Sabancı for education over 41 years of activity, also Family and Sabancı Group companies and during the reported period. Since its the income generated by the foundation’s establishment, Sabancı Foundation provided assetsaims to support the positive ecoscholarships to over 42 thousand students nomic impact area of Sabancı Group by its and during the reporting period it provided social and cultural development practices. scholarship for almost 1.500 students, 400 of who were new ones. As one of the biggest family foundation in Turkey, Sabancı Foundation acts with the Sabancı Foundation acts in order to spread principle to “ensure the potential deveculture-art activities, encourage the produlopment of society and make a difference ction of contemporary artworks and proin people’s lives by creating authentic, tect traditional values; the Foundation also innovative and permanent values to pass continued its activities during the reporting the awareness of social responsibility on period. Approximately 490 thousand people to next generations.” In this objective, the have visited Mardin City Museum and Dilek foundation organizes activities on lasting Sabancı Gallery since the day they were works, education, scholarships, awards, established in 2009 by Sabancı Foundation culture and art; in recent years with progand by the time of the reporting period. The rams developed on “women”, “youth” and Foundation continued to lend its support for “disabled”, it accompanies the sustainable the State Theatres – Sabancı International development of the operational geography. Adana Theatre Festival, which reached close to an audience of 1 million people in Since its establishment, the Foundation put 17 years. Since 2006 Mehtap Ar Children’s its signature on 120 lasting works for the Theatre has staged nearly 3,500 plays in public in 78 provinces throughout Turkey. 81 provinces and 231 boroughs reaching In the reporting period, the Foundation close to 1 million children in total. In 2014 supported the maintenance of 28 of these 2015 Sabancı Foundation was rewarded to the “Grand Prize” within Changemakers Program in GolSABANCI GROUP den Compass Prizes organized by Public Relations Association of Turkey. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT With the activities organized for the Foundation’s 40th year, Sabancı Foundation was rewarded the “Grand Prize” in the “Anniversary” category of PR News that awards best communication campaigns of the world. Sabancı Foundation also supported Inter45 national Ankara Music Festival, Metropolis Ancient City Archaeological Excavations and Turkish Youth Philharmonic Orchestra (TUGFO) led by conductor Cem Mansur. 121 LASTING WORKS Sabancı Group companies support policies and studies which make sports a part of 1 UNIVERSITY life and promote awareness about sports in society while encouraging sports and sportspeople through the awards they give. 37 EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS Now as a tradition, the Foundation rewards Turkish athletes who win Gold medal in 20 DORMITORIES Olympic Games, Paralympics and Special Olympics Summer Games. In the reporting period, the Foundation supported the Integ16 TEACHERS’ HOUSES ration Project of the Dilek Sabancı Special Athletes Association of Turkey (TÖSSED) 16 CULTURAL CENTERS Fund which aims to bring disabled indivi17 duals and unimpeded individuals through sports activities. SOCIAL FACILITIES Grants to encourage those who have the power to change tomorrows and make a 5 HEALTH FACILITIES difference in people’s lives, Sabancı Foundation organizes local management partnerships with NGOs and seminars. These 5 SPORTS FACILITIES activities were also continued during the reporting period. The first phase of the first 4 LIBRARIES of these programs, United Nations Partner Programs were held by Sabancı Foundation in 6 cities between 2006 and 2010; GRANT PROGRAMS IN 72 CITIES SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sabancı University Sabancı Foundation founded Sabancı University in 1999 and today it is a world university with an interdisciplinary educational structure, quality oriented management system and liberal institutional culture. In the authentic educational system of its academic success, “Common Foundations Development Program” is the base instead of the commonly known “academic department” system. In the first year the the second phase “United Nations Joint 46 students take the same courses together Program for the Development of Women’s and develop their knowledge infrastructuHuman Rights” was held between 2012 and res, capacities for thinking in a critical and 2015 in 11 pilot cities. In the scope of this interdisciplinary fashion. After that, every program, there are three programs that student is free to pick the introductory complete each other with the titles “Gender courses for the programs they wish to conResponsive Budgeting Initiative”, “Sabancı tinue and pick their preferred diploma progFoundation Grant Program” and “Purple ram from among 13 programs available. Certificate Program”. In these 9 years of these two programs, the Foundation toucIn the reporting period, Sabancı Univerhed the lives of 350 thousand people. sity protected its place in the first 500 prestigious institutions like Times Higher As part of the Gender Responsive BudgeEducation and QS. Also Times Higher ting initiative, 329 municipal staff and civil Education (THE) chose Sabancı University society representatives from 11 provinces as the 13th and the first Turkish university received training while within the scope of in the list of Best 100 Universities under the Sabancı Foundation Grant Program, 20 50 as they evaluated the rising young projects from 9 provinces received grants. universities. At the same period, the As for the Purple Certificate Program, 676 university reached first rank by receiving high school teachers from 11 provinces the highest point among all universities received gender equality trainings and 139 in “Entrepreneurship and Innovation of them received Purple Certificates at the Index” which is produced by the Ministry end of the program. of Science, Industry and Technology in Sabancı Social Development Grant Program order to determine rankings of scientific which aims to support civil society organiand technological research competency, zations in promoting social development to intellectual property pool, cooperation and achieve equality and the active participation interaction, entrepreneurship and innovaof women, youth and persons with disabilition culture, economic contribution and ties also continued their works during the commercial aspects. reporting period. The program which started in 2008 received 1.674 applications Hosting a rich collection, SSM 2015 embodies a multi-faceted SABANCI GROUP museum approach through its international temporary exhibitions, conservation units, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT exemplary training programs, screenings, concerts, conferences and seminars. SABANCI UNIVERSITY SAKIP SABANCI MUSEUM (SSM) and among them 54 projects were selected Mansion with Horse which was bought by 47 with 9,5 million TL and applied in 72 cities. Hacı Ömer Sabancı in 1951 and have been 46 completed projects have touched to the Sakıp Sabancı’s permanent residence, was lives of more than 90 thousand people. allocated to Sabancı University for the purpose of being a museum. Opened in Changemakers Program, is designed to 2002, the museum’s exhibition areas were highlight the stories and efforts of those enlarged in 2005 to comply with the interwho make significant contributions to socinational technical standards. Hosting a rich al development in Turkey and inspire them. collection, SSM embodies a multi-faceted Within the scope of the program which museum approach through its international began in 2009, selected videos of voluntary temporary exhibitions, conservation units, participants are published in the website of exemplary training programs, screenings, Changemakers and social media accounts, concerts, conferences and seminars. thus social awareness is supported by encouraging sensitive and active citizenship. Sponsored by respected institutions and Since the beginning of the program, 1.500 holdings, SSM continued its international applications are received, 135 selected exhibition projects in the reporting period Changemaker videos have been watched to bring thousands of artlovers to meet more than 3,6 million times. artists and approaches together. Sabancı Holding as the main sponsor and Pilar, Joan Miró Foundation and Museum in Barcelona, Miró Family Collection Successió Miró in Mallorca and Jean Miró Foundation as the collaborators, “Joan Miró. Women, Birds, Stars” exhibition was hosted in SSM until March 8, 2015. Certain works and personal effects loaned by the private collection of Miró Family were exhibited in the SSM for the very first time in the world. Again in 2015 April-July, SSM hosted an exhibition called “Buluşma….Reunion” which SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT consisted of various disciplinary artworks topics of Philosophy, Art History, Architec48 from painting to photography, documentary ture and Mythology. In another traditional to installation by 20 artists from Sabancı practice, free yoga lessons from experts University Visual Arts and Visual Communicontinued to take place in SSM gardens. cation Design Program. In the last exhiIn the reporting period, SSM garden conbition of the year, SSM hosted the works tinued to host important artists and their of Otto Piene, Heinz Mack and Günther bands in IKSV – Istanbul Music and Jazz Uecker, the three founding artists of the Festivals. “The Seed”, which is an internatibiggest art network of 20th century, ZERO. onal culture-art and meeting facility center In this exhibition organized with the collabowithin the museum, also continued to host ration of Akbank Sanat, works of some of classical music virtuoso’s with Istanbul the most important artists of 20th century, Recitals. Yves Klein, Piero Manzoni and Lucio Fontana were also hosted. Training programs for children and adults in SSM continued in the reporting period. Within the SSM Children Education Programs taking place for the whole year including vacation periods, special group workshop for children were organized as well as exhibitions of museum collections and others. Turkcell Platinum Families with Strollers -which began within the reporting periodaims to give a special art experience to mothers and their babies. In the scope of Adult Education Programs organized with the distinguished academicians of Istanbul University, Istanbul Bilgi University, Marmara University and Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University, garden lectures are held on the 2015 TeknoSA, aims to encourage SABANCI GROUP technology literacy by giving free computer courses to SUSTAINABILITY REPORT women within Technology for Women project since 2007. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRACTICES IN GROUP COMPANIES As well as social responsibility projects and awareness among youth for a better future 49 practices by the leadership of Sabancı Founand for this objective, they provide several dation, Sabancı Group companies design and social responsibility projects. With Concrerealize projects and practices in accordance te Ideas Project Competition, the company to the expectations of their stakeholders with collected young people’s projects to increase whom they share sectoral and geographic awareness on cement and realize applicable, conditions. Group companies contribute to creative, market-oriented and interdisciplisocial development with their social responsinary ideas. Since the beginning, the project bility principles and policies as well as studies managed to meet more than 2 thousand on various fields such as culture, art, educayoung people in 6 years. The company offers tion, sports and environment. Featured projeeducation to 4th grade children in “Children cts of the reporting period are listed above: Transforming the Future” project on sustainability topics such as waste separation, Akbank, launched “Children as Heroes of recycling and energy generating from waste. Economy” project in 2012 to increase finanThis project reached nearly 3.000 students cial literacy and encourage saving up. In the in 15 schools during the reporting period. scope of this project, in-class and out-of-class activities and other communication practices Another social responsibility project from Akreach children who are at an age of gaining çansa that was developed during the reporpermanent habits, and aim to contribute to ting period is My Neighborhood; this project their lives to be conscious consumers and offers education for parents and children have awareness on saving. The company in Istanbul Büyükçekmece with the specially organized The Power of Thinking project with designed Akçansa Education Truck. Expert the slogan of “Teacher Support for Critical psychologists educate parents on raising Youth”. In this project where teachers are children and first aid and healthy life trainintaught critical thinking and teaching skills and gs specifically for children. Other than these methods, 4 thousand 250 teachers in 8 proprojects, the company organizes Biodiversity vinces in 1 year and 141.270 students have Projects Competition since 2014 where been reached. university students and research assistants can produce creative, different and innovative Akçansa, aims to create consciousness and projects to gain back the natural lands and SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT wildlife after mining activities, thus increasing ture-Strong Future aims to inform farmers on 50 and developing biological diversity. sustainable agriculture practices and driving safely in traffic. In the reporting period, the Aksigorta, continued social responsibility project visited 9.500 farmers in 155 villaprojects in the reporting period together with ges of 22 provinces and served with 5.425 HAÇİKO association for the protection of hours of information and consultancy on street animals and to increase animal love in efficiency in agriculture and agricultural ecosociety, prevent animal rights violations and nomy. Another practice for traffic safety, Safe raise awareness in public. Driving for Female Drivers in Brisa, offers AvivaSA, also continued their donations to training to ensure women keep their vehicles NGOs who work in accordance to corporal safe in emergency situations and adopt traffic social responsibility. conditions in the best way possible. In 2015, The company makes a donation to Educatio63 female employees benefited from training nal Volunteers of Turkey on each person filling for safe driving techniques in 2 sessions. out the employee satisfaction survey for empÇimsa, maintains nursery schools and renews loyees who lost a first-degree relative or had school materials for children in Niğde where a serious operation/disease. For every new its factory is located. With Children of Sumemployee, the company makes a donation mer project 7-12 year old children meet in the to TEMA and for every employee who has a summer camp since 2012. In the reporting penewborn, it makes a donation to the Foundariod, more than 150 children of employees and tion for the Support of Women’s Work. surrounding villages joined the summer camp in Brisa, aims to enhance awareness in society the factory. Volunteering Çimsa employees and for driving more safely as part of the “Set Spastic Children Foundation of Turkey supporout on the Road Safe” project which began ted the Steptember project which is organized in 2011. In the reporting period, 44 borouto make a difference in the lives of children and ghs in 32 provinces were visited and 5.501 adults who live with Cerebral Palsy. long-distance drivers were examined for blood Enerjisa, aims to enhance life quality by brinpressure, blood sugar and body mass index, ging high value renovation and innovations in and the briefing continued. Another long-term the fields of environment & society, education project run by this company, Strong Agriculand energy in its own activity areas. In this 2015 SABANCI GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT objective, the company organizes practices 51 such as school restorations, trainings for energy efficiency and technician schools. Kordsa Global Volunteers support social responsibility projects within Sabancı Volunteers and helps schools and villages in its global operation geography. Every year, the company restore a school in Turkey. TeknoSA, aims to encourage technology literacy by giving free computer courses to women within Technology for Women project since 2007. This project aims to provide knowledge to women for using technology efficiently and to contribute their personal development, cultural and social lives. Technology for History -another social responsibility project of the companyprovides the latest technologies to Rare Works Library; scans nearly 100 thousand rare books, photos, essays, maps, music sheets, newspapers, magazines, calligraphy and plates, and archives them digitally. As a result of this documentation, all works are digitally available to the world in their full-sizes. Temsa, organizes Joint Dreams project with the financial support and participation of voluntary employees to develop educational institutions in rural sites in Adana and around. GRI CONTENT INDEX 2015 SABANCI GROUP GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GENERAL STANDARD PAGE OMISSIONS DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Letter From the Chairman p.3; Letter From the CEO pp.4-5 G4-2 Risk Management pp.10-11 Organizational Profile G4-3 About Sabancı Holding p.6 G4-4 About Sabancı Holding p.6 G4-5 Contact p.56 G4-6 About Sabancı Holding p.6 G4-7 Shareholder Structure p.8 52 G4-8 About Sabancı Holding pp.6-7 G4-9 About Sabancı Holding pp.6-7; Work-Life p.28 G4-10 Work-Life p.28 G4-11 Business Conduct and Fair Business Practices pp.28-29 G4-12 Supply Chain Management p.18 G4-13 Corporate Website https://www.sabanci.com/en (investor relations section) G4-14 Risk Management pp.10-11 About The Report p.2; Environmental Approach p.19; Occupational Health G4-15 and Safety p.38 G4-16 Memberships to Associations p.17 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 About the Report p.2; About sabancı Holding p.7 G4-18 Sustainability Management pp.15-16 G4-19 Sustainability Management p.15 G4-20 Sustainability Management p.15 G4-21 Sustainability Management p.15 G4-22 About the Report p.2 G4-23 About the Report p.2 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement pp.16-17 G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement pp.16-17 G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement pp.16-17 G4-27 Stakeholder Engagement pp.16-17 Report Profile G4-28 About the Report p.2 G4-29 About the Report p.2 G4-30 About the Report p.2 G4-31 Contact p.56 2015 GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDARD PAGE OMISSIONS DISCLOSURES G4-32 GRI G4 Content Index Table p.52 SABANCI GROUP GRI G4 Content Index Table p. 52 (Report has not been subjected to G4-33 external assurance) Governance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT G4-34 Governance p.9 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Business Ethics p.12 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS INDICATORS Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA About Sabancı Holding p.6; 2015 Annual Report p.5,9 G4-EC1 About Sabancı Holding p.6; 2015 Annual Report p.5,9 G4-EC2 Risk Management pp.10-11 G4-EC3 2015 Annual Report p.9 53 G4-EC4 2015 Annual Report p.9 Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunities p.30 GRI Content Index p.52 (Minimum wage does not differ with regards to G4-EC5 gender) Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Social Development p.43 G4-EC7 Social Development p.43 G4-EC8 Social Development p.43 Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Supply Chain Management p.18 G4-EC9 Supply Chain Management p.18 Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Energy and Emission Management pp.22-24 G4-EN3 Energy and Emission Management p.22 G4-EN6 Energy and Emission Management pp.22-24 Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Water and Waste Management p.25 G4-EN8 Water and Waste Management pp.25-26 G4-EN9 Water and Waste Management pp.25-26 G4-EN10 Water and Waste Management pp.25-26 Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Biodiversity p.27 G4-EN12 Biodiversity p.27 G4-EN13 Biodiversity p.27 Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Energy and Emission Management pp.22-24 G4-EN15 Energy and Emission Management p.22 GRI CONTENT INDEX 2015 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS INDICATORS G4-EN16 Energy and Emission Management p.22 SABANCI GROUP G4-EN19 Energy and Emission Management pp.23-24 Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Water and Waste Management p.25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT G4-EN22 Water and Waste Management p.25 G4-EN23 Water and Waste Management p.26 Material Aspect: Compilance G4-DMA Environmental Approach p.19 G4-EN29 Environmental Approach p.19 Material Aspect: Overall G4-DMA Environmental Approach p.19 G4-EN31 Environmental Approach p.21 Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Supply Chain Management p.18 G4-EN32 Supply Chain Management p.18 54 Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Work Life p.28 G4-LA1 Work Life p.28 G4-LA2 Employee Well-Being p.37; Work/Life Balance pp.37-38 G4-LA3 Work/Life Balance pp.37-38 Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA Developing and Empowering the Organization p.36 GRI Content Index p.52 (In cases of contract end, we apply the judgements G4-LA4 of labour legislation and collective labour agreement. ) Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety pp.39-41 G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety p.39 G4-LA6 Accident Rates p.40 Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Employee Development pp.32-35 G4-LA10 Employee Development pp.32-35 G4-LA11 Employee Development p.32 Material Aspect: Diverstiy and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunities p.30 G4-LA12 Diversity and Equal Opportunities p.30 Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Business Conduct and Fair Business Practices p.30 GRI Content Index p.52 (There is no gender discrimination in remuneration G4-LA13 of employees) Material Aspect:Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Internal Auditing p.14 G4-LA16 Internal Audit p.14 Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Business Ethics p.12 G4-HR2 Business Ethics p.12 Material Aspect: Non-discrimination 2015 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS INDICATORS G4-DMA Business Ethics p.12 , Diversity and Equal Opportunities p.30 SABANCI GROUP G4-HR3 Internal Audit p.14 Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Business Conduct and Fair Business Practices pp.28-29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT G4-HR5 Business Conduct and Fair Business Practices pp.28-29 Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsary Labor G4-DMA Business Conduct and Fair Business Practices pp.28-29 G4-HR6 Business Conduct and Fair Business Practices pp.28-29 Material Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA Not Material G4-HR9 Internal Audit p.14 Material Aspect:Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Supply Chain Management p.18 G4-HR10 Supply Chain Management p.18 G4-HR11 Supply Chain Management p.18 Material Aspect: Local Communities 55 G4-DMA Social Development p.43; Environmental Approach p.19 G4-SO1 Biodiversity p.27; Environmental Approach p.16 Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Sustainability Management p.15; Internal Audit p.14 G4-SO3 Internal Audit p.14 G4-SO4 Sustainability Management p.15; Internal Audit p.14 G4-SO5 Internal Audit p.14 Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption p.13 GRI Content Index p.52 (No financial or in-kind contribution is made for G4-SO6 political parties, politicians and related institutions.) Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA Internal Auditing p.14 G4-SO7 Internal Auditing p.14 Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Internal Auditing p.14 G4-SO8 Internal Auditing p.14 Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Internal Auditing p.14 G4-PR2 Internal Auditing p.14 Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Internal Auditing p.14 G4-PR4 Internal Auditing p.14 Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Internal Auditing p.14 G4-PR8 Internal Auditing p.14 Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Internal Auditing p.14 G4-PR9 Internal Auditing p.14 2015 Legal Disclaimer Sustainability Report (Report) was prepared by Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. in line with the reporting principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). All information and opinions expressed in this report, which are not of a complete nature, were provided by Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. The report is solely prepared for informative purposes and SABANCI GROUP does not aim to constitute a basis fo r investment decisions. No information expressed in this report forms a proposal or part of a proposal regarding the sale of Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. shares, or an invitation to this kind of process. The publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, no company belonging to Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş., nor their Board Committee members, advisors or employees are responsible for any loss or damage in curred directly or indirectly by a person as a result of any information or communication provided within this report, or any information based on or not included in this report. 56 Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. Sabancı Center, 4. Levent 34330 İstanbul Tel : (0 212) 385 80 80 Fax : (0 212) 385 88 88 E-mail : info@sabanci.com www.sabanci.com
