Goby Inc. 2016 United Nations Global Compact Report A Communication on Progress Page 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Contents CEO Statement: commitment and leadership .......................................................... 3 The United Nations Global Compact Principles .......... Error! Bookmark not defined. Goby: sustainable mission ............................................................................................. 5 Everyone Matters........................................................................................................ 5 LEED Experts ................................................................................................................ 6 ENERGY STAR Expertise .............................................................................................. 6 Sustainability Tracking Experts ................................................................................... 8 Sustainability in our operations ................................................................................... 10 Environment .................................................................................................................. 10 Dynamic Workplace ................................................................................................ 11 Air Quality Management......................................................................................... 11 Energy Management............................................................................................... 12 Waste Management................................................................................................ 12 Sustainable Purchasing ............................................................................................ 12 Social Performance ..................................................................................................... 13 Gobyond Social Involvement ................................................................................. 13 Conclusion: transparency and disclosure ................................................................. 16 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com CEO Statement: Commitment and Leadership “Goby Inc. is proud to present its fourth Global Compact Communication on Progress, in which it demonstrates our commitment to its ten principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We have committed to embed the Global Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Our commitment to a more sustainable world not only translates our ideas into actions, but it resides in our vision and business model. Goby’s mission has been to apply a sustainability lens to real estate portfolios in order to create real value. We create better run buildings by capturing data once and by providing actionable information through one interacting platform. Through this platform, we are able to increase asset value and social responsibility. As we accelerate the pace of our expansion, we will make certain to develop our activities according to the UN Global Compact and its sustainability principles.” 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com The United Nations Global Compact Principles Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 1 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 2 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 3 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 4 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 5 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 6 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 7 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 8 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 9 Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 10 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Goby: Sustainable Mission Everyone Matters Goby is the recognized North American leader in enabling Better Run Buildings™. In addition to leading the industry in ENERGY STAR benchmarks, LEED certifications and GRESB reporting, Goby’s award winning cloud platform captures and distills multiple data sources into simple, contextualized dashboards, tasks, and reports to cost-effectively track, monitor and optimize whole-building and whole-portfolio energy and sustainability performance. Goby Cloud users annually manage more than 750 million square feet from the cloud. As a result of Goby’s outstanding contributions to energy and greenhouse gas reduction, the U.S. EPA has recognized Goby with an ENERGYSTAR Sustained Excellence Award, after achieving Partner of the Year in 2014,2015, and 2016 Our mission is to provide real estate owners, managers, and users respected, unbiased expertise in cost efficient, high impact sustainability planning, monitoring, and implementation for their commercial, office, and real estate operations. In its simplest terms, Goby was founded to maximize our client's asset and market value through the optimal performance of their real estate and operations. As the world shrinks and our population grows, the actions and inactions we take every day make an impact felt beyond the confines of our own lives. The size and scale of the commercial real estate industry puts not only great responsibility but an incredible opportunity to create real financial returns and environmental impact through improved planning, implementation, monitoring, and operations. At Goby, our goal is to help each of our clients make this impact through the optimal performance of their real estate and operations. We are focused on supporting real estate owners, managers, and building teams in achieving dramatic financial and environmental results through a pragmatic and disciplined approach. Goby is named after the goby fish, which are adaptable creates who thrive on building mutually beneficial relationships within a communal environment of other underwater inhabitants. This symbiotic relationship is a direct reflection of what Goby aims to achieve: Relationships that benefit all involved parties including clients, partners and building teams all around the world. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com LEED Experts LEED, which stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is a certification awarded by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) for implementing measures that reduce the carbon footprint and increase the overall sustainability and operations of a building. Goby is the recognized leader in optimizing building efficiencies in the Midwest and through its' team of 100% LEED Accredited Professionals, we are able to bring our clients sustainable buildings, increased net operating income and market exposure through long-term sustainability strategies for better run buildings. Since our founding, the Goby team has completed about 250M ft² of LEED projects across a wide variety of real estate including commercial buildings, hotels, retail, athletic arenas, and corporate offices. We have also earned the “Proven Provider” label to list of environmental accolades. The Goby team of LEED experts also provides LEED accreditation training and has completed courses for real estate teams and sustainability minded professionals across the country. Goby has worked in some of the largest and most complex commercial real estate in the country including the nation’s tallest LEED EBOM project (Franklin Center), one of the pilot LEED for Neighborhood Development projects (Block 37), a LEED NC parking Garage (Greenway Self Park), the oldest LEED EBOM in Illinois (211 W Wacker), LEED ID+C for the Radisson Blu Aqua Hotel in Chicago, and a LEED CI spec suite (Rockefeller Center). Goby completed 10% (by square footage) of all LEED EB: O+M v2009 projects completed in 2013. Other notable projects that Goby has worked on include: LEED EB: O+M Platinum for 540 West Madison in Chicago, LEED EB: O+M Gold for NBC Tower in Chicago, LEED EB: O+M Gold for the historic building The Rookery, and LEED EB: O+M Platinum for McDonald’s Corporate Office and Hamburger University. ENERGY STAR Expertise How does your building, office, hotel, or retail space compare to other similar facilities? Goby's first step in any sustainability program is performing an ENERGY STAR benchmark in order to determine the most 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com appropriate next steps. First and foremost, an ENERGY STAR benchmark allows us to optimize operations and reduce operating expenses. In addition, many states or cities are enacting ordinances and mandates which require ENERGY STAR reporting – by planning ahead now, you can be prepared for pending legislation and mandatory reporting. Finally, many major corporations and the GSA require offices to be located in ENERGY STAR rated buildings. Goby is in the top 10% of ENERGY STAR providers nation-wide. In 2014 and 2015, we were awarded as ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year where we have benchmarked and certified more than 174M ft² of ENERGY STAR space. Our action plans have resulted in millions of dollars in operational savings for commercial real estate, hotels, retail, industrial, and corporate users. Goby has also become one of the few Licensed Professional firms for the EPA’s ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager. This level of achievement is a testament to not only our ENERGY STAR expertise but the dedication that we exude in continual sustainability excellence. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com “Achieving LEED status is no simple easy task. We needed assistance in the analysis of the Building and the LEED Application process. Goby’s team has the experience, certifications and pragmatic approach towards achieving the LEED status.” Jeb Scherb |Owner | 211 W. Wacker Drive Sustainability Tracking Experts Leading Commercial Real Estate firms utilize Goby’s platform to track sustainability in a single cloudbased interface. Clients average 10-25% cost reductions just by tracking their sustainability performance. Goby platform clients utilize the sustainability dashboards coupled with Goby's expert services team to ensure compliance with regulatory and reporting ordinances, ENERGY STAR, and LEED certifications. After all, “You can’t manage what you don’t measure”. It’s an imperative responsibility to understand your exposure to the rising costs of energy, water, waste, and utilities. Goby clients are able to report to their stakeholders in each of these areas. Since 2010, Goby clients have experienced a reduction in energy consumption. Goby Professional Engineers review portfolio and property reports and trends to identify no/low cost opportunities for cost savings. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Sustainability in our Operations The success of Goby depends on our responsible environmental stewardship in all of our activities. We continuously commit ourselves to develop and implement best management practices for a sustainable, yet profitable existence. This commitment arises from a sense of concerned citizenship and moral duty. Goby has a desire to lead by example and extend our influence to improve the environment. As a role model, we need to endorse our own recommendation; therefore, Goby is committed to implementing its own sustainability policy. We firmly believe a company’s responsibility no matter its size is essential to how it operates. This begins with the day-to-day relationships it maintains with employees, clients, partners, suppliers, non-governmental associations and society as a whole. We are committed to our sustainability progress by tracking our own performance through the Goby platform and reporting the progress for transparency. Environment We believe that preventing global warming is a great challenge for humankind and every company as small as they may be should contribute and take actions to reverse climate change and their footprint. At Goby, we are willing to incorporate pressing environmental issues into business decisions and conduct our corporate activities with controlled environmental impacts to fully meet our responsibility and stewardship as a corporate citizen. We have developed policies and best practices to control our impact on the environment and minimize consumption, as we encourage our employees to develop reasonable and eco-friendly habits. Under the responsibility of managers, all employees play an active role in adhering to environmental procedures in their day-to-day responsibilities. Goby is planning to dynamically control its environmental footprint from year to year. Our environmental protection policy particularly emphasizes global compact principles 3,4,5,7, 8 and 9 around four key areas: Air Quality Management: with a strong focus on controlling business travel and enabling responsible mobility. Energy Management: with priority to efficient use of energy in our office. Waste Management: with priority to responsible printing and waste recycling. Sustainable Purchasing: with a strong focus on products that minimize negative environmental impacts. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Dynamic Workplace Bolstered by the talent and expertise of our 60+ employees, Goby's Human Resources policy focuses on the welfare of employees and training to motivate staff and improve productivity. Competitive pay and benefits, career development in sustainable training (LEED certifications) and equal opportunities are fundamental to attracting and supporting employees. Goby helps employees to balance work and home commitments by offering flexible work options. Goby offers a comprehensive Wellness programs via our healthcare provider that includes gym membership discounts, among its plethora of perks. Health insurance is the core of wellness and as such Goby covers the cost of employees’ plans 100%. We holistically believe in providing a safe and healthy working environment for employees as well as outside the Goby organization. Another way Goby promotes health and well-being is by providing all Goby employees with FitBit wristbands. Employees are encouraged to compete against one another by participating in FitBit challenges sponsored by Goby. As the Goby platform does with sustainability tracking, FitBit allows employees to track their daily steps and physical activity. On a quarterly basis, employees are engaged in companywide FitBit challenges where individuals compete against one another for the most steps taken. Additionally, weekend and work-week challenges are also utilized by employees to gauge physical activity on a regular basis. Additionally, Goby participated in a week long Bike Commuter Challenge. Employees joined as a team and were challenged to bike to and from work for at least one week. The challenge provided a variety of “pit-stops” along major bike routes where free water bottles and other prizes were awarded. Air Quality Management Goby’s headquarters is located within a LEED certified building which complies with higher standards of Air Quality Management for its employees. Since a robust amount of our clientele is located outside of the city of Chicago, mobility has become an essential aspect to our business operations. It’s important that we make ecologically sound and efficient choices to moderate the negative effects of business travel to the greatest extent possible. Emissions produced by business travel are one of the major direct environmental impacts generated by service firms. Therefore, Goby controls its business travel by prioritizing web conferences and conference calls over flying and bundling of trips. We have engaged initiatives to control business travel and the environmental impact of our employees’ daily work commutes. Goby is aware of the impact on the environment of the employees’ daily commute to work. This is why Goby makes sure its offices are located in areas easily accessible to public transportation. Our LEED Gold Office Building provides secure bike lock-up as well as locker room to entice Gobies to commute via bicycle. 100% of Goby employees use environmental-friendly methods of transportation for their daily commute, whether it’s public transit, walking or biking. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Energy Management Goby recognizes that implementing processes to improve energy efficiency has a positive impact both at the economical level (lower energy costs), at the environmental level (reduced greenhouse gas emissions) and at the social level (enhanced comfort for employees). Goby’s environmental policy in terms of energy management primarily aims to efficiently use energy in our office. We have retro-fitted the lighting with energy efficient lighting, such as LED’s, which has reduced our energy costs by 25%. We utilize motion censored lighting in our common spaces and inform employees of best practices in shutting down power at the end of each work day. All Goby employees are issued ENERGY STAR certified Laptops that efficiently use power and we are consistently looking to technology reduce our carbon footprint. Waste Management At Goby, we strive to operate our daily office activities with as little impact on the environment as possible. Our environmental policy in terms of waste management is as follows: Recycling: We have dedicated paper, aluminum/plastic, and have recently eliminated coffee disc recycling stations at our office to a standard coffee maker in common areas for all to use to reduce waste. We also participate in quarterly e-waste recycling for better management of electronics recycling. Priority to Paperless Communication: Through Goby’s platform, we are able to conduct nearly paperless communication with our clients. All of our LEED projects and sustainability reports are available online, as well as a majority of our meetings are conducted over web meetings and conference calls. We are able to share documents and files by utilizing a cloud-based file sharing program, BOX, which allows us to share large documents with our clients without straining email storage capacities. When paper is necessary, we are committed to a greater use of recycled paper, both in our everyday business as well as for any communications (presentations, client meetings, product fact sheets, etc.). All of our LEED projects and client communications are virtually paperless. Responsible Printing: double sided printing, with emphasis on printing only if needed. Pages that can be reused are placed in the recycled printing paper bin for future reuse. Sustainable Purchasing At Goby, our environmental stewardship expands into purchasing products that minimize our negative environmental impact. We utilize green purchasing practices and evaluate the entire life cycle of the 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com products and materials we purchase. Goby also implements the following sustainable purchasing policy: Developed and implemented ENERGY STAR certified appliance/equipment purchasing guidelines. Purchase office products that are environmentally preferred considering not only the life of the product but its packaging as well. We will not utilize suppliers that don’t execute generally accepted child labour laws as Goby supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and the effective abolition of child labor. Furthermore, we support our client Carlson Rezidor in their philanthropic efforts against child trafficking. Social Performance Gobyond: Community Service All employees organize volunteer activities throughout the year for Goby’s sustainable social performance industry initiative called Gobyond. Gobyond’s mission is to simply introduce, encourage, and facilitate environmentally and socially responsible practices in our community through supportive and engaged volunteer efforts. Gobyond celebrates events and organizations that focus on our sustainability mission. We strongly encourage our Goby community to participate and take action with organizations that sustainably benefit our community. Here is a glimpse into our service volunteering projects: 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Green Apple Day of Service. Green Apple gives individuals, companies and organizations the opportunity to transform all our schools into healthy, safe, cost-efficient and productive learning places where students have clean and healthy air to breathe, where energy and resources are conserved, and where they can be inspired to dream of a brighter future. In September 2016 several employees from Goby will set out to schools within Chicago to educate children on composting, painting murals, and helping maintain a Learning Garden. Chicago River Day Goby participated in Chicago River Day 2016, where thousands of volunteers at 60 locations along the Chicago River worked together to collect garbage, sort for recycling, remove invasive vegetation, spruce up river-edge trails, plant native seedlings, and much more. Friends of Chicago River works to improve the health of the Chicago River system for the benefit of people and wildlife and has laid the foundation for the river to be a beautiful, open space in the Chicago region. USGBC (United States Green Building Council) Non-profit organization dedicated to sustainable building design and construction. Goby is an active member and we attend many of their events which are based on very environmentally focused around stewardship, providing tools + expertise, building communities, educating the industry and public and forming forums for industry dialog. Over 95% of Goby’s employees are USGBC LEED or WELL Accredited Professionals. Greenbuild is an Annual conference and exposition of the U.S. Green Building Council, promoting green building materials, techniques and products. In October 2015, Gobies participated at Greenbuild in Washington, D.C. where they spoke about the integration of the Goby platform in their everyday building operations. In October 2016, Gobies will attend Greenbuild in Los Angeles, CA. Launch U pairs young professionals with high achieving urban scholars to help expose them to college life, career opportunities, and general guidance during their senior year of high school. Gobies volunteer as mentors at Launch U and pair up with students of common interests (career, college, field of study etc.) to provide guidance during their selection of a college career. GRESB is an industry-driven organization committed to assessing the sustainability performance of real estate portfolios (public, private and direct) around the globe. Goby works with GRESB’s dynamic benchmark and institutional investors to engage with their investments with the aim to improve the sustainability performance of their investment portfolio, and the global property sector at large. SASB is a non-profit organization dedicated to developing sustainability accounting standards used to disclose public information to investors. Goby assists clients with the process of SASB data capture and submission. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Urban Land Institute (ULI) The Urban Land Institute provides leadership in the responsible use of land and in creating and sustaining thriving communities worldwide. ULI is an independent global nonprofit supported by members representing the entire spectrum of real estate development and land use disciplines. Real Estate Ends Homelessness Chicago real estate industry professionals join together for an opportunity for Chicago to support and raise awareness for permanent supportive housing. Goby attended as well made a volunteer and monetary donation. Goby volunteered to show a group of Chicago Public School students a LEED building (our Goby headquarters) and introduce to them an understanding of how to sustainably operate a Commercial Real Estate Property. To boot, the students loved viewing our very own urban green roof! Chicago Gateway Green is dedicated to greening and beautifying Chicago’s expressways, gateways and neighborhoods. Goby partners, volunteers and donates to this organization as we are passionate about the mission. We are there when Chicago Gateway Green needs Goby! BOMA (Building Owners and Managers Association). Goby participates in the Environmental aspects including holding a Brown Bag Session to present LEED recertification guidelines and the importance of tracking Sustainability data; as well as socially Goby volunteers time at the Annual December Toy Drive Event Horizons for Youth and at the soup kitchen Inspiration Café. NAIOP (National Association of Industrial and Office Properties) Goby has been attending their industry events, as we are focused on expanding our sustainability foot-candle to the Commercial Real Estate Community. These are but a mere handful of the sustainable initiatives that Goby proudly supports. We harvest a sustainability ethic with a perspective on the connections between local actions and global consequences and will continue to enhance our social performance. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com Conclusion: transparency and disclosure The cornerstone of our sustainability initiatives is to not only have the ability to evaluate our progress but to harvest the willingness to admit our inefficiencies and continually improve our operations. For Goby, a look at our sustainability program is made streamlined and properly tracked with software solutions that allow for this reflection for improvement. Goby’s commitment to the United Unions Global Compact’s 10 principles is ingrained on our triple bottom line. We will strive for excellence as we continually raise the standard for corporate sustainability in our daily and long term operations. 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1850 | Chicago, Illinois 60606 | 888.372.7757 | info@gobyinc.com | gobyinc.com
