Annual Report 2015 We build for a better society Extract of Annual Report 2015 Contents Group overview Skanska – 2015 in brief 1 Comments by the President and CEO 2 Promise and values 6 Business model 7 Business plan 2016 –2020 8 Financial targets 2016 –2020 9 Business plan 2016 –2020 – focus areas 12 – Great People 12 – Market Making 13 – Operational Excellence 14 Sustainability 16 Share data 20 Market overview 22 Business streams 24 Construction 26 Residential Development 30 Commercial Property Development 34 Infrastructure Development 38 UN contract completed 42 History 44 Financial information Report of the Directors 46 Corporate Governance Report 53 Consolidated income statement 66 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 67 Cover: Malmö now has a brand new, centrally-located city Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 68 district – Malmö Live, Malmö, Sweden. Malmö Symphony Consolidated statement of changes in equity 70 Orchestra’s new concert hall is here and its two halls have world-class acoustics. There is also a congress hall for 1,500 Consolidated cash flow statement 71 guests and a hotel with 444 rooms and two restaurants. The Parent Company income statement 73 hotel’s sky bar on the 25th floor offers a panoramic view over Parent Company balance sheet 74 the city and the Öresund Strait. Malmö Live covers a total space of 54,000 sq m. Parent Company statement of changes in equity 75 There are also offices, parking facilities and two residential Parent Company cash flow statement 76 buildings containing 158 apartments. Skanska developed and constructed Malmö Live working in close cooperation Notes, table of contents 77 with the City of Malmö from an early stage, thereby creating Proposed allocation of earnings 152 lasting benefits for all parties involved. Auditor’s Report 153 Senior Executive Team 158 Board of Directors 160 Major orders, investments and divestments 162 Annual General Meeting 164 Investors 164 Addresses 165 This document is in all respects a translation of the Swedish original Annual Report. In the event of any differences between this translation and the Swedish original, the latter shall prevail. Skanska Annual Report 2015 Follow-up and outcome 2011–2015 Financial targets 2011–2015 Outcome 2011–2015 Group Return on equity Return on equity for the % period of % 18–20% 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Financial strength Net operating financial assets/liabilities Net operating financial Mdrassets/liabilities kr will be SEK bn positive 15 15 12 12 9 9 6 6 3 3 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Construction Operating margin, Construction Average margin over % a business cycle % 3.5–4.0% 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Return on capital employed, Project development operations Project Development operations Annual return on capital % employed1 for the % combined project development 20 operations 20 10–15% 15 15 10 10 5 5 1 See definition on page 143.0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Qualitative targets 2011–2015 Follow-up of qualitative targets for 2011–2015 Industry leader in: Safety Worksite safety improvements plateaued during the period. A lost time accident rate (LTAR) of about 3.0 was short of the LTAR target of 1.0. Ethics Skanska still has ethical risks, and needs to continue training in this area. Green Skanska has green solutions in place, but there is varying interest in the markets. All Commercial Development projects are Green, and in Construction up to 75 percent of order bookings are Green. People development For people development, the programs and tools, leadership profile and employee ownership program are in place. There is a need for improvements within Diversity and Inclusion and in leadership. Risk management Industry-leading processes for risk management are in place, but there is still a need for improvements. Implementation continues at Business Unit level. Target reached Work underway, target not fully reached B Skanska Annual Report 2015 Skanska as an investment Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project develop­ ment companies, focused on selected home markets in the Nordic region, other European countries and North America. Supported by global trends in urbanization and demographics, and by being at the forefront in sustainability, Skanska offers competitive solutions for both simple and the most complex assignments, helping to build a sustainable future for customers and communities. Sergels Torg at the heart of Stockholm is being renovated. This square is a busy intersection that stands on concrete structures from the 1950s. The green and safety aspects were a priority when Skanska was awarded the contract. Strong global trends Diversification Financial synergies With demographic changes and con­tinued Skanska’s risk diversification across four The strong cash flow from Construction urbanization come an increased demand business streams with operations in sevis invested in the Group’s own high-return for infrastructure, hospitals, schools, eral geographic markets and segments development projects. The investments homes and offices. Demand for Skanska’s helps ensure a balanced and diversified in project development will continue to Kr % expertise in green construction is signifirisk profile. increase. 12 10 cant in a world that is becoming increas9 10 ingly Miljoneraware personerof the human impact on the Strong cash flow Attractive total shareholder return 8 8 7 planet. 500 Through an attractive business model, Skanska has a competitive total share6 Skanska is generating a strong 6 cash flow holder return with more than 10 years of 5 400 4 Leading market position which, combined with net 4 cash, puts the increased or maintained dividends. Over 3 Skanska 300 holds a leading market position Group in a stable financial 2 position. the past five years, Skanska’s share has 2 1 in 200 each of its home markets, and has set a 0 had an average total yield of just over 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 target for profitability and controlled growth 10 percent, compared to 11 percent on 100 Utdelning, kr Extra utdelning, kr Direktavkastning, % 1) in the Construction business stream. the Stockholm Stock Exchange. 1) Utdelning per aktie dividerat med slutkursen för respektive år. 0 1990 2015 2050 Expected population in urbanized areas in Skanska’s home markets, 1990–2050 Dividend history Millions of people SEK % 500 12 10 9 10 8 400 8 7 300 6 6 5 200 4 4 3 100 2 2 1 0 0 0 1990 2015 2050 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In Skanska’s home markets the number of people living in urbanized areas is Dividend, SEK Extra dividend, SEK Dividend yield, %1 expected to increase by 100 million in the period 2015–2050. 1 Dividend per share divided by the closing share price for each respective year. Source: UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs Skanska Annual Report 2015 Skanska som investering 3 • Norden, 40 • Byggverksamhet, 49 • Bostadsutveckling, 33 • Övriga Europa, 23 • Bostadsutveckling, 15 • Kommersiell fastighetsSkanska 155 – 2015 in 6,5 brief 27,6 • USA, 37 • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 60 utveckling, 25 • Infrastrukturutveckling, 7 • Infrastrukturutveckling, 11 Revenue, SEK 155 bn Operating income, SEK 6.5 bn Capital employed, SEK 27.6 bn by geography, % 1 by business stream, % 1 in Project Development, by business stream, % • Nordic countries, 40 • Construction, 49 • Residential • Other European • Residential Development, 33 countries, 23 Development, 15 • Commercial Property 155 6.5 27.6 • USA, 37 • Commercial Property Development, 60 Development, 25 • Infrastructure • Infrastructure Development, 7 Development, 11 1 Before Central and eliminations. In 2015, the Group’s 43,000 Construction Commercial Property Development employees delivered good • The performance in the Construction • 27 projects were sold, reaching a new business stream was stable in all alltime-high in divestment gains at results while also helping to Construction units except for the U.S. SEK 2.6 billion. promote a sustainable society. operations which were burdened with • The number of ongoing property The ambition of growing in charges. projects was 44 at the end of the year, project development has resulted • Order bookings amounted to SEK 122.1 corresponding to an investment value in a record number of new combillion. The major contracts included: upon completion of SEK 18.8 billion. – Slussen and the Stockholm Bypass mercial projects, more efficient • Most of the new investments are in – Welsh Water treatment plant in the UK residential development and a – Office, hospital and school projects in the U.S. and Central Europe. more stable expansion into the Sweden, Norway, the UK and the U.S. Infrastructure Development growing public private partner• The construction projects in Latin • The operating income totaled ship market in the U.S. America have been completed, and the SEK 863 million. majority of the units within operations • Two hospitals in London sold for and maintenance have been sold. SEK 1 billion. Residential Development • Net present value of projects • Sustained improved results, operating is SEK 4.8 billion. margin of 9.5 percent. • Selected for expansion of LaGuardia • The number of homes sold and started Airport in New York, with a contract totaled 4,093 and 4,000 respectively. expected in 2016. • Efforts to reduce the number of unsold • Contract signed for the new Papworth completed units in Finland and Norway Hospital in the UK. continued during the year. Skanska’s home markets Sweden Skanska has operations in 11 countries Sweden Finland in Construction, Residential Development, USA Norway Finland Commercial Property Development and USA Norway Infrastructure Development. The Business Denmark Units in these business streams work Denmark together in various ways to create both United Kingdom Poland United Kingdom Poland operational and financial synergies, Czech Republic Slovakia Czech Republic Hungary leading to increased value creation. Slovakia Romania Hungary Romania 2 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska Annual Report 2015 Comments by the President and CEO 2015 was a very good year in terms of performance, with increasing revenue, improved profitability and a very strong financial position. Our strength moving forward was also demonstrated by a substantial increase in project development investments. We provided several signs of strength during the year: earnings per to SEK 8 billion in 2004–2010. During the five-year period these share increased by 20 percent to SEK 11.96; cash flow from operabusiness streams generated an average return on capital employed tions more than doubled to SEK 7.7 billion; and we concluded the of 10.6 percent a year. year with a net cash position of SEK 6.3 billion. Based on these good results the Board of Directors is proposing a dividend increase to 44 ongoing commercial property projects SEK 7.50 (6.75) per share. Commercial Property Development stands on three pillars of equal Most operations within the Construction business stream saw strength – Nordics, Europe and the U.S. We are now completing a improved profitability. The performance was particularly strong in total of 44 commercial property projects which we are leasing and Sweden, Finland and Poland, while the U.S. was negatively affected will divest. by cost increases in a few projects. We are now in negotiation with We are also firmly established on the fast-growing PPP market in clients in the U.S. on receiving compensation for the work involved the U.S. In mid-2016 we expect to sign contracts for the expansion in implementing the changes they requested. of LaGuardia Airport – our third PPP project in the U.S. The construction contract alone will amount to more than SEK 20 billion, New record for divestment gains making it Skanska’s largest construction contract ever. The Residential Development business stream saw improvements The Residential business stream is now reaching the established in both profitability and capital efficiency. In Commercial Property profitability targets thanks to efficiency improvements and restrucDevelopment we can announce the highest divestment gains ever turing of operations. We now have the right co-operation model – a total of SEK 2.6 billion. Leased space of 375,000 sq m also reprewhere residential development is integrated into construction sents a new record. operations. The Infrastructure Development business stream demonstrated The Construction business stream has increased its presence its competitiveness in the U.S. public private partnership (PPP) on the U.S. West Coast and in regional markets in Poland. We market when we were selected for the expansion of LaGuardia Airhave concluded our construction operations in Latin America port. In the UK, which has been a leader in PPP for a long time, we and divested the maintenance operations there. have sold two completed hospital projects and been contracted for one new one. Continued focus on sustainable development In recent years we have seen increased interest in private sector Good profitability throughout the five-year period companies like us being engaged in developing the wider com2015 was also the final year of our Profitable Growth 2011–2015 munity. Our efforts are naturally based on a continued focus on business plan. We established the plan with the assurance that the driving development towards a better occupational health, ethics, effects of the 2008 financial crisis had played out and a turnaround green, diversity and inclusion, as well as a greater contribution to in the global economy was close at hand. society – areas that are linked to our core business and affect the However, the economic recovery did not materialize until 2013 world around us. and the economy was then promptly affected by armed conflicts, What we do and how we do it are based on our values, which a downturn in China, and the euro and refugee crises. are shared by our employees through a true commitment to the Despite uncertainty and unrest in the world, we maintained good environment, occupational health, ethics and openness, constant profitability throughout the five-year period. Skanska’s share delivimprovement and cooperation with clients in the best interests of ered stable dividends and a total shareholder return of 10 percent society. This is also entirely in line with the UN Global Compact – per year on average during the period, which is in line with what the world’s most substantial sustainability initiative – to which we we promised. remain actively committed. Also during this five-year period, we laid the foundations to ensure greater value creation in the future. Internships for the unemployed We have expanded the three business streams within projMore and more often we are helping the community through initiaect development. Our investments increased by 70 percent to tives that go beyond traditional construction services. For example, SEK 14 billion a year during the period 2011–2015, compared we offer internship/apprentice programs and employment within Skanska Annual Report 2015 Comments by the President and CEO 3 ”Our aim over the next five years is to deliver an industry-leading total shareholder return while building for a better society.” our projects to people who for various reasons find themselves outside the labor market. More and more clients are also requiring us to include social initiatives in our projects. We welcome sustainable procurement processes that demand more from us. I am proud that we are helpbroadening the expertise and skills of our people; and becoming ing to improve our communities. more efficient in the way we execute projects. We operate in a world that by all accounts will continue to experiFor positive development in society ence a degree of uncertainty. But we still believe that the outlook in But we also want to and can do even more; we are encouraging both our home markets are favorable. Development will continue to be our clients and our partners to join us in being more committed to driven by population growth, urbanization and migration. This, of positive development in society. course, means that there will be a need for new, modernized tranThis is an important starting point for the new business plan sit solutions, homes and workplaces, as well as infrastructure for which we call Profit with Purpose 2020. Our aim over the next five energy, water and water treatment. years is to deliver an industry-leading total shareholder return while building for a better society. Increasing demands provide new opportunities We will increase our profitability and grow in Construction, and Strained public finances and an increased focus on costs in a lifein our project development operations in particular. We are aiming cycle perspective are indications that more and more projects for a better balance in value creation between our Construction and will be implemented in the form of public private partnerships. project development operations. Procurements not merely based on the lowest price will become more common. Increasingly, our clients want us to participate in Controlled growth in our home markets the early stages. This kind of collaboration demands more of us, We can do more of what we are doing today in Construction, that but also gives us new opportunities to offer even more of our expert is reaching a profitabe growth in our existing home markets. input. We will increase value creation in project development by investing more, particularly in Commercial Property Development and Listening to our clients and communities Infrastructure Development. Residential Development continues We are sensitive to the needs of our clients and communities and we to grow with an emphasis on profitability and with a stronger presare equipped to meet increasing demands. ence in Warsaw and Prague. Our achievements in recent years show that we have the potential to increase value for our shareholders and contribute even more to Exploit new investment opportunities the development of communities in our home markets. To assist us, We are shifting our business model – which has been a recipe for we have our proven business model, our strong brand, our values success for many years – into a higher gear. We are going to exploit and our committed employees. attractive investment opportunities and we may therefore need to We will continue to deliver good results in 2016 while also paving increase our borrowing to accommodate increased investment. the way for further value creation for our shareholders, clients and We are well aware that growth comes with risk. To mitigate this society in the years to come. risk we are strengthening and escalating our units’ risk management processes by, for example, intensifying the ongoing monitorStockholm, February 2016 ing of projects throughout the implementation phase. Focus on constant improvement To ensure that we can deliver on our targets, we also need to constantly improve. We have three main focus areas: improving Johan Karlström how we work with our clients to generate business; raising and President and CEO 6 Purpose and values Skanska Annual Report 2015 Purpose and values interact Values are at the heart of Skanska’s culture and identity. The values guide people in their day-to-day work. Skanska’s Purpose is to build for a better society. This Purpose and the values support each other in all parts of the Group’s operations. Purpose Values Skanska’s Purpose – to build for a better Values serve as a moral foundation for society – sets out the direction in which the the company. Clearly articulated values Group is heading. The Purpose reflects the are proactive and aspirational, and guard company’s role in society, a position that and continue to build Skanska’s culture enables Skanska to create shareholder value. – a culture that is vital to the Group’s conThoughtful solutions incorporate Safety, tinued success. Ethics, Green, Corporate Community Actions that violate the values or are in Investment, and Diversity and Inclusion. a gray area are not tolerated. Confidence This means finding ever safer and greener in Skanska must never be put in jeopardy. ways to work, doing the right thing and encouraging the best behavior in others – thereby adding value where Skanska operates. Be Better – Together We always strive to be better in all we do. We are a learning organization and generously share our expertise. We take pride in quality and innovation. We build One Skanska teams together with customers, partners and communities. We leverage diversity to deliver the best solutions. We foster an inclusive culture where we are open and fair, showing Care for Life Act Ethically and Transparently trust and respect for each other. We care for life of people and the environWe do business with a high degree of integment. We work safely, or not at all. We rity and transparency. We live by our Code Commit to Customers never walk by if we notice unsafe actions. of Conduct and never accept shortcuts. We We help our customers to be successful We support health and well-being. We foster a work environment where everyone in their business. We strive to understand promote green solutions and conduct our can speak their mind. their needs and their customers’ needs. operations in a green way. We are accountWe are here to help our customers turn able to future generations. their visions into reality. 8 Business plan 2016–2020 Skanska Annual Report 2015 Business plan 2016–2020 – Profit with Purpose The new Business plan outlines the strategic direction that will take Skanska to the next level. The aim is to increase shareholder value and at the same time make an even greater contribution to developing communities in the home markets. Working towards a sustainable future for employees, customers and communities creates Profit with Purpose. Market Generating value for shareholders The way Skanska operates also contributes Making O Generating value for shareholders and delivto sustainable development – constantly Ex ering an industry-leading total return to the finding safer and greener ways to work, l iona Gr Peo eat Profit rat nce shareholders will continue to be Skanska’s doing the right thing, embracing diversity ple with Purpose pe celle stated aim. A strong focus on profitability is and engaging in communities. Communicombined with controlled growth. This will ty investments above and beyond the speresult in a stable, long-term earnings trend cific construction assignment contribute and provide the cash flow necessary for an to local development. attractive dividend. To achieve this, there will Skanska also encourages both the be a greater focus on Great People, Market industry and society in general to act Making and Operational Excellence. This is sustainably. The company’s ambition is to described in more detail on pages 12–14. be an industry leader and an authority on sustainability. Aspirations 2020 Profit with Purpose • Industry-leading total shareholder Many stakeholders are becoming increasreturn ingly committed to sustainability issues. Customers, investors and potential employ• Balanced value creation between ees all prefer companies that are working to Construction and Project Developimprove communities. Genuine market ment leaders create shareholder value in a respon• Recognized as a preferred partner sible way and contribute to general improvewhen it comes to creating solutions ments in society. Skanska is built on strong that meet customers’ needs values and is very committed to helping • Living our values and recognized as society prosper while also running a profita value-driven company building for able business. a better society It is not about doing one or the other; it is about doing both at the same time. Profit • An injury-free and ethical environis needed to deliver Skanska’s Purpose, and ment a strong Purpose – in other words, building • The most attractive employer in for a better society together with customers – our industry will contribute to Skanska’s profit. • Cooperation within and between units and business streams as One Delivering Purpose Skanska in high-performing teams Skanska provides innovative and sustainable • Improved operational efficiency solutions to create a sustainable future for its people, customers and communities. This is Focus within Sustainability: reinforced by a continued commitment to • Safety Safety, Ethics, Green, Corporate Community • Ethics Investment as well as Diversity and Inclusion. All this is linked to the core business and the • Green employees’ key competencies. All of Skanska’s • Corporate Community Investment home markets provide the right conditions • Diversity and Inclusion for delivering the sustainable solutions that both customers and communities need. 12 Business plan 2016–2020 Skanska Annual Report 2015 Great People Committed employees who perform at a high level are key to success in a project-based business such as Skanska’s. Employees with the right skills who share the company’s values are therefore one of the focus areas in the new business plan. Skanska aims to be the most attractive program run jointly with the renowned employees who have strong values and employer in its industry by offering a place IMD Business School. For employees in help maintain a healthy, ethical corporate to work with sound values, the chance to the earlier stages of their careers there is culture is therefore of top importance. help build for a better society and good Skanska Stretch, a global development and opportunities to develop. Leaders at mobility program. Increasing mobility Skanska play a central role in building a Increased mobility within Skanska is a strong culture based on the Group’s values An organization fostering inclusion way of leveraging employees’ collective proand securing the right expertise in the Skanska’s vision is increased diversity and fessional skills in order to offer customers short and long terms, as well as building a more inclusive corporate culture in which innovative solutions, which provides comhigh-performing teams. Skanska’s leaderevery employee is able to contribute and petitive advantages. Knowledge sharing ship profile and clearly established targets reach their full potential. Targeted recruitand collaboration are crucial if the Group is create clear expectations for employees and ment, training, objectives and an open to win and execute large, complex projects. teams. The employee ownership program, internal job market are tools used to develOpportunities for employees to work in Seop, which has around 9,700 participants, op the company. A greater degree of diversidifferent countries and broaden their expecreates participation and an understanding ty reflects society, increases understanding rience also create interesting career paths of creating value for shareholders. of customers’ needs, increases innovation and development possibilities. Employees and leaders at Skanska are and makes Skanska an attractive company offered many different paths along which to to employees. An injury-free environment develop, both through challenges in their Skanska has a vision of zero work site accidaily work and through top-class training. An ethical culture is critical dents. To achieve this, improved processes At the Group level, senior managers are An ethical and transparent culture is key and methods need to be combined with offered a global leadership development to Skanska’s continued success. Recruiting strong knowledge in the field and a caring culture. Skanska’s goal is to be the industry leader in safety. Ivette Vanas and Richard Gomez are two of Skanska’s employees in the U.S. Skanska Annual Report 2015 15 New jobs in a green setting Skanska’s workshops at Bentley Works in Doncaster, people in an area with little employment,” says UK, is expanding its workforce by around 70 people. Steve Joynson, Bentley Works Manager. Young people are being offered apprenticeships that Bentley Works is one of Skanska’s greenest projlead to employment upon completion. Bentley Works ects. With its solar panels, airtight shell and generous services and renovates foundation machinery. daylight, it is self-sufficient in energy. Skanska Cemen­ “It’s great here. I get to learn things that I could tation specializes in foundations and is supplying never learn at college or anywhere else,” says Ryan made-to-measure steel parts to Skanska’s projects King, who has just begun his apprenticeship as a fitter. CrossRail, the new fast rail link across London, and “It’s good that we can give the youngsters work to the ESS research facility in Lund, Sweden. and a chance to take over,” says Roger Shearman, Doncaster Council, Leeds University School of sharing his 41 years’ experience. Building and local schools have all visited the site “We are in a strong expansion phase and it’s stimuto learn about green construction. lating to be able to offer jobs and training to so many 16 Sustainability Skanska Annual Report 2015 Focus areas within Sustainability Skanska’s sustainability work focuses on Safety, Ethics, Green, Corporate Community Investment and Diversity and Inclusion. These are the areas where Skanska can influence the most. The 2016–2020 Skanska Business Plan – Profit with Purpose – sets out the direction in which Skanska is heading so that it can maintain its profitability and help build for a better society. A global impact A local feel Through its variety of projects and innovative, sustainable soluSkanska is a business of people and therefore investing in people tions, Skanska builds for a better society. Skanska will continue to is very important. Sustainability training is mandatory for all push Safety, Ethics, Green, Corporate Community Investment, and employees, since this is an important part of the Skanska leaderDiversity and Inclusion. The company can have a positive influence ship profiles. Sustainability is embedded throughout the business through its core business and expertise. What Skanska does and in systems and behaviors. how it is done helps to ensure a sustainable future for colleagues, By harnessing the best people and ideas, Skanska continually customers and communities. improves and finds more sustainable ways to build for a better By acting together on sustainability, Skanska can learn from society. those Business Units that are furthest along the journey and exploit Further information on each of the sustainability areas can be potential synergies, become even more competitive and share found on page 59 and on www.skanska.com knowledge with colleagues in the Group. Safety Although construction remains one of the most hazardous industries in the home markets, Skanska believes that it is unacceptable ”During Safety Week 2015, Skanska joined that anyone is injured at Skanska’s workplaces. Skanska has a framework of actions with competitors and across the Group that are set out in the Safethe supply chain to ty Road Map. During 2015 there has been an increased emphasis on visible leadership, deliver safety activities.” health and wellbeing as well as providing good opportunities to exchange knowledge and good practice across Skanska. Ethics Sound ethical behavior forms the core of a strong Skanska. Therefore, the ambitions are to live the Group’s values and be recognized ”Everyone Skanska employs must complete as an ethical, value-driven company and a safe place to work. The Code of Conduct ethics training withguides Skanska on its way to reaching this in three months, with ambition. Employees complete ethics training and progress is measured. Additionally, follow-up every other Skanska has tools to help the Group build toward a strong ethical culture including the year.” Ethics Scorecard, Ethics Plan and the Ethics Roadmap. Skanska Annual Report 2015 Sustainability 17 Green Green building is attractive to clients, shareholders, employees and communities. Through the Journey to Deep Green™, “More than two-thirds of order bookings in Skanska goes beyond mere formal compliance. Targets encompassing energy, carbon, Skanska Sweden and material selection, waste and water are set in Skanska UK are classiaccordance with the Skanska Color Palette™, a strategic tool for green business. Processes fied as Green, according are continually improved through the ISO 14001. Cooperations with leading internato the Skanska Color tional organizations ensure that green conPalette™.” struction is incorporated into regulations. Corporate Skanska is committed to being a responsible and active member of the community. “The current measure for Corporate Community Community Through community investment, the company can have a positive impact on its clients, employees, society in general and Investment is number Investment its business. Skanska’s Corporate Community Investment Policy has a clear focus on eduof hours committed by cation and stimulating local economic develemployees to the local opment, which are the areas the company can influence the most. The number of hours community during employees contribute to the local communiworking hours.” ty during working hours is measured. Diversity and Initiatives to foster an inclusive workplace culture have intensified. The combination of ”Skanska UK organized a D&I conference that Inclusion diversity and inclusion allows relationships to be built with an increasingly diverse customer base; it also makes it easier to attract attracted 200 particiand retain talent from a larger talent pool, pants, consolidating while a broader range of experience boosts innovation. A Diversity and Inclusion Change its role as one of the Journey Map has been launched to support the Business Units. D&I work is receiving industry leaders in increasing attention from society, while also this area.” adding to Skanska’s expertise. Skanska Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors 59 Research and development Safety The main task of the Research & Development unit is to act as an Safety Performance umbrella organization for transferring knowledge of technical soluDespite the changes and improvements made in recent years there tions and innovations between the various Skanska units and to were five work related fatalities recorded during 2015 on Skanska coordinate technical experts and expertise within the company. worksites in Czech Republic, Norway and USA. One was the result Operations in 2015 were based on the current work plan and its of an accident that took place in July 2014. Skanska has taken sigfocus areas: gathering and transferring knowledge, internal and nificant actions to limit recurrence of similar accidents at other external networks of experts, technology, trends and innovations, Skanska worksites. as well as the identification of technical risks. Skanska recognizes that the reduction of lost time accident rate A lot of the year’s work focused on supporting Skanska’s new busihas slowed showing Skanska globally since 2011 and has reached ness plan with technology, particularly in the area of Operational a plateau. The reasons for this plateau are many and varied and Excellence under the banner “win work and work smarter with ­Skanska has worked to fully understand the reasons for this in technology.” At Skanska’s Management Conference in autumn 2015 each of its business units which has resulted in action plans for the three seminars were held on this theme, dealing with topics such as 2016–2020 Business Plan. digitalization, automation, robotization and innovation. InspiraFor several years Skanska has recorded incidents with the potential tional guest speaker Christer Fuglesang shared his views and advice to have resulted in fatalities that occur on its jobsites. This is part on the importance of collaboration, practice and simulation. of improving the culture of reporting and transparency. These Automation and robotization of important parts of the construcincidents are a useful source of information enabling the business tion process have been a focus area during the year. A demo robot to better understand the causes of accidents and adopt meaningful was produced and simulations carried out to show the opportunities responses. and advantages of using robots. In order to execute an automated way of working, a digital 3D BIM model is required as input to the Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) 2007–2015 robots. In this future, this will mean greater importance is placed on project design being fully complete before actual construction is Number of employee lost time accidents times 1,000,000 hours started. divided by total labor hours. Inclusive of Skanska employees plus contractors working on Skanska jobsites. The areas in which Skanska has tested automation are reinforcement, 3D printers, welding and drilling in buildings and tunnels. 7.0 Today, Skanska collaborates with around 40 universities in its 6.0 5.6 various home markets. 5.1 In Sweden, the exclusive partnership with the Royal Institute 5.0 4.4 of Technol­ogy (KTH) has brought about progress in a number of 3.9 4.2 4.0 key areas. Skanska is involved in the formation of two competence 3.5 3.5 3.3 3.3 centers at KTH – one for road construction and one for building 3.0 efficiency. Skanska is also on the board of two state-subsidized initiatives in the construction industry, Smart Built Environment 2.0 and InfraSweden2030. A uniform, coordinated approach means 1.0 ­Skanska applies for EU funding in an organized, long-term way. The R&D unit is responsible for administration and recruitment 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of adjunct professors. In 2015 Skanska had five adjunct professors, in the areas of energy, concrete, tunnel engineering, bridge building, building efficiency and climate impact. The Group aims Developing Caring and engaged employees to double the number of adjunct professors within strategically The Injury Free Environment (IFE) program that began in Skanska’s important areas over the coming five-year period US Building business unit is now operating in four business units. Skanska Sweden began its IFE journey in 2015. This is a long term Focus areas within sustainability culture change program that engages all Skanska employees and Skanska’s sustainability agenda consists of five pillars: Safety, employees of the supply chain partners to recognize how their deciEthics, Green, Corporate Community Investment and Diversity & sions 7,0 and behavior impacts the safety of their colleagues. It results Inclusion. These pillars were identified as the sustainability areas in an attitude and behavior change to improve safety. 6,0 5,6 Skanska has the greatest influence on, and the company aspires to 5,1 be an industry leader in each of the areas. Skanska’s 2020 Business Becoming 5,0 a Learning Organization 4,4 4,2 Plan – Profit with Purpose – aims to create value for shareholders Learning from incidents 3,9 and sharing knowledge across the com4,0 while also building for a better society. The five pillars embody pany. These are two areas where Skanska has 3,5 progressed 3,5 towards 3,3 3,3 Skanska’s purpose and ensure that its sustainability efforts tranbeing 3,0 a learning organization in 2015. scend the entire company. In response to serious incidents on Skanska jobsites and else2,0 where Skanska are working closely with manufacturers, plant rental companies 1,0 and contractors to ensure that all mobile elevated work platforms (MEWPs) on Skanska jobsites are fitted with secondary 0 guarding. 2008eliminates 2007 This 2009 the potential 2010 2011 2012 injuries crush 2013 to operators. 2014 2015 In addition Skanska is working with International Powered Access Federation (IPAF) on training managers in the selection, use and control of MEWPs. 60 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2015 Recognizing that there are many improvement opportunities New Code of Conduct Skanska set up expert working groups to develop best practice guidThe process to develop a new Code of Conduct was initiated at the ance. Skanska worksites receive thousands of material deliveries end of 2014 under the supervision of an internal Task Force. The each day. Some of these are potentially hazardous putting at risk Task Force’s work has included external benchmarking and trend those off-loading the materials. One expert group is investigating analysis, internal interviews, and an extensive internal anchoring best practice in the management and logistics of material deliverprocess with each Skanska Reporting Unit. It is anticipated that the ies to jobsites. Another common high risk operation for Skanska is new Skanska Code of Conduct will be launched in the second quarworking alongside live high speed traffic. The working group has ter of 2016. made several recommendations on working practices to reduce and Skanska also initiated a separate Task Force to address the risks improve safety of the workforce including the development and use associated with corruption, competition law, and payments to of the safety “halo”, using LED lights on the helmet. foreign countries. Using the results from a group-wide risk assessIn 2015 Skanska made knowledge exchange easier when it ment, the Task Force developed a more robust process to conduct launched its knowledge and discussion platforms. Here colleagues due diligence and monitoring of third parties, particularly joint are able to ask questions or raise safety issues that can be responded venture partners and intermediaries. Skanska’s competition law to by any other Skanska employee. Topics range from falls from compliance manuals were updated and communicated as well. The height to changing the culture of site supervisors. This is a great work of this Task Force will supplement the development of the new resource that Skanska will develop in the coming year. Other Code of Conduct. methods include webinars, which are a popular and effective. In 2015 they included presentations on Health and Well-being and the Ethics in the Business Units management and use of mobile elevated platforms. The program of In 2015, Skanska continued to work with the Ethics Plan to promote Safety Peer Reviews continues with teams of senior managers and a more focused approach for working with Ethics in each Business safety specialists visiting a business unit to review its activities and Unit. As in 2014, each Business Unit prepared an Ethics Plan with exchange good practice ideas. Business Unit specific goals and action items to strengthen its ethical culture. These plans were reviewed by the Skanska AB Ethics ComHealth and Well-being mittee and as an addition peer reviewed throughout the year. Skanska wants it people to be fit for work and that their work does The Business Units, as in recent years, will continue to submit not impact their health and well-being in future years. Managquarterly ethics reports to the Skanska AB Ethics Committee. ing work related illness and supporting employees to be mentally These reports are summarized twice per year and submitted to the and physically healthy in the long term is important. That is why Audit Committee of Skanska AB Board. ­Skanska increasingly manages health risks in the same way as safety by identifying the risks and putting in place controls to reduce the Ethics Organization risks and negative impacts. Skanska’s ethics organization was strengthened during 2015 with The Skanska global health and well-being group regularly discusses the addition of new Ethics Committees for the commercial developand exchanges ideas and experiences about the identification and ment units and support functions. In some Business Units, such as management of health risks at the workplace. Health and well-being Poland, Czech Republic, and others, the work of the Ethics Comare considered from two main angles – the work environment and mittees was refocused to meet the present and future needs of the personal health – and involves activities that involve both Human Business Units. Resources and Safety. The Global Ethics Network, with representatives from each BusiCommunication and sharing learning in health is critical and ness Unit, had four meetings in 2015 to share best practices and webinars on work related stress, psycho-social factors and the increase competencies within ethics. impact of traumatic events on employees in the workplace. At the end of 2015, Skanska AB established a new position in the ethics function, Senior Vice President Ethics, to support the focus Safety Week on ethics and compliance. The theme for Safety week 2015 was pre-task planning. This has been identified as one process that can make a significant contribution to providing a safe work environment if carried out consistently and rigorously. In several Skanska home markets – Poland, Anonymized cases spread knowledge USA and Finland safety week has developed into an industry event Skanska receives reports of alleged misconduct through several with competitors , clients, suppliers and regulating authorities takreporting channels including Human Resources, Legal, E ­ thics ing part. Organizations at the Business Unit and Group level, and the independently operated Code of Conduct Hotline system. Ethics In 2015 Skanska received 64 reports in the Hotline, compared In 2015, the commitment to building a stronger ethical culture to 54 reports in 2014 Some of these reports are anonymized in Skanska intensified, driven by increased expectations from and a description of the case and outcome are published on the stakeholders, new legislative requirements, and lessons learned intranet, OneSkanska. This provides employees with the opporfrom recent allegations of ethical breaches. Skanska sees this as a tunity to understand how the various reporting channels operpositive trend for its business and society because responsible and ate, the way reports of alleged misconduct are investigated, and sustainable behaviors promote strong communities and a healthy what actions are taken when a violation of the Code of Conduct economy. occurs. Skanska Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors 61 With more building projects achieving good in-use energy effiTraining is key to building an ethical culture ciency levels and with more civil projects understanding the link to Training is a foundation of Skanska’s ethical culture. It is a material efficiency and cost, Skanska has seen an increased interest requirement that all Skanska employees are trained every second in the reduction Vanilla of carbon emissions Green from operations and construcDeep Green Compliance Beyond Compliance Future Proof year in the Code of Conduct. The training requirement may be tion materials. Loss of biodiversity is quickly rising as a global consatisfied through either e-learning or instructor-led classes or cern, for which Skanska is defining a strategic response. Energy a combination thereof. There are numerous examples where a Business Unit is using innovative and comprehensive methods. At Skanska UK, online training for employees is supplementCarbon ed by on-site instructor-led training sessions for groups. The online training includes multiple-choice questions about the Code of Conduct and the UK Bribery Act. Materials Skanska USA Civil conducts monthly ethics training for Skanska craft workers. A specific subject relevant to craft workWater ers is discussed each month as a tool box talk. This provides an opportunity for craft to learn about the topic and provides an environment to raise questions. In Commercial Development Nordic, ethical dilemma discussions are used as an effective way to maintain awareness about Deep Green explained: Solallén ethics. All staff and management meetings begin with an ethiSolallén is a residential neighborhood in Växjö, Sweden with 21 townhouses. cal question and discussion. The project is Sweden’s first net zero energy neighborhood and Skanska’s first ever net zero energy and Deep Green residential project. Energy Energy: the townhouses use 30 kWh/m2; 2020 Business Plan – driving an ethical culture with 50 percent less than the Swedish energy code. external parties and management commitment Geothermal heating systems provide under floor heating and a roof-mounted photovoltaic system As part of the new 2020 Business Plan, “Profit with Purpose”, Carbon ensure net zero-energy performance. each Business Unit has developed targets and action plans Carbon: An embodied carbon footprint was conducted. in key focus areas. A common theme among the targets and Materials: Many of the materials fulfilled Svanen Noractions established by the Business Units in the area of ethics Materials dic ecolabel and Swedish BASTA criteria; 99 percent of was a more rigorous program for managing external parties wood was certified, no phase-out substances according to the Swedish Chemicals Agency were and efforts to strengthen and communicate managerial comused and. 98 percent of construction waste was mitment to ethics. Water diverted from landfill. –M anagement of external parties including training of joint Water: The townhouses are designed to use 45 percent less water than typical newly built Swedish homes. venture partners, due-diligence, and more robust pre-qualification/audits of the supply chain –M anagement commitment including increased communiEnvironmental Management cations, dilemma discussions, and management training. In 2015 there were no reportable Environmental Incidents. ISO The connection between business and good ethics is confirmed 14001 and Skanska´s Risk Management procedures are the primary in the Skanska Brand Survey where Ethics comes out as the most means of ensuring effective environmental management. In 2000 important area for clients selecting Skanska as supplier of conSkanska became among the first global construction company to struction services. have all its businesses certified to ISO 14001. Skanska is planning gap analyses and peer reviews to support the transition to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. Green Journey to Deep Green™ Disclosure In 2015 Skanska continued its Journey to Deep Green™ delivering Skanska annually reports its carbon emissions to CDP. Through many Green and even Deep Green projects. The Journey to Deep measurement Skanska is better placed to manage and reduce its carGreen™ embeds climate and resource considerations into Skanska´s bon emissions. Skanska has been the highest ranked construction business processes. All Skanska´s business units have Green and company in the CDP Nordic report from 2010 to 2014. Deep Green targets supported by green implementation plans. Deep Green projects are future proof projects that surpass the perforDirect (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions mance defined by the highest levels of certification of many volunin tonnes CO2e tary green rating systems. Skanska´s ambition is to scale-up Deep 2015 1 2014 2 2013 2012 2011 2010 Green projects, delivering value to customers, shareholders and to Scope 1 330,758 367,791 386,154 354,518 341,869 305,986 the environment. Skanska´s journey focuses on 5 priority areas: Scope 2 49,207 60,494 51,305 50,981 67,886 110,866 • i n-use energy consumption, 1 The numbers are preliminary and are subject to change in conjunction with the CDP reporting. • reduction of carbon emissions from operations and construction 2 The numbers for 2014 have been adjusted compared to the 2015 CDP report. materials, • reduction of construction waste, Carbon emissions from Skanska´s construction units are third • reduction of water use and party reviewed since 2014. • i mproving material selection favoring more sustainable materials. 62 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2015 Global Leadership Life Cycle Building Assessment Energy Efficient and Green Buildings and Circular Economy World Business Council for Sustainable Steering group of the “Resource Development (WBCSD) Energy Efficient Buildings” project led by Efficiency in Buildings project European Commission RenoValue project targeting Co-chair of WBCSD project “Mainintegration of energy efficiency streaming Life Cycle Assessment for into building valuation Buildings and Materials” Multistakeholder Advisory Committee World Green Building Council´s of UNEP Sustainable Buildings and Places for People Campaign Construction (SBC) programme For more information regarding Skanska’s work within Green, please visit www.skanska.com. For information regarding external organizations and their work, please visit their respective organisations website. Corso Court, Prague, Czech Republic. In this case community investment has taken the form of the design Corporate Community Investment of the building and infrastructure Skanska has constructed. This Construction is largely a local activity and the projects that are won gives a long lasting legacy to the community. place Skanska in numerous communities through the employees Community investment can also occur during construction and supply chain. The vision is to be a supportive, committed and in the form of recruiting disadvantaged groups, using the time responsible member of these communities. This requires well of Skanska employees and expertise through volunteering and executed projects and where possible, a wider contribution to socieducation. ety. Skanska delivers thousands of projects annually and all have an impact on the local community. Globally Skanska has around 43,000 employees who are part of society and have an impact on society. The investment into the community is therefore an important part of Skanska’s social agenda for sustainable development. The Community Involvement Policy has been updated to reflect Skanska’s intention of investment and local economic development. Local Economic Development As a long-term participant in local communities Skanska will foster Local Economic Development that • i mproves the resilience of these communities to cope with safety, environmental, ethical, diversity and inclusion impacts • enhances the life skills of individuals within these communities through apprenticeships and local employment where appropriate An example of Skanska’s community investment can be seen in Corso Court, Prague. Skanska Commercial Development invested in an area of town which was in need of rejuvenation. Skanska’s Skanska UK’s ‘Lend a hand’ volunteer programme is presence has improved the local environment, provided job opporpart of its Corporate Community Investment strategy. tunities and given the local community an open amenity space with free wi-fi and use of the office restaurant. Education – Education will be supported under the broad headings where Skanska believes it has greatest influence: safety, green, ethics and diversity and inclusion. In addition technical education around construction will create employment and provide quality candidates into the future construction industry. A network of people responsible for community-related issues has been formed across the Business Units and at the head office to drive the community investment culture and communicate best practices throughout the company. In 2014 an online reporting tool was established so reporting throughout the company is transparent. Reporting around time and materials has been recorded. All community investment activities must comply with Skanska’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Rules, Financial Threshold Rules (cash and/or in-kind) and Disaster Relief Document. Skanska Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors 63 Diversity and Inclusion Employees divided by Gender Since 2013 a global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) vision has been 2015, % 2014, % in place stating that by 2020 Skanska is recognized as a leader in Category Men Women Men Women diversity and inclusion in all home markets, mirroring the diversity Skilled workers 98 2 98 2 in society on all levels of the organization and Skanska’s leaders are White collar employees 72 28 73 27 excellent in fostering an inclusive culture. Management positions 81 19 84 16 In 2015 the journey towards the vision continued. A Diversity and Senior executives 78 22 88 13 Inclusion Change Journey Map was implemented. The map tracks Skanska AB Board 79 21 88 13 and inspire change efforts focusing on leading indicators in the areas of: 1) D&I commitment and awareness among leaders, 2) D&I specific change efforts, 3) D&I in existing organizational processes. In terms of the values, Skanska´s re-articulated values support All Business Units have used the Map for peer review discussions in Skanska’s journey to become more diverse and inclusive. D&I learning groups (groups consisting of 3–4 Inclusion Advocates The increased focus is paying off in terms of employee survey and HR-experts from each Business Unit). It has also been used in results and representation of women. In many Business Units there the Business Units’ board meetings when each respective Business is a clear positive trend in terms of the four D&I questions in the Unit’s D&I work have been reviewed. employee survey, and the percentage of women employees have Management commitment, Skanska Values and the Business Plan increased from 12 percent to 14 percent women during the last two are the foundation of Skanska´s D&I strategy. All have been in focus years at a Group level. during the year. Skanska’s D&I work is also receiving increasing external attention and acknowledgement. Several Business Unit Presidents, Inclusion Advocates and members of Skanska’s Senior Women Advisory Group have had external speaking engagement. There has D&I Vision 2020 been several articles on Skanska’s D&I work in Swedish, as well as international, press. Skanska has been invited to write chronicles Attract and Secure an Develop a Using D&I as recruit from inclusive diverse pool a competitive in different forums, including a guest blog for the well-known a large and diverse pool workplace culture of talent advantage in the marketorganization Catalyst (www.catalyst.org). In 2015 Skanska Sweden of talent place was selected as the Swedish candidate for the European Diversity Charter Award. Management Awareness, Skills and Commitment Skanska Values and Business Plan In terms of management commitment there has been increased focus on inclusive leadership skills among managers on all levels through various workshops across Skanska starting with an extensive workshop on Inclusive Leadership for the Senior Executive Team and all the Business Unit Presidents. In terms of the business plan, there is a strong focus on Diversity and Inclusion in the upcoming global business plan for 2016–2020. As of this year D&I is one of Skanska’s prioritized sustainability areas together with safety, ethics, green and corporate community investment. Skanska Annual Report 2015 Addresses 165 Addresses Skanska AB (publ) Skanska Poland Skanska USA Building Skanska Commercial Property SE 112 74 Stockholm ul. Gen. J. Zajaczka 9 389 Interpace Parkway, 5th floor Development USA Sweden PL-01 518 Warszawa Parsippany, NJ 07054 Empire State Building Street address: Warfvinges väg 25 Poland USA 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Tel: +48 22 561 30 00 Tel: +1 973 753 3500 New York www.skanska.com www.skanska.pl www.usa.skanska.com New York 10118 U.S.A. Skanska Sweden Skanska Czech Republic Skanska USA Civil Tel: +1 917 438 4514 SE 112 74 Stockholm and Slovakia 75–20 Astoria Boulevard www.usa.skanska.com Sweden Libalova 1/2348 Suite 200 Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 149 00 Prag 4 Queens, New York, N.Y. 11370 Skanska Infrastructure Customer service: 020-30 30 40 Czech Republic U.S.A. Development www.skanska.se Tel: +420 267 095 111 Tel: +1 718 340 07 77 SE 112 74 Stockholm www.skanska.cz www.usa.skanska.com Sweden Skanska Norway www.skanska.sk Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Postboks 1175 Sentrum Skanska Commercial Property www.skanska.com/id NO-0107 Oslo Skanska UK Development Nordic Norway Maple Cross House, Maple Cross SE 112 74 Stockholm Skanska Financial Services Tel: +47 40 00 64 00 Rickmansworth WD3 9SW Sweden SE 112 74 Stockholm www.skanska.no United Kingdom Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Sweden Tel: +44 1923 776 666 www.skanska.com/property Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Skanska Finland www.skanska.co.uk www.skanska.com P.O. Box 114 Skanska Commercial Property FI-00101 Helsingfors Skanska USA Development Europe For other addresses: Finland Empire State Building SE 112 74 Stockholm www.skanska.com Tel: +35 8 20 719 211 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Sweden www.skanska.fi New York Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 New York 10118 www.skanska.com/property USA Tel: +1 917 438 4500 www.usa.skanska.com More information about Skanska: www.skanska.com Annual report production team: Skanska AB in collaboration with Addira. Graphic design: Paulin Art Direction & Design Text: Skanska AB Translation: Novoterm Print: Larsson Offsettryck Linköping Photos: Skanska Staffan Andersson / Malmö Live, inside cover Karin Alfredsson / BoKlok Kiruna, page 4–5 Live Nation / Nashville Arena, page 10–11 Christer Edling / Kviberg in Gothenburg, page 30–31 Åke E:son Lindman / UN, page 42–43 341 298 Printed matter Larsson Offsettryck Skanska AB www.skanska.com Warfvinges väg 25 SE–112 74 Stockholm Sweden Tel: +46 10-448 00 00
