Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 1/51 Table of Contents CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT 3 E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 4 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 7 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES 28 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 33 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 46 05 Selected examples of social activities within Hager Group 47 Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2/51 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Blieskastel, June 2016 Markets, technological standards and customers’ needs are changing faster than ever before, therefore, the highly soughtafter ‘windows of opportunity’ for establishing innovative solutions that are ethical, environmentally-friendly and lower in energy consumption, open and close at breath-taking speed. If we are good, fast and ahead of the field we can play a more active part in shaping sustainable progress than ever before. On the other hand, there is also considerable risk: anyone who Tomorrow, next year, ten years’ time… misses important developments and rests What will the future bring? Nobody knows. on their laurels will find the march of time Yet at Hager Group we have chosen to leaving them behind even faster and more anticipate the future by calculating risks mercilessly than in the past. Never before and seizing our opportunities proactively. has innovation been so important to drive a For example, our company projects have a cleaner, greener and brighter future. longer-term approach, they are based on five years of commitment – our current one We follow the guidance provided by the is Project 2020. We invest in our ISO 26000 standard to integrate social employees and their training, in energy responsibility into our organisation. With efficiency and future technologies, in fair E3, our approach for sustainable trade relations and we work actively to development, we act ethically, caring for continuously improve our eco-balance people, and we respect the environment by sheet. Maybe we are giving up more profit taking into account our planet’s limited in the short term, but we are convinced that resources in our business activities, this is the way to achieve sustainable offering our customers energy-efficient success for the future. solutions. Indeed, at Hager Group our ambition is to In April 2007, we signed up to the United grow in the long term rather than Nations Global Compact, the voluntary maximising profits in the short term. business initiative supervised by the United Making money is, of course, something Nations to foster Corporate Social that we have to and want to do, but what Responsibility. With this document we counts is how we go about it. We want to renew our commitment and contribution as do things properly for the right reasons by a committed signatory. adopting an ethical approach when interacting with employees, partners and suppliers, and by continuously reducing our ecological footprint and developing more energy-efficient solutions for our customers. Daniel Hager, CEO Hager Group Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 3/51 HAGER GROUP, CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY… …because our values are not negotiable, …because we believe in respecting people and our environment, …because Corporate Social Responsibility is more than just words. E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH “As a family-owned company it is in our nature to be sustainable.” With increasing globalisation and professional development and to promote diminishing natural resources, we must ethical behaviour with all our stakeholders. consider the consequences of our actions. The need for greater corporate E for Environment: We aim to make our responsibility and shaping a sustainable environmental footprint as neutral as future is increasing. At Hager Group, we possible for the planet by optimising the want to move forward in such a way that use of energies and resources, avoiding we leave a clean bill of health for future hazardous substances, and limiting generations. We have translated this vision emissions and waste. of sustainable development into a structured approach that we called E3. E for Energy: We offer value to people and their assets through safe, smart, ecoE for Ethics: We strive to offer our friendly and energy-efficient products, employees a safe and secure working solutions and services for both their living environment, equal opportunities of and working environments. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4/51 E3 is not a one-off programme, at Hager Group it is a firmly established approach for many years to come. Employees, customers and suppliers alike can easily access our E3 approach by consulting our corporate video where our Head of Sustainable Development, Denis Munch, (left) outlines the principles of our E3 approach. French with English subtitles French French with German subtitles For more information concerning our commitment to employees all over the world, please consult pages 82 & 83 of our 2015 Annual Report. In our current company project, Project 2020, our sustainability strategy has eight transverse challenges & eight key process indicators and objectives. The success of the sustainability strategy requires the involvement of every site, every function, every employee. Our 8 challenges Ethics: > Assessment, policy and goals: improve health and safety at the workplace > Implementation: reduce number of work and commuting injuries (with stoppage) per 1000 employees (temporary workers included) > Measurement of outcomes: 20% > Assessment, policy and goals: develop the company’s talent pool > Implementation: increase % of people with a tenure in job below 5 years (indirect workforce) > Measurement of outcomes: 20% > Assessment, policy and goals: Increase gender diversity in key positions > Implementation: increase % of women in management positions > Measurement of outcomes: + 15% > Assessment, policy and goals: strengthen ethical behaviours in business > Implementation: increase % of managers qualified (trained and skills validated) in ethical management > Measurement of outcomes: 80% Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5/51 Environment: > Assessment, policy and goals: Optimise on-site energy consumption > Implementation: On-site energy consumption in kWh / million € TO > Measurement of outcomes: -10% > Assessment, policy and goals: Reduce CO2 emissions related to freight > Implementation: CO2 tons emitted related to inter-sites and OTD-sales freight/million € TO > Measurement of outcomes: -10% Energy: > Assessment, policy and goals: Strengthen eco-design of products > Implementation: % of eco-designed products amongst the innovative projects > Measurement of outcomes: 80% > Assessment, policy and goals: Increase sales of energy efficiency devoted solutions > Implementation: TO achieved with solutions enabling energy measurement, energy savings, energy storage or devoted to renewable energies > Measurement of outcomes: +200% Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 6/51 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses We at Hager Group support and respect 31% on average over 6 years specifically human rights through our daily activities by for 2015, the reduction was 13.8%. providing safe and healthy working We expect a great deal from our conditions and by ensuring nonemployees, however we also make every discrimination in personnel practices. effort to encourage them and develop their For example, from 2009 to end 2015, abilities in a favourable balanced working occupational safety actions have been put environment. Every Hager Group in place to promote safety group wide. The employee currently completes 18 hours of LTIFI indicator (lost time injury frequency professional training per year on average, index), shows our actions have resulted in therefore increasing collective knowledge the number of work accidents and travel to, and skills for all to enjoy the benefits. per 1,000 employees, being reduced by > Assessment, policy and goals: Diversity Diversity (n. f. Latin: diversitas, atis): Since our beginnings, we quickly character which is varied, diverse. Applied established ourselves in different local to companies, is the variety of human regions and abroad, seeking to capitalise profiles that may exist within (country of on this asset. “Beyond a humanistic origin, region, neighbourhood, patronymic, approach, we believe that diversity is culture, age, gender, physical appearance, essential for us to be successful in our disability, sexual orientation, qualifications, various markets. Proper management of etc. ...). This definition highlights a reality diversity at all levels of our organisation today: every company is faced with and in cooperation with our partner diversity and the challenges it represents. networks is now more than ever a genuine Hager Group has chosen to encourage lever to support our business,” explains diversity by seeing it as an advantage. Daniel Hager, Hager Group CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 7/51 > Implementation: We are operating in a global, multicultural, achieve success diversity is approached multigenerational & diverse world; to from four different angles in all we do. Multicultural approach We work in an increasingly international environment with colleagues from all over the work. Transversal projects and processes throughout the group necessitate a better understanding of cultural and linguistic difference. To facilitate our work numerous training session are in place to help us better understand and work efficiently with are colleagues from all around the world. Gender Balance our Human Resources managers to suggest both female and male candidates; however, we maintain a sensible and pragmatic approach. Women's access to positions in the company comes through early training and education. Education systems must attract young women to these courses to provide them with the necessary skills to better prepare them for the world of work. As a company, we are 42% of our working population is female conscious of having a role to play in and 58% male, 12% of managers are developing the rights of women in the female. Diversity of views and genders is a corporate world. Our business approach on driving force for innovation; therefore a gender equality is to allow women to grow better balance would benefit the company. within the company and access positions, When appointing new colleagues, we ask without the gender issue. Disability were 113 colleagues in France registered within RQTH (Reconnaissance en Qualité de Travailleur Handicapé). On 3rd December 2015, to celebrate the United Nations ‘Handicap Day’ in Obernai was organised handicap awareness. The following initiatives were set up for colleagues to take part in: lunch with headphones – to imitate the environment of For Hager Group, disability is not a deaf person, a lesson in sign language and a representative of the Regional Office considered as inability, but rather a different kind of ability. In May 2016 there for handicap people, available for discussion and information. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 8/51 Inter-generational approach We act fairly in working relationships between colleagues, be they young trainees, employees with few or many years’ experience and seniors. This approach aims to bring employees together in purposeful, mutually beneficial work to promote greater understanding and respect between generations and contributes to the growth of the company. Corporate Social Responsibility CSR & community activities > Assessment, policy and goals: Corporate Social Responsibility is an Multinational Enterprises. We ensure that integral part of how we conduct our our suppliers and partners respect a business at Hager Group, make decisions number of rules on human rights and & set our priorities. Our corporate social labour law. That is how we aim for a responsibility approach is based on the 30 balanced and safe competitive articles of the United Nations Charter of environment and broad international Human Rights, the standards of the diversity. This approach not only increases International Labour Organisation and the the motivation of our employees, but also Organisation for Economic Co-operation the loyalty of our customers and our and Development Guidelines for partners, at home and abroad. > Measurement of outcomes: China ‘Best Supplier First Class Supplier Award’ for Hager China As testimony to our unique added value Peking University Resource Group, for low and positive customer experience, Hager voltage power distribution devices. China has been awarded ‘Best Supplier Through their internal evaluation process, First Class Supplier Award’ by PKURG, PKURG selected only 4 suppliers out of nearly 100 for the First Class Supplier Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 9/51 Award. Hager China was the only solutions for their commercial buildings, company in the power distribution sector. A hotels, high and mid-level residential very proud Ma Dongliang, RED (Real projects, science & technology parks and Estate Developer) manager of North schools. This strategic cooperation Region received the ‘First Class Supplier between Hager China and PKU Award’ on behalf of Hager China. RESOURCES, set up in 2013 will guarantee orders over the coming years. From July 2015 to July 2016, Hager China will be the sole supplier of devices and solutions to PKU RESOUCES, a real For more information about Hager China’s estate developer. Hager China will provide Award, click here. France Run for cancer awareness For more than 15 years, October has been Today more than 1 in 8 women are at risk the month of the pink ribbon in Strasbourg, from breast cancer. The best protection is France. Worldwide, this pink ribbon early detection prevention is always better symbolises support and advice for breast than cure. Every October a 5 kilometre run cancer awareness. and walk are held in Strasbourg to campaign for the importance of screening. Many Hager Group colleagues from Obernai, Saverne and Bischwiller took part in the event to raise awareness. Bischwiller’s works council, for the second year running, financed 100 inscriptions and a bus to the event. A donation of 4€ was given per employee-participant for the fight again breast cancer. Being LEAN How to avoid waste to improve overall Arts and Trades). A factory visit was customer value at work…? Be LEAN. It is a organised to put theory into practice and management philosophy we apply in our perform an international Shingo (LEAN) 28 different Hager Group production units. audit; useful for both trainees and us as we In September 2015 our Bischwiller site in had an outsider view of our factory’s France welcomed a group of LEAN experts performance. Strengths and areas for who were in training at ECAM in improvement were identified and taken into Strasbourg (European Catholic School of account for our ambitious Project 2020. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10/51 60th birthday 2-day open house celebration in Obernai The weekend of 4th and 5th July was almost 500 employee-volunteers. The fundedicated to a very special event in packed programme included numerous Obernai, France – a 2-day open house – activities for both adults and children: 8 where employees were welcomed with stands exhibiting not only Hager Group their close family to enjoy the festivities to solutions and innovations but also key celebrate 60 years of Hager. Just shy of themes such as E3 (Ethics, Environment & 5000 people were present at the Obernai Energy), International Hager and visits of site for the 2 'Open Days' Hager Group the 3 on-site factories. employees, their family members and Employees’ relatives got the chance to see cream and ice-pops and for the health their loved-ones everyday-life at work. conscious there was a selection of salads There were also music concerts, bouncy and a salmon dish. Of course, there was castles, a ‘fresco’ to colour in and games. plenty to drink as the temperatures topped Throughout the day, available for 35°. employees and their guests were hamburgers, hotdogs, fajitas, a barbeque, For more information about the the Alsatian speciality ‘tarte flambée’, icecelebrations, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 11/51 Make every cent count (‘Chaque centime compte’) As of January 2016 every employee in France had the opportunity to make a contribution to charity. The Human Resources department, based on the model already set up in Germany with the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation, provided employees with the opportunity to donate the cents after the decimal point of their salary. 100% of the profits go to local associations. Thank you barbeque Factory 6 at our Bischwiller site in France organisation and way of working. To thank set up in November 2014 a project called the personnel for their hard work managers ‘Factory 6 Vision’; the idea being to organised a summer barbeque dinner implicate employees on the factory floor in where they themselves served employees. significant changes to be made within the Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 12/51 Hager Forum celebrates Chinese New Year From 8th to 19th February 2016 Hager “We want to Forum held its first intercultural event in make Hager honour of China. It was an opportunity to Forum a real encourage international cooperation meeting place between different group entities and local that brings partners. There were a series of activities; together our the aim being to build connections between company’s various stakeholders and the different group sites, strengthen our different cultures. These interactions and intercultural character, introduce diversity are essential for all to benefit and colleagues to Chinese culture and develop new projects, both locally and showcase our company values to visiting internationally,” emphasised Ana Maria customers. With this in mind, Hager Forum Arteaga, Hager Forum Manager. For more team worked with Chinese colleagues to details about the Chinese New Year create a programme that will be further celebrations, click here. developed with each passing year. Achieving a good work-life balance: day-care places for employees’ children One of the childcare that also meets their objectives of requirements in terms of work and family our Care life, if possible. Management As of January 2016 reserved day-care scheme is to places are on offer for the children of help our employees near our sites in Saverne, employees to Bischwiller and Crolles. As well as being strike the right close to the Hager Group sites, these balance nurseries offer attractive rates that are the between their private and professional same as those of the local authorities. In lives. The arrival of a new baby is a happy April 2016, day-care was also made event, but it entails a great deal of change available for children of employees based and requires a lot of organisation. One of in Obernai. In total, around 80 of our the main concerns new parents have is employees benefit from this service. finding high-quality, safe, affordable Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 13/51 Healthy Hearts Day (Journées du Cœur) & blood donations sessions consisted of making employees aware of diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity. Advice was also given on food hygiene, how to stop smoking and integrate physical activity into daily life. There was also conference about wellbeing & relaxation. On 12th April In November 2016 the health service in colleagues in Obernai organised in conjunction with the Obernai had the Healthy Hearts association in Obernai oppourtunity to (Réseau Cardio Prévention d’Obernai) four donate their information sessions for healthy hearts blood, as every awareness. Cardio vascular disease year the national causes incapacity and premature death association of and is one of the major causes of death in blood donors set the Alsace region of France where three of up on site. 46 of our French sites are based. It is important our colleagues to inform employees of the risks involved – participated. prevention being better than cure. The four A step further toward gender balance: women, Obernai and Hager Group Start 2016 a Sustainable know Hager Group and its company culture Development day ‘Journée and values. Développement Durable’ Doris Anzel was took place at Strasbourg for a six-month Management School; Hager period from 2015 Group’s participation was led 2016 based in by Doris Anzel who was invited together the Human with 9 other company representatives who Resources are all members of the Sustainable department in Development Charter of the Mangement Obernai whilst School. Her mission was to present to 90 writing her MBA male and female students Hager Group’s thesis on gender Sustainable Development approach and equality as part of provide a gender equality study case. the MBA Does gender equality engender Programme for Sustainable Development innovation? The 90 students were divided & Corporate Social Responsibility at into 10 mixed groups and the winning team Strasbourg. She had free reign to interview was offered 3 personalised coaching and investigate the situation at Hager sessions with an experienced Hager Group Group. The subject of her thesis: manager. The objective of this coaching According to the Global Gender Gap was to familiarise students with company Report of the World Economic Forum life, and support them in finding a work women only occupy a minority of key placement, and of course better get to positions in industrial companies within Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 14/51 Europe. How can sustainable female students from three engineering development help to remedy this schools in Alsace are invited to spend the phenomenon? Her research was primarily day at Hager Group, Obernai to ‘dare’ to based on information found at 5 of Hager discover the professions linked to Group’s main sites. engineering and the reality of a future Excerpts of Doris Anzel’s analysis: “…the mission at Hager Group. Workshops are concept of diversity is counted as being facilitated by one male and one female part of the company’s social responsibility manager. and represents a key contributor to its The Director of Industrial Engineering business performance. Two countries are Services is passionate about gender trying to integrate gender balance into their balance and is supported by a young everyday work routine in terms of female engineer who joined the company recruitment and internal development. In as the result of a previous one-day event. another, gender balance is implemented by This event highlights the company’s the Country Manager who specifically awareness of social responsibility and develops both women and men in his shows its effort to build the future (female team. In many countries, home office is and male) workforce.” becoming a tool for a more flexible work and a better work-life balance for men and For more information about the 2016 women. An action of particular interest is a edition of the aforementioned one-day special one-day event ‘Dare! Discover event, click here. careers in engineering’ where male and France and Germany Hager Group is one of the best employers in France and Germany Hager Group is one of the best employers in France: such is the result of a survey conducted at end 2015 by the online statistics portal Statista on behalf of CAPITAL magazine. In this survey, 20,000 employees anonymously expressed their views on the various qualities of their workplace and employer, thus enabling 2,100 companies with more than 500 members of staff to be rated on a scale from 1 to 10. We are going to great lengths to become an even better employer, says Franck Houdebert, Human Resources Director at Hager Group, it is both a reward for all the effort our teams have put in and confirmation that we are on the right track with regard to our mission of growing together.” For more information about this nomination, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 15/51 ‘Going beyond borders’ with Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer On Monday 27th July 2015, a committee company whose activities go beyond from Hager Group in Blieskastel Daniel borders; it is also a group that proves that a Hager, CEO and president of the executive family company can be innovative and a board, Johannes, corporate strategy and market leader.” business development welcomed the Minister-President of the Saarland After visiting the factory and the research Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer and Annelie and applications centre that was opened at Faber-Wegener, mayor of Blieskastel. The the end of 2013, Daniel Hager, and theme for Kramp-Karrenbauer’s 2015 Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer went for a summer tour was ‘going beyond borders’, drive in one of our electric cars. Topics which began with us to best demonstrate such as the company’s future and projects, this theme. Hager Group has been in particular the ‘Stromsparland’ research developing connections between France project on energy efficiency and renewable and Germany since it was founded over 60 energies, which is supported by the years ago. government of Saarland were discussed. Minister-President Kramp“We are delighted to have been able to Karrenbauer, who show the advances we have made in also visited the innovation, energy transition, electric Obernai site in mobility and assisted living for the elderly,” January 2015, said Daniel Hager at the end of the visit. commented: “I am very pleased to begin my summer tour For more details about ‘Going beyond here. Hager is not just a Franco-German Borders’, click here. Role of smart homes in the energy transition On a similar theme, to implementing the energy transition in Hager Group was buildings was discussed? Johannes also present at Hauck, Director of Corporate Business Light + Building answered this question in an interview with where the topic of the association ZVEI at the trade fair. the role of smart For more details click here. homes with regard Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 16/51 Ambient Assisted Living Days Ambient Assisted Living technology is Daniel Hager. “Our aim is to use the opening up a new business area for Franco-German AAL Days to knowledge solutions that make everyday life easier for spread about how dignified ageing could the elderly and those in need of care. How look today and in the future. AAL Days are to make life easier was the question not a sales event; rather they offer all addressed at the 1st Franco-German AAL actors on the market the opportunity to Days in Obernai, Alsace, on 28th & 29th present their experiences and to take home September 2015. These AAL Days were fresh knowledge and new contacts.” the first Franco-German meeting in the sector. The context of an aging population Stephan Kreutzer, head of Hager Group is similar in both countries. This congress AAL Business Development and organiser brought together experts from politics, of the AAL Days, stressed that this industry economics, research and philosophy as event was a must for anybody who wanted well as those who are already involved in to gain a the domain business representatives, comprehensive healthcare experts, property specialists understanding of which has made real progress. They AAL. “Great ideas shared their ideas and expertise in start in the mind, workshops, presentations and informal and then great ideas conversations before and after the panel are generated by discussions. bringing together the best minds. The more we learn from each other and work By 2030 over 22 million people will have together, the more quickly we will be able reached retirement age in Germany alone. to provide solutions that make life easier Surveys show that the majority of them for the elderly.” would prefer to spend their remaining years in their own homes. AAL has great social For more information about AAL Days, and economic potential, with this in mind, click here. Hager Group’s developers have, for some time now, been investigating how state-ofFor information about AAL in use; ‘A home the-art technology can be easily and as adaptable as life itself’, click here. individually integrated into the home to support wellbeing. For more information about AAL and the dawn of a sunrise industry, consult pages “Demographic transition is one of the 10 to 19 of our 2015 Annual Report. greatest social challenges of our time,” said Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 17/51 SOS Villages On 19th October 2015 Hager Group introduced to the mystery and magic of organised an adventure day for 90 children sound. Meanwhile, the older children tried from three SOS Children's Villages in their hand at forensics, conducting a France and Germany. Hager Group put criminal investigation and identifying the together an exciting programme that culprit thanks to prints found at the scene combined recreational and educational of the crime and DNA evidence. activities, including workshops and guided tours. In the morning the children enjoyed a “Since we are a family company, the notion private visit of ‘Le Vaisseau’, Strasbourg's of family and the social roots it represents science-centre, where they took in over is particularly close to our hearts. That is 100 interactive animations. They also took why we are supporting SOS Children's part in workshops, where they had the Villages International. The organisation opportunity to learn facts and find out what offers these children and teenagers a it is like to be a scientist. As part of the family environment and the opportunity to museum's temporary exhibition, the have a better life,” commented Daniel youngest children in the group were Hager. This charitable initiative was launched in for the second time in a row, the Board of December 2011 at Hager Group Directors decided that the budget Symposium; its participants from all around traditionally allocated for these gifts should the world usually received a small gift as a be used for SOS Children's Villages memento of this annual conference. Yet, International. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 18/51 Germany Hager Group Training Day in Blieskastel A training fair was held at Blieskastel from explains: “we have been inviting schools to 20th to 23rd July 2015 where 650 students Blieskastel since 2014. This allows us to and 20 teachers from schools in the local give interested young people a better idea region of the Saarland came along to find of day-to-day work here.” out about the various training options and jobs in the electrical industry. What are my strengths & weaknesses? What do I want to do when I leave school? How can I achieve my professional goals? These are the questions that many students ask themselves. And more and more of them are expressing an interest in real support when it comes to choosing the A team of instructors, employees from the Sales Promotion department and Hager right training path for them. Hager Group responded to this growing demand by Group trainees were on hand to ensure the inviting schools to its second training fair, event went smoothly and make sure the pupils and teachers were well looked after. which it is establishing as a regular event in the Saarland region. Students could take part in training sessions which provided information about application packs and selection procedures. They were also given the opportunity to experience production operations first-hand during a factory visit. In addition to this, there was a ‘jobs marketplace’ where the young students could find out more about various logistics, administrative and technical occupations. For more information about the training day, click here. Providing careers guidance for pupils is And for additional information about nothing new for Hager Group, as Andreas training and applying for jobs at Hager Fuchs, Head of Commercial Training, Group, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 19/51 Various social activities in Germany Special ‘Azubi-Fit’ days are organised for Ergonomic standards were improved in new trainees/apprentices in order to inform production and offices to avoid health them about health and safety in the issues, particularly in the realm of muscular company. The target is raising awareness problems. for the 20 or so participants. The necessary facilities and instructors Summer 2015 was dedicated to health were provided for colleagues to practice checks to target early recognition of vein sport to keep a healthy work & life problems. More than 200 employees at 4 balance. For example, weight training, German sites participated. Certificates for yoga classes…Up to 70 colleagues this project were awarded by ‘Deutsche benefitted in our four German sites. Venenliga’ (German Veins association). Feriencamp Spohns Haus On the theme of helping children and Feriencamp Spohns Haus initiative. The providing educative yet fun experiences, group visited our Blieskastel factory and the above group had a blast at ‘Hager Day’ had barbecue in the evening with some of in Summer 2015, which is part of the our German colleagues. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 20/51 Hager Group honours Saarland’s top electrical engineering technicians of 2015 Hager Group welcomed the three best “In a modern world where almost nothing junior electrical engineering technicians of can function without electricity, the role of the year to its Blieskastel site on 1st July an electrical engineering technician is 2015. Tim Phillip Siebenschuh, Tobias increasingly evolving into a high-tech Escher and Philip Merker were profession subject to huge technical commended by the company and the challenges. With this award, we want to Landesinnung Saarland der show our appreciation and demonstrate Elektrohandwerke (Saarland State Guild of once again the close working relationship Electrical Engineering Trades) for their we have maintained with our tradespeople outstanding performance in the masters’ since Hager Group was founded, as well examination. They each received a as the support we have shown them certificate of recognition, a voucher to the whenever possible,” explains Gregor Wille, value of 150 euros for a Hager Group key account manager for the electrical seminar, and a gift in appreciation of their trade, who was responsible for the event. hard work. Following the award ceremony and speech by guild chairman Günther Bartruff was a tour of the premises with one of the company founders Dr. Oswald Hager and Christian Weinard from the training and information centre. The tour of the production halls and the new research and application centre provided ample opportunity for attendees to learn about the production process and the new, innovative solutions from Hager Group, as well as to talk to experts from the company. For more information about electrical engineering technicians, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 21/51 Lange Nacht der Industrie Hager Group opened its factory doors in The Long Night of Industry is a chance for Blieskastel once again: the Lange Nacht us to showcase our company and to inform Der Industrie (Long Night of Industry) was young people, young professionals or held again for the fifth time in Saarland on employees looking to make a career 15th October 2015. The event provides an change about Hager Group. It also exclusive, otherwise unattainable insight provides an opportunity for us to present into what goes on behind the scenes at ourselves as an attractive employer. industrial companies. A total of 20 Alongside the companies from the region took part in this main target year’s event and yet again Hager Group groups was among those participating. All already attendees were invited to take a look at two mentioned, companies during the ‘Long Night of guests who Industry’, for Hager Group there were two simply wanted groups of 50 visitors. School children, to find out students, people looking for jobs or training more about opportunities, employees and other Hager Group interested parties all got to know Hager were Group at the company presentation, plus obviously also they were also taken on a tour of the welcome,” says Benjamin Schröder, a factory and given additional information on project manager in event organisation. care management and personnel development. A particular emphasis here For more information, click here. was on training opportunities available and care management services. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 22/51 Hager MiKids During the first week of September 2015, together with Saarland’s Family Minister employees’ children participated in Hager Monika Bachmann a guided tour of the MiKids 2015: a programme full of factory. Hager Group’s Care Management animations giving them the opportunity to team put together a diverse programme of spend five fun and adventure-filled days at events including water games, the Aqvital leisure centre of Germany’s woodworking and electrical workshops. Christian Association of Youth Villages CJD staff and trainees joined a group of (CJD). On the last day of the camp, the Hager Group retirees and employees to children went to Hager Group’s Blieskastel provide on-site support for the participating headquarters, where they visited their children, who were aged between six and parents at their workplace and were given twelve. Running, Nordic walking and inline skating at Hockenheimring colleagues joined in again this year at the Hockenheimring racing circuit. As one of the most popular sporting events in the Rhine-Neckar region and Germany’s thirdbiggest corporate run, the Company Cup has now firmly established its place in the calendar. Teams representing over 820 companies from the surrounding regions participated; it was held for the thirteenth time this year. With options for running, rollerblading and power walking, there was a discipline for everyone. And with younger runners in mind, a number of races were also organised for children and juniors in the afternoon. Then it was the adults’ turn in the evening as they geared up for their lap of the 4.8 kilometre circuit. Almost 20,000 participants, a 4.8 kilometre tarmac track and an outdoor temperature For more details about the BASF of 35 degrees – that’s the BASF Company Firmencup, click here. Cup on 1st July 2015 in a nutshell! Over 80 Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 23/51 Hager Group TechniCamp Hager Group invited young trainee provided 120 trainees with information electrical engineers to join in the fourth about the electrical industry. Trittenheim Hager Group ‘TechniCamp’ action at was transformed into a ‘Hager Village’ a Trittenheim in September 2015. venue for intensive work, sport and Workshops, knowledge transfer and more celebration. The Practical orientation and Vertriebsgesellschaft and Head of Sales in straightforward knowledge transfer process Germany. “We would like to strengthen the were part of the learning process for the electrical trade. The German electrical trainees, along with marketing simulation trade as a whole is currently experiencing a games. In groups of ten, trainees formed a shortage of 27,000 employees, so it is mock electrical company receiving a visit important to encourage young recruits.” from two customers.The combination of knowledge transfer and outdoor action was For more details about Hager Group an essential component of Hager TechniCamp and a video click here. TechniCamps. It is a concept that proves successful and popular with this young target group.“It is crucial for us to make sure we reach young people in the trade,” explains Torsten Schulz, Managing Director of Hager Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 24/51 Italy Hager Lumetal Spa (Porcìa Pordenone) gave these ‘Christmas gifts’ to the ‘Banco has continued to work with the association Alimentare’ organisation that supplies ‘Il Giglio’, which is involved in social food and basic necessities to families with projects to aid the recovery and social financial difficulties. integration of physically and mentally disabled people. Charitable contributions were made to several ‘Onlus Organisations’ such as The Project ‘Casa tra le Nuvole’, a ‘Vivi aiutando a vivere’ that helps older building destined to accommodate disabled disabled people to guarantee their people from Crespellano (Bologna), integration in the society and ‘Tutti contro continues. The renovation work was la Leucemia’ that supports and helps completed and the house ‘Casa tra le people affected with Leukemia. Nuvole’ officially opened on 27th September 2015. Defibrillators were installed and training courses provided for 10 employees of Atral At AB Plast there was a collection of food & Italia Crespellano as well as for 16 drink and donations from employees. They employees at Hager Lumetal. Portugal Innovation in Construction Award for Hager Portugal (new) On 14th April 2015, Hager Group Portugal Área Associativa – a Portuguese publisher was invited to attend the 2nd edition of the with 3 specialised publications related to ‘Innovation in Construction Awards’, a the construction field. Hager Group were ceremony dedicated to highlighting the nominated for Excellence of the Year importance of construction in the Award alongside other leading industry Portuguese economy. 25 prizes were specialists...and won! This Award is the awarded throughout the evening in the most prestigious one given at the categories Business, Equipment and ceremony, and was presented to Hager Products. The aim of the awards was to Group for our outstanding work and highlight the importance of the construction contribution to the industry. field and to encourage the creation of innovative projects to strengthen the For more details about the Award for industry. The awards are an initiative of Portugal, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 25/51 The Netherlands Hager Netherlands decided to support a the 2,000€ donation is Hulphond NL, it charity organisation rather than redistribute assists blind or traumatised people with the benefits to employees. The organisation for aid of trained assistance dogs. UK Every year Hager UK promotes and takes together over a coffee and cake and raise part in the Macmillan Coffee morning, a funds for such a worthy cause. great opportunity for employee's to get Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 26/51 Responsible purchasing at Hager Group > Assessment, policy and goals: As a signatory of the United Nations Global commitment from the supplier to comply Compact we aim to promote the principles with the terms of Hager Group's of sustainable development among our sustainable growth and ethical trade policy, suppliers. From the selection of our we encourage our suppliers to be active in suppliers, which involves ethical work and rolling out their socially responsible environmental protection criteria, to signing business approach. a purchase contract, involving a > Implementation: Hager Group stands for high standards in our sustainable development commitment. brand quality, reflected in our procurement Hager Group requests that its suppliers activities. We are very careful in choosing comply with Hager Group’s ‘Sustainable suppliers, and apply a range of selection Growth and Ethical Trading Policy’ that criteria. Any supplier wanting to work with includes the request to source materials us must recognise our core values used in needed for their operations solely from our own business: professionalism, fast socially responsible vendors. In particular, response times and a high level of the signing of our ‘Conflict mineral positioncustomer focus. Hager Group’ document to determine if Hager Group fully supports the OECD their components contain tin, tungsten, initiative of 2013, ‘Due Diligence Guidance tantalum and/or gold, is mandatory. for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk For more details about our sourcing policy, Areas’, which is in line with our values and click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 27/51 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Investors in People IiP > Assessment, policy and goals: In today’s changing and increasingly to rely on skilled and fully engaged complex world, Hager Group must employees is a competitive advantage that constantly adapt to and anticipate new drives sustainable growth. The Investors in challenges in terms of organisation, People (IiP) framework helps us to focus technology and financial resources. The our organisation on improving our key factor of our company’s success is the performance and achieve our objectives ability of our teams to initiate and manage through excellent people management and these changes. In this context, being able development. > Implementation: Investors in People, a British management standard framework, was introduced at Hager UK in 1994 and then in France in 2000. > Measurement of outcomes: In 2015, 2 external recognitions were awarded to Italy and Belgium. In March 2016, the new IiP Sixth Generation framework was used to re-validate Hager in The Netherlands for an external recognition. 51% % of our employees work in an IiP certified site, 12 of the 30 countries where we have employees are IiP certified. For more details about Investors in People, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 28/51 Occupational Health & Safety > Assessment, policy and goals: At Hager Group, employee health and employees with a safe workplace, safety are vital issues. Beyond compliance environment and working conditions is a with the applicable regulations and the core value of Hager Group, which places financial aspects of the costs of workplace the company’s men and women at the accidents or occupational illnesses, it is not heart of its concerns. This is an integral ethically acceptable for an individual’s part of our commitment to sustainable mental or physical health to be development, and more specifically to the permanently or temporarily affected by ethical aspect contained within E3. their professional activity. Providing > Implementation: Hager Group’s European Works Council, in appearance of major risks to the health and agreement with the company’s Top safety of individuals or to the environment. Management, has put in place a committee In the context of this mission, this made up of elected members of staff committee is tasked with carrying out whose goal is to notify management in the monitoring visits of the company’s sites. event of any serious issues or the > Measurement of outcomes: A shared health and safety indicator for the travel accidents resulting in stoppages of group was put in place in 2009: this is one day or more per 1,000 people (Hager known as the frequency index. This Group employees or temporary staff) per measures the number of workplace and year. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 29/51 > Implementation: Reducing threats and maintaining operability A fourth Hager Group production site was foremost to protect our people, activity and awarded an HPR certificate by the risk installations; the fact that we have been management insurer FM Global on awarded this certificate is a plus and December 3rd 2015 in Blieskastel, recognition of our investments.” Germany. Rémy Becher, Senior Members of the Blieskastel team were Vice President Offer present to receive the certificate from FM Management Global representatives. The certificate Commercial, who rewards years of investment – both time proudly accepted the and money – for prevention and protection certificate comthroughout production and storage areas. mented that “...The These actions carried out were first and actions carried out foremost to protect our people, activity and were first and installations. Internal mobility > Implementation: International Mobility policy is part of a Internal mobility on a local and global scale wider business strategy developing is an important factor in career businesses in new countries as well as development and Hager Group developing international careers. > Measurement of outcomes: For example in France, the internal mobility Human Resources departments in Hager objective is 50%. In 2015, by the end year Group follow indicators for the number of we were at 46% for 195 recruitments; an positions filled through internal mobility. increase of 10% compared to 2014 figures. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 30/51 Health & Safety Certifications > Assessment, policy and goals: 18001 We do our utmost to uphold the international OHSAS 18001 standards throughout Hager Group’s industrial sites. > Measurement of outcomes: 17 of our 28 production sites and 3 logistic sites are certified to OHSAS 18001. Employer of Choice > Assessment, policy and goals: V.I.E. for 18 to 28 year olds in France International Experience (V.I.E.) is a One of the objectives of Project 2020 is for programme the French government Hager Group to expand internationally, created in 2000, it allows young graduates thus we are concentrating efforts in talent (18 to 28 years old) from Europe to management. Going abroad is no longer contribute to the internationalisation of restricted to employees with extensive French companies. Below are testimonials work experience and positions of from 2 of our young employees. management; Volunteering for > Implementation: Samia Kamboua: in Dubai (United Arab Any surprises on arrival & what is life Emirates) on a V.I.E. since May 2015. like in Dubai? “I was very surprised by the open mindset Why did you choose Dubai as in Dubai, particularly of Hager Group destination? colleagues. It is definitely a city where “During my tolerance and diversity are the key words. studies, I had a Here cultures, accents and religions are clear desire to mixed-up to form a wonderful melting pot. explore the world. As an example, I’m dealing in Hager When I saw there Middle East with 11 different nationalities. was a possibility at Hager in the What are the benefits of this Middle East for a international experience? V.I.E. based in “It is a great learning experience. Even if Dubai, I jumped at total immersion is definitely frightening at the chance. It met all my requirements: a first, you learn a lot, I totally recommend dynamic growing place, a multicultural city, Hager Group to all young people who want politically stable and a request from local to start a career abroad. Thank you to the management to integrate a generation Y team who gave me the opportunity to profile in the team. It was as well the right integrate Hager Middle East and prove choice to improve my Arabic and English myself through the tasks and skills.” responsibilities that have been entrusted to me.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 31/51 Guillaume Attard: development of Hager Any surprises on arrival & what is life brand in Cape Town, South Africa since like in Cape Town? January 2016. “No real surprises, South Africans are very warm, friendly and welcoming people. Why did you choose Cape Town as Everything had already been organised by destination? Hager to facilitate my arrival “I discovered accommodation, car, someone came to Cape Town a few fetch me at the airport, etc. And they spent years ago in a time introducing me to everybody and documentary; it showed me the city.” looked wild and heavenly. When I saw the classified What are the benefits of this ads on Civiweb international experience? about a V.I.E. at “I think it is the best opportunity ever, I am Hager Group I learning so much, either at work or in my was really private life and I am very thankful to all the enthusiastic because I already know the team and all the people that I have met in company. South Africa because they are making this experience unforgettable.” Training in Italy The following initiatives were carried out in Training for safety issues for Employee Italy: Representative such as emergency & fire Training courses for 10 Atral Italia and 16 procedure, and specific training for fork lift Hager Lumetal employees in the use of and crane operators at Hager Lumetal debrifillators. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 32/51 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies The following commitments form our contribute, with our solutions to a more approach for sustainability. efficient use of energy in buildings. At Hager Group, we: For more information concerning our want to be a corporate citizen and a commitment to employees all over the responsible employer world, consult pages 82 & 83 of our 2015 care for people Annual Report. act for the protection of the planet put ethical behaviour at the centre of all For further E3 details, consult pages 5 & 6 we do with our customers, partners, of this report. suppliers & employees Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 33/51 > Assessment, policy and goals: In line with E3 (Ethics, Environment and environmental responsibility and Energy) and the Global Compact’s encourages the development and diffusion principles to support a precautionary of environment friendly technologies that approach to environmental challenges, reduce our carbon footprint. As a familyHager Group undertakes both internally owned company, social responsibility is a and externally to promote greater matter close to our hearts. > Implementation: improving safety and creating good Hager Group's employees have played a working conditions, significant role in our company's success supporting internal advancement, with the professionalism and commitment developing competencies and increasing they have shown. The future of Hager employability, Group depends on its employees, so with promoting diversity, this in mind, we have set priorities for respecting and supporting ethical ourselves in 4 different areas: principles. > Measurement of outcomes: Ethics: For every 1,000 employees, we policy is for all our production sites have seen a reduction of 42% in the worldwide to be certified in accordance number of accidents occurring in the with the international standard OHSAS workplace and on the way to or from work. 18001. So far, 70% of Hager Group's One of the aims of our health and safety employees work at a certified site. Environment: Hager Group met the 14001 and OHSAS 18001. March 2015 sustainability requirements for its main saw 3 projects highlighted at a ceremony production sites in 2013 and 2014. The where environmentally friendly projects amount of air freight transport at Hager were presented. Group has decreased by 30% over the past two years, and this in turn has led to For more details about the Eco-Awards direct ecological and economic benefits. 17 please refer to page 37 of this report. of our 28 sites are already certified ISO Energy: The need to contain CO2 subjected to a life cycle analysis from the emissions and curb the increasing scarcity conceptualisation stage. This analysis not of the earth's oil reserves has brought with only helps us to pinpoint the best it a demand for new transport solutions. compromises to be made in order to limit One of these solutions is the electric car. any negative impact on the environment, Hager Group develops the charging but it also enables an environmental profile stations for these electric cars. The to be created for the product. This serves equipment used in our sustainable as a sort of ‘green pass’ for the product. buildings is intended to have as little impact The number of products with an on the environment as possible. The environmental profile has tripled in the solutions Hager Group develops are space of two years. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 34/51 “We do not inherit the earth from our parents; we borrow it from our children.” Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, a French writer, aviator and poet. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 35/51 Hager Group Continuous Improvement and Eco-Awards At the twelfth Hager Group Continuous Hager Forum in Obernai, France, three Improvement and Eco-Awards ceremony teams were featured in the Eco category. which took place on 10th March 2016 at COOL, Injection workshop! moulding department makes work difficult for operators, machines can breakdown and energy consumption for cooling is high. With the new cooling system design solution there is an integrated fan, air filter and wet curtain cooling system to bring fresh cool air directly into the workshop. This solution forces the heat outside and the whole system is equipped with one closed loop water system that cools the air. The results: workshop temperature ≤32 Keeping our cool in the injection degrees, a 50% energy saving and happy department! 38 degrees in the injection operators in a cooler working environment. ‘Stock reduction enclosures’ This was all about recycling and refurbishing depreciated stock at the ADC (Area Distribution Centre) in Blieskastel for production at Blieskastel and Porcia. Within 24 months the stock value of depreciated goods was reduced by more than 70%. And there’s more: cost savings for external storage space, resource saving through reuse of components and earnings gained by separating the different materials and selling them off for recycling. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 36/51 Environmental & Energy Improvement the project Environmental & Energy Improvement. Its objective was to make operators and customers aware of our energy consumption in Blieskastel buildings via ‘live monitoring systems’. The data collected continues to help to increase energy efficiency, better protect our climate & environmental resources as well as generate cost reduction. New generation energy effective systems such as photovoltaic panels, a cooling system linked to the combined heat and power The Eco Award trophy was awarded to facilities, LED lighting and new composite controlled air compressors were installed. Head of Sustainable Development, Denis present, both as participants and Project Munch, (left) presented the trophy to the finalists, “…indeed, a culture of Continuous Eco winners and Daniel Hager in his Improvement and diversity is a prerequisite closing speech congratulated all the for sustained performance and enables us finalists for their hard work and dedication to even better fulfil customers’ needs in line to continuous improvement, pointing out with Project 2020.” his satisfaction that were many women Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 37/51 English French German Hager Group takes part in Expo Milano 2015 The Expo 2015 world exhibition opened its objective being to offer answers to the doors in Milan at the beginning of May; major future challenges for global human Hager Group was at the forefront of the nutrition. action as one of the partners of the German Pavilion Consortium (ARGE). For more details about our participation in Expo 2015 in Milan centres on the theme Expo Milano 2015, click here. of ‘Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life’, the Actions in France Since 2012 we have participated in funding As such start 2016 a bus in the town of Obernai to avoid inflation and mirror employees taking their personal vehicle at station were set up lunch time. The bus runs between the sites in the car park in and from the sites to the train station and Obernai with the town centre. aim of helping colleagues to save Pascal Christmann, on fuel. Corrected in charge of Health, inflated tyres can Safety and help save up to Environment in three weeks of fuel France comments per year. A reduction in consumption that “every effort means lower emissions; if everyone drove we make to reduce with properly inflated tires, it would our carbon footprint potentially avoid releasing of 1.6 million helps, for example our company restaurant tonnes of CO2 per year in France. 82% of serves over 800 meals per day equating to motorists say they regularly see vehicles a saving more than 3,200 kms per day, the with improperly adjusted or defective lights. equivalent about 200 litres of fuel. Making For these reasons, a tire inflation station our cars safer by keeping tyres inflated and mirror to encourage the control and properly not only increases safety, it has a verification of these important safety positive impact on the environment.” elements was also installed. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 38/51 Initiatives in Obernai to reduce electricity consumption The following graphs illustrate the Evolution in results for carbon equivalent emissions in production, in Obernai, France. The slight increase is explained by the particularly clement winter 2014/2015 resulting in reduced gas consumption for heating. In 2015 CO2 emissions in Obernai were reduced by 32.1%. 11 recognitions from CARSAT Security Contest The CARSAT (Caisse d'Assurance Retraite et de la Santé au Travail Alsace-Moselle – retirement insurance for Alsace-Moselle region) Security Contest aims to honour deserving companies in the matters of hygiene, safety and working conditions. In 2015 our three Alsatian sites won between them eleven different awards for actions that secure employees’ safety in production and as a result Hager Group was the most award companies in the region in 2015. A special prize was also awarded in Saverne for actions to prevent RSI and other disorders of this nature. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 39/51 France, IBOCO At IBOCO batteries, neon lights, ink medical teams to find new treatments and cartridges and coffee capsules are all improve existing ones the later provided recycled. Obsolete office material is also viable information for tourists with special collected and sent to treatment plants; needs (reduced motor skills, mental, material such as old telephone, portable auditory and visual impairments) about computer, printers and battery chargers. access to different tourist sites. 2 different associations are also The Marketing service via the supported, funds are collected and help is organisation ESAT employs handicapped given: Enfants, cancer et santé & Un workers in stamping, shipment and panel fauteuil à la mer. The former allows mounting. Italy Several initiates have been carried out in The yearly audit for the environmental our various sites in Italy: management system at Bocchiotti took place. Replacement at Atral Italia of all the lighting systems with new LED At all Bocchiotti sites the soil has technologies in order to reduce the energy undergone a special investigation to consumption. ensure no pollution. A recycled packaging line for Atral Italia At Bocchiotti, training was provided on warehouse has been set up. safety for all the Employees and on the environment for the workers. Training courses were updated for the role of Employee Representatives for Modifications were made at the Bocchiotti Safety Issues. factories to reduce power consumption. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 40/51 Spain Mobile phone collection At Hager in Spain in 2015, a campaign was research into uncommon serious diseases launched to collect used mobiles phones to that are disabling and degenerative, with help AEPMI, an no cure or effective treatment. Association of These mobile phones and other electrical Patients with good are then managed by both the Mitochondrial foundation ‘Llamada Solidaria’ and the Pathologies. 300 company Residuos Electrónicos, S.L. families in Spain are Together they manage the entire collection members of this process for the recycling of all kinds of association. The electrical and electronic equipment; collection of such recycling this type of material reduces devices helps environmental pollution and the demand for AEPMI to raise extraction of new raw materials. In total 30 money for phones were collected at Hager Spain. awareness and Water consumption reduction in the injection process in La Roca The old cooling system for injection 2015 by 50%, this making a saving of machines in an open loop was replaced by around 1.500 m3 of water per year. The a new system in closed loop that uses optimal use of water is especially important much less water and energy. Water in Spain during drought periods. consumption in the factory was reduced in Regulations & Certifications > Measurement of outcomes: REACH Regulations Hager Group requires its suppliers to that they don’t contain hazardous declare the presence or not in their substances over the regulatory thresholds. supplied goods of one or more of the latest At Hager Group we endeavour to not use substances added to the SVHC list these substances of high concern in our (substance of very high concern). This existing products and all new projects do declaration concerns good provided with not contain any of them. This list last and beyond Europe. Yearly screening tests updated on 17th December 2015 now are carried out by a third party laboratory contains a total of 168 substances. on randomly chosen products to confirm ISO 14001 Certifications By the end of 2015, 17 of our 28 production sites were certified ISO 14001. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 41/51 E-mobility > Assessment, Policy and Goals: As electrical mobility develops, charging solutions we have put the focus on easestations for electric vehicles are of-use, ergonomics, intelligent and increasingly more present in our lives, be aesthetic charging stations, positioning they in public places or in the home. By ourselves as an active contributor to this developing of a range of recharging new industrial and human adventure. > Implementation: E-Rallye & E-mobility in Germany An E-Rallye organised by the Moselle travelling from Les Trois Forêts to Departement in France made a charging Thionville in seven stages. On 16th stop at our Hager Group site in Blieskastel. September, the convoy of no less than 80 During the pit stop 26 electric vehicles people, made a charging stop at Hager were recharged simultaneously. The EGroup in Blieskastel, the only pit stop on Rally welcomed 26 electric vehicles German soil. It is no coincidence that the organisers installed on site, which means that together chose Hager Group to recharge the with our intelligent recharging management participating electric vehicles. A large system, it is possible to recharge several number of charging stations have been vehicles at once. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 42/51 between 3.6KW and 22KW per charging unit. The technical challenge faced was twofold: firstly, to ensure mains power supply at Blieskastel would withstand the pressure of recharging 26 vehicles simultaneously, and secondly, to guarantee complete recharging of all vehicles within three hours. Only an intelligent recharging The electric vehicles had at their disposal a management system such as the one range of witty.home, witty.park, and operating in Blieskastel could ensure this. witty.bamboo charging stations. The charging capacity was 230V and 400V and For more information, click here. witty: Hager witty charging stations launched with the new Volvo XC90 in Malaysia Malaysia Automotive Institute in Cyberjaya, with Volvo Car Malaysia (VCM). For this special occasion, Hager witty range of charging stations was exclusively promoted as the best recharging. Hager witty charging stations were showcased for the launch of the new Volvo XC90 plug-in hybrid vehicle. The XC90 T8 Twin Engine has a claimed full-electric driving range of 43 km, and a combined fuel consumption Hager witty range of charging stations has figure of 2.1 litres per 100 km (47.6 km/l) been exclusively promoted as the best at the push of a button, the driver can recharge solution. The new Volvo XC90 switch to pure electric power. was launched in December 2015 at Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 43/51 Green power plant for the home: Hager EMSS harnesses the power of the sun With its high-performance Energy and boasts an efficiency of up to 95 per Management and Storage System (EMSS), cent as well as noticeable improvements in Hager enters into the business segment of comparison with traditional storage private electricity generation. Hager EMSS systems. As a combined energy allows homeowners to store and manage management and storage system, it allows the energy harnessed by solar installations homeowners to utilise the regenerative instead of having to feed it back in to the energy collected from the roofs of their public grid for a small fee, as was homes in the most efficient way of all: for previously the case. EMSS works with the themselves. latest generation of lithium-ion batteries without their own energy management and storage system can use a maximum of 20 per cent of the electricity they have generated, explains Torsten Hager, responsible for the project. “On sunny days when their installations are being used to full capacity, homeowners must feed any excess electricity into the power grid according to the compensation rates set out in the EEG (Renewable Energies Act), i.e. for low amounts. However, if their systems fail to produce enough electricity for their own requirements, they have to buy it back from their electricity provider for two and a half times the price. With Hager EMSS, they can use between 70 and 80 per cent of the energy they generate themselves. Hager EMSS thus presents considerable progress for ecological energy generation and offers predictable electricity costs as well as the greatest Making maximum use of the energy possible degree of independence from generated in homes: Private households conventional energies.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 44/51 Innovative storage system with numerous advantages: the cost-effectiveness of investing in a green power installation for homeowners depends on the location in question, the customisation of the system and the electricity price trends. On average, an installation of this kind tends to pay for itself after just a dozen years or so, says Achim Jager of Hager Vertriebsgesellschaft. But Hager EMSS could be a future-oriented investment from the very first day for anyone looking to be as self-sufficient as possible when it comes to their clean energy supply. For more information, click here. For more information about Renewable and conventional energies, consult pages 32 to 33 of our 2015 Annual Report. A new boost for e-mobility: witty.park charges electric vehicles on the go witty.park was unveiled at the IAA while they are out and about. The robust, (Internationale Automobil-Ausstellung – versatile charging station is specially International Automobile Fair) 2015 in designed for this purpose. The charging Frankfurt. Hager is introducing a new station, which has proven to be very charging station for semi-public spaces that popular so far, will come onto the market in will allow drivers to charge their electric 2016. vehicles quickly and safely while they are away from home. witty.park is intended for For more information, click here. use in car parks belonging to businesses, supermarkets, restaurants and cinemas – For more information about charging semi-public places where different kinds of stations, consult page 31 of our 2015 users can charge their electric vehicles Annual Report. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 45/51 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption initiatives > Assessment, policy and goals: What is the right thing to do? What is not choices becomes increasingly more right? Where do you draw the line? complex and more important. It is important that new and current employees be guided Doing business globally entails many through our company values and challenges, particularly when working in understand our Ethics Charter which make diverse cultures where ‘appropriate’ it very clear what is expected behaviour of business conduct can vary widely and in a Hager Group employee. Our Ethics countries where enforcement of national or Charter is a reference framework based on international standards may be weak. our values, providing an authoritative Therefore adherence to the company’s guideline for an upright, reliable yet Ethics Charter must be observed. In a successful way of doing business. business environment, making the right > Implementation: Three years ago, Hager Group set out the and trustworthy will benefit in the long term. company’s values and philosophy in its To apply these principles to the daily lives own Code of Ethics. In addition to obeying of employees, around 80 percent of the law and treating competitors fairly, it executives are to receive online ethics also covers complex problems. For training by 2020. example can I accept a supplier’s invitation to a symposium with a stay in a For more details about our Ethics Charter, luxury hotel? Is the gift of a pen tantamount click here to bribery? Hager Group firmly believes that only those whose actions are moral Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 46/51 05 SELECTED EXAMPLES OF SOCIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN HAGER GROUP Peter-und-Luise-Hager Foundation > Assessment, policy and goals: As a family-run company, it is part of Hager resources, and above all, social Group’s culture to be aware of its responsibility. The founders are convinced responsibility. This means taking that it is important to give something back responsibility for employees and their to society in return for its commercial families as well as the sustainable success. Such a commitment reflects the protection of the environment and natural Hager family culture and their values. > Implementation: The Peter und Luise Hager Foundation located near Hager Group sites and was established in December 2010 to therefore benefit the people who live and support projects in the fields of science and work in close proximity to the company. research, protection of the environment, The name of the foundation is also fitting; it culture, child development and education is named after the parents of the company and social care. Many of the projects are founders, Oswald and Hermann Hager. > Measurement of outcomes: Various prizes were awarded: instead of flowers and wreaths. Using Helmholtz Science prize in cooperation these donations as well as additional with the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology Foundation funds, the Hermann Hager (KIT). A three year doctorate in the area of Meister Gründerpreis is awarded every two energyand environmental technologies is years to three entrepreneurs who have currently being funded; work on the recently set up their own businesses, are doctorate started in November 2015. committed to training young talent, and who are distinguished by their futureThe Hermann Hager Meister oriented working methods. Gründerpreis is awarded to encourage Every year a Peter und Luise Hager entrepreneurs in electronic technology. Prize is awarded and funding offered for a This topic was very close to Hermann Master or PhD thesis in the area of energy Hager’s heart. After his death two years & environmental technologies. ago, the Hager family requested donations to the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 47/51 Projects Hager Group supports a German refugee initiative Under the banner of the initiative ‘All employees to support people who have together’ (“Wir zusammen”), Hager Group had to flee from war and crisis zones. has committed to making a real and lasting Nearly 60 renowned companies have contribution to the integration of refugees in already joined the initiative since the Germany. ‘All together’ is an initiative set project was launched at the end of 2015, up by German companies and their and the number is growing steadily. tolerant place that takes in people in need. This is also largely in keeping with our corporate values of courage, authenticity and integrity. From the very beginning, our founders worked across borders to bring together people from different cultures, languages and nations. This openness has made us strong. Today, people from 60 different nations work in our company; in other words, diversity has always been part With our commitment, we want to send a of the culture of our company. signal that Germany is an open and What are we doing specifically? Last year, using donations of cash and Saarbrücken’s ‘Arrive’ (“Ankommen”) goods, we supported a refugee class at a network. The goal of both initiatives is to grammar school in Dortmund. At the offer arriving refugees a place to start, to beginning of 2016, we sponsored the create a meeting place for refugees and Ensheim/Eschringen refugee aid centre volunteers and to provide unbureaucratic (close to our location in Blieskastel). help with any problems that emerge. We are currently supporting the Blieskastel For more details about ‘All together’, click Refugee Aid Association and here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 48/51 Water for India the people there are dependent on th rd From 12 to 23 September 2015 agriculture for their livelihoods and yet members of the Peter und Luise water is scarce and irrigation systems rare. Foundation were in Rajasthan, India with The situation in the area is particularly the PHD Rural Development Foundation precarious for women too; every day many and the Rotary India Water Conservation of them have to walk for hours to fill Trust to support the construction of dams in containers at the water points and wells for the rural areas of Rajasthan. Two thirds of their family. As a result, a decision was made to help with the construction of two check dams. Check dams are very simple dam walls that can be used to seal off small valleys, during the rainy seasons reservoirs can therefore be filled and water retained. Importantly the check dams can be maintained and repaired independently if necessary by the local residents. These dams improve life quality considerably for the people in the area. Opportunities: Learning for Life & Supporting Young Talents Every child deserves the chance to modules. Learning for Life the education develop their individual talents. The Peter of children in primary & secondary schools und Luise Hager Foundation with the and basic vocational training is sponsored. project ‘Opportunities’ (Chancen), supports This also includes financial support for the children of Hager Group employees in after-school tutoring or special educational their school education, the training of their opportunities. Supporting Young Talents talents and the development of their offers support if a child has a special special gifts. talent, the development of which exceeds Children in the age range 5-18 years and parents’ means. The Supporting Young who require support for economic or family Talents module sponsors instruction in art, reasons are being sponsored. sports or music for example, as well as Opportunities project consists of two instruction for gifted children. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 49/51 Financial contribution to ‘Franck – un rayon de soleil’ Children with terminal phase cancer were trated to a weekend at Disneyland Paris with the assistance of the association ‘Franck – un rayon de soleil’ and financial support from the Foundation. Donation for ‘Electriciens sans frontières’ in Vanuatu After the passage of the typhoon in items to help the local population. Vanuatu in March 2015, the Foundation Electricity was re-established in schools, gave a donation to Electriciens sans community centres water pumping stations frontiers to help them coordinate the and food and medical dispensaries. logistics of transporting all the necessary Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 50/51 Follow Hager Group: Hager Group Communication on Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 51/51
