Better Energy Better World NEXT ENERGY, WITH KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 About This Report Features of the Report KOGAS strives to serve as an energy company that grows alongside stakeholders, and publishes this report every year to transparently disclose and communicate economic, environmental, and social performance generated through sustainability. This report is KOGAS’ 10th Sustainability Report. Reporting Scope and Period CONTENTS This report was written based on sustainability performance data from January to December 2015. Some quantitative performance of the past three years since 2013 has been disclosed About This Report 02 to identify the trends, and the performance of significant activities in the first half of 2016 was also included. The scope CEO Message 04 of this report encompasses KOGAS’ headquarters, regional business locations, and R&D centers. Performance and infor2015 Sustainability Highlights 06 mation for overseas business were also included, if necessary. KOGAS at a Glance 08 There was no critical change in the corporate scale, corporate governance, or the ownership structure during the reporting period but the currencies and various measurement units used in the report were additionally indicated in the report. KOGAS Sustainability Overview 10 12 About KOGAS Changes from the Previous Year 14 Vision and Strategies If there were any changes in disclosed data in the previous report, the reasons for the change were indicated on the rel16 Corporate Governance evant page. Even some performance and information where there has been no change after the previous reporting were 18 Ethical and Integrity Management explained again for readers to better understand the content. 20 Risk Management Writing and Assurance Standards for the Report 22 Stakeholder Engagement This report was written in accordance with the Core option of 23 Materiality Test the international standard of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4. To secure credibility and quality, independent third-party assurance was conducted and the result is contained in the ApKOGAS Sustainability Issues 24 pendix. 26 A Better World with KOGAS Additional Information of the Report 34 Customers Being Happy with KOGAS More detailed information is available on KOGAS’ website, 42 A Sound Environment with KOGAS and the contact information below is available for inquiries regarding KOGAS’ sustainability activities and feedback on this 50 A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS report. 56 Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS Appendix 62 63 Performance Summary KOGAS <Sustainability Report 2016> 67 Prizes and Awards/Memberships Website http://www.kogas.or.kr Having published nine sustainability Address 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea (41062) reports so far, KOGAS has indicated a 68 Third Party’s Assurance Statement year for the reporting period in its title Department Management Strategy Team 70 GRI Content Index so far. However, from the report pubE-mail asseo@kogas.or.kr lished this year, the year of publication 72 Sustainability Initiative Tel +82-53-670-0209 will be indicated in the title to emphasize that it is the latest report. 74 Subsidiaries and Invested Companies Fax +82-53-670-0249 4 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 5 CEO Message Dear stakeholders, Since its foundation in 1983, KOGAS has continuously made strides to supply clean and safe natural gases over the course of 32 years. As a result, we constructed 69 units of LNG storage tanks for a total of 10.66 million ㎘ which are 4,520 km long, supplying the city gas to about 80% of households in Korea. KOGAS’ firm presence as a global energy company is mostly attributable to the unwavering interest and encouragement of the public and customers for the past three decades. I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to you on behalf of KOGAS. KOGAS has achieved growth with stakeholders by proposing the roles and directions of natural gases in the conservation and improvement of the environment, and the utilization of renewable energy, and by realizing energy welfare through the stable distribution of natural gases driven by the government’s policy support and encouragement of the public. However, the volatility and uncertainties manifested by the trends of the demand for natural gases at home and abroad are threatening the growth of the natural gas market by increasing inconsistencies. Against this backdrop, KOGAS is making multifaceted efforts to change the challenging management environment into strategic opportunities instead of crises. Based on our technologies with 30 years of history in adopting, supplying, and managing LNG, we will establish partnerships to enable shared growth with outstanding local and global companies by continuously developing new business models requiring our know-how throughout the world. This will help us bring about continued growth and creation of national wealth. We have revamped the fee system to strengthen the competitiveness of gases for industrial use as well as power generation. We will also do our utmost to lower the unit prices by adjusting the terms and conditions for sales and purchase agreements including the adjustment of contracted volumes and price cuts as the volume for long-term sales and purchases exceeds the estimated volume for demand. In order to fulfill our social responsibilities and duties, we will spare no effort to extend institutional support to the socially underprivileged, while also reaching out to those who are disadvantaged in terms of access to energy. We will establish a corporate culture that respects both human beings and nature by implementing principle-based management through the internalization of an ethical culture with integrity and transparency and managing sites in an eco-friendly and secure manner. We will further strengthen a platform for win-win cooperation to be in close harmony with community, while supporting the economic vitalization of Daegu where our headquarters has been relocated. Distinguished stakeholders, Refusing to settle for the present, KOGAS has established a midto long-term management plan called KOGAS 2025 with an aim to be renewed as a company that the public trusts and for which it has great expectations. As such, we have embarked on a journey under a new banner of ‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS’. KOGAS will become a company that earns customers’ high regard by keeping the promise of creating a better world through better energy. As we fulfill the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which we became a member of in 2007, KOGAS will contribute to harmonious growth with shareholders, the public, society, and suppliers as well as to the development of the national energy industry, thereby making greater strides as a widely respected company. We ask for your great interest in and generous encouragement of our commitment and efforts to become a sustainable company. Thank you. July, 2016 CEO and President Seung-Hoon Lee 6 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 7 8 2015 5 Sustainability Highlights 4 3 2 1 9 6 7 ❶ Completing the First Test Facility for ‘DME,’ commendation from the Ministry of Employment and Labor. KOGAS’ employcommitment transcending the existing customary and routine ethical man❽C  ompleted the Phase 1 Construction Project for the a Next-Generation Clean Fuel _ March 2015 ee-friendly programs were selected as best practices among public corporaagement policies. Employees reaffirmed their will to thoroughly boycott unfair Samcheok LNG Terminal Division _ December 2015 tions – flexible working hours, childcare leave, shorter working hours during practices and continuously remove corruption and irregularities as internal KOGAS completed the construction of a test facility to analyze the economic KOGAS organized the completion ceremony for the Phase 1 Construction pregnancy and childcare, maternity leave before or after childbirth, paternity watchdogs while doing work based on rationality, fairness, and transparency. feasibility of dimethyl ether (DME) as a next-generation clean fuel in GwangProject for the Samcheok LNG Terminal Division on December 15, 2015. The leave and childcare leave. KOGAS plans to make further efforts to establish a ju. Two hot blast heaters using DME for fuel in the next two years will be in terminal was planned to be constructed to dynamically respond to the deoperation to supply the heat necessary for raising seedlings for vegetable and more pragmatic culture and system for gender equality in employment. ❻ Conducting Uzbekistan’s Largest Energy Project _ mand for natural gases. Constructed in the Phase 1 Construction Project for September 2015 crops. With a 35㎾ combined heat and power generation plant, we will conSamcheok LNG Terminal Division were the following: landfill of approximately duct small-scale power separation to use the necessary electricity we produce. ❹K  OGAS Employees Spreading ‘Onnuri’ Love for Four The Surgil Project in Uzbekistan for constructing and managing a gas-chemical 300,000 pyong (990,000 square meters), total extension of 1.8 km for breakDays and Three Nights _ August 2015 plant was completed at the end of September in 2015, and commercial prowaters, berthing facilities, routes, and turning basins for 127,000-ton LNG ❷ Crude Oil from the Badra Oilfield in Iraq Acquired and KOGAS employees were engaged in the ‘Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement duction began in October. The Surgil Project is to produce and sell chemical carriers, four 200,000 ㎘-storage tanks and LNG sendout capacity of a maxiSold for the First Time _ April 2015 Project’ in Dong-gu in Daegu for four days and three nights from August 19 to products by delivering gas produced from the development of the gas field in mum 7.8million tons per hour. In September 2015, the world’s first and largest 22 in 2015. The activity is KOGAS’ representative social contribution project, Surgil located in the northwestern part of Uzbekistan to a gas-chemical plant outer construction of a 270,000 ㎘ storage tank was completed, which will KOGAS sold the crude oil of one million barrels (370,000 barrels of Kirkuk oil contributing to a higher quality of life for the underprivileged and job creation in Ustyurt which is 110 km away. KOGAS is expected gain profits of KRW 84 enter phase 2 construction by 2016 and phase 3 construction by 2017. As owned by KOGAS) first acquired by the Iraqi government in exchange for the in the society. Specific programs include improving the heating system, workbillion a year by producing and selling 460,000 tons of polymer and 3 million such, we will do our utmost to jump higher as the 21st century energy hub development of the Badra Oilfield in Iraq in April 2015 to the international ing on the insulation work, replacing windows, and wallpaper/flooring work. tons of natural gases. in Northeast Asia. crude oil market. The oilfield project is expected to produce a total of 800 In 2015, college volunteer groups selected from 100 universities as well as million barrels of crude oil for the next 20 years. KOGAS participated in the international bidding by forming a consortium with Gazprom Neft of Russia, KOGAS employees and their families took part in one community center for ❼ Port Entry of the First LNG Carrier in the GLNG Project ❾ Declaration of KOGAS 2025 as KOGAS’ Vision _ the elderly and three houses for the elderly living alone. in Australia _ October 2015 January 2016 Petronas Caigali of Malaysia, and TPAO of Turkey. KOGAS owns 22.5% of controlling interests in the project. The first LNG carrier produced in the GLNG Project in Australia made entry into KOGAS declared its new vision, ‘KOGAS 2025’, to pursue new growth in the ❺ Jumping Higher as Clean KOGAS by Declaring the Pyeongtaek Terminal Division. The GLNG Project is to develop a coalbed gas industry based on transformation and innovation on January 4, 2016. KO❸S  elected as a Company of Excellence in Gender Commitment for Anti-Corruption and Integrity in gas field located inland in Australia and export LNG through a liquefaction GAS now has a slogan for the vision: ‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS’. Its message Equality in Employment _ June 2015 Action _ September 2015 station in Gladston located 400㎞. The project started in 2011, successfully is to show KOGAS’ commitment for shared growth with all stakeholders as KOGAS organized the ‘Declaration Ceremony for KOGAS’ New Ethical and Inperformed commissioning in September 2015 and commenced LNG produca reliable company in new areas (‘NEO’) with excellent competencies (‘EXKOGAS was selected as a company of excellence in the ‘category of proactive tegrity Management’ on September 17, 2015. The declaration ceremony was tion immediately afterwards. With the ownership of 15% of equity stakes cellent’) and a genuine attribute (‘Trust’), meaning KOGAS will be alongside measures for improving employment’ for contributing to the implementation attended by all employees in the LNG Terminal and Regional Divisions nationin the GLNG Project, KOGAS plans to import 3.5 million tons of LNG a year. the true energy world for the future. KOGAS will jump higher as a company of gender equality in employment and work-life balance at the ‘Ceremony for 15th Gender Equality in Employment Period’. KOGAS, thus, received a wide as well as the headquarters. It was held to declare KOGAS’ action and trusted by the public and achieving continued growth. 8 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 9 KOGAS Supply and Demand Management for Natural Gases at a Glance Natural gases mined from producing countries are carried by sea in LNG in a liquid state, and then gasified and supplied as gas. The LNG segments are three-fold: upstream prior to liquefaction, midstream for the liquefaction and transportation stage, and downstream for the post-transportation stage. KOGAS is growing into the world’s largest LNG-specialized company with the business scope covering the entire industry from overseas resource exploration and development, and introduction and transportation of natural gases to Korea to their production, supply and sales. Production Facilities Supply Facilities City Gas Producers Household Use LNG Storage Industrial Use LNG Gasification Power Generation Gas Supply Management Sites Companies Send-out Upstream Exploration Mining Liquefaction Shipment Midstream Terminal Tr a ns po rt at Downstream Natural Gas Exploration Projects Projects for Natural Gas ion Using geological surveys for wide areDevelopment and Production as and diverse exploration techniques, KOGAS initiates projects for developKOGAS discovers geological structures ing and producing resources discovered Unloading Production Supply Sales with promising reserves in oil/gas fields through exploratory work following a reand identifies the presence of reserves view on their business feasibility. KOGAS through drilling work. secures the production volume by going through development stages necessary for production including equipping with Projects for LNG Import and Transportation Production and Supply Projects Sales Business production facilities on the ground and In order to secure stability in supply by acquiring the LNG imports to Korea are stored in large storage Natural gases taking up about 15% of total domestic Undertaking drilling with production wells under the volume on time in line with increases in the domestanks in KOGAS’ production terminal divisions. The energy consumptions are sold to various applications Exploratory Work ground. tic demand, KOGAS is seeking to diversify exporters LNG is safely sent out to power plants and city gas including household, industrial, and power genera4 projects in Brunei, Qatar, and Oman besides Southeast Asia. producers through the nationwide pipeline network tion applications. (As of the end of 2015) KOGAS initiated a policy for Korean flag-registered following the gasification process. LNG carriers to develop the domestic shipbuilding Undertaking and shipping industries, having used the national flag Sales Volume of Sales Volume for Development and carriers for LNG transportation from 1994. City Gas Producers Power Generation Production Work LNG Storage Total Extension of in 2015 Companies in 2015 Capacity 10 projects Korean 10.66 Pipeline Network 16.929 14.527 (As of the end of 2015) Import Volume for 2015 Flag-registered LNG Carrier million ㎘ 4,520 km million tons million tons (As of June 2016) 21 (As of June 2016) 31.41 in operation, million tons 6 carriers under construction KOGAS Sustainability Overview About KOGAS Vision and Strategies Corporate Governance Ethical and Integrity Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test 12 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 About KOGAS Vision and Strategies Corporate Governance Ethical and Integrity Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test 13 About KOGAS Company Profile Organizational Composition KOGAS was established in 1983 and is a representative public corporation specializing in energy. KOGAS is KOGAS has seven divisions: for management functions, Corporate Planning Division, Support Division, Marenhancing benefits for people’s livelihood and realizing welfare in energy by supplying natural gases securely keting Division and Overseas Business Division; and for technical functions, LNG Terminal Division, Trunk Line and stably to the public in pursuit of ‘Better Energy, Better Tomorrow’. Division and Technology Division. Under the divisions are 24 units (headquarters, departments, and teams), 13 divisions (terminal divisions and district divisions) and 192 teams. Credit Ratings As of December 2015 Type of Company Name Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) Corporation CEO Board of Directors Corporate Body S&P A+ CEO Seung-Hoon Lee Sales KRW 26.0527 trillion Secretariat Audit Committee Moody’s Aa2 Establishment Date August 18, 1983 Net Income KRW 319.2 billion Office of the Auditor FITCH AAKRW 3,594 (for common stock) Foundation for Korea Gas Corporation Act Sr. Executive Vice President Sr. Executive Vice President Earnings per Share KRW 3,458 (diluted earnings per Establishment (No. 3639, enacted in December 1983) of Management of Technology share) Number of Office of EHSQ Location 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea 3,497 Employees Office of Central System-Control Legal Group Risk Management Team (Center for KOGAS Economics International Cooperation Team & Management) ※ Financial items are based on the Consolidated Financial Statements under K-IFRS. Key Operational Status Key Business Areas Corporate Planning Division Support Division Marketing Division Overseas Business Division LNG Terminal Division Trunk Line Division Technology Division •Strategy Planning Dept. •General Affairs Dept. •Demand Management •Overseas Business Dept. •Terminal Operation Dept. •Trunk Line Operation Dept. •Facility Technology Dept. Facility status Production/supply of city gas and refinement/sale Construction/operation of bases and supply •Corporate Management •Human Resources Dept. •Marketing Dept. •E&P Business Dept. •Terminal Construction •Trunk Line Construction •Resources Technology 69 storage facilities of byproducts networks for natural gas Dept. •Integrated Security Dept. •LNG Business Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. •Finance Dept. Office of Security & •Pyeongtaek Terminal •Seoul District Division •Technology Business 10.66 million ㎘ Emergency Division •Incheon District Division Group The main pipe length 4,520 km Development, transport, and ex/import of Development and ex/import of Liquefied •Incheon Terminal Division •Gyeonggi District Division •KOGAS Research Institute •Tongyeong Terminal •Gangwon District Division (As of June 2016) natural gas Petroleum Gas Division •Chungcheong District •Samcheok Terminal Division Division •Jeonbuk District Division LNG import volume Projects on new/renewable energies, •Gwangju Jeonnam District Projects commissioned by the national or clean synthesis fuel, and climate-friendliness Division 31.41 million tons using natural gas or its byproducts local governments •Daegu Gyeongbuk District Division •Busan Gyeongnam District Major countries for LNG imports Research/Technology development on city Exploration/development projects for oil resources Division Qatar, Indonesia, Oman, gas-related projects and auxiliary projects and related projects Malaysia, etc. Amount of LNG sales Overseas projects related to the above projects 31.456 million tons Current status of overseas projects 2010’s Better Energy, Better World 26 projects in 12 countries 2000’s Becoming a World Class Jan. 2010 Incheon LNG Terminal surpassed the 100 million ton mark in accumulated production of natural gas Jan. 2010 Landed the development and production rights for the oil and Key Milestones Mar. 2000 Signing an MOU for the development project of a gas field in the gas fields in Zubair and Badra, Iraq 1990’s Expanding Growth East Sea Oct. 2010 Gained access to the Akkas and Mansuriya Gas Fields in Iraq Nov. 2000 Korea, China, and Russia reached an agreement for the co-develMar. 2011 Named as the World's 4th Most Admired Energy Company by opment of the Irkutsk gas field development Fortune May 1990 Establishment of the R&D Center Oct. 2002 Commencement of operations at the Tongyeong terminal Jan. 2013 Agreement signed for the E&P project on three blocks in Cyprus Jul. 1993 Commencement of city gas supply to the mid region Nov. 2002 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Kangwon area Sep. 2013 Additional Discovery of a Gas Well in Area 4 of Mozambique, (Daejeon, Cheonan, Cheongju) Mar. 2003 Completed sales contract with Australia Liquefied Natural Gas for Secured 87 Tcf in Total Jun. 1994 Commission of the first LNG national flag carrier mid-term LNG Sep. 2013 Being incorporated into the DJSI Asia Pacific Level and ranking Nov. 1995 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Yeongnam and Jan. 2004 Reaching 10 million for the number of households using natural first in the gas sector 1980’s Base building Honam area gases Dec. 2013 Completion of a nationwide extensive natural gas distribution Dec. 1996 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Busan area Aug. 2005 Investing in equity for the A-3 Minefield in Myanmar project, a total of 4,065 km of a pipeline network Jan. 1997 Establishment of KOLNG Jul. 2006 The number of natural gas-powered buses exceeding 10,000 Feb. 2014 Being selected as the institution of excellence for seven Aug. 1983 Establishment of KOGAS Oct. 1997 Commencement of operations of the Incheon terminal Dec. 2007 Declares 2017 Vision consecutive times in the Customer Satisfaction Evaluation for Oct. 1986 First import of LNG Oct. 1999 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Seohae area Feb. 2008 Signing an agreement to establish a joint investment company for Public Organizations (Ministry of Strategy and Finance) Nov. 1986 Commencement of natural gas distribution to power plant Dec. 1999 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange the Surgil Project in Uzbekistan Mar. 2014 Hosted the Gastech 2014 at Kintex operations (Pyeongtaek) Dec. 1999 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Southern area Sep. 2008 Signing an MOU for natural gas supply between KOGAS-Gasprom Oct. 2014 Won the bid to host the 2021 World Gas Conference in Daegu Feb. 1987 Commencement of city gas supply to the Seoul metropolitan area Dec. 2008 Inception of the LNG pipeline expansion project Oct. 2014 Relocation of Headquarters to Daegu from Seong Nam Apr. 1987 Completion of terminal and distribution facilities at Pyeongtaek Jan. 2009 Signed a business partnership MOU with AMEC Oct. 2015 Commencement of operations in GLNG, Australia Oct. 2009 Gained interest in the offshore and onshore pipeline for Jan. 2016 Declares 2025 Vision (‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS’) Myanmar gas field 14 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 About KOGAS Vision and Strategies Corporate Governance Ethical and Integrity Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test 15 Vision and Management Strategies of KOGAS System for Sustainability Strategies Strategies The internal and external management environments are changing including a prolonged period of low KOGAS believes that fulfilling environmental and social responsibilities as a corporate citizen while pursuglobal oil prices, current status of the buyer-oriented LNG market, and demand for accountability and transing management activities catering to its purpose of establishment is the direction for sustainability to be parency of public corporations. KOGAS established and declared ‘KOGAS 2025’, a new midto long-term pursued. The Business Strategy Team is in charge of sustainability, and strategy setting and performance are management plan, to leap higher once again as a public corporation trusted by the public, while dynamically regularly reported to the Management Committee, which then reviews and decides on the major agenda. responding to the paradigm changes. Under a new slogan, ‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS’ for the vision of KOGAS will seek social well-being by completing environmental responsibilities and ensuring a stable energy ‘KOGAS 2025’, KOGAS set three strategy directions and nine strategy tasks, implementing balanced points supply and national energy security, and embrace stakeholder demands from all over the world. to strike public initiatives, growth, and efficiency. KOGAS will take a closer step to become a global LNG provider by successfully achieving the new vision. Meaning of the Slogan for the Vision KOGAS 2025 System for Sustainability Strategies NEXT Energy, with KOGAS Management Better Energy, Better Tomorrow Vision Global KOGAS with People, with the Planet Motto New, Outstanding, Core Value and Reliable Future Energy World! KOGAS is willing to create it with you. Trust Responsibility Change Challenge Mission Sustainability Excellence: DJSI Level in People for the Society to the Future to the World N Management Focus on communication Substantiation Pursuit of innovation Measures Points of A sense of public duty to serve the public, growth potentials as a global company, efficiency in internal management Governance Economy Environment Society Neo Strategic Pursuit Securing new growth engines Directions to be newly pursued Vision Slogan NEXT Energy, with KOGAS Securing leadership for sustainable Carrying out sustainable business Minimizing environmental impacts Creating a corporate culture that Establishing Reliable Securing Competitiveness Setting a Performance management by strengthening the by supplying energy in a stable by adopting leading environmental prioritizes people Strategy Status of Public Enterprise in the Gas Industry Oriented Management System foundation for management manner management Directions (Trust) (Neo) (EXcellent) Core Issues •Strengthening the efficiency of the Board of •Expanding the rate of independent develop•Realigning environmental management •Strengthening the operating system for 1. Reinforce social 4. Perform successful 7. Improve stability of EX Strategy Tasks responsibility international business the financial structure Directors and accountability in sustainability ment of energies policies ethical management •Improve the non-financial risk control •Developing industries of gas alternatives •Strengthening the management of environ•Advancing human rights and labor practices 2. Operate facilities 8. Improve stability of system •Strengthening the demand management for mental KPIs •Strengthening the performance-based 5. Grow as a Global Provider Excellent stably and safely the financial structure •Establish an integrated form of stakeholder stable supply •Intensifying responsiveness to climate compensation system 9. Establish a vibrant management •Intensifying the development of alternative change •Enhancing the safety and health system Strengthening technological 3. Create customer value 6. Create new demand •Intensifying the analyzing and sharing energies •Upgrading the win-win cooperation organizational culture competencies and establishing system for issues related to stakeholders •Establishing an anti-monopolistic prevention infrastructure system •Reinforcing social contribution strategies a lively corporate culture and performance management that generates performance Improving Achieving Fortify the •Strengthening the customer management system the Consumer Goals about Organizational Confidence New Growth Competency Strategy Goals Major Tasks •Management of the Board of Directors •Expansion of Energy Assets and the •Realigning Environmental Management •Ethical Management Index Engines Index Increase the independence and Independent Development Rate Policies Upgrade ethical management policies efficiency of the BOD Identify supply restraints and set up peak Re-establish environmental management Raise management transparency Raise the BOD’s accountability for sustainoil strategies organizations T •Ranked first in mutual growth •New business revenue KRW •Improve the technological ability management Expand investments in overseas E&P Set up biodiversity policies and guidelines •Talent Management Revamp human rights and labor practices •Ranked first in the degree of 5.7 trillion competency index •Risk Management •Demand Management •Strengthening the Management of Strengthen performance-based remunerintegrity •New marketing supply of 8 •Improve organizational Aligning R&R in risk-related Raise efficiency on the demand side Environmental KPIs ation systems Trust •Ranked first in information million tons effectiveness departments Set up plans to cooperate with industries Set up environmental data management Develop global talent Strengthening non-financial risk manstandards Providing benefits to the public and security •Ranked tenth in market value agement Redefine environmental data KPI •Safety and Health Debt ratio 200% •Development of New Projects and •Ranked first in customer growing into a reliable company satisfaction Net profit of KRW 1.6 trillion Alternative Energies Upgrade eco-purchasing programs Manage operations free from accidents •Stakeholder Management Operate LNG facilities and develop trans/ disasters with integrity •Safety culture index Manage stakeholders’ issues on an port businesses •Intensifying Responsiveness to Climate Strengthening the system for employees’ (World Class) integrated basis Reinforce business networks Change health Communicate issues internally and Expand R&D investments in alternative Strengthen control of greenhouse gas externally energy emissions •Win-win Cooperation Establish an integrated form of stakeholdEnsuring GHG reductions Support SME’s sustainability management Consumer Confidence Index Sales Volume Debt Ratio er management Establish carbon-neutral systems Initiating competency build-up for SMEs Unit: 10,000 ton Unit: % •Management for Customer Satisfaction Increases Analyze VOC and customer feedback with KOGAS 90 100 3,146 of 15% 321 200 Heighten privacy protections for customers •Social Contribution Improve the management of social contriEnsuring shared growth along with bution activities stakeholders through creation of Implement strategic social contribution programs social value 2015 2025 2015 2025 2015 2025 16 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 About KOGAS Vision and Strategies Corporate Governance Ethical and Integrity Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test 17 Corporate Composition of Shareholders Greater Engagement of Non-Executive Directors KOGAS has strengthened roles of non-executive directors with expertise in diverse fields including manGovernance KOGAS was listed on the Korea Exchange on December 15, 1999. Shareholders of KOGAS are comprised agement, economics, and administration, utilizing them in decision-making through their advice and sugof public shareholders and ordinary shareholders. Public shareholders, namely the government, KEPCO, and gestions on corporate management. In order to raise the understanding of management for non-executive local governments, hold approximately 54.55% of total shares. The majority shareholder is the Korean govdirectors, they are briefed on the current status of KOGAS and its major tasks, and encouraged to visit sites. ernment which holds 26.15% of total shares. There has been no change regarding the majority shareholder As such, we ensure their greater engagement in management by providing them with management inforfor the past three years. mation in diverse channels. Ownership Composition and Management of the Board of Directors Operation of Subcommittees Structure As of December 31, 2015 Unit: % Composition of the Board of Directors (BOD) BOD Activities Three subcommittees were launched and are in operation under the BOD to intensively deliberate on the Other common As the top decision-making body at KOGAS, the BOD is in charge of overseeing decisions made regarding ▒ No. of Meetings Held Unit: times, agendas agenda and strengthen constraining and supervisory functions for corporate management, leveraging the shareholders Government major strategies and policies and the management agenda, and supporting management. It is operated ▒ No. of Agenda agreed upon expertise of non-executive directors. In 2015, the Planning and Strategy Committee was renamed the Sus29.45 26.15 Average Attendance Rate pursuant to the Act on the Management of Public Institutions and the Articles of Incorporation. The BOD tainability Management Committee and more roles were imposed. The committee reviews or advises on in95% consists of 11 members including the CEO: four executive directors and seven non-executive directors. A 90% vestment and budgetary matters. Its roles have been enhanced as it reviews and deliberates on environmennon-executive director is appointed as the chairman of the BOD to ensure independence. The BOD is striving 78% tal and social issues including safety and environmental projects, ethical management against corruption, to enhance stakeholders’ rights by making decisions transparently and rationally. and social contribution activities. 19 43 20 67 15 50 Foreigners Management of the BOD KEPCO Type Composition Key Roles 11.47 In order to fairly manage the BOD, the agenda is decided with the approval of a majority of registered di20.47 •Reporting to the BOD on directors’ act of violating laws and the Employee stock rectors. It is provided that directors with a special interest with regards to decision-making at the BOD are Articles of Incorporation Local governments One executive director, ownership restricted from exercising the decision-making right on the agenda so that decisions can be made transparAudit Committee •Matters entrusted by the BOD, and those determined to fall under two non-executive directors 7.93 the responsibilities of the Audit Committee according to laws and association ently. The results of BOD meetings are disclosed on the KOGAS website and the management information the Articles of Incorporation, etc. 4.52 disclosure system for public institutions (www.alio.go.kr, Alio), except for special matters including confiden2013 2014 2015 •Midto long-term management plans, major investment projects tiality in management. The BOD is organized once a month in principle, and in 2015, the BOD meetings were Sustainability •Budgetary and operational plans, management evaluation, promotional held 15 times to decide on 50 agenda with reporting made for 28 agenda. Management Two or more directors projects, etc. Committee •Safety and environmental projects and operational plans Non-executive Directors’ •Ethical management and social contribution activities, etc. Participation in Management Independence of the BOD •Overseas resource exploration and development/production ▒ Advice for corporate Unit: number of cases Overseas Project Executive directors at KOGAS are appointed as those who fulfill qualifications pursuant to the Act on the Two or more directors •Review or counseling on overseas plant projects and other overseas management Committee ▒ Suggestions for corporate management projects Management of Public Institutions and the Articles of Incorporation. Inspection standards are devised by the ▒ Reflection of the above suggestions Executive Recommendation Committee consisting of three non-executive directors and two outside mem65 36 53 bers upon appointing executive directors. There is an identification procedure on their relationships with the 7 5 6 company as candidates to make sure the procedure is systematic and fair. 1 1 2 Evaluation and Remuneration Non-executive directors are required to have expertise and experiences in different fields including energy facilities and construction, and investment and investment resource financing so that decisions could be made KOGAS seeks the development of the BOD through objective evaluation following the BOD management rationally and professionalism can be ensured. evaluation and individual director evaluation. The remuneration for executives is composed of basic salary, incentives, and severance pay. The yearly basic salary is decided in the BOD meetings within the scope of Gender Ratio of the BOD Members of the BOD As of July 2016 salary limits, which is approved in a shareholders’ meeting. The president receives incentives depending on 2013 2014 2015 Type Name Position the result of assessment of management performances after signing a management contract to achieve the corporate philosophy and vision with the chief of the relevant institution, and executive directors receive Seung Hoon Lee CEO Performance of Non-executive incentives after making a contract for performance with the president. Executive Heung Ki Kim Chief Auditor Executive Directors Director Wan Gi Ahn Vice president of Management ▒ Attendance rate of non-executive directors Unit: % Amount of Remuneration Paid Unit: KRW 1,000, As of the end of 2015 ▒ Portion of comments made by Jong Ho Lee Vice president of Technology non-executive directors Amount of Total amount of Number of People Average Remuneration Note Kwang Sik Choi Lead Non-executive Director (Chairman of the BOD) / Chairman of SL Innovations Co., Ltd. Remuneration 94 65 88 57 76 55 per Individual 11 0 Man Kyo Chang Director / (Former) Auditor at the Korean Construction Guarantee Cooperative, and National Registered Amount of remuneration 2 229,622 114,811 excluding retirement benefits executive directors Persons Persons Won Tak Lee Auditor / President of Daewon University Outside KRW 2.5 million per (100%) (0%) NonDirector / Visiting Professor of Business Administration and Management, 7 month for monthly salary Jong Rae Kim executive directors executive Chungnam National University Director Auditors 1 102,054 102,054 Amount of remuneration Sun Woo Lee Director / Professor of Public Administration, Korea National Open University excluding retirement benefits Jun Hyung Lee Director / Chairman of GoodNET Corp. 2013 2014 2015 Executive Director / Professor in the Department of Business Administration Yang Hoon Son at the University of Incheon 18 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 About KOGAS Vision and Strategies Corporate Governance Ethical and Integrity Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test 19 Ethical and System for Ethical and Integrity Management Creating a Corporate Culture for Ethics and Integrity Integrity System for Ethical and Integrity Management Strategies Completion of Online Training on Voluntary Practice of Ethical Management the Code of Conduct Management KOGAS formulated and practiced ‘Clean KOGAS’ for the code of ethics based on ‘Our Promise 30’ stipulating specific action standards for employees to abide by as well as four basic principles for principle-based Unit: number of people KOGAS implements preventive ethical management by emphasizing the implementation of voluntary ethical management actions. KOGAS set and attached a guideline on staff dinners on walls to contribute to estabmanagement. All employees are aware that if even a single unethical act occurs, the entire company would lishing a sound culture for dining out among employees. Voluntary reporting on employees’ outside lecturing 4,351 3,281 5,285 lose trust, which is very difficult to recover once lost. Thus, in 2005, all employees reaffirmed their commitis induced to prevent potential irregularities. KOGAS runs a gift return center on traditional holidays in Korea ment by declaring anti-corruption and integrity management for KOGAS to act out ‘Clean Energy, Clean to donate the gifts to social welfare facilities. Company’. KOGAS’ strategies for ethics and integrity management are under the vision of ‘realizing clean and transparent global principle-based management’. Four strategy directions were realigned under the Sophisticating Ethical and Integrity Infrastructure vision: ‘reflecting on ethical management and strengthening the proprietary organization and rules’; ‘estabKOGAS facilitates corporation-wide ethical management by running the system for integrity incentives. Anlishing a corporate culture on ethics and integrity’; ‘improving the ethical awareness with customized trainnual ethical and integrity activities are evaluated by department and reflected in performance-based pay. ing’; and ‘propagating best practices and conducting monitoring’. Tasks for action are suggested accordingly, Records of completing integrity training are aligned with personnel appointment by considering them as a 2013 2014 2015 and support is provided for the culture on ethics and integrity to be spread to the organization and take root. factor for promotion. Tasks of excellence are selected at the Contest for Anti-Corruption Policy Tasks, and KOGAS will serve as a corporate citizen fulfilling responsibilities for shareholders, customers, the country and best cases are selected at the Integrity Idea Contest and shared throughout the corporation. Meanwhile, a community, while ensuring such commitments for ethics and integrity to be internalized by all employees, stringent punishment system is firmly in place against corruption. Violators are discovered and punished by and reflecting them throughout corporate management. managing a special watch dog on areas of weakness. Employees involved in irregularities and corruptions are restricted from being promoted and the period of work suspension is prolonged, demonstrating KOGAS’ System for Ethical and Integrity Management Strategies more stringent punishment levels. For areas prone to corruption including contracting, sales, and personnel, Ethical Vision Realization of Clean and Transparent Global Management with Integrity Comprehensive Level of the an instrument to secure transparency in job functions is put into place by transparently disclosing contractual Anti-corruption & Civil Rights information and managing a reporting center on unfair acts for appointing personnel. This enables us to Commission Ethical Goals Clean KOGAS Fulfilling Social Responsibilities with Ethical Management block potential corruption in advance. Unit: points Strategy Reflecting on ethical management Establishing a corporate culture of Improving ethical awareness Spreading best practices and Strengthening Training Programs Directions and strengthening the organization 8.24 7.46 7.44 ethics and integrity through customized training conducting monitoring in charge/regulations KOGAS runs internal and external customized training programs on ethics and integrity for enhancing ethical awareness among employees. Top management-led on-site training takes place including training on ethics Tasks for and integrity with the CEO and outreach integrity training as KOGAS strives to internalize the ethical and •Conducting in-depth interviews, •Ensuring institutional improvement •Managing the customized training •Spreading best practices internally Action surveys and managing institutions system and externally integrity culture. Meanwhile, we run the win-win ethical camp with suppliers while training on integrity and •Strengthening the organization in •Declaring the new ethical man•Conducting ethical training with the •Finding areas to be improved anti-corruption to spread our commitment for ethical and integrity culture to not only our employees but charge agement participation of suppliers through monitoring and giving •Intensifying revisions for ethical rules feedback also those of suppliers. 2013 2014 2015 Evaluation Integrity evaluation of public corporations, anti-corruption policy evaluation, self-diagnosis of ethical management Ethical Training Programs and Feedback Internal Training on Ethics and Integrity External Training on Ethics and Integrity Evaluation of Policies for Anti-corruption Reflection of plans for ethical management for the next year, and institutional improvement •Providing special lectures by •Providing training for gas facility Targeting inviting outside specialists construction and maintenance Organizing the Global KOGAS Win-Win companies, contracting and sales Team Directors Organization in Charge Excellent Poor Fair or Higher Forum Ethics Camp companies •Implementing training on cyber •Organizing the win-win ethics KOGAS launched the Corporate Culture Team to be exclusively in charge of ethical management, allocating integrity and ethics camp with suppliers three proprietary personnel who can solely focus on ethical management as their job function. The team prescribes and revises the code of ethics, and supervises the setup and management of action programs. •Itinerant training on integrity and •Conducting training on integrity The team also develops training courses to propagate ethical management, supports their execution, and Targeting ethics for sites nationwide Outreach and ethics for construction •Training on integrity and ethics for periodically conducts evaluation and monitoring. Team Directors new employees and the promoted Integrity companies or Lower Training •Conducting outreach training on •Implementing training on cyber integrity and ethics 2013 2014 2015 integrity and ethics Best Practice >> | A Higher Jump into Clean KOGAS by Declaring Anti-Corruption and Integrity Management | Self-diagnosis of Ethical Levels Unit: points Internal and External Evaluation and Monitoring On September 17, 2005, KOGAS held the ‘KOGAS’ New Ethical and Integrity Management Declaration Ceremony’ at the headquarters building of Daegu. The ceremony was attended by all em88.4 89.0 88.5 KOGAS has initiated activities to make improvements in vulnerable areas pointed out at the annually conployees of KOGAS from the headquarters and LNG Terminal and Regional Divisions. The ceremony ducted integrity evaluation at the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission, and selects tasks for improvewas held to express commitment for action and willingness to go beyond customary and routine ment through routine monitoring of ethical management units and the Office of the Auditor. Performance ethical management policies. At the declaration ceremony, employees of KOGAS reaffirmed that of ethical management is analyzed and areas of weakness are identified by comprehensively analyzing exthey will fulfill duties based on rationality, fairness and transparency, thoroughly eradicate unfair ternal evaluation including integrity levels and anti-corruption policy evaluation, and self-evaluation results practices as internal watchdogs, and continuously remove corruption and irregularities. including the integrity level of high-ranking officials and self-diagnosis of ethical levels. Selected tasks for improvement and areas of weakness are reflected in the next year’s ethical management activity plans and 2013 2014 2015 executed as KOGAS continues to strive for higher performance. 20 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 About KOGAS Vision and Strategies Corporate Governance Ethical and Integrity Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test 21 Risk Risk Management System Risk Management Activities Management Risk Management Strategy Evaluation Scores in the Risk Launch of the Risk Management Team Category of DJSI KOGAS defines risks as uncertainties and opportunity losses which hamper the achievement of strategies and KOGAS launched the Risk Management Team for two reasons. First, the targets for risk management have Unit: points business goals, encompassing both risks and crises. KOGAS takes the following actions in order to respond been expanded as KOGAS is engaged in projects in the entire value chain (upstream to mid & downstream) to such risks: comprehensively identifying potential risks which block its efforts to achieve its goals, deciding in diverse regions. Second, we recognized our lack of awareness about risks in terms of our overseas projects, 89 90 92 on the level of risk tolerance, searching for rational responsive measures, and establishing and managing a e.g. price drops for oil and gas and the deteriorating Iraqi situation. As a consequence, our risk management system for risks to be managed by specific parties in charge. activities under the existing business division were escalated to fall under a corporation-wide risk management system through collaboration between the Risk Management Team and supporting departments. Risk Management Strategy Corporation-wide Integrated Risk Management Reinforcement of risk manageRisk Management Committee Implementing & Establishing Support for Risk ment compe2014 2015 World Risk Management Measures Management tencies Best Continuous (Overseas Business Division / (National / Legal / Clear definition Production & Supply / Accounting & Taxation / and efficient of roles and Overseas Subsidiaries) Finance / Technology) management Risk Management Team standards Monitor Support activities Improvement of the Risk Management System in Overseas Projects KOGAS minimizes potential risks by improving the risk management system for overseas projects. Risk indiContributing to cators were structuralized and categorized to come up with 7 risk categories, 26 types of risks and 87 risk Firm commitmanagement and business Proactive events. Events were then specified by cause (300 in total). As a consequence, we could devise response ment of the engagement of plans and enhance our execution capabilities. We also improved the risk assessment criteria, so if assessment activities through preemptive management employees results were above a certain score, they were categorized as core risks. We will develop a checklist for manrisk management aging core risks upon carrying out new overseas projects, and establish suitable risk management measures when oil & gas prices drop. This will enhance our execution competencies for overseas projects through appropriate risk management measures. Risk Management Organization KOGAS’ risk management is based on the ‘3-lines of defense’ model: the first-line supervising departments Financial Risk Management that are primarily responsible for risks as they conduct daily risk management operations; the second-line Risk KOGAS is significantly exposed to diverse external variables due to the nature of its business – a high deControl Management Department that manages the risk management system and supports risk management pendence on raw material costs, expansion of overseas projects, long-term return of advance investment, operations in the working level; and the third-line Office of the Auditors that audits the procedural adequacy exchange rates, interest rates, oil & gas prices and risks in investment projects. We periodically monitor core of risk management activities. Each organization is organically configured in correlations. Critical deliberation risks through the Financial Risk Management Committee, and make preemptive responses based on the and decision-making on corporation-wide risk management are carried out through the Risk Management outcome. Committee and the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) oversees corporate-wide risk management operations. The Risk Management Committee meetings are, in principle, organized more than once a year, during which the ComRisk Management KRI (Key Risk Indicator) Monitoring Responsive Plans Responses mittee reviews the current status of corporation-wide risk management and decides on the agenda. Targets Monthly VaR measurement and limit Foreign exchange risk hedging for liabilities in foreign Exchange rate VaR (Value at Risk) management currencies Attention 70% of the limit Monthly EaR measurement and limit Watch 80% of the limit Interest rate EaR (Earnings at Risk) Timely procurement based on financial market analysis Risk Management Organization management Warning 90% of the limit Periodic review of funds planning and optimization Measurement of the monthly liquidity Urgency 100% of the limit Liquidity Liquidity gap of short-term and long-term borrowings considering gap and limit management CEO feedback cash flow Head of Division Head of Division Head of Division Head of Division Risk Management Drop in credit Working-level meetings for counteracMonitoring of Committee Credit ratings Proactive IR targeting credit rating agencies ratings tions credit rating agencies Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager CRO Oil & gas price, producImplementation of KOGAS’ own (Vice President) Risk management report for Creation/Implementation of responsive plans Investment projects tion volume, investment response plans and monitoring of each quarter and business for each business cost, disasters effectiveness of responsive plans Manager Manager Manager Manager Support Audit Committee Risk Control Check & Department Department Department SuperManagement Overseas Project Risk Control Operating Risk Financial Risk vising Departments Summary Department Internal audit Intensified Risk Monitoring and Reporting Control Control (9 Crisis Areas) (Risk Management Team) Office of the Overseas Risk Companies Operating Risk Financial Risk Crisis Management Auditor KOGAS conducts quarterly monitoring of the risk management status, and reports the outcome to the CRO and the Risk Management Committee. KOGAS provides feedback to departments in charge so that they 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line can make timely and effective responses by monitoring the response performance upon the issuance of risk Check & Internal Audit alerts. We also report on the current status of managing each overseas project and countermeasures for major risk signals to the CRO and the Risk Management Committee. 22 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 About KOGAS Vision and Strategies Corporate Governance Ethical and Integrity Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test 23 Stakeholder Stakeholders of KOGAS Materiality Selection and Reporting Process for Material Issues Engagement There is a paradigm shift in the gas industry, moving from the buyer-oriented one which would naturally Test KOGAS periodically listens to stakeholders’ feedback on sustainability activities and identifies issues to be grow itself toward the gas industry for benefits of the public. Against this backdrop, KOGAS reclassified responded to by prioritizing them. For issues of materiality to be dealt with by KOGAS, goals and strategies stakeholders from the categorization centered on proprietary and wholesale enterprises to a competition are set and executed along with performance monitoring. Such issues are transparently disclosed in the and collaboration-oriented classification to offer more benefits to the public. We put in place communication Sustainability Report on an annual basis. channels for each stakeholder group. We thoroughly review a wide range of feedback and reflect it in our management activities. We will intensify our basis for sustainability by attentively listening to stakeholder demands and collaborating with them. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Identification of Sustainability Issues Prioritization of Material Issues Validity Assurance Review In order to figure out the economic, Stakeholder surveys on identified Material issues that were identified External stakeholder review took place Areas of Interest environmental, and social impacts of all issues were conducted to identify were internally reviewed. It was idenfor the process of selecting material Areas of Interest •Public: energy fees, energy welfare activities and services, we conducted material issues for internal and external tified if the economic, environmental, issues and report writing, appropriate•Employees: self-esteem, organizational vision media analysis, benchmarking of relatstakeholders. Issues were prioritized in and social impacts of materiality were ness of related data and data validity. •Government/National Assembly: functions •Labor union: working environment, welfare ed institutions, review of international consideration of the materiality of the expressed in a rational and balanced for public interest and policy compatibility reviews and internal documents, and organizations’ economic, environmanner. T/F interviews on our sustainability mental, and social impacts, and its issues exposed internally and externally impact on stakeholder evaluation and Communication Channels Communication Channels from January to the end of December, decision-making. In total, 15 material •Negotiation on tasks on the agenda 2015. issues were selected. •Expanded executives’ meetings, •Support for inter-parliamentary affairs Management Committee including National Assembly inspection of the •Dialogue with the CEO government offices •Labor-Management Council •Reporting of midto long-term management Material Issue Selection Business impact strategies, etc. 1 5 3 2 Purpose of Communication Outcome 4 Purpose of Communication 8 7 •Policies in the gas industry and KOGAS’ 6 •Seeking to achieve purposes of management measures establishment for KOGAS 10 •Public •Directions (vision), securing compatibility 13 12 •Sharing midto long-term strategies, 15 11 9 •Employees •Government •Improvement in the quality of public 14 and internalizing core values •Labor Union •National services Assembly Providing benefits to s Coop Engaging in policy m er er at the public and driving usto iv coordination for service C e growth in g Cu for the public din the gas industry Selfm er lea sto s Stakeholders of KOGAS Contributing to higher s Interest level of stakeholders Cu er Supporting and providing benefits through sto the basis for generating to m me the gassupply and performance for Cus rs forming a relationship st t en a the growth of he t to share partnershipB asis xis Aspect Boundaries the gas industry Coe based growth Material Issues GRI G4 Aspects Page •Investment Internal External Areas of Interest Companies •City Gas 1 Prevention of Safety Accidents Industrial safety and health Government 46-49 •Countries to Producers •Investment companies: facilitating which KOGAS •Importers Areas of Interest Government, Suppliers, Shareholders/Investors, projects has Expanded •Community 2 Stable production and supply of natural gases Indirect economic effects Global stakeholders, Citizens 28-31 •City gas producers: generating demand •Countries where KOGAS has advanced: •Suppliers •Importers: cooperating in business generating national wealth 3 Employee recruitment and welfare benefits Employment 58-60 •Community: facilitating the local economy •Suppliers: achieving growth in a symbiotic 4 Strengthening anti-corruption and ethical management activities Anti-corruption Government 18-19 relationship Propagation of the culture of shared growth with suppliers Evaluation of the impact of suppliers on the 5 Suppliers, Global stakeholders 38-41 and related efforts society Communication Channels 6 Securing financial soundness and profitability Economic performance Government, shareholders, and investors 28-31 Communication Channels •On-site seminars, business presentation KOGAS 7 Initiating social contribution activities reflecting the nature of the business Local communities Local communities, NGOs 52-53 •Sharing major market trends •Seminars for improving customer satisand 8 Investing in the community and facilitating the local economy Local communities employees Local communities 54-55 •Initiating inter-governmental agreements, etc. faction •Publishing the Sustainability Report 9 Establishing a system for safe operations Industrial safety and health Government 46-49 Government, Suppliers, Shareholders/Investors, 10 Efficiently initiating overseas projects 31 Global stakeholders Purpose of Communication 11 Efforts to boost customer satisfaction Product and service labeling Customers 36-37 Purpose of Communication •Pursuing values of horizontal shared 12 Establishing a sound labor-management culture Labor-management relationships 61 •Establishing trust-based partnerships growth 13 Securing competitiveness in R&D and technologies Government, Shareholders/Investors 32-33 •Sharing business information in a timely •Sharing and executing development manner 14 Strengthening GHG emissions management Emissions Government, NGO 44-45 strategies for the gas industry 15 Managing environmental loads Emissions, wastewater and waste – general Government, NGO 46-49 KOGAS Sustainability Issues A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 26 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 27 A Better World with KOGAS Reasons Why Such Issues are Important to KOGAS Performance of KOGAS Countries around the world are fiercely competing against one another to secure energy sources, and natural gases are grabbing attention as energies that can minimize the environmental burden in their use. KOGAS is a public corporation playing key roles in the national energy industry by managing projects in the entire process, ranging from the introduction, production, supply, and sales of natural gases in Korea. A stable supply of and better access to natural gases are recognized as critical issues directly impacting the natural economy and benefits for the public. Strengthening responses to stability in supply and demand through accurate prediction of demand, production management and innovation in management, Suspension of the natural gas supply and discovering new growth engines are critical issues directly linked to the sustainability of (19 consecutive years) KOGAS, the gas industry, and the national energy industry. 0 cases Stable Gas Supply Approaches of KOGAS KOGAS strives to supply natural gases in a stable manner. To this end, KOGAS seeks to create stability in supply and demand by accurately predicting the demand and improving the supply environment based on the continued increase in demand for natural gases, and secures supply capacities by expanding facilities in a timely manner and constructing infrastructure efficiently. We contribute to the national energy security and price stabilization of domestic natural gases by developing overseas resources in consideration of investment efficiency and profitability. We utilize our world-class construction and management capacities for downstream projects to encourage private enterprises to participate in them and generate new in87 % come. We also strive to secure business and technological competencies to grow into a leadNatural Gas Distribution Rate ing global energy enterprise. In order to generate excellent knowledge aligned with visions to Local Governments and management strategies, we conduct activities for knowledge management (knowledge for individuals, Community of Practice (CoP)) and innovation in management (Best and First (BnF)). We discover and propagate best practices regarding improvement in job functions, and enhance productivity in work and technological competitiveness. Promises of KOGAS → KOGAS will be proactively engaged in revising the Enforcement Decree of the Urban Gas Business Act related 42.9 to the natural gas stock. →K  OGAS will develop new demand including demand for gases for transportation, fuel cells and LNG bunkering. KRW billion → KOGAS will systematically establish a manual on open maintenance for storage tanks for long-term management and a manual for renewal maintenance techniques. → KOGAS will place an advanced pipeline management system in a timely manner for the stable management of pipelines. Investment in R&D → KOGAS will initiate projects in a timely manner through pipeline construction causing no accidents or disasters by managing construction risks. → KOGAS will internalize existing overseas projects, strengthen investment efficiency and business competencies, and enhance profitability. → KOGAS will apply for patent registration for knowledge of excellence, while turning the knowledge into assets and working on standardization. 28 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 29 Stable Supply and Demand Management of Natural Gases Laying the Foundation for Supply and Demand Management Supply of Significance in Supply and Demand Management Amid greater uncertainties in demand for power generation in Korea, fluctuations in domestic demand have increased. Supply and demand emergencies have also emerged due to dynamic importation directly Natural Gases The development and production of natural gases require a period of 5 to 10 years and generate investment costs of over USD 10 billion. Since natural gases are large-scale resources, they are covered by a long-term from abroad. KOGAS launched a proprietary unit for trading by introducing preemptive supply and demand management instruments using LNG trading techniques, and established corresponding infrastructure to contract of over 20 years under the pre-sales and post-production scheme. They cannot be stored for long make proactive responses. The LNG Trading Business Team under the Overseas Business Division will come and their transportation vessels and storage facilities are limited, so making elastic responses to demand is up with an appropriate business model, and contribute to the supply and demand management and higher challenging. KOGAS is striving to stably respond to uncertainties in demand by recognizing the importance competitiveness for domestic procurement prices. We also strive to foster specialized personnel to build up of supply and demand management, and establishing a corresponding management system, thus intensifyexperiences as a seller and nurture related knowledge on risk management for the derivatives market, etc. ing the responsive capabilities. We have dispatched staff to Total of France and EDFT to acquire know-how to respond to market situations and build up expertise. Supply and Demand Management System for Natural Gases The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy established the Gas Supply and Demand Plan for over 10 years according to Article 18.2 of the Urban Gas Business Act and publicizes it every two years. Driven by manageCreating a New Demand for Natural Gases ment experiences and competencies, KOGAS suggests development strategies in the natural gas industry by dynamically spearheading the long-term natural gas supply and demand plan, that is, a long-term national LNG Yard Tractors Creating a New Market for Transport energy policy. We analyze the supply and demand records on a daily basis, predict demands for each sceDue to the government’s payment of fuel tax subsidies, the competitiveness of natural gases for transport nario on a monthly basis, and forecast the supply and demand accordingly. The purpose is to manage the integrated supply and demand management system for timely identification of the rapidly changing supply and demand for the stable management of both sides. Monitoring results on factors for changes in the de37 units distributed has dropped. Thus, further distribution of natural gases for transport confronts limitations. KOGAS has discovered a new project to convert the fuel for yard tractors in ports from diesel to LNG. In the case that the fuel for yard tractors is changed into LNG, GHG emissions compared to diesel will drop by 42%, contributing mand including temperature, GDP, and electricity usage are reflected in the demand forecast. We have also to the greater eco-friendliness of ports. Once infrastructure is established including gas storage facilities adopted a big data statistical system for scientific demand prediction. within ports, KOGAS will be able to advance into cross-port container tractor and small LNG vessel markets. In 2015, KOGAS supplied 37 units of yard tractors, and will ensure that 50% of yard tractors will have fuel Outline of the Supply and Demand Management for Natural Gases conversion into LNG by 2020. Plan Do Check & Act Advancing into the LNG Bunkering Market in Northeast Asia Procurement System As emissions regulations on maritime exhaust gas driven by advanced countries are expected to be expanded Procurement strategies Procurement plans and applied to Northeast Asia, LNG-powered vessels are expected to be in higher demand. As such, KOGAS is preparing for an alternative demand for diesel for vessels. We are realigning the institutional foundation Calculation of shortages in Midto long-term volume by year procurement plans by revising some laws with unclear grounds hampering the distribution and facilitation of LNG bunkering. Planning System We have secured LNG supply facilities for ships within the Tongyeong Terminal Division, and negotiated Procurement Midto long-term Short-term Demand procurement strategies procurement contracts with shipbuilding and shipping companies for building LNG bunkering shuttles. As such, we are leading the Demand forecasting Demand Demand Demand efforts to form an early-stage market by securing supply-based facilities. forecast of prediction forecast of city gas model of Korea Power Short-term procurement Spot purchase and strategies swap trade Demand producers KOGAS Exchange Comprehensive management Easing the Demand Gap between Winter and Summer control system Demand forecast for Demand forecast for for supply and We are creating a new demand for natural gases in summer to improve the consumption pattern of high Facility Setup System Procurement city gas power generation demand management demand in winter and low demand in summer. In particular, we are easing the electricity peak and high Program for the calcuseasonality in demand by replacing the electricity demand for cooling in summer with the demand for gas. Program for pipeline lation of storage tanks (LNGSIM) analysis (STONER) Facility KOGAS has increased price competitiveness compared to cooling by electricity by increasing the amount of Shortto long-term supply and demand Facilities management discounts for cooling fees in summer, and is working on developing devices for cogeneration or combined plans for natural gases Calculation of storage Calculation of pipeline tanks and annexed facilities including heat and power (cooling, heating and electricity). In 2015, the sales volume for cooling increased by 2,732 facilities pipeline pressure tons (1.3%) compared to 216,000 tons in the previous year, successfully easing the demand difference in winter and summer through sales of gas for cooling. Facility planning and construction Reduction of Transport Cost Raising Competitiveness in Procurement Prices Through the Joint Use of Vessels The global economic downturn is decreasing the demand for LNG, and a higher supply of LNG due to the Raising Accuracy in Demand Forecasting kickoff of new projects is also lowering the LNG price. Against this backdrop, KOGAS is making shortto In order to prevent any supply suspension resulting from failure in demand forecasts, high-price spots must long-term efforts to improve the unit price and contractual terms and conditions to enhance its competi50.6 be procured over the short-term, or storage facilities must be constructed over the long-term. Therefore, tiveness in procurement. Most of the midto long-term contracts being subjected to the destination clause accuracy in forecasts would be directly linked to stability and economic feasibility in the supply and demand KRW billion hamper the transfer of cargo volumes to other countries or optimization of transportation routes. KOGAS is management. The biggest variables in forecasting the demand for natural gases are weather forecasts and making appropriate actions in close cooperation with the government to reduce the amount of long-term electricity demand. Yet, considering the domestic situation of electricity demand where peak load fluctuadeals on LNG and sign on contracts on flexible LNG volumes amid shrinkage in domestic demand for LNG tions are to be covered by gases, forecasting the demand for natural gases is challenging. As such, KOGAS and its price drop. We are also reducing transport cost by discovering opportunities for cooperation by jointly developed a customized demand forecasting model by leveraging private weather forecast data. The model using vessels with overseas sellers. has been significantly improved in the error rate for short-term supply and demand plans compared to the previous year’s by reflecting the actual features of the demand. For instance, rational demand patterns derived from the research and analysis of the demand side (combined heat and power generation plants) were applied to the model while the forecast error rate discovered through the actual data analysis was corrected. 30 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 31 Production and Supply of Natural Gases Initiation of Overseas Projects Natural Gas Distribution Rate to Timely Expansion of the Production Facility Infrastructure Status of Overseas Projects Managing Overseas Exploration and Production (E&P) Project Efficiently Local Governments Facilities need to be expanded in a timely manner for a stable supply of natural gases. KOGAS is making Exploration Project KOGAS continues to initiate overseas E&P projects to seek stability in the supply and demand of natural Unit: % preemptive responses by planning for midto long-term facility construction. Under a plan to increase the gases in Korea and strengthen energy security. We established midto long-term strategies for overseas •Block 2, 3 & 9 Exploration Projects, Cyprus storage ratio by 20% by 2029, KOGAS completed the phase 1 construction project for the Samcheok LNG •Area 4 Exploration Project, Mozambique projects based on global energy market trends, energy policies of the government, and management 83 84 87 Terminal Division. It has breakwaters with the total extension of 1.8 km, berthing facilities, routes and turning •Krueng Mane Exploration Project, Indonesia environmental analysis. We set three strategic directions – ‘raising investment efficiency’, ‘ensuring se•East Timor Offshore Exploration Project basins, four 200,000-㎘ storage tanks and LNG sendout capacity of a maximum 780 tons per hour. We are lection and concentration’, and ‘strengthening business competencies – under the goal for the vison of now equipped with production systems in four terminal divisions with the initiation of transmission of LNG Development and Production Projects becoming a ‘global top 50 energy company’. Accordingly, we plan to secure oil & gas resources of 400 to the Samcheok Terminal Division, following the ones in Pyeongtaek, Incheon and Tongyeong. Once the •Umiak SDL, Canada million tons, which are worth 10 years of the consumption amount for natural gases in Korea by 2020, phase 3 construction is completed by 2017, the Samcheok Terminal Division will be complete with 12 tanks, •Cordova Gas Resources, Canada and produce 7 million tons, taking up 20% of the annual domestic consumption volume abroad. •Horn River & West Cutbank Development the natural gas storage capacity of 2.61 million ㎘, and LNG sendout capacity of 1,320 tons/H. As a conseKOGAS produces oil and gas in 10 projects including A-1/A-3 in Myanmar, the Jubair project in Iraq, and Project, Canada quence, the supply of natural gases to the untapped area will be expanded, which is expected to increase •Surgil Project, Uzbekistan the Rasgas project in Qatar. In 2015, commercial production started in GLNG in Australia, and Senoro Gas 2013 2014 2015 the rate of natural gas distribution to local governments up to 90% by 2016. •Akkas Gas Field Development Project, Iraq Field in Indonesia. Together with large Korean enterprises and SMEs, KOGAS has jointly advanced into some •Mansuriya Gas Field Development Project, Iraq Storage facilities are secured based the demand forecast in line with long-term supply and management •Zubair Oil Field Development Project, Iraq projects including the gas field and gas chemical plant construction and management in Surgil in Uzbekistan Completion Records of plans. However, due to the continuous excess of the demand forecast, a small LNG terminal division will be •Badra Oil Field Development Project, Iraq and contributed to job creation. In 2015, 667 thousand tons among the natural gases produced abroad Supply Pipelines constructed in Aewol Port in Jeju to secure more storage facilities. We are currently exploring and reviewing •A-1 & A-3 Gas Fields Development Project, were procured in Korea. The volume of natural gases to be developed and procured by 2017 is expected to Myanmar Unit: km site options for the fifth terminal division to cover new production volumes. •Senoro Toili Project, Indonesia increase up to 2.423 million tons through six projects – GLNG in Australia, OLNG in Oman, RasGas in Qatar, YLNG in Yemen, Prelude FLNG in Australia, DSLNG in Indonesia. Projects aligned with LNG Procurement 507 174 200 Strengthening the Stable Gas Supply KOGAS plans to concentrate management resources mostly on core projects in managing overseas projects •LNG-Canada Project, Canada in the future, and steadily build up technological prowess for E&P – an area where KOGAS lags behind major KOGAS strives to ensure that no supply disruptions or power system failures occur by securely and stably •RasGas Project, Qatar operating facilities. In 2015, we developed source technologies including analytical algorithms by using op•YLNG Project, Yemen global energy companies. We will dramatically enhance efficiency in investment by considering the nature of erational big data secured through system operation for 30 years. We also developed the system operation •OLNG Project, Oman E&P projects, that is, high cost and high risks. •DSLNG Project, Indonesia analysis programs 2013, 2014, and 2015 which enable real-time pipeline flow interpretation, a feature which •Prelude FLNG Project, Australia could not be found in foreign products, establishing KOGAS-type pipeline network analytical system, thus •GLNG Project, Australia Strengthening Technological Competencies for E&P enhancing emergency countering capabilities. We have strengthened safety and stability for low-pressure Overseas LNG Technology Service Projects KOGAS selected competencies for 17 core technologies associated with E&P for self-driven minefield man2013 2014 2015 management using pressure regulator facilities in the summer for gas pipelines in downtown Seoul. In the agement and is striving to intensify its competencies based on a roadmap to secure technologies over the •Kuwait Al-Zour Re-gasification Terminal Gyeongnam region in which the tip end of the pipeline network lies, we stably managed compressor in winter, Project midto long-term. The technological competency of KOGAS’ E&P (Exploration & Production) stands at 68% Storage Ratio thus preventing a reduction in pressure being supplied. As a result of such endeavors of KOGAS, there has •Emirates LNG Re-gasification Terminal compared to the level of independent management of minefields. KOGAS is enhancing technological comProject Technical Advisory been no single case of supply disruption of natural gases for 10 years since 1996. petencies in cooperation with related institutions at home and abroad, aiming to secure proprietarily manUnit: % •PTT LNG Re-gasification Terminal Project, Thailand aged technologies by 85% in 2017 and 100% in 2020. •Singapore LNG Terminal Project Technical 10.4 12.3 14.9 Stability in Supply Unit: number of cases Advisory •Guangxi LNG Terminal Project, China Carrying Overseas Mid & Downstream Projects 2013 2014 2015 Technical Advisory KOGAS is engaged in diverse mid & downstream projects based on its experiences of constructing and man•Zhejiang LNG Terminal Project, China Gas Supply Disruption* 0 0 0 Technical Advisory aging domestic LNG terminals. In particular, KOGAS’ overseas projects for terminal divisions and pipelines System Trouble** 1 0 0 •Jiangsu LNG Terminal Project, China were selected as tasks for ‘strategies for natural gas industry development’ of the Ministry of Trade, Industry Technical Advisory and Energy. The projects are ones that generate high added values with few risks. KOGAS focuses on discov* Gas supply disruption: cases when there is a failure of gas supply to parties specified on the supply protocol and contracts •Qingdao LNG Terminal Project, China Technical Advisory ering new projects by facilitating technology export and establishing a roadmap for the management system. ** System Trouble: cases when there is a gas supply of over one hour while not satisfying the needs on the demand side 2013 2014 2015 including the volume and pressure as a result of facility breakdown and accidents •Tangshan LNG Terminal Project, China KOGAS also strives to increase revenues and incomes by developing auxiliary projects of the existing ones. In Technical Advisory 2015, we carried out investment and management of terminals in Mexico, LNG terminal technology projects Downstream Projects in China, Singapore, and the UAE, and gas supply in Mozambique. Some financial achievements are: KRW •Cylinder Project, Uzbekistan 7 billion for business dividends and operating income from the LNG terminal in Mexico and KRW 9.2 billion Best Practice >> •CNG Project, Uzbekistan for revenues from the mid and downstream plant project. KOGAS also supplied 110,000 tons of gas to end •Manzanillo LNG Re-gasification Terminal users through the gas transmission pipeline in Mozambique. Project, Mexico •Maputo Natural Gas Distribution Project, | World-Class Natural Gas Quality Management | Mozambique Natural Gas Loss Ratio The natural gas loss ratio, that is, the ratio of the actual supply volume to the toLNG Development and tal amount of procurement is directly linked to KOGAS’ revenues. Thus, KOGAS strives to ease the burden of natural gas fees for the public by minimizing the loss 0.076% Amount of Resources Secured Annual Production Volume Procurement Volume Technological Self-sufficiency ratio and strengthening the revenue base. We pursued the management level of 0.055% Unit: million tons Unit: 10,000 tons Unit: 1,000 tons Unit: % loss ratio at 0.1%, being lower than the statutory precision of 1.0%, self-cali0.026% 261 269 260 231 226 281 1,067 930 667 52.5 60.3 68.0 brating the existing 2,887 metering facilities and adopting and installing Korea’s 2013 2014 first 19 ultrasound metering facilities. In 2015, the natural gas loss ratio increased 2015 0.029% to 0.026% year-on-year, which is the world’s best in class. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 32 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 33 Innovation Management Innovation Technological Innovation Activities Innovation Brand – Best & First Investment in R&D KOGAS Research Institute KOGAS is implementing continuous innovation in management to respond to the rapidly changing manageUnit: KRW 100 million The KOGAS Research Institute continues to conduct research to develop clean energies and future energy ment environment and pave the way for a new leap. BnF (Best & First) meaning achieving innovation earlier resources to create basic, yet core technologies and new growth engines in the entire process in the gas than others to be top-notch is KOGAS’ exclusive innovation brand. Activities of ‘First’ mean that employees 443 462 429 industry – exploration and development of natural gases, LNG transport and storage, and supply of natural discover and resolve problems within their organization, and those of ‘Best’ imply that best practices derived gases. We will further strive to undertake R&D to foster the domestic gas industry and develop future energy from ‘First’ activities are spread and shared throughout the corporation. KOGAS strives to continuously foster industries. corporate competencies through field-oriented innovation activities. Korean-style LNG Cargo Containment System KC-1 BnF Methodologies The Korean-style LNG Cargo Containment System KC-1 started as a national research project to ease the dependency on overseas technologies and loyalty burden in 2004. We proprietarily developed the LNG Cargo 2013 2014 2015 Containment System KC-1 with domestic technologies after a decade of joint research with Korea’s three Identifying problems •On-site RnF Spreading and sharing •BP Contest shipbuilding companies (Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering, Samsung Heavy Industries, and HyunActivities within the organization activities Activities best practices derived •Setup of a system dai Heavy Industries). KOGAS played a key role in the development project. A membrane is a thin plate with and ensuring •Knowledge manfrom activities of ‘First’ to apply BP cases Current status of IPR and wrinkles, and securely stores LNG by directly contacting it which is in a super low temperature. KC-1 is a techof ‘First’ employees’ participation agement activities of ‘Best’ throughout the throughout the Technology Transfer Unit: number of cases and execution (CoP, etc.) corporation corporation nology applied to the LNG Cargo Containment System by improving KOGAS’ ground membrane tank design 2013 2014 2015 technology. Unlike the existing technology, contiguous dual barrier structure is applied so that leaked LNG Registration can be treated without imposing thermal shock on the secondary barrier even under an emergency where 32 40 61 Patent pending LNG is leaked in the primary barrier. As a result, it is distinctively safe and competitive. Constructability was Registered 53 33 18 improved by simplifying the cooling system structure, which is expected to shorten the containment system Best Practices Discovered in BnF On-site BnF Rainbow Activities Program 7 10 6 construction period and lower the cost. Once this technology is applied to 30 LNG carriers, it would have the Technology Unit: number of cases KOGAS initiates ‘On-site BnF Rainbow Activities’ to determine eight core areas based on its annual managetransfer 4 2 2 loyalty substitution effect of approximately KRW 300 billion and cost reduction effect of approximately KRW ment policies, and conducts autonomous tasks befitting each base and regional division. Yearly performanc180 billion. KC-1 was confirmed to be installed in international LNG vessels to procure Sabine Pass LNG in 10 10 12 es are evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively and improvement measures are selected, which are then the U.S. in 2014, which will be in operation in 2017. reflected in the next year’s plan to making improvements in job functions unceasingly. A total of 12 best Key Research Areas practices were discovered through BnF activities in 2015. Exploration and Development of Natural Gases LNG Storage Tank with the World’s Largest Capacity Amid increases in the natural gas import volume and demand, volume scale-up LNG storage tanks to store •Oil/Gas field E&P Community of Practice – CoP natural gases have been emphasized as a core technology in the LNG industry. KOGAS developed a next-gen•CBM KOGAS creates excellent collective knowledge through activities of CoP (Community of Practice), a voluntary •Shale/Tight gas eration ultra-large LNG storage tank by fully leveraging LNG storage tank localization technologies and con•GH/Arctic resources learning community and shares the performance through a knowledge management system, thus seeking struction know-how gained through the existing R&D efforts. The storage tank touts a ultra-large capacity 2013 2014 2015 higher efficiency in work, stronger productivity, and higher technological competitiveness. In 2015, a total Liquefaction and Transport of Natural Gases of 270,000 ㎘. Comprehensive review took place on the tank: the thickness of the steel sheet that can be of 485 CoPs were formed and autonomously managed, among which 140 CoPs were selected as excellent constructed, the occurrence rate of evaporation gas in the storage tank, and seismic load-driven design Excellent CoP ones through knowledge expert evaluation. •Storage tank design possibilities. In particular, the seismic scale in the design was upgraded from 6.5 to 7.0 to enable an opti•LNG Cargo Containment Unit: number of cases System (KC-1) mized design that is safe and economical. The safety of the ultra-large LNG storage tank was verified by an BP Contest •Liquefaction plants and international certifier (DNV, Norway). The technology developed was successfully applied to the Samcheok liquefaction process Terminal Division (LNG (Incheon, Samcheok, Tongyeong, and Pyeongtaek) Terminal Divisions). KOGAS was 106 108 140 KOGAS shares performance in excellent knowledge management activities (CoP and BnF) aligned with its vision and strategies at the end of each year, and organizes a contest to discover best practices. By doing also engaged in the SLNG extension project in Singapore, successfully concluding a turnkey contract with the Natural Gas Supply do, we are spreading motivation among members on management performance with encouragement and 270,000 ㎘ storage tank technology. rewards for strong performance. We review if award-winning best practices are applicable to similar sites •Intelligent Pigs (four LNG terminal divisions in Incheon, Samcheok, Tongyeong, and Pyeongtaek and nine regional divisions) •Gas quality and metering Smart Pipeline Management – Intelligent Pigs •Risk and safety diagnosis after the contest so that it does not remain a one-time event, and apply them throughout the corporation. •Methodology and KOGAS manages a 4,520 km-long natural gas supply pipeline. The pipeline facility can be used semi-perpipeline soundness manently, but continuous management is needed to prevent gas leakage including pipeline cracking. Intel2013 2014 2015 Performance of Management Innovation Activities Clean Energies ligent Pigs are the cutting-edge pipeline management technology which accurately diagnoses the status of Financial effects generated through BnF activities on knowledge management and management innovation pipelines by penetrating inside the pipeline where gas flows. The pigs are applied with latest technologies Financial Effects of Innovation in 2015 stood at KRW 254.4 billion. Such a performance generates not only tangible effects including cost •Hydrogen fuel cell including the data storage system, monitoring system, wireless reception/transmission system, and inertial •Natural gas-powered Activities reduction but also intangible ones including institutional improvement and sophistication and system setup. measurement unit. It does not merely remove impurities within the pipeline, but detects abnormalities by vehicles Unit: KRW 100 million KOGAS plans to initiate patent applications for excellent knowledge acquired in 2015 while striving to turn •LNG bunkering identifying the pipeline thickness based on the measurement of magnetic flux changes. Accurate position•Synthetic natural gas ing is identified by being equipped with the inertial measurement unit, and the pipeline can be numerically its knowledge into an asset and planning to work on standardization. Excellent knowledge performances •DME 3,158 1,587 2,544 that are discovered are summarized and compiled in the ‘Knowledge Management Casebook’, which is •GTL mapped. KOGAS is carrying out robotic development projects for 8-inch and 16-inch pipeline inspection to distributed to employees. Meanwhile, a total of 1,405 cases of knowledge were registered in the knowledge be applied to pipelines where pigging cannot be used. management website, among which 299 cases were selected as excellent knowledge. We will further strive to achieve our vision by continuously developing knowledge management activities. 2013 2014 2015 34 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 35 Customers Being Happy with KOGAS Reasons Why Such Issues are Important to KOGAS Performance of KOGAS KOGAS is a public corporation established to enhance benefits in people’s living and their welfare status by supplying natural gases as clean energies. KOGAS generates new values in energy resources through activities to achieve its mission and purpose of establishment, realizing such activities are ultimately helpful to the public and significantly impacting projects being performed in Korea. KOGAS believes that creating a sound corporate ecological environment in the natural gas industry along with small-and medium-sized suppliers is its role and responsibility as a public corporation for the nation and the people, and considers related issues with a great significance. Grade A Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Approach of KOGAS KOGAS defines customers as targets of direct and indirect services in the distribution process of natural gases. Customers are categorized into three groups: first, the general public as end-users of natural gases indirectly provided by KOGAS; second, city gas producers delivering natural gases from KOGAS to consumers; and third, large-volume consumers directly provided with services by KOGAS. We run a network for customer satisfaction management to provide products and services that satisfy customers, identify customer needs through close communication, and reflect them in management activities. We spare no effort to pro73.5 vide pragmatic services and support for the public by supporting government policies and reducing gas fees. We pursue mutual cooperation and shared growth by supporting the KRW billion growth of small-and medium-sized partners and forming fair cooperative relationships. We are spreading the culture of shared growth by supporting sales channels at home and abroad Reduction of Gas Tariffs for and expanding joint entry into overseas markets and purchase of products from small-and the Underprivileged medium-sized partners. We share our technological prowess and know-how to enhance our (the socially under-privileged + productivity and technologies, and secure the growth engines of SMEs and Korea while exsocial welfare facilities) tending liquidity support. Promises of KOGAS → We will improve the system so that when petitioners eligible as a multi-child (three or more) family apply for birth registration, they could apply for integrated discounts for the city gas bill payment reductions. This will be aligned with the government’s 3.0 Happy Childbirth One Stop Service. → We will continuously discover eligible recipients of city gas fee reduction benefits who are not receiving the benefits in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Good → We will continuously explore business channels by expanding joint business project opportunities with SMEs. Shared Growth Index → We will review KOGAS’ schemes on shared growth and fair transactions and make improvements where needed. We will also acquire a rating of higher excellence in the evaluation results of the Shared Growth Index (‘good’ in 2015) through regular monitoring. 36 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 37 Customer Public Satisfaction Management Best Practice >> Satisfaction The ultimate goal in KOGAS’ service for the public is to ‘pursue the value of a happy life along with custom| Opening the Gas tariff Reduction Management System for the Socially Underprivileged | ers’. To this end, KOGAS makes steady efforts to enhance energy welfare by further distributing natural gases Management to unsupplied areas and reducing the gas tariff for the underprivileged. KOGAS started the service for the Gas Tariff Reduction Management System (GRMS) for the underprivileged in August 2015. The system We provide services to reduce the city gas tariff for socially underprivileged households and social welfare allows the members of the public who are eligible for gas tariff reduction, including the disabled, recipients of basic livelihood income, and facilities as a means of stabilizing the livelihood of the socially vulnerable. In 2015, we expanded the eligible persons of national merits to apply for the benefits conveniently, and personnel in charge of city gas production to manage it with conventargets for the tariff reduction by reflecting the revised criteria for calculating the basic livelihood income and ience. The method of applying for city gas tariff reductions and the qualification renewal is improved and simplified in alignment with the the lower income group pursuant to the revision of the National Basic Livelihood Security Act. Accordingly, government’s administrative network for the underprivileged. As such, it was designed to raise service satisfaction levels among the public, targets for tariff reduction are expected to increase by 760,000. The number of socially underprivileged and increase accuracy and efficiency in management tasks by using the IT system for managing qualification for tariff reduction recipients. households that have received benefits from the city gas tariff reduction project of KOGAS stands at 930,000 Prior to the system development, target recipients who wanted to apply for city gas tariff reduction had to go through a series of inconto whom a total of KRW 69.8 billion in city gas tariffs was extended. We also reduced KRW 3.7 billion for veniences. They had to apply to a city gas producer and submit qualification certificates and related documents to governing institutions (the 22,000 social welfare facilities. Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Security and Public Administration, and the Ministry of Patriots & Veterans Affairs). Moreover, they had to prepare supporting documents and reapply for their qualification every two years for their qualification to remain valid. However, Gas Tariff Reduction Records in 2015 Project for City Gas Tariff Reduction with the adoption of GRMS, eligible targets can fill in an application form without supporting documents, and apply to a city gas producer ▒ Targets/Households Unit: KRW 100 million Amount of Fees and its website, or a community service center. This is because qualification validation can be checked out through three ministries via the sysExisting Target Recipients Target Recipient Expansion ▒ Amount Covered Per Month tem. KOGAS conducts inspections on qualification changes on a monthly basis, which eliminated the renewal procedure to reapply every two 930,000 households 22,000 facilities The disabled (Grades 1 ~ 3), persons of years. The identification period for changes in qualification among eligible targets for city gas tariff reduction which used to take a minimum national merits, persons of merits to of 30 days was significantly reduced to one day from the date of application. 24,000 698 37 independence, and recipients of Target recipients livelihood/medical allowances Approximately 900,000 people are receiving the reduction benefits. Since the recipients have their data accurately managed via the system, for tariff Lower income groups Recipients of housing allowances 12,000 ineligible recipients whose reduction qualification has been lost or who used to receive dual benefits can be identified. This has become a reduction solution to the drawback of unfair tariff reductions. Moreover, prompt responses to petitions associated with city gas producers were made Recipients of educational allowances, Multi-child households possible, which will enhance work efficiency. KOGAS promises that it will continuously discover eligible non-recipients and further strive to and a lower income group subjected 6,000 (with three or more children) to preferential care develop and establish systems that satisfy the public and related companies. Socially Social underprivileged welfare facilities KOGAS is striving to enhance healthcare services for the public through a plan to support eco-friendly public Scope of Eligible Targets for Tariff Reduction GRMS Website transport. We analyzed causes for reduction in the number of CNG buses, and conducted on-site inspection in intra-city bus companies. Related institutions including the government and the City Gas Association The Ministry of The Ministry of Ministry of Health Security and Public Patriots & Veterans sought after measures to scale up competitiveness by negotiating on the topics. Accordingly, we devised a and Welfare Administration Affairs (draft) plan for payment of CNG bus subsidies and had a specific discussion on reducing taxes and the public utilities' charge including import levies. CNG bus supporting measures to compete with diesel-powered busThe disabled, persons of national es will start from 2016. We will initiate the reduction of import levies on natural gases for transport through merits, persons of merits Persons of national merits, to independence, recipients of liveliPersons of merits in the May 18 the revision of related laws. Multi-child households hood/medical allowances, recipients Democratic Uprising, of housing allowances, and recipients Persons of merits to independence of educational allowances Communication with Customers GRMS Setup Public-service Customer KOGAS runs the corporation-wide ‘Customer Satisfaction Management Network’ to identify customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) needs. Nine district divisions and two terminal divisions have on-site service teams. It handles operations for Application for Tariff Reduction Qualification Check Tariff Reduction customer satisfaction management driven by proprietary departments for each customer group. CS leaders are selected by customer type and contact point, enhancing the capability to execute customer satisfaction Grade A tasks. The CS Initiation Committee directly engaged by customer members regularly holds meetings onsite to listen to voices of customers and enhance the quality of service. Moreover, we run the ‘KOGAS CS Application for gas tariff reduction (application via visit, call center, website) 01 Document-less SCHOOL’, a program for win-win benefits with wholesale/retail enterprises and competency build-up. We City gas producers Eligible qualification reduction targets validation also conduct demand forecasting training for personnel in charge of volume partially committed for the city 02 gas so that KOGAS and customers could exchange demand forecasting data, paving the way for higher Renewal of qualifiaccuracy in demand forecasting. GRMS (KOGAS) cation change Applications via validation KOGAS conducts on-site seminars to address inevitable problems that occur at sites in advance, thus listening Dedicated lines visit possible 03 to the voices of customers and finding solutions with customers. KOGAS is equipped with face-to-face comJoint usage system for administrative information Reflection on munication channels for key customers including city gas producers, power generators, and direct suppliers. D+1 after Programs we run include a joint workshop with customers, the Wednesday Development Council, a seminar Persons of national merits application 04 The disabled Persons of merits in the May 18 on tariff schemes, a seminar for customers, tech information exchange meetings, Wednesday Development Democratic Uprising Multi-child household Recipients of basic livelihood incomes Lower income groups Identification Persons of merits to independence Workshops, and On-site Business Day. Customer VOC is monitored in real time through online customer of ineligible support systems including the customer support system, the customer center on the website, and BIZ portal. e-Patriots & Veterans Resident Department in Happy e-System recipients Affairs System the Ministry of Govern(Ministry of Health and Such efforts served as the basis to collect actual customer feedback. We strive to fully reflect the rational (Ministry of Patriots & ment Administration and Welfare) Veterans Affairs) Home Affairs Community center demands derived from the process in improvement tasks. 38 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 39 Shared Growth System for Initiating Shared Growth Performance in Joint Overseas Intensifying the Discovery of Sales Channels Projects Joint Advancement into Overseas Projects and Win-Win KOGAS aims to create a virtuous chain of shared growth where suppliers’ growth leads to KOGAS’ growth, ▒ Uzbekistan Surgil Project KOGAS is supporting SMEs to enhance global competitiveness by helping them to make inroads into overwhich, in turn, leads to that of suppliers. As such, we are creating a system for shared growth strategies seas markets with high entry barriers due to their low recognition base and a small number of project Benefits and a culture of win-win benefits with suppliers based on trust. We launched the Shared Growth Team to Achieving exports for SMEs experiences. We developed and applied the ‘Kangaroo Export Project’, a strategy for package-type joint oversee shared growth-related job operations and play both executing and controlling roles. In 2015, we advancement to overseas markets. This is a three-step strategy for package-type joint overseas advancement significantly increased the number of personnel, specified the roles of personnel in charge, and strengthened USD 1.4 billion to remove the existing constraints hampering Korean SMEs to acquire subcontracting contracts even if they Overseas entry of SMEs the organization. acquire projects abroad. We successfully advanced abroad with them in projects including the Surgil Proapproximately ject in Uzbekistan, the Kirkuk Pipeline Construction Project in Iraq and the Marracuene Gas Supply Project System for Initiating Shared Growth 310 companies in Mozambique. Such efforts opened up opportunities for exploring overseas sales channels and secured self-sufficient driving engines for overseas projects. Vision KOGAS, a Platform for Glocal Natural Gases with SMEs ▒ Iraq Kirkuk Pipeline Construction Project Kangaroo Export Projects Satisfaction Level in Shared Achieving exports for SMEs Growth Projects Model for Model for Double Gear Growth Growth USD 60 million Step 01 Step 02 Step 03 Unit: points Overseas entry of SMEs Acquiring lump sum-type Failure Conducting international Selecting foreign EPC 70.4 85.1 4 companies contracts or persuading project owners on such contracts designated competitive bidding in selecting major EPC companies companies 1st Gear 2nd Gear Double Gear Success Targets Carrying out bidding for orders mostly participated ▒ Mozambique Marracuene Gas Supply Project Initiating designated competitive Forming the tender list** with Korean by Korean companies including small-and medibidding only for Korean companies in companies, etc. um-scale construction besides EPC and procurement Securing growth engines Developing global giants selecting major EPC* companies consignment (securing growth engines of SMEs) (helping to turn SMEs into hidden champions) Achieving exports for SMEs USD 3.6 million Selecting Korean EPC companies Selecting Korean EPC companies Failure Selecting Korean subcontractors 2014 2015 Overseas entry of SMEs Success Strengthening technologIntensifying corporate Reinforcing efforts to Creating a culture for Four Strategies Jointly advancing abroad in ical competitiveness productivity discover new channels shared growth 4 companies Selecting Korean subcontractors Selecting Korean subcontractors half package-type contracts Performance of Technological 12 Strategic Facilitating the R&D Supporting productivity Jointly discovering Facilitating the perforSubcontracting Development Projects (number of projects) Tasks mentoring system enhancement overseas channels mance sharing system Jointly advancing abroad in full package-type contracts companies Operator Korean small-and KOGAS ▒ In-house ▒ Public-private Unit: number of cases Developing jointly Jointly advancing into Operator EPC companies Subcontracting companies medium-sized Total Supporting liquidity Expanding projects for KOGAS Korean large enterprises Korean small-and medium-sized companies companies aligned technologies overseas projects of for SMEs local win-win benefits 33 Expanding infrastructure KOGAS 27 Expanding projects for Supporting the discovery Strengthening Facilitating the Shared *EPC: engineering, procurement, construction ** Tender list: A list of tender participating companies 18 cooperation in technoof markets for domestic competencies of SMEs Growth Council logical development demand 12 16 22 Best Practice >> 6 11 11 Performance of Initiating Shared Growth | Surgil Project in Uzbekistan | Strategies for Joint Advancement Abroad Strengthening Technological Competitiveness KOGAS is developing new products in cooperation with SMEs and localizing major components of gas KOGAS acquired the business right to develop the Surgil 01 02 03 2013 2014 2015 facilities. KOGAS supports small-and medium-sized companies with technical development cost and site Gas Field (reserves of 130 million tons) in Uzbekistan and Persuading Korean Selecting Korean Selecting Korean operation experiences, which, in turn, develop major components for gas facilities with their own technolconstruct and manage the chemical plant, proceeded companies to take companies for companies as ogies. Thanks to this cooperation, KOGAS was able to reduce the procurement cost for foreign products with its development, and completed the construction in part in bidding EPC contracts subcontractors Performance of Technological and improve the facility performance, laying the foundation for a stable supply of natural gases. Small-and September 2015. The project is a prime example where Order placement Order placement exclusively exclusively Development Projects (investment cost) medium-sized companies can now secure technological competitiveness and explore new business channels, Korean companies exclusively managed the entire gas targeting Korean targeting Korean companies companies ▒ In-house ▒ Public-private Unit: KRW million thus improving the management income. In 2015, a total of 22 projects based on cooperation for proprietary field development project, enabling 310 Korean SMEs to Total technological development were carried out including six new cases and six small-volume ones. A total of 11 successfully advance abroad and creating jobs for 1,350 Project Operator Samsung Engineering 2,458 public-private joint investment-based technological development projects were implemented including two people. The participating SMEs of Korea took part in the (KOGAS) 2,334 Approximately 2,115 new projects. Success in the project of ‘Localized Development of OTMS (Optical fiber Temperature MeasureKRW 1.4 billion-project and generated the effect of raisHyundai Engineering 310 ment System) for km Measurement’ led to the winning of the grand prize at the 2015 Korea Good Company ing exports, which take up 70% of the entire project. Success Korean SMEs Award organized by Moneytoday and the grand prize at the 2015 CSR Korea Award presented by Sisa Today. Furthermore, local Uzbek companies built up trust for 1,703 1,513 1,352 Uz-Kor Gas Chemical GS E&C Moreover, one-on-one mentoring is in place between the KOGAS R&D Center and small-and medium-sized the participating SMEs, securing records for participating companies involved in technological development cooperation projects in order to help the companies overin overseas bidding and paving the way for self-sufficien755 821 763 come hardships. KOGAS provides an experiment service using its own equipment along with recent acacy in overseas advancement. demic trends and technical information. SMEs acquire costly high-performance equipment to be capable of Achieving success in full package-type overseas joint advancement where Korean companies exclusively participated in the entire chain (order acceptance – EPC – subconducting performance testing, and learn practical techniques through one-point lessons. We selected four contracting) in overseas gas field development projects 2013 2014 2015 short-term bottleneck techniques and helped SMEs address them through technical guidance. 40 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 41 Performance of Marketing Support Marketing Support Competency Build-up Training for Employees of SMEs (records of supporting exhibitions) Korean SMEs confront a harsh reality where advancing into a new market is challenging due to low brand KOGAS is aware of a lack of opportunities to participate in training due to a weak management environment ▒ Booth ▒ Amount Unit: number of booths, KRW million recognition in the overseas gas market. KOGAS is maximizing product sales of suppliers through overseas and shortage of institutions in small-and medium-sized suppliers. We offer various training and consulting promotional activities using its brand power. We installed a promotional pavilion for SMEs with KOGAS’ programs to increase their job competency and practical skills on production sites. We opened training pro79 91 brand in large-scale international gas industry conferences and exhibitions, and gain the trust of buyers by grams and facilities targeted at our employees to those in the SMEs so that they could take advantage of 612 677 introducing small-and medium-sized suppliers as KOGAS’ trading partners in technical areas. We produce them. We also help them better understand natural gases and enhance their practical skills through site tours brochures to introduce their products and company, inducing the interest of buyers who visit KOGAS’ pavilof production and supply facilities in the natural gas industry. ion, while striving to realize matchmaking between sellers and buyers in order to crystalize the efforts into tangible results. KOGAS’ Shared Growth Pavilion was formed participated by a total of 10 partners/suppliers Training of Employees at Small-and Medium-sized Suppliers Training Programs for Employees in Small-and Medium-sized Companies of KOGAS at Gastech 2015, the largest international conference on natural gases. The pavilion provided services to sign or negotiate on export contracts. We also extended help for potential buyers to form a Title of Courses Outline Training Course Methodology 2014 2015 network by enabling seven companies to participate in the 26th World Gas Conference, eight in the 2015 Transferring the site-oriented unSite tours of terminal divisions and Training of Environment & Energy Tech (Entech 2015) and 17 in the 2015 Asia Pacific Gas Conference. Technical/ derstanding of facilities and facility basic training on OJT, production Full-time on-site OJT and maintenance know-how to technical/ and supply facilities for small-and three-day and two-night Research research personnel in small-and medimedium-sized suppliers with facility training sessions, etc. Personnel Performance of Marketing Support Strengthening Corporate Productivity um-sized suppliers operators of KOGAS (number of orders received) Productivity Enhancement Supporting Program Three-day and two-night Expanding research facilities and Opening 13 IT courses including CAD Unit: number of cases or four-day and three-day KOGAS provides consulting in all sectors including a technical process at the sites of SMEs through the proJob Training educational content of KOGAS to and Excel, presentations and content training sessions (training at employees of SMEs creation ject of supporting partners for productivity innovation and the project on the Industry Innovation Movement the R&D Center) 3 27 (IIM). The purpose is to support SMEs’ productivity enhancement in the natural gas sector. Opening the online educational 35 training courses including IT, leader1~2 month-long courses Productivity innovation partnership for small-and medium-sized suppliers is a project to increase the producOnline Training system for KOGAS employees to ship, and job skills (online courses) those of SMEs tivity of primary suppliers. To this end, we diagnose and improve management systems and manufacturing sites, innovate the management process, and consult on production management technologies. KOGAS implements a quality competitiveness buildup program encompassing all levels of suppliers – primary, secPerformance of Training for Employees at Small-and Medium-sized Suppliers ondary, and tertiary ones – so that the effects of productivity innovation are not confined to primary suppliers ▒ Training for technical/research personnel ▒ Job training ▒ Cyber training Unit: number of people but also to secondary and tertiary ones. A total of five companies participating in the program in 2015 were 2014 2015 involved in 13 projects, enjoying their average operating margin up 4.4%, average revenues up 0.2%p and the value added productivity up 11.4% from the previous year. A total of approximately KRW 660 million 20 3 37 19 2 13 70 8 28 was gained as financial performance. The project for the Industry Innovation Movement (IIM) is to support SMEs’ productivity innovation activities by providing customized consulting services depending on the outcome of SMEs’ on-site diagnosis. Such services include improving the site environment, innovating manageTotal Total Total ment and process and resolving drawbacks in production technologies. number number number in 2013 in 2014 in 2015 Productivity Innovation Partnership Supporting Programs 60 34 106 2013 2014 2015 Area Services Covered Precise diagnosis for three areas – management systems, Three-dimensional site diagnosis manufacturing sites, and production technologies Creation of a Culture for Shared Growth Management process innovation Support for on-site corporate management process innovation Strengthening Communication with Small-and Medium-Sized Suppliers Initiation of improvement activities using manufacturing KOGAS operates multiple communication channels for shared growth to identify diverse needs of suppliers Improvement of manufacturing sites innovation methodologies Acquisition of production technologies to ease drawbacks and fulfill the needs of suppliers. The Shared Growth Council meetings are held twice a year to negotiate Support for production technologies in manufacturing and processes on shared growth policies with small-and medium-sized suppliers and gather their feedback. Meetings with Training on productivity innovation Implementing training on the productivity innovation learning program their executives are organized once a month to improve supporting policies by gathering their feedback. The Win-Win Management Council meetings are held for each construction site nationwide to forge win-win cooperation between project owners and prime contractor/subcontractor. Executives and department heads Shared Growth Council Performance of the Productivity Innovation Improvement Rate by Type of Project in the of KOGAS visit sites of small-and medium-sized suppliers to listen to challenges and suggestions of SMEs, Partnership Supporting Project Industry Innovation Movement (IIM) and put them into action or reflect them to long-term shared growth policies depending on the level of ur▒ 2014 ▒ 2015 Unit: KRW million Unit : % gency. We also run the bulletin board for problems or suggestions in the online SME Shared Growth Center Increases of Increases of Increases of to collect their opinions in real time, align them to related departments, and find solutions. 4.1% 0.2% 11.4% Addressing and Supporting for Problems of Small-and Medium-Sized Suppliers 7.424 4.7% 68 58.5 22.2 30.0 38.3 100.0 7.131 4.5% 61 KOGAS strives to ease the burden of SMEs by gathering feedback of suppliers. In 2015, issues that topped the agenda at the Shared Growth Council meetings are as follows: categorizing suppliers and managing them by functionality to enhance efficiency in managing the council; and covering the cost generated abroad in covering cost for new product/technology certification. KOGAS categorized the council into six groups by proactively gathering feedback, and started activities for each group. We expanded our financial coverage for overseas certification cost for a new product/technology. We also accepted a request for technical staff of SMEs to have a tour in KOGAS’ facilities to supply gas equipment, and conducted a tour for equipment in Revenues Operating margin Added value Productivity Quality Cost Safety in Morality productivity enhancement enhancement reduction quality enhancement LNG terminal divisions and an onboard tour of LNG carriers. (P) (Q) (C) (S) (M) 42 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 43 A Sound Environment with KOGAS Reasons Why Such Issues are Important to KOGAS Performance of KOGAS Interest in climate change and demand for a clean environment are on the rise globally. Direct Emissions Interest in natural gases as a critical means to respond to climate change is gaining greater 150,711 attention because sulfur, nitrogen, and dust are removed in the process of liquefaction, generating almost no pollutants. They are clean fuels with little GHG emissions. Issues of climate change and the environment are critical ones directly impacting the demand for natural gases Total and KOGAS’ projects. They are safer than other fuel sources, but safety is the most important issue since when an accident occurs involving any of them, it would lead to a massive-scale one. 502,988 Indirect Emissions 352,277 GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2e) Approach of KOGAS In order to identify opportunities for climate change response and environmental risks and practice eco-friendly management, KOGAS establishes a system to continuously adopt facilities that use new and renewable energies and to preemptively respond to climate change. We also induce energy reduction by carrying out activities to improve energy efficiency at the corporate level, and discover emission reduction projects by proactively responding to the carbon emission trading scheme. As such, we fulfill our responsibilities for our future generation. We have also established a management system to manage safety, health, and environmental issues in an integrated manner. The EHSQ management system has been designed and operated to comply with domestic and global standards as we have acquired the following KRW 30,403 million certifications ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and ISO 29001. Such efforts have served as the basis to minimize on-site risks and enhance productivity. We strive to achieve our goals Cost for Environmental by sharing action plans corporation-wide in order to sophisticate the EHSQ management Activities system and enhance the level of the safety culture. Promises of KOGAS → We will practice safety management in accordance with the roadmap for improving the safety level over the midto long-term. → We will select GHG reduction projects and related activities to dynamically respond to the emissions trading scheme and continuously lower the level of GHGs. 6.99 → We will carry out six core tasks based on the five-year plan for climate change response ISRS-C Index in order to reduce the GHG reduction target by 26.7% compared to the BAU of 2020 at the national level. 44 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 45 Low Carbon Low Carbon Management Strategies Activities to Enhance Energy Efficiency KOGAS adopted the Energy Management System (EnMS) in Incheon Terminal Division for the first time as Management KOGAS set a vision of becoming ‘a sustainable future energy company’, striving to establish its goals, that a public corporation in 2011 to reduce GHG and systematically manage energy. The EnMS is an energy is, cost-effective GHG reduction and to become a leading company in responding to climate change. To this management system which can be implemented throughout an enterprise continuously under an integrated end, we have selected and initiated six tasks and 15 action items in two areas, namely, ‘response to the emisand systematic management strategy for energy efficiency enhancing activities for the organization to cut sions trading’ and ‘climate change response’. KOGAS’ low carbon management strategies are decided and cost. We acquired the EnMS international certification from Korea Energy Agency (formerly known as the executed through the two-step deliberation process. The Climate Change/Energy Working-Level Committee Korea Energy Management Corporation) for Seoul, Gyeonggi, Incheon, Gangwon, Chungcheong, Jeonbuk, consisting of heads of working-level departments in charge deliberate on pending issues on low carbon manGwangju Jeonnam, Daegu, Gyeongbuk, and Busan Gyeongnam Regional Divisions. In 2015, we acquired the agement. Then, the Climate Chante Energy Committee as the decision-making body comprised of executives international certification for EnMS for Incheon, Pyeongtaek, Tongyeong, and Samcheok Terminal Divisions devises final strategies and decide on critical matters on climate change response. from Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance. We established and manage an integrated management system of all the GHGs and energies (ECO2 View) Low Carbon Management Strategies which are emitted and used for the production and supply of natural gases on all sites. We have adopted a system to monitor the amount of energy used on a pilot scale in real time in order to induce energy reducVision Sustainable Future Energy Company tion, which is used for various analyses. Major Goals Cost-effective GHG reduction A leading company in climate change response ISO 50001 Certificate New Energy Technologies Hydrogen Fuel Cell Project A fuel cell is a new and renewable energy equipment, being eco-friendly and highly efficient. It produces electricity and heat at the same time by converting a natural gas into hydrogen and having it respond to oxyResponse to Climate gen in the air. We are developing residential fuel cells and dozens of kw-level fuel cell-targeted fuel treatment the Emissions Change Core Tasks Trading Response devices to establish the basis for distributing fuel cells for buildings. We are establishing the basis for com(six tasks in mercialization through higher performance and durability and price reduction. Moreover, we are researching two areas) on the large-scale hydrogen production technology including hydrogen stations supplying hydrogen to fuel cell-powered vehicles. We are now working on a project to distribute 100,000 resident fuel cells as a part of •Establishing a system to respond to the •Responding through new and renewable emissions trading scheme energies Fuel Cells in the Samcheok Terminal Division the 2020 One Million Green Home Project. •Developing personnel for the emissions •Managing energy efficiently trading scheme •Raising awareness about and promoting Pilot Distribution Project for DME-LPG Mixed Fuel •Initiating projects to reduce GHGs climate change Dimethyl ether (DME) has a similar physical property with LPG, so the clean fuel can be mixed with LPG for usage. Its cetane number is similar with that of diesel, so if it replaces diesel, it would emit little nitrogen oxide, dust, and CO2 in to the exhaust gas. That is why it is being spotlighted as a next-generation green energy. Response to the Emissions Trading Scheme KOGAS has source technologies for all the processes of producing DME from natural gases, and has secured a basic design for constructing a commercial plant. For distribution of DME in Korea, applicability research is being conducted through the government’s ‘pilot distribution project of DME-LPG mixed fuel’. In 2015, a In the emissions trading scheme, the government enables emissions activities of establishments emitting test facility to analyze the economic feasibility of DME was completed in Gwangju. It can now supply heat GHGs within an allowed scope by allocating emissions rights on a yearly basis, and evaluates their actual DME Gas Station being necessary for various vegetable and crop seedlings using two large heat blowers which use DME as GHG emissions so that the emission right for an unused quota or a shortage is allowed to be traded between fuel for the next two years. We can now conduct small-scale distributed power testing where one 35㎾-level establishments. In 2015, KOGAS was designated as an eligible target company to fall under the emissions combined heat and power generator is used to directly produce necessary electricity. trading scheme. KOGAS was allocated with the emission right from the government for the primary planning period from 2015 to 2017. We do the best to reduce the GHG emissions to effectively respond to the scheme by exploring reduction projects, organizing best practice sharing seminars, and improving facilities. We fulfill our duties including submission of an emissions statement and the emission right on a yearly basis. Heat Exchanger for Water Heating Amount of Energy Usage GHG Emissions Response to Climate Change ▒ City gas ▒ Electricity ▒ Heat (Steam) ▒ Gasoline & Diesel Total Unit: TJ ▒ Direct emissions ▒ Indirect emissions Total Unit: tCO2e 13,782 682,427 Current Status of Installing New New and Renewable Energy Projects 11,760 592,506 and Renewable Energies 10,189 502,988 We foster low-carbon energy projects to respond to the government’s low carbon growth policies and secure Sites Capacity (number new growth engines. We reduce GHGs and energy use by utilizing five types of new and renewable energy of sites) 7,245 7,074 7,164 352,916 345,756 352,277 facilities, that is, PV, solar, geothermal and wind energies, and fuel cells. In particular, we pay attention to PV power generation 1,563kW 31 the adoption and commercialization of fuel cell facilities producing electricity and heat without a combustion 6,468 4,610 2,944 329,511 246,750 150,711 Solar energy-powered 615㎡ 7 49 58 61 water heating system process of emitting GHGs using natural gases. We adopted diverse new and renewable energy facilities to * Fugitive emissions have been Geothermal energy excluded from the GHG emissions (cooling) 405RT 2 the headquarters building, 13 sites and gas supply facilities, and self-produce a part of the electricity interquota and the certified amount since 2014. Thus, total emissions Geothermal energy 414RT 3 nally used. The energy produced through new and renewable energies in 2015 stands at 1,288TOE, from 19 19 21 are calculated as the amount which (heating) excludes fugitive emissions. That which energy cost of approximately KRW 14.7 billion could be saved along with the GHG reduction effect is why there are some numerical Wind energy generation 16kW 5 of 66,366tCO2e. differences with the data disclosed Fuel cells 301kW 2 in the previous year’s report. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014* 2015 46 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 47 Environmental EHSQ Management System Air Pollution Management Major facilities emitting air pollutants among our production and supply facilities include the Submerged and Safety We efficiently and comprehensively manage safety, health, environmental and quality issues to minimize Combustion Vaporizer (SMV), gas heaters, boilers, and HVAC. The facilities are in operation to minimize the on-site risks and enhance productivity. Such activities take place based on the EHSQMS (Environment, Health emission of these polluting substances as they mostly emit pollutants such as NOx and Sox. Combined heat Management Safety & Quality Management System), which is adopted as a core instrument for management activities. and power facilities are operated within 75ppm, which is half the statutory domestic air environment level By doing so, we create a safe and pleasant environment by continuously improving and preventing related of 150 ppm. Concentration level and flux of NOx is monitored and controlled in real time through the TMS misdeeds. KOGAS considers its EHSQ management goal to pursue higher health and quality of all employees (Tele-Monitoring System) installed in chimneys. and the public, and provide excellent quality and services catering to customer needs and expectations. NOx Emissions SOx Emissions Dust Emissions EHSQ Management Measures ▒ Amount of emissions Unit: kg, kg/1,000 tons ▒ Amount of emissions Unit: kg, kg/1,000 tons ▒ Amount of emissions Unit: kg, kg/1,000 tons ▒ Basic unit ▒ Basic unit ▒ Basic unit Establish the EHSQ manageConduct training for all Ensure that employees ment system and effectively employees to enhance the fulfill their roles safely, and 995,111 700,953 425,996 2,732 1,891 1,141 8,241 5,787 3,567 manage it level of EHSQ establish a disaster response 25.73 19.93 13.54 0.071 0.054 0.036 0.213 0.165 0.113 system by striving to prevent disaster causing casualties 4 6 and environmental 2 pollution 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Water Pollution Management The Pyeongtaek, Incheo,n and Samcheok Terminal Divisions located on the coastal line discharge the domestic sewage into a river or sea after purifying it at sewage treatment facilities. The household sewage of Comply with related Secure the top quality from Consider safety of suppliers Internally and externally laws and regulations and the production to supply of equal to KOGAS’ disclose measures, goals, the Tongyeong Terminal Division and production management offices of regional divisions is channeled into domestic and international natural gases and performance and terminal treatment plants for treatment. The concentration level of pollutants in the discharged water is standards gather feedback to maintain managed within the scope of the statutory level (20 ppm). As for the wastewater generated from the natural transparency of EHSQ gas production process, the amount of water used is minimal due to the nature of the process, thus having 1 3 5 7 management such a little impact on the water environment. The Incheon Terminal Division, in particular, is equipped with a water treatment facility and an oil treatment facility. Other sites generate no water pollutants because the water injected into all the processes is circulated within the facilities. Moreover, the seawater entering into an open rack vaporizer (ORV) in the LNG gasification process is discharged into the coast without any enviEnvironmental Management ronmental impact after being used for heat exchange. KOGAS sets more stringent levels than the statutory ones for emitting pollutant substances into the air and BOD Emissions COD Emissions SS Emissions water, etc. on production sites, and dynamically manages them. Environmental load data generated on sites ▒ Amount of emissions Unit: kg, kg/1,000 tons ▒ Amount of emissions Unit: kg, kg/1,000 tons ▒ Amount of emissions Unit: kg, kg/1,000 tons is managed on a monthly basis, which is registered in the Environmental Information Disclosure System run ▒ Basic unit ▒ Basic unit ▒ Basic unit by the Ministry of Environment and disclosed to the public. Moreover, we voluntarily evaluate environmental 207.9 72.3 104.0 51 58.6 62.3 251.9 155.4 202 feasibility by avoiding passive actions to simply comply with statutory responsibilities and regulations, and 0.0054 0.0021 0.0033 0.0013 0.0017 0.002 0.0065 0.0044 0.0064 take actions for improvement plans to be taken. Two sites – the Incheon Terminal Division and Pyeongtaek Terminal Division – were designated as green enterprises and are managed accordingly. As such, we strive to establish an autonomous environmental management system on sites. Meanwhile, we have developed our own criteria for calculating environmental activity cost and calculate environmental cost in each scope of Certification for the Environmental Management System four activities: pollution prevention activities, pollution treatment activities, stakeholder activities, and legally responsive activities. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Environmental Activity Cost per Year Environmental Activity Cost Unit: KRW million Unit: KRW million Amount of Waste Emissions Waste Management Category Definition 2013 2014 2015 Item Unit 2013 2014 2015 We stringently apply the treatment standards above the statutory levels prescribed in related laws on the Pollution prevenCost of consigned treatment of environmental pollutants 27,987 28,773 30,403 2,233 1,935 1,397 Amount of waste generated from sites. We ensure that waste treatment companies are periodically guided and inspecttion activities including water quality and waste treatment tons 391,502 397,662 297,145 emissions ed so that waste generated from sites could be appropriately treated. Facility investment, environmental activities, environmental tons/1,000 Pollution treatBasic unit 10.10 11.31 9.45 training, and R&D cost, etc. to fundamentally remove the 24,894 24,047 28,819 tons ment activities environmental impact Management of Hazardous Chemicals Local eco-friendly projects, support for environmental Amount of Hazardous Chemicals Used Stakeholder Major hazardous chemicals used on sites include sodium hydroxide (NaOH) and hydrogen chloride (HCI). organizations’ events, advertisements on the environment, 749 2,669 88 activities etc. Item Unit 2013 2014 2015 They are used to adjust the level of pH within water tanks of the Submerged Combustion Vaporizer (SMV) Legally responEnvironmental improvement charges, environmental which serve as LNG gasification facilities. We conducted a research on measures to reduce SMV neutralizers 2013 2014 2015 111 122 99 Amount of sive activities. charges, fines for violation, etc. kg 355,060 168,614 261,049 use to reduce the amount of chemicals used. Hazardous chemicals used are managed according to legitimate Total 27,987 28,773 30,403 Basic unit kg/1,000 9.18 4.79 8.30 procedures without leakage. tons 48 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 49 Safety Management Content Covered at the Gas Fire Safety Awareness Improvement Activities Training Center We conduct training to improve employees’ safety awareness to strengthen the level of a corporation-wide ISRS-C* Index Midto Long-Term Safety Level Improvement Roadmap Type Key Topics safety culture. Their capability to perceive risk factors is enhanced through ‘Safety 365 POP-UP’ and 33 train▒ Domestic average ▒ Overseas average ▒ KOGAS We conduct comprehensive safety management across the company based on our vision for safety manBasic theories including the ing courses including ‘EHSQ On-site Practice’ have been opened. So far, 301 employees completed in-house Theoretical nature of LNG and videos of agement and corresponding directions. We have selected action plans based on the long-term safety level course overseas fire drills, etc. and outside training courses. Executives run the Safety Leadership Enhancement Program and the weight of improvement roadmap including advancing the EHSQ management to be of world class, leading the efforts Fire evacuation drills, disasters is revised upward to be reflected in the internal performance evaluation of team directors or above. 7.6 7.6 7.6 6.2 6.7 6.99 to prevent disasters in the same industry, improving the Safety Culture Index, and reducing the disaster rate Experiential experiential drills for We fulfill our social responsibilities for disaster safety: conducting Safe Korea drills organized by the Ministry emergency machine, and 4.5 4.8 5.1 for suppliers, and monitor the performances. course of Public Safety and Security aligned with the national disaster management system; conducting joint disastraining on cardiopulmonary resuscitation, etc. ter response drills organized among related agencies; implementing monthly inspections for the video conSafety Management Strategies Outdoor Fire control training, and gas ferencing system in the Disaster Control Center; and video conferencing via the national mapping network. course valve shutdown training, etc. Meanwhile, we run the Gas Fire Training Center, that is, a training center for gas-induced fire outbreaks for Vision Creating an Advanced Safety Culture Based on Autonomous Safety the public including those involved in the natural gas industry, preventing such fires in through simulated fire outbreak experiences and practical firefighting drills. In 2015, 650 KOGAS employees and 88 employees of Directions Raising awareness about safety Strengthening consensus Enhancing executing capabilities 2013 2014 2015 outside companies took training through the training center. •Sharing the commitment of the CEO •Conducting voluntary safety activities •Compensating performance on safety *ISRS-C (International Safety Rating System-Culture): •Strengthening labor-management •Developing a safety culture •Intensifying the weight in evaluation A safety culture surveying technique developed by DNV cooperation •Strengthening internal communication •Strengthening internal competency and applied worldwide •Ensuring the management to lead EHSQ Training System by example Next Energy, with KOGAS Gas Accidents On-site Settling a site-oriented autonomous safety culture Activities Forging Ensuring Ensuring Achieving laborContinuing to Zero case for voluntary engagement management cooperation managers to lead carry on on-site customization Establishing a Safety Culture, Fostering Specialized EHSQ Personnel three consecutive years (2013~2015) Establishing a system for enhancing the safety culture level Setting up a training system by job function Safety Level Improvement Roadmap EHSQ EHSQ Disaster Occurrence on Sites Early Specialized EHSQ EHSQ leadership specialized Grade for adaptation and competency personnel site personnel Unit: number of cases operating Disaster rate Number of competency personnel Safety KOGAS electrification buildup development development capabilities for the of partner facility accident build-up development Culture Index disaster rate EHSQ management companies cases 15 13 7 system Type Goal Objective Target Curriculum 2017 To reduce the disaster To reduce the disaster Employees having worked for •EHSQ training in recruiting new Early adaptation and •Learning the culture of KOGAS and rate below one third rate below one third KOGAS for two years or less employees Attainment Grade 9/Grade 10 as Grade 8.1/Grade 10 as of the average in the of the average disaster Zero electrification EHSQ culture Grade 6 or below the full score the full score •Training EHSQ legal training Goals industry of electricity, rate of public •Regular safety and health gas, and water supply corporations •Raising awareness about being involved training Establishing Employees having worked for Specialized in safety •EHSQ legal management training •Disaster response a system to KOGAS for 3~10 years 2013 2014 2015 competency buildup •Strengthening specialized competency •EHSQ training by job function (risk management) training improve the safety Grade 5~3 culture level based on the EHSQ culture in each field •Cyber safety training Reviewing Actions for Safety Management •365-Day Safety Campaign •Safety Leadership Program (SLT) Employees having worked for •Gas fire drills In order to achieve continuous long-term safety management by improving safety awareness among all EHSQ leadership •Enhancing the safety awareness among •Safety and health manager KOGAS for 11 years or more Emergency Response System competency buildup the management Grade 2 or higher training employees, we adopt a site-oriented safety culture where safety is the norm in every day work with a strong •Supervisor training Monitoring Regional Detector commitment of the CEO. Disasters are dramatically reduced through site-oriented safety management accontrol office tivities including site inspection against a period when things are vulnerable safety-wise, and random check. A special safety inspection takes place in partnership with related institutions including an outside expert Employees’ Health Management group and Korea Electrical Safety Corporation, to prevent gas accidents and industrial accidents. Moreover, KOGAS creates a pleasant working environment by identifying health-related risks upon working on sites. Central inspection is on safety management in suppliers to reduce the number of disasters on construction sites, and We have established a health management system to prevent industrial disasters and occupational diseases control office hold points are designated for high-risk work, thus paying close attention to preventing safety accidents. by improving all employees’ health. We strive to create a pleasant and healthy workplace culture by systematically managing individuals’ safety and health: health management, Globally Harmonized System’s Emergency Response System Material Safety Data Sheet (GHS MSDS), health exposure assessment, and Personal Protective Equipment Hotline We have established a prompt and systematic disaster response system to protect the life and assets of the (PPE). Latest material safety data are collected to write the GHS MSDS, and training is organized on counter (113 sites) public and minimize damage when a disaster is expected or occurs. Gas facilities are monitored 24/7 through actions against fire and leakage for employees of KOGAS and suppliers. The GHS MSDS is placed on sites to the central control office in the head office, nine regional control offices, and central control rooms in four Anti-Smoking Class be highly visible, thus informing of and spreading health and potential risks in advance. terminal divisions. Safety systems are in place including fire protection facilities including fire extinguishers We run the Industrial Safety and Health Committee to secure safety and health of members while securing Fire protection Fire brigade facilities and alarm devices, and passive systems, and total traffic control to manage anti-disaster facilities. A hotline a safe workplace in order to deliberate and decide on matters in each item of Article 19.2 of the Industrial is in place with related institutions including local governments, fire stations, and police stations to establish Safety and Health Act. We strive to come up with rational solutions by seamlessly easing differences of Firefighting Firefighting resources a cooperative system. Emergency drills continuously take place according to the action manual for sites in opinions among the labor and the management. Yearly health check-up is carried out for employees’ health dispatched each sector including disasters and cyber terrorist attacks in Korea or abroad in order to enhance countering management, while in-house health management clinics and designated medical clinics are in place. We skills when a disaster occurs. have a wide range of welfare plans to improve employees’ health and foster their cooperative spirit: semi-annual sports events and mountain climbing, various welfare facilities including tennis courts, fitness centers and table tennis rooms, and health-related club activities. 50 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 51 A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Reasons why Such Issues are Important to KOGAS Performance of KOGAS KOGAS believes in the starting point of sustainability, that is, fulfilling responsibilities as a corporate citizen through corporate management activities contributing to the national economy and livelihood of the public, and returning of corporate profits to the society. Yet, we do not consider local contribution activities simply from the perspective of support or charity. KOGAS, its community and neighbors are the subjects to grow alongside one another. We exert unceasing support to its community by dynamically communicating with it and identifying mutual needs. We also cooperate with our community as we consider that ensuring winwin growth amid cooperation, support and trust form accountability as a public corporation Low income class 57 households and the start of sharing values. Social welfare centers 102 centers Approach of KOGAS Heat Efficiency Improvement Project We strive to become Korea’s representative national enterprise respected by people by fulfilling social responsibilities as a public corporation. To this end, we run projects to enhance energy welfare for the public by utilizing the nature of our business and practice social contribution activities suited to local circumstances of each site. Dynamic social contribution activities are underway at home and abroad: ‘Onnuri Love Project’ supporting energy welfare for the socially underprivileged; ‘Onnuri Hope Project’ to develop future generations and enhance public interest; ‘Onnuri Harmony Project’ forging trust with communities and global citizens; and ‘Onnuri One Heart Project’ for spreading the culture of sharing in KOGAS’ style. With the relocation of the head office of KOGAS to Daegu, we started to take an interest in the socially vulnerable in Daegu, and we are extending corresponding support as we take the lead to revitalize the local economy. KRW 120 million Donation of Onnuri Gift Certificates Promises of KOGAS → We will newly adopt social contribution projects which generate a demand for city gas: conducting fuel cell pilot projects to social welfare centers upon implementing the Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project, and supporting to install inlet pipelines for city gas. → We will establish and implement comprehensive measures for win-win cooperation with Daegu and revitalizing its economy; fostering the local industries, engaging in social contribution, developing talents, and recruiting local talents. → We will form a proprietary group (establishing a foundation) to play central roles in social contribution activities suited to the construction scale over the medium and long term. → We will initiate R&D in gas technologies in partnership with local universities, while facilKRW 1,136 million itating procurement of products from companies from Daegu through limited competiCommunity Support tions, etc. → We will contribute to a fund for shared growth for financial support for technological development in order to achieve win-win cooperation with SMEs in the region. → We will expand scholarship programs so that poverty is not passed down to the next generation for the socially underprivileged in the region. 52 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 53 ‘Onnuri’ Social Social Contribution System Onnuri Hope Project Contribution KOGAS is engaged in strategic social contribution activities which reflect the nature of its business as a public KOGAS enhances the public value by supporting projects of public interest, and develops future generations corporation and the government’s policy frameworks. Various activities are underway through ‘Onnuri’ – the through educational support. While sponsoring scholarships of high school and university students from Activities KOGAS-style social contribution brand. By doing so, we wish to guarantee energy welfare for the underprivunderprivileged households, we generate synergies for learning support for childcare centers in the region ileged and spread the culture of sharing. aligned with a volunteer camp for sharing knowledge of scholarship students. Moreover, rehabilitation assistance devices are given out to children and adolescents with disabilities. We also conduct a community Heat Efficiency Improvement Project Social Contribution System diagnosis in rounds for areas with little accessibility to medical services in partnership with Seoul National (yearly performance) University Bundang Hospital. Each site conducts activities to protect cultural properties semi-annually, conVision Achieving Global KOGAS as Customers’ Companion serving them and engaging in environmental clean-up for 27 cultural properties around our sites nationwide. ▒ Low income households Unit: number of households, ▒ Facilities number of facilities The Blue Sky Project launched to inherit the blue sky to our future generations has been conducted since Strategic Goals Initiating Global Social Contribution Activities 2005, which takes the lead in improving the air environment in a large city. For instance, the project conducts 135 70 5 126 57 102 the air environmental survey with civic organizations and local governments, provides training on the enviBrand Name Onnuri (‘Make the whole world a Heart-warming Place for People to Live in’) ronment for youths and installs solar power generation facilities in libraries. Constructing an Elementary School Objective Establishing Onnuri as KOGAS-style Social Contribution Brand in Mozambique Type 1st year of improving the educational environment in Mozambique Onnuri Harmony Project 2013 2014 2015 Strategic Tasks Constructing a local elementary school Objectives and providing school supplies ‘Onnuri ‘Onnuri ‘Onnuri ‘Onnuri The Onnuri Harmony Project is a program for social contribution to build trust with local residents in our Hope Project’ for Harmony Project’ One Heart Project’ Love Project’ for development for community for the spread Project Period 2012-2015 community and global sites. Informal welcoming encounters are organized between sites and their regional Heat Efficiency Improvement Project energy welfare (accumulated performance as of 2015) enhancement of future and global of the sharing Targets Local residents and students residents, contracts are signed between sites and their region through the One-Company and One-Village generations cooperation culture Amount initiative, and customized supporting programs are in operation. With the relocation of the head office to KRW 660 million (4 years) Supported Daegu, social contribution activities along with activities to revitalize the local economy are carried out in Low income class School construction (March 2013): Daegu. Related details are available on p.54~55 in the report. Meanwhile, we initiate favorable exchanges 720 households newly constructing classrooms and Regional cooperation Action Plans Implementing the Onnuri Heat Blue Sky Project (domestic communities) Management of Achievements a playground, etc. with local residents by carrying out global contribution projects beyond the domestic projects. Such efforts Efficiency Improvement Project (an air environment •Conducting projects to support Onnuri Volunteer Groups (6th year) improvement movement) terminal divisions’ surrounding Providing free school supplies: have a positive impact for us to proceed with developing overseas resources and for related companies to 1,300 desks and chairs •Medical and scholarship areas •Engaging in the One-Company make inroads into the global market. We construct elementary schools in Mozambique, giving out supplies for Supporting the city gas tariff Social welfare facilities for the underprivileged in terms programs •A campaign to protect One-Village campaign Implementing ‘Volunteer 5up’ learning including desks and chairs. We built local technical training classes to foster skills in welding and maof energy Global cooperation campaign: KOGAS-style sharing cultural heritage sites Mozambique Technical Training Class chinery in order to establish a proprietary self-empowering system. We will fulfil social responsibilities as a glob491facilities Sponsoring sports, culture & art and academic fields (international community) •Supporting global medical services •Providing global fellowships campaign to raise the social contribution mileage (summing of time-specific donations) by Type 2nd year of improving the educational al energy enterprise by expanding consensus with local residents, continuously exploring global contribution Hope Village Project environment in Mozambique (support for Daegu Jjokbang•Sponsoring unpopular winter (scholarships) 5% a year compared to the projects which can strengthen their self-support competency instead of merely providing one-time benefits. sports •Engaging on sports/personnel previous year chon, a cell town) Managing local technical training •Supporting research for Altaic exchanges and contribution to Objectives languages classes (piping and welding courses) North Korea Project Period 2015-2019 Onnuri One Heart Project Amount KRW 420 million (4 years) Supported Gas Tariff Reduction Project Onnuri Love Project Partner Korea Food for the Hungry We carry out region-friendly social contribution activities by managing the Onnuri Volunteer Groups launched (the socially underprivileged) Organization International ▒ Target households Unit: number of households, in April 1999. The Onnuri Volunteer Groups of KOGAS consists of seven teams in the head office and 13 ▒ Amount of reduction KRW 100 million Heat Efficiency Improvement Project Social Contribution Activity branches of business divisions. We spread volunteering leadership by engaging in volunteering programs 768,000 865,000 926,122 KOGAS is carrying out the ‘Onnuri Love Project’ to enhance public benefits by expanding energy welfare Mileage Points including the matching grant to support the underprivileged using the fund raised by employees, conducting projects aligned with the nature of its business. The Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project that has family volunteering on weekend and sharing gifts on traditional holidays. In 2015, we launched one-on-one 452 655 698 Unit: points/individual been steadily carried on from 2010 is operated through the budget of KRW 2 billion a year for various acsisterhood projects, volunteering in seven institutions through the sisterhood of one volunteering team at tivities. Through the project, heating efficiency is improved through floor heating in low income households 28.67 29.15 39.91 the head office and one welfare center. We started a mentoring project for middle school students from and social welfare facilities, heat insulation in walls and replacement of windows and flooring or wallpaper, underprivileged households, providing diverse activities including counseling on career, learning and cultural while supporting the installation of inlet pipelines for city gas. We conducted the Heat Efficiency Improveexperiences. Our engagement in voluntary charity work is gaining a wider range of consensus for social ment Project for 57 low income households and 102 social welfare centers in 2015. We also supported the contribution. Specific activities include house repair work with university students, preparing kimchi for the 2013 2014 2015 city gas pipeline installation for 15 households and facilities. Welfare centers and local governments took underprivileged, free meal serving in shelters for the homeless, and sharing of books and rice. We conduct part in selecting target recipients and providing services in order to raise benefits for recipients. The project the ‘Volunteer 5 up Campaign’ every year so that employees could be encouraged to raise their social Gas Tariff Reduction Project also contributed to job creation by enabling 33 social enterprises to take part in the construction process. contribution mileage points by over 5% year on year. In 2015, per-capita social contribution mileage points (social welfare facilities) recorded 39.91 points, up 37% from the previous year. Moreover, we give out heating devices to the elderly living in the cell town in Daegu under the Hope Village 2013 2014 2015 ▒ Facilities Unit: number of households, Project, contributing to making the world a more heart-warming place. ▒ Amount of reduction KRW 100 million 21,468 22,542 22,032 Gas Tariff Reduction Project 30 30 37 We carry out a project to support heating fees for our neighbors struggling from a shortage of heating fees in order to improve the quality of life and achieve energy welfare for the underprivileged. In 2015, gas tariff reduction benefits of KRW 69.8 billion were provided to 926,122 underprivileged households along with KRW 3.7 billion to 22,032 social welfare facilities. Targeting basic livelihood income recipients and the lower income group, we strive to extend helping hands to more neighbors by suspending the supply cut even if 2013 2014 2015 their gas tariff is not paid during winter. Employees’ Volunteering Activity in the Heat Scholarship Award Ceremony at KOGAS Joint Volunteering with Public Institutions in the Volunteering During the New Employee Training Efficiency Improvement Project Innovation City of Daegu Period in the Second Half of the Year 54 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 55 Contribution Local Region-Friendly Social Contribution Performance of Community Support in 2015 Project to Support a Healthy Dream and a Healthy Body KOGAS signed an agreement on social contribution for a project titled ‘A Healthy Body, A Healthy Dream’ to and With the relocation of the head office to Daegu in 2014, we launched and execute a win-win cooperation Establishing two Children’s Toy Libraries (in Namsan and SeongKRW 120 million with five public-private institutions including Daegu Metropolitan Government, Community Chest of Daegu seo Welfare Centers) platform to implement specialized social contribution activities catered to issues and needs of the Daegu and Kyungpook National University Hospital. In 2015, we donated KRW 100 million to Kyungpook National Engagement community and to revitalize its economy. We set the directions for social contribution and talent developSponsoring school uniforms for underprivileged middle and high KRW 80 million University Children's Hospital as a part of the project. We also opened two more Children’s Toy Libraries, ment-focused support, considering the feature of the local region where the ratio of the underprivileged is school students which amount to four in total. School uniforms are sponsored for financially struggling middle and high in Community comparatively high based on internal and external environmental analyses – government policies, current Sponsoring cultural trips for KRW 50 school students. We also pay close attention to developing talents in community by constructing childcare underprivileged youth million status of the community and internal competency. We plan to identify community needs through collaboracenters and study rooms for students. Sponsoring multi-cultural families KRW 50 tion with its local government and expert agencies, and explore new projects. Our midto long-term goal is to visit their home country million to develop the local industry and support SMEs in conjunction with the exploration of new projects involving Providing medical fees to the top KRW 120 new growth engines. five primary hospitals in Daegu million Activities for Facilitating the Local Economy Sponsoring free meal service KRW 72 centers (Himangui Jib (Hope million Local Region-Friendly Social Contribution System Sharing Center)) Development of the Energy Industrial Belt Forming study rooms for adolesKRW 120 As a public corporation that sides with its community, KOGAS has devised a blueprint to grow the oil cluster cents in Dong-gu in Daegu million C.S.R C.S.V in Ulsan into Korea’s largest ‘Energy Industrial Belt’ by linking it with the gas industry in Daegu. The purpose Establishing medical infrastrucCorporate Social Responsibility Creating Shared Value ture in Kyungpook National KRW 100 of the blueprint is to revitalize the local economy and nurture local industries. To this end, we carry out a fourmillion University Children's Hospital step project for the midto long-term under a master plan. In the first stage for preparation, we will strive Social contribution projects for the underprivileged within Daegu Facilitating the local economy Donating Onnuti Gift Certificates KRW 124 for localization, and in the second stage, we plan to strengthen ties with our community. The third stage using corporate card points million will focus on facilitating the local economy substantially, and the fourth one will complete the setup of the Donating funds to reach out to KRW 100 the underprivileged million Energy Industry Belt as the final stage. We are currently negotiating with partner institutions including Daegu Children The Homeless The Elderly Others Forming the Matching Grant KRW 150 Metropolitan Government and Daegu Technopark. We plan to establish industrial infrastructure suited to •Formation of energy clusters with employees’ year-end •Distribution project for laundry driers donations million Daegu, and support technological development. •Love Fence •Support for the homeless •Sharing rice with the elderly •Employees’ financial donation of city gas •A Healthy Dream, a Healthy management institutions •Volunteering with sisterhood ties •Support for local festivals Supporting heating fees for a cell KRW 20 •Support for the installation of city gas town in Daegu million Body •Support for establishing food •Support for underprivileged •Talent donation through service centers multi-cultural families inlet pipelines Sponsoring the New Year’s Eve KRW 30 Formation of the SME Win-Win Fund •Support for Saeddeul Village Project mentoring Bell Tolling Ceremony million (under negotiation) KRW 1,136 KOGAS signed the ‘Agreement on the Shared Growth Fund for Creative Economy for Facilitating the Local Total million Economy’ with the Daegu Metropolitan Government and the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK). KOGAS also signed a deal where KOGAS and IBK could play leading roles in revitalizing the local economy with the Daegu Donating Onnuti Gift Certificates Metropolitan Government. The deal enables them to form the Shared Growth Fund worth KRW 50 billion Social Contribution Activities in Daegu to extend a low-interest fund to SMEs. Through the deal, we expect to provide preferential support for SMEs Unit: KRW 100 million struggling in financing by automatically waiving 1.1%p for their loan interest rate within the ceiling of KRW Increases of Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project in Daegu KRW 29 million 500 million per enterprise. Additional waivers will be provided to them depending on their credit rating. Commendation as an We allocate target areas in Daegu/Gyeongbuk first among others nationwide upon selecting target houseExcellent Institution in Contribution to Revitalization of Traditional Markets holds and welfare centers in the ‘Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project’, our representative social 0.95 1.2 Social Contribution (Daegu Mayoral Award) contribution activity. Thus, 67 targets were selected from Daegu/Gyeongbuk, which is 45% among the entire We donated Onnuri Gift Certificates worth KRW 124 million to the Community Chest of Daegu with the targets in 2015. For the construction of one community center for the elderly and three houses for the elderly advent of Chuseok – one of most celebrated traditional holidays in Korea. It is a social contribution activity living alone in Daegu, not only KOGAS’ employees and family but also university student volunteer groups to contribute to the revitalization of traditional markets in Daegu by sponsoring gift certificates to be used selected from 100 universities nationwide were involved together. It was a time of putting the sharing spirit in traditional markets. The source of the contribution was the income generated from mileage points in into action through close bonding with the community. corporate cards of KOGAS. The gift certificates were handed out to about 124 institutions including welfare centers for the elderly and welfare centers for the disabled in Daegu through the Community Chest of 2014 2015 Daegu. Best Practice >> | Opening Children’s Toy Libraries No. 3 and No. 4 | We opened Children’s Toy Libraries No. 3 and No. 4 in 2015. The program is a part of the sharing activity for the local region in accordance Best Practice >> with ‘A Healthy Body, A Healthy Dream’ agreement signed among KOGAS, Community Chest of Daegu, Kyungpook National University Hospital, and RasGas. Following two libraries that opened in 2014, the third toy library was opened in Daegu Welfare Center for the Disabled | Organization of a Procurement Seminar for SMEs in Daegu and Gyeongbuk | along with the fourth one in Children’s Toy Library No. 4 inside Seongseo Welfare Center. We plan to enrich. We organized a procurement seminar for SMEs and enterprises with female entrepreneurs in Daegu and Gyeongbuk in June 2015. The purpose was to revitalize the local economy and realize the shared growth with SMEs by exploring excellent products from such enterprises and tapping into new sales channels. Procurement managers in each department at KOGAS had one-on-one meetings with heads of the enterprises. It created opportunities for a wide range of products to be promoted thanks to the participation of the Small and Medium Business Administration of Daegu and Gyeongbuk, the National Association of Women, and over 30 SMEs and enterprises led by women. Children’s Toy Library No.1 inside Daegu Children’s Toy Library No. 2 inside Ansiim Children’s Toy Library No. 3 inside Namsan Children’s Toy Library No. 4 inside Seongseo Welfare Center for the Disabled Welfare Center Christian Welfare Center Welfare Center 56 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 57 Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS Reasons why Such Issues are Important to KOGAS Performance KOGAS의 of성과KOGAS A vibrant workplace we envision is a space that enables individual employees to exert their capacity to the fullest for self-realization, and boosts satisfaction for their job and workplace and improve the level of immersion in work by co-creating public values. KOGAS’ vision and goals can be achieved only when the labor and the management cooperate in such a corporate culture. We consider our employees as KOGAS’ precious partners as they are realizing joint goals in the sustainability perspective of their organization. We perceive that respecting diversity and protecting their rights is a core factor in managing human resources. 10.1 10.1 Ratio of Women % % 여성 비율 (among regular employees) (정규직 중) Approach of KOGAS KOGAS selects and nurtures talents based on their capabilities regardless of their age, academic background, major and region. We establish yearly educational and training plans to suit the needs of employees to respect their values and competencies and encourage them to develop their potentials. We systematically manage the evaluation and remuneration scheme so that they could work with a sense of accountability and self-pride, while providing high-quality jobs as a public corporation. We support various programs including flexible working hours to strike a work-life balance, and strive to increase employees’ satisfaction 3,3903.39 through continuous upgrading. Meanwhile, we establish our exclusive labor-management culture by perceiving the importance of rational labor-management relations to successfully KRW million achieve management goals. Diverse channels are in operation for forming bilateral consensus and communication. We also create an advanced labor-management culture where comAverage of Per-capita 1인당 교육 평균예산 pliance with principles is the norm by establishing a system for signing rational collective Training Budget agreements. Promises KOGAS의 of KOGAS 약속 → W e will improve 유연근무제 이용 a확대를 system위해 by continuously 지속적으로 의견을 gathering 수렴하여 feedback 제도를 to expand the system of 개선해나가겠습니다. flexible working hours. → 해외파견 예정인력에 대한 해외업무 수행교육을 강화하겠습니다. → We will strengthen training for overseas job functions for personnel scheduled to be → dispatched 신규인력 급증에 따른 조직 내 계층 간 소통교육을 강화하겠습니다. abroad. → W 3급 e will 성과평가체계를 이하intensify inter-class구축하고 노사합의를 communication 통해 성과연봉제 training 확대 추진하겠습니다. within the organization amid a rapid Selected as an Excellent Institution with Work-life increase of new employees. → 정부정책과 연계한 노사관계전략 목표 및 세부실행과제를 선정하겠습니다. Balance Systems → We will expand the performance-based salary system through labor-management consensus → 상향식 소통채널을 지속적으로 강화하고 노사관계 대직원 홍보방안을 수립하겠습니다. → We will select goals and specific action plans for labor-management relationship strategies (Prize of the Minister of aligned with government policies. Employment and Labor) → We will continuously strengthen bottom-up communication channels and establish promotional measures on the labor-management relationship for employees. 58 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 59 Strengthening Open Employment Strengthening Talent Competencies Talent Human Resources Management Principle Human Resources Development Strategies Competitiveness KOGAS defined ideal talents as follows: those that challenge themselves for the future and lead changes; those that realize common success through trust and cooperation; and those that pursue excellence in their KOGAS established and operates a competency-based talent development system based on its vision and strategic directions to select and develop top talents with expertise in the gas industry. Individual demands of field. We employ excellent human resources fairly without limitations on academic background, age, major, the organization and employees are analyzed and reflected in establishing annual educational and training Status of Employees* (by gender) or region. Transparent recruitment is conducted without disclosing the credentials of interviewees including plans. Diverse job training courses are available including in-house training to build up organizational comtheir name, hometown, and academic background. petencies and secure individual competencies. Unit: Number of employees We select competent talents by systematically implementing job analysis through the adoption of the National Competency Standards (NCS). We figured out 14 necessary job functions including management planning, Female Human Resources Development Strategies and machinery and equipment. We also selected specifically required capabilities for jobs – job functions, 350 necessary knowledge and job performance attitudes. By doing so, we recruited talents through the NCS. Mission Fostering Creative KOGAS Employees that Challenge Themselves for the Future of the Energy Industry There is no restriction on gender, age, religion, or physical disabilities by respecting human rights and indiTotal 3,460 vidual diversity. We continuously recruit employees in a socially equitable manner by employing the socially Vision Strengthening Strategy Executing Capabilities through Balanced Development of Individuals and the Organization underprivileged for a designated quota including local talents, high school graduates, and patriots & veterMale ans, and adopting limited competitions for applicants who completed their internship. Objectives Fostering personnel to execute new projects Strengthening global competency Intensifying job competency 3,110 KPI 255 master’s or doctoral degree holders or technicians (accumulated) 20 employees who have completed the GLTC 650 employees with in-house qualifications (accumulated) * Regular employees, as of 2015-end Employment Principle Four Strategic Strategic Pursuit Performance Generation Self-driven Site-oriented In-depth Status of Employees (by age bracket) interviews Directions Unit: % Seven Action •Initiating S-HRD which is compat•Strengthening training on equip•Internalizing the self-develop•Strengthening on-site job training Plans ible with management strategies ment for safe and stable supply ment program •Developing KOGAS’ core talents •Stabilizing equipment through •Ensuring life-cycle training from 20s 50s Fairness and intensified in-house qualifications entry into the corporation till Merit-based retirement 13.7 16.9 transparency-based employment Employment employment Principle Abolition of Open restrictions on 30s competition academic Per-capita Average Training Budget Talent Development Programs testing background 22.9 40s or age Unit: KRW 1,000 KOGAS opened 11 courses including in-house courses and overseas OJT to pursue S-HRD in line with man46.5 agement strategies and strengthen job competencies. We are strengthening talent competitiveness in the 3,367 3,083 3,390 gas industry by enabling employees to take programs including a course to develop a specialized workforce Retired Employees for the re-evaluation model for overseas investment projects. By doing so, we can strengthen their comCurrent Status of Employees petencies in LNG trading projects as the basis of stable supply and demand management and secure cost ▒ Retirement age Unit: Number of employees ▒ Voluntary retirement As of the end of 2015, a total of 3,497 employees are working at KOGAS. The application rate of female taleffectiveness. ents is relatively low due to the nature of the natural gas industry. However, we pour in efforts to continuousWe have also opened a course to develop core talents catered to KOGAS’ needs as global resources de27 13 21 ly generate female managers by developing job functions suited to women, achieving the female recruitment 2013 2014 2015 velopment has been expanded. In 2015, we conducted a pilot program for the Global Leadership Training target and managing a fair promotion procedure and career paths. The average age of employees is 41.7 Course (GLTC) for talents equipped with global job expertise and competencies. As a result, we generated 7 8 and the portion of employees in the 40s takes up 46.5%, so the average age is somewhat high at KOGAS. 21 global job specialists which can be immediately utilized for overseas projects. The number of trainees Number of Trainees KOGAS is trying to lower the average age by facilitating voluntary retirement, adopting the wage peak syswill increase, totaling 176 employees (accumulated) by 2020. We organize training to intensify equipment tem to expand new employment, and lowering the average age. Unit: Number of employees training for safe and stable supply and to generate strong performance by stabilizing the equipment through the in-house qualification scheme. In 2015, 621 people completed 19 courses on equipment and safety 2013 2014 2015 53,349 66,728 75,770 including the process of supply equipment management. We continue to foster specialists by managing 12 Status of Employees Unit: Number of employees qualification schemes related to equipment management and maintenance. Employees at KOGAS receive New Employment of Regular 2013 2014 2015 customized training courses: training by life cycle from entry into work to retirement, and training on forming Employees Total 3,386 3,483 3,497 rank-specific roles and boosting leadership. The employee participation rate is raised through the expansion of online training in a self-driven manner. Their competency is boosted by encouraging internalization of Unit: Number of employees Regular 3,347 3,453 3,460 Employment type 2013 2014 2015 the self-development system. Such training courses are led by training departments, but part of the budget Total Non-regular 39 30 37 (about 18% of the training budget) can be internally decided to us in front-line departments. As such, 87 Women among regular site-oriented training is also emphasized. 336 (10.0%) 346 (10.0%) 350 (10.1%) Satisfaction Level in Training employees 13 15 27 50.5 59 Gender equality Women among Unit: points Developing Female Leaders and Specialists 2 (0.06%) 5 (0.14%) 5 (0.14%) manager-level positions We run programs to develop competent female managers to develop female employees as leaders and 91.90 93.62 96.02 The disabled 93 100 108 specialists. We provide the preliminary manager course and the leadership development course to enhance Distribution of High school graduates 546 558.5 547.5 essential competencies of female leadership. We have expanded positions for female employees to be propersonnel based on moted to a manager level or appointed to major positions at the head office. As such, we pave the way for social equity People of national merit 302 318 331 women to advance to high-level executives. This is expected to contribute to achieving successful manageFemale The High school Science and Local Local talents 1,568 1,616 1,640 ment performance of KOGAS as gender-specific competencies could generate synergies. disabled graduates engineering talents major 2013 2014 2015 60 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 A Better World with KOGAS Customers Being Happy with KOGAS A Sound Environment with KOGAS A Warm-Hearted Community with KOGAS Creating a Vibrant Workplace with KOGAS 61 Fair Evaluation and Remuneration LaborLabor-Management Culture of Harmony Performance of Operating the KOGAS conducts fair and transparent efficiency rating based on employees’ performance and capabilities, Management We recognize the importance of a labor-management relationship to generate continued management perFlexible Working Hour System and the results are reflected in personnel appointment and remuneration. All employees set goals for their formance and establish a win-win labor-management relationship. We strive to form a desirable labor-man▒ Part-time work ▒ Flex-time work ▒ Working-hour selection type Unit: Number of employees achievement and competencies at the beginning of a year, and have them approved by their manager. They Culture of agement culture in accordance with four strategic tasks under a goal to establish an advanced partnerare subject to year-end performance evaluations based on their individual yearly performance. For high 479 914 933 achievers, incentives are provided to enhance their organizational immersion by differentially paying the Harmony ship-driven labor-management relationship. We build trust through various communication channels for consensus forming and communication. 746 bonus and the base salary and by giving benefits in a review to select employees to be dispatched outside. 28 48 For low achievers, meanwhile, we seek higher performance by supporting competency development through Labor Union Subscription Management Strategies for the Labor-Management Relationship training or job rotation. According to the ‘Recommendations for Performance-Based Salary in Public CorpoVision for managing rations’, all wage items are broken down into basic, job, and performance-based under the pay-for-perforthe labor-management Labor-Management Relationship that Creates Collective Future Values 86 relationship mance scheme. Accordingly, the base salary taking up 56% of the entire salaries are divided into five grades Goal for managing the % Establishing an Advanced Partnership-Driven Labor-Management Relationship depending on competency evaluation for a differential increase. Differential payment is made so that the labor-management relationship 2013 2014 2015 (3,017 people) maximum and the minimum amounts differ by over two times by converting 36% of the entire salary into 2015 Strategies for Managing the Labor-Management Relationship a performance-based one. (4) Strategic Tasks Strengthening competencies Establishing and executing Unfolding a new laborPerformance of Operating the strategies for the labormanagement culture with for labor-management commuRationally improving and nication and management signing collective agreements Childcare Leave Performance-Based Salary Labor-Management Communication management relationship fairness and accountability of labor affairs ▒ Users (men) ▒ Users (women) Unit: Number of Channels (12) Action Plans •Establishing strategies for the •Reaching an agreement between the •Holding CEO-employee meetings •Signing a wage agreement in 2015 Return rate employees Allowance Base Salary Integrating the base job pay into the base salary – 5 grades labor-management relationship labor and the management on the •Managing corporation-wide •Signing the 12th collective agreement Base Salary Offline in 2015 wage peak system labor-management communication Differential increase in an accumulated manner 100.0% 2.3% 56% •Establishing strategies for the labor-management relationship •Participating in the labor-management partnership program channels and the Labor-Management Council 88.2% 86.7% in 2015 •Managing the Conflict Resolution •Training on capacity building for manJob-based Differential pay with 3 grades within the same rank by evaluating the •CEO and unionists, meetings of the Committee agers in charge of labor affairs job value and the level of difficulty (using the resource derived from •Renewing the time-off agreement •Organizing the information exchange Salary executive body in the labor union meetings between the labor and the the abolished wage-type welfare benefits) 12 17 21 •Monthly morning assemblies, Day of management PerformanceIntegrating the existing performance-based pay and the fixed PerformanceLabor-Management Harmony Monitoring and based Salary amount of bonus, and differential payment between maximum and Performance •Results of the Labor-Management •Related labor-management •Related planning and result reports •Related collective agreements Job-based based Salary minimum amounts with the difference of over two times •Seminars on management agenda (pendSatisfaction Survey (questions and agreements (year-round) 2 4 2 Measurement interviews) •Related planning and result reports 36% Salary ing issues) for each division •Report publication (yearly) (case by case) Allowance Paying the statutory annual allowance •Labor-management meetings in each 5.7% division, workshops •Collective bargaining (collective/wage agreements), Labor-Management Council •Labor-Management Workshop on each Strengthening Communication with Employees 2013 2014 2015 Work-Life Balance site (meetings) •Management Agenda Seminar for each site •Unionist Seminar We strengthen face-to-face communication for reaching concord by resolving labor-management conflicts Strengthening the Flexible Working Hour System and forming a partnership, and devise bottom-up communication channels. In face-to-face communication, Online In order to facilitate the use of flexible working hours, we identify employees’ needs and improve the opwe explain the management agenda, and devise rational management plans for business activities, thus erational system. More options are now provided on top of the existing flex-time work and similar types of •e-board (all employees), email (individuempathizing on mutual responsibilities. We also run the ‘CEO-Employee Dialogue’ as a bottom-up commurestricted flexible working hour systems so that employees can select which days to apply flexible working als, group) nication channel. In 2015, the session was held seven times in total with the presence of office & technical •Video conferencing, corporation-wide employees of Grade 3 or lower and at the head office and in each site. During the session, the CEO’s hours. Other schemes have also been added including alternative work scheduling, compressed working and airing, labor-management portal site smart working. As such, the flexible working hour system has been complemented to be free from stand•Labor-management relationship updates management philosophy and vision were shared along with a free discussion. Moreover, we strengthen ardized working hours and space. As a result, users of the part-time work system increased 171% compared (KOGAS and the labor union’s major mutual understanding by devising diverse communication channels for handling grievances, improvement of schedules, etc.) to the previous year, while users of alternative work scheduling went up in number by 102%. We will seek •Band for each division irrational systems on site, and forming consensus between the labor and the management. Meanwhile, we measures to facilitate the system by simplifying the application procedure so that the system can be more •CGEM – management research institute provide prior written notifications on changes in corporate management: changes in the Articles of Incorpo•Band for each site effective. ration and the organization, amendment or abolition of regulations on labor conditions, shareholders’ meet•Labor union website, labor manage newsletter (communication and eming and the board of directors associated with rights of unionists and agenda proposed to the Management Maternal Protection System pathy) Committee and their results. All these matters are stipulated in the collective agreements. Certification as an Excellent Institution with FamilyWe create an environment for maternal protection for female employees during their pregnancy based on Friendly Programs in 2015 their needs. Their working hours are shortened, their job can be changed, and in-house married couples are Best Practice >> (Ministry of Gender appointed in workplaces in the same area. Moreover, the duration of maternity leave has been expanded Equality and Family) from one year to three years to prevent career interruption of women due to childbirth or childcare. The | Establishing a Win-Win Cooperation Culture through the Labor-Management Partnership Program | maternity leave after childbirth was extended from 90 to 120 days for women with multifetal pregnancy. The Relationships of the labor and the management, and of prime and subcontractors inevitably confront conflicts and confrontations by their nature instead of mutual conumber of working hours on weekdays was shrunk from 15 to 30 hours a week during pregnancy and childoperation. At KOGAS, the labor and the management established a relationship of win-win benefits and cooperation beyond mistrust. To this end, they executed diverse care to guarantee a work-life balance as much as possible. Upon returning to work after using the childcare labor-management partnership tasks along with outside prime and subcontractors through their cooperation. In the first-stage leave, their preference for job positions is fully embraced so that their existing job career can continue. We program formed in 2014, we carried out eight programs, aiming for establishing partnerships of the ‘gas family’. Both parties boost female employees’ job satisfaction and immersion by managing nursing rooms and in-house childcare participated in the programs including the Hanmaeum (One Heart) Festival, culture trips with employees’ families, Win-Win centers in five sites and guaranteeing lactation hours during work. Workshop, and specialized training. In 2015, under a goal for symbiotic development with suppliers as well as among the labor and the management, both parties and primary and secondary suppliers participated to manage 11 programs of harmony and Operation of Family-Friendly Programs win-win benefits. They also generated management performance including five cases of new technological development and Selected as an Excellent application, cost reduction and no accidents. In 2016, KOGAS will contribute to strengthening the national competitiveness Institution with the We run family-friendly programs to raise job satisfaction levels among employees by ensuring a work-life by improving unreasonable labor-management practices and innovating workplaces that imbue hopes, while spreading the Work-Life Balance System balance. Every Wednesday is set as ‘Day of Family Love’ to encourage employees to leave work on time to cooperative labor-management relationship through more bilateral partnership programs. (Prize of Minister of spend quality time with their family. Upon applying for a leave of absence due to family’s illness or house Employment and Labor) choirs, they can use family care leave for maximum one year. Performance Summary Prizes and Awards/Memberships Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Sustainability Initiative Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 63 Performance Summary Economic Major Economic Performance (consolidated financial sheets) Performance Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Revenues KRW 100 million 380,627 372,848 260,527 Operating income KRW 100 million 14,882 10,719 10,078 Net income (loss) KRW 100 million -2,036 4,472 3,192 APPENDIX Major Financial Indicators (consolidated financial sheets) Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Growth Increase rate in revenues % 8.7 -2.0 -30.1 potentials Increase rate in net income % -156.3 Conversion into a surplus -28.6 Profitability Return on Assets (ROA) % -0.48 0.99 0.72 Performance Summary Return on Equity (ROE) % -2.35 4.79 3.23 Stability Current ratio % 146.78 139.84 174.81 Prizes and Awards/Memberships Debt ratio % 388.83 380.98 321.45 Capital ratio % 20.46 20.79 23.73 Third Party’s Assurance Statement Productivity Productivity of capital % 6.04 6.18 6.39 GRI Content Index Summary for Consolidated Financial Statement (consolidated financial sheets) Sustainability Initiative Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Subsidiaries and Invested Companies Assets Current assets KRW 100 million 122,394 137,913 100,146 Non-current assets KRW 100 million 314,269 329,807 323,707 Total assets KRW 100 million 436,663 467,720 423,853 Liabilities Current liabilities KRW 100 million 83,384 98,621 57,287 Non-current liabilities KRW 100 million 263,952 271,855 265,997 Total liabilities KRW 100 million 347,336 370,476 323,284 Shareholders’ Paid-in capital KRW 100 million 17,651 17,651 17,651 equity Others KRW 100 million 71,677 79,593 82,918 Equity attributable to shareholders of the corporation (subtotal) KRW 100 million 89,328 97,244 100,569 Non-controlling interests KRW 100 million 0.0031 0.0045 0.0015 Total shareholders’ equity KRW 100 million 89,328 97,244 100,569 Government Subsidies and Grants Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Government subsidies KRW 100 million 381 9 26 R&D Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 R&D investment expenses KRW 100 million 443 462 429 Technological patents (accumulated) Number of cases 263 294 307 Generation and Distribution of Economic Value Stakeholders Calculation Criteria Unit 2013 2014 2015 Suppliers Expenses for purchasing goods from SMEs KRW 100 million 5,550 5,306 3,569 Employees Employee wages and welfare benefits KRW 100 million 880 2,679 2,786 Government Corporate tax + Taxes & dues KRW 100 million 2,147 488 668 Community Donations and social contribution activity expenses KRW 100 million 145 264 207 Customers Revenues KRW 100 million 380,627 372,849 260,527 Creditors Interest KRW 100 million 8,375 8,430 7,764 64 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 Performance Summary Prizes and Awards/Memberships Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Sustainability Initiative Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 65 Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions Social Performance Status of Employees Performance Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Total GHG emissions tCO2e 682,427 592,506 502,988 Total employees Number of employees 3,386 3,483 3,497 Direct emissions tCO2e 329,511 246,750 150,711 Employment type Regular (Including executive director) Number of employees 3,347 3,453 3,460 Indirect emissions tCO2e 352,916 345,756 352,277 Non-regular Number of employees 39 30 37 Distribution of Below the 30s Number of employees 1,167 1,234 1,205 employees by age In the 40s Number of employees 1,615 1,626 1,603 bracket (Based on Amount of Energy Usage regular employees) Above the 50s Number of employees 565 593 652 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Women employees Women employees Number of employees (%) 336 (10.0) 346 (10.0) 350 (10.1) Total amount of energy usage TJ 13,782 11,760 10,189 Women managers Number of employees (%) 2 (0.06) 5 (0.14) 5 (0.14) Direct energies TJ 6,487 4,629 2,965 Distribution of The disabled Number of employees 93 100 108 personnel based on High school graduates Number of employees 546 558.5 547.5 Indirect energies TJ 7,295 7,131 7,224 social equity People of national merit Number of employees 302 318 331 Local talents Number of employees 1,568 1,616 1,640 Amount of Water Usage New recruits based The disabled Number of employees 12 10 15 on social-equity Women employees Number of employees 47 22 13 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 High school graduates Number of employees 59 41.5 29 Total amount of water usage m 3 1,634,824,872 1,577,284,392 1,480,171,339 People of national merit Number of employees 35 20 18 Seawater m3 1,634,242,230 1,576,806,104 1,479,689,777 Local talents Number of employees 133 82 65 Water service m3 569,183 469,210 476,115 Others m 3 13,459 9,078 5,447 ※ The data were calculated based on the All Public Information In-One. Performance in the BOD Operation Emission of Environmental Pollutants Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Number of times BOD meetings have been held Number of times 19 20 15 Sales volume of natural gases 1,000 tons 38,675 35,173 31,456 Agenda agreed upon Number of agenda 43 67 50 Air pollution NOx Amount of emissions kg 995,111 700,953 425,996 Pre-deliberation rate % 94 80 81 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 25.73 19.93 13.54 Revised agreed-upon agenda Number of agenda (%) 0 (0) 1 (1) 2 (4) SOx Amount of emissions kg 2,732 1,891 1,148 Reported agenda Number of agenda 33 27 28 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.071 0.054 0.036 BOD attendance rate % 95 90 80 Dust Amount of emissions kg 8,241 5,787 3,567 Attendance rate of non-executive directors % 94 88 79 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.213 0.165 0.113 Portion of speeches/motions delivered by non-executive directors % 65 57 55 Water pollution BOD Amount of emissions kg 207.9 72.3 104.0 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0054 0.0021 0.0033 Status of Training for Employees COD Amount of emissions kg 51 58.6 62.3 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0013 0.0017 0.0020 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 SS Amount of emissions kg 251.9 155.4 202.0 Investment expenses for education and training KRW million 8,658 8,726 9,371 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0065 0.0044 0.0064 Education hours per person Number of hours 128 116 135 Waste General tons 470 781 837 Education training expenses per person KRW 1,000 2,563 2,505 2,654 Designated tons 6,081 237 154 Construction tons 384,951 396,644 296,166 Employee Training on Human Rights Policies and Procedures Total Amount of emissions tons 391,502 397,662 297,145 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Basic unit tons/1,000 tons 10.10 11.31 9.45 Ethical training Number of employees 2,903 2,963 Cyber integrity training on the code of actions Number of employees 4,351 3,281 5,285 Amount of Hazardous Chemicals Used ※ Ethical training was implemented by integrating with online training on the code of conduct in 2015. Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Employees’ Performance Evaluation Sales volume of natural gases 1,000 tons 38,675 35,173 31,456 Amount of use kg 355,060 168,614 261,049 We have established a corporate culture focusing on performance and values by operating a fair performance Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 9.18 4.79 8.30 evaluation system. We have adopted specific evaluation standards ranging from setting goals for individuals and work units to the relevant evaluation in order to secure fairness and distinction in individual evaluation. We have complemented the institutions and processes to expand interactions between evaluators and the evaluated, thus raising evaluation acceptability among the evaluated, and reliability of the evaluation results. Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Rate of application of performance evaluation % 97.2 96.9 96.2 66 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 Performance Summary Prizes and Awards/Memberships Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Sustainability Initiative Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 67 Prizes and Awards/Memberships Employees’ Rate of Return to Work After a Childcare Leave Prizes and Awards Title Organized by Year Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Acquiring the highest rating (excellence) in the Customer Satisfaction Evaluation for Public Corporations Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2015 (nine consecutive years) Childcare applicants Number of employees 14 21 23 Selected as an excellent institution in security equipment for national major facilities – The Tongyeong Men employees applying for a childcare leave Number of employees 2 4 2 National Intelligence Service 2015 Terminal Division Post-childcare leave return rate % 88.2 86.7 100.0 Korea’s Environment and Energy Award – The Chungcheong Regional Division Ministry of Environment 2015 Group commendation of the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy in energy saving and efficiency Ministry of Trade, Industry and 2015 improvement – Gyeonggi Regional Division Energy Employees’ Retirement Management Commendation of Company of Merit in Sharing in 2015 (Gyeonggi Provincial Governor) – Gyeonggi Gyeonggi Provincial Government 2015 Regional Division We support employees and their families to prepare for a stable post-retirement life by operating the retirement Korea’s National Sharing Grand Award (Minister of Health and Welfare) – The Jeongbuk Regional Ministry of Health and Welfare 2015 Division pensions scheme. By offering both defined benefit (DB) plans and defined contribution (DC) plans, we give op2015 Environment and Energy Award – The Chungcheong Regional Division Ministry of Environment 2015 portunities to employees to select a plan based on their preference. Excellent Institution for Integrated Defense for National Major Facilities (Primer Ministerial Prize) – The Ministry of National Defense 2015 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Incheon Terminal Division Amount of assets under management KRW 100 million 1,251 1,241 1,664 Excellent Institution in Joint Evaluation for Disaster Management in the National System Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2015 Number of subscribers Number of employees 3,181 3,486 3,518 2014 Technological Development and Cooperation Award (Small and Medium Business Administration’s Small and Medium Business 2014 Director Prize) Administration Award for a Company of Merit in Social Welfare (Gyeonggi Provincial Governor) – The Gyeonggi Gyeonggi Provincial Government 2014 Regional Division Status of the Labor Union Subscription First ranking in the Most Respected Companies in Korea for seven consecutive times in the energy sector Korea Management Association 2014 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Platinum Prize in the 2012/13 VISION AWARDS annual report LACP 2014 Number of labor unionists Number of employees 2,867 3,012 3,017 Incorporation into DJSI Asia-Pacific Korea Productivity Center 2013 Labor union subscription rate % 88 88 86 Excellent Facilities with Fire Protection (National Emergency Management Agency’s Director Prize) – The National Emergency Management 2013 Tongyeong Terminal Division Agency Selected as the Excellent Safety Management Company in Korea’s Safety Award (Prime Ministerial National Emergency Management 2013 Status of Suppliers Award) – The Pyeongtaek Terminal Division Agency Grand Prize in Eco-friendly Construction in the 2014 Korea’s Green Management Award – The SamMinistry of Trade, Industry and 2013 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 cheok Terminal Division Energy, Ministry of Environment Number of major partner companies Number of companies 65 72 82 New Industry Management Grand Prize in Korea Ethical Management Grandprix in the public corporation category 2013 Academy Ministry of Trade, Industry and Commendation of an Excellent Institution in Disaster Safety Management 2013 Energy, Ministry of Environment Procurement Contracts with SMEs Presidential Commendation for the Merit of Archive Management National Archives & Records Services 2013 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Selected as the Excellent Institution in Safety Management of Cultural Heritage Cultural Heritage Administration 2013 Purchases of SME products KRW 100 million 5,550 5,306 3,569 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Prize in the National Territory Traffic Award (Ministerial Prize) 2013 Transport Ratio of purchases of SME products % 27.2 27.3 26.7 Acquisition of the ISO 50001 Certification for the first time in the gas supply sector Korean Standards Association 2013 Incorporation into the Company of Highest Excellence in DJSI KOREA in the gas category (for four Korea Productivity Center 2013 consecutive years) Support for SMEs’ Competitiveness First ranking in the Most Respected Companies in Korea in the energy sector (for five consecutive years) Korea Management Association 2013 Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Acquisition of an excellent rating in the Integrity Evaluation 2013 Joint R&D Number of cases Cases 25 27 27 Commission Participating companies Number of companies 25 27 27 R&D budget KRW 100 million 29.5 26.8 22.2 Customer Satisfaction Association Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Membership UN Universal Institute for Global IUCN Declaration of UN Global Compact Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Grade (points) A (98.0) A (97.2) A (93.7) Economics Human Right Social Contribution Activities Type Unit 2013 2014 2015 Energy & Mineral Total volunteering hours Number of times 52,558 45,878 74,593 Green Company Korea Environmental Ethical Management Resources Development Volunteering hours per person Number of times 16.1 13.3 21.2 Council Preservation Association SM Forum Association of Korea Discounts for gas fees KRW 100 million 482 685 735 68 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 Performance Summary Prizes and Awards/Memberships Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Sustainability Initiative Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 69 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of Korea Gas Corporation Sustainability Report 2016: Our Conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KOGAS on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. Foreword When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are Korea Management Association Registration Inc. (hereinafter “KMAR”) has been requested by of Korea Gas Corporation (hereinafter “KOGAS”) not presented appropriately. to verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2016 (hereinafter “the Report”). KOGAS is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMAR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance •Inclusivity: Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. scope stipulated below. KOGAS is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder KOGAS left out during this procedure. Scope and Standard •Materiality: Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an KOGAS describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMAR’s assurance team (hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of KOGAS is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI G4 indices as below, where professional judgment of the team process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. was exercised as materiality criteria. •Responsiveness: Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4 which covers the followings. through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. •Reporting Principles The assurance team could not find any evidence that KOGAS’ counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded •General Standard Disclosures in the Report. •Specific Standard Disclosures Generic DMA of each of following material aspects We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Economic Performance: EC1, EC3, EC4 Indirect Economic Impacts: EC7 Recommendation for Improvement Emissions: EN15, EN16, EN21 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. Effluents and Waste: EN23, EN24 Overall: EN31 •Developing a sustainability management strategy and goal management system: KOGAS disclosed the quantitative achievements of its sustainEmployment: LA1, LA3 ability management through this Report. To establish reliability on its actions to be taken against long-term strategies and goals, KMAR recomLabor/Management Relations: LA4 mends that KOGAS consider setting mid/longterm goals and report on their progress. Occupational Health and Safety: LA8 •Integrating report Scheme: KOGAS is highly evaluated concerned sustainability issues through integrating report scheme to board meeting. Local Communities: SO1 From now on, this effort can be possible to analyze the sustainability opportunities and risks and then it can be more efficient to integrate on Anti-corruption: SO4 KOGAS' core process. Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society: SO10 Product and Service Labeling: PR5 Our Independence This Report excludes a data and information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KOGAS, among report With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other KOGAS’ business operations that are aimed at boundaries. making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Our Approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: •Reviewed overall report •Reviewed materiality test process and methodology •Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets •Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities July, 5, 2016 •Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report CEOP Ki Ho Park 70 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 Performance Summary Prizes and Awards/Memberships Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Sustainability Initiative Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 71 GRI Content Index Indicators G4 Description Page External Assurance Indicators G4 Description Page External Assurance Strategy and Analysis Report Profile G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 2 ● 68-69 4-5 ● 68-69 relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2 ● 68-69 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4-5, 20-21 ● 68-69 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 2 ● 68-69 Organizational Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 2 ● 68-69 G4-3 Report the name of the organization 12 ● 68-69 G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 8-9, 12 ● 68-69 2 ● 68-69 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 12 ● 68-69 assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operaa. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. G4-6 12 ● 68-69 G4-33 b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance tions or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. provided. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 12 ● 68-69 68-69 ● 68-69 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and G4-8 8-9, 12 ● 68-69 report. beneficiaries). Governance G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: •Total number of employees Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responG4-34 16-17 ● 68-69 •Total number of operations sible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. 12-13 ● 68-69 •Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Ethics and Integrity •Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 18-19 ● 68-69 •Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by`and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. Aspects Indicators G4 Description Page External Assurance d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 58, 65 ● 68-69 Economic e. R  eport whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Economic DMA 26-27 ● 68-69 f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 63 ● 68-69 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 61 ● 68-69 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 66 ● 68-69 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 8-9 ● 68-69 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 63 ● 68-69 G4-13 Indirect Economic DMA 26-27 ● 68-69 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: •Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 28-31 ● 68-69 2 ● 68-69 •Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Environmental •Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Emissions DMA 42-43 ● 68-69 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 20-21 ● 68-69 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) 44-45 ● 68-69 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) 44-45 ● 68-69 G4-15 72-73 ● 68-69 which it endorses. G4-EN21 Nox, sox and other significant air emissions 47 ● 68-69 G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: 67 ● 68-69 Effluents and Waste DMA 42-43 ● 68-69 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 47, 64 ● 68-69 G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the 12-13, 74 ● 68-69 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 47 ● 68-69 report. DMA 42-43 ● 68-69 Overall G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 46 ● 68-69 23 ● 68-69 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Social G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 23 ● 68-69 Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Employment DMA 56-57 ● 68-69 •Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization •If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 58 ● 68-69 report either: 23 ● 68-69 a.The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 60 ● 68-69 b.The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material DMA 56-57 ● 68-69 Labor-Management •Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization Relationships G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 61 ● 68-69 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: •Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization Industrial Safety DMA 42-43 ● 68-69 •If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In 23 ● 68-69 and Health G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 49 ● 68-69 addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified •Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Society DMA 50-51 ● 68-69 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 2, 45 ● 68-69 Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 2 ● 68-69 G4-SO1 52-55 ● 68-69 programs Stakeholder Engagement Anti-corruption DMA 18-19 ● 68-69 G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 22 ● 68-69 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 18-19 ● 68-69 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 22 ● 68-69 Evaluation of the DMA 34-35 ● 68-69 Impact of Suppliers on the Society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 38-41 ● 68-69 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 22 ● 68-69 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Product Responsibility Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key Product and Service DMA 34-35 ● 68-69 G4-27 22 ● 68-69 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 36 ● 68-69 72 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 Performance Summary Prizes and Awards/Memberships Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Sustainability Initiative Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 73 Sustainability Initiative ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is an international guidance that standardizes social responsibilities formulated and announced by the Signatory to and Since 2007, KOGAS has joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which is an international agreement that stipuInternational Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November 2011. It encompasses many existing guidelines lates the social responsibilities of global enterprises. We declared that we will sincerely implement the ten princion management integration as well as seven core subjects which span from ‘organizational governance’, ‘human Commitment to ples in four areas as human, rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. rights’, ‘labor practice’, ‘environment’, ‘fair management practice’, and ‘consumer issue’, to ‘local community enSupport the UNGC gagement and development’. We comply with ISO 26000 and continuously manage our implementation records. Matching Provision Principle Core Subjects Issues Page in ISO 26000 Organizational Governance Decision-making process and structure 6.2.3 16-17 Principle 1 Businesses  should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Due diligence 6.3.3 human rights; and Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Human Rights Grievance resolution 6.3.6 Human Rights 56-60 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Principle 3 B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Civil and political rights 6.3.8 of the right to collective bargaining; Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Fundamental principles and rights at work. 6.3.10 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Labor 48-49, Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Labor Practice Social dialogue 6.4.5 61 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 Environment 42-47 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 Protection of the environment, biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats 6.5.6 Anti–corruption 6.6.3 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 Environment Fair Management 18-19, Fair competition 6.6.5 Practice 38-41 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Respect for property rights. 6.6.7 Fair marketing, factual, and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Principle 10 B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Protection of consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 bribery Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Anti-Corruption Consumer Issue Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.6 34-41 Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 Access to essential services 6.7.8 Education and awareness 6.7.9 Active community involvement 6.8.3 Education and culture 6.8.4 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Local Community Engagement and Technology development and access 6.8.6 50-55 Development Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Health 6.8.8 Social investment 6.8.9 74 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2016 Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 1. Subsidiaries Type Company Name 1 Korea Gas Technology Corporation Co., Ltd. 2 KOGAMEX Investment Manzanillo B.V. 3 KOMEX-GAS, S. de R.L. de C.V. 4 KOGAS Iraq B.V. 5 KOGAS Badra B.V. 6 KOGAS Akkas B.V. 7 KOGAS Mansuriya B.V. 8 KOGAS Canada Ltd. 9 KOGAS Canada LNG Ltd. 10 KOGAS Australia Pty. Ltd. 11 KOGAS Prelude Pty. Ltd. 12 KG Timor Leste Ltd. 13 KG Krueng Mane Ltd. 14 KG Mozambique Ltd. 15 KOGAS Mozambique, Lda 16 KOGAS Cyprus Ltd. 17 KC LNG Tech Co., Ltd. 2. Affiliate Type Company Name 1 Korea Ras Laffan LNG Ltd. 2 Korea LNG Ltd. 3 Hyundai Yemen LNG Company 4 Korea LNG Trading Co., Ltd. 5 Kor-Uz Gas Chemical Investment Ltd. 6 South-East Asia Gas PipelineCompany Limited 7 Sulawesi LNG Development Limited 8 TOMORI E&P Limited 9 AMEC Partners Korea LTD 3. Joint Ventures Type Company Name 1 Kor-Uz Cylinder Investment Co., Ltd. 2 Korea-Uz CNG Investment Co., Ltd. 3 TERMINAL KMS de GNL, S. De R.L.De C.V. 4 GLNG Operations Pty. Ltd. 5 GLNG Property Pty. Ltd. 6 CORDOVA GAS RESOURCES LTD. 7 ENH KOGAS, SA. 8 LNG Canada Development Inc. The paper was used which was certified by FSC™(Forest Stewardship Council Ⓡ) attached to products where wood produced from eco-friendlily developed and managed forests, and the printing 9 Manzanillo Gas Tech, S. de R.L. deC.V. was conducted by a company certified with the FSC™ Chain of Custody certification (License number: C005448). www.kogas.or.kr
