Our Responsibility. Report 2015 SECURING THE FUTURE. Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Content CONTENT In conversation with Peter Terium 01 CR strategy and management 23 About this Report 89 Report profile 89 Our Company 03 Compliance and risk management 26 Assurance Report 91 GRI G4 Content Index Summary 94 Important sustainability indicators 04 Stakeholder dialogue 29 UN Global Compact Progress Report 2015 97 Our value chain 05 Materiality Analysis 35 Explanations of the indicators 99 Developments in our regions 12 Overview of our ten areas for action Contact and imprint 101 Our regions  14 and our CR objectives 39 Germany  15 Climate Protection 41 United Kingdom  17 Energy Efficiency 47 Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg 19 Environmental Protection and Central Eastern and South-eastern Europe Biodiversity50 and Turkey  21 Community Engagement 54 Western and Southern Europe  22 Market and Customers 59 Other countries  22 Employees65 Supply Chain 69 Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management 75 Security of Supply 79 Innovation83 GRI General and Specific Standard Disclosures according to GRI G4 Other details are on the Internet Details have been audited externally 01 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 In conversation with Peter Terium  Content IN CONVERSATION WITH PETER TERIUM Chief Executive Officer of RWE AG Mr Terium, in December 2015 you announced a strategic realignment Is it the case that in future there will be a sustainable and a of the RWE Group. What exactly are you intending to do? non-sustainable RWE? TERIUM: We are bundling renewable energies, grids and distribution TERIUM: That would be too simple. In future, both of these compain a new company and taking it to the stock exchange. This will give nies will be needed to provide a sustainable energy supply. Convenus a platform for growth with direct access to the capital market. We tional power plants will continue to be indispensable for security of are planning to increase the capital for the new company by the end supply. They have to generate electricity when renewable energies of 2016 through the issue of new shares by around 10%. The new are not available. Both parts of RWE are also an important factor for money is going to finance further growth in future markets. RWE AG the regional economy as an employer and purchaser. We take social will remain a majority shareholder in the new company over the long responsibility at our locations. All RWE companies remain committed term and also concentrate on conventional electricity generation and to our conceptual understanding of sustainability as it is defined in energy trading. the principles of the UN Global Compact. You have repeatedly highlighted the fact that RWE is not splitting up, Aren’t there nevertheless different issues in the individual but that everything will be happening under a single Group roof. companies? Does this mean that it will be business as usual and nothing is going TERIUM: Yes, there are differences. Let’s take climate protection. The Peter Terium, CEO of RWE AG to change – apart from the fact that new money is flowing into the reduction of CO2 emissions from our own power plants remains the coffers? most important function if we are to become more sustainable. This TERIUM: No, things are certainly not going to continue as before – is no longer an issue for the new company – ultimately we generate irrespective of the structure we move into the future with. Our busielectricity there primarily from wind energy and hydropower. This ness framework alone is much too dynamic for this. Both of our leads to other issues. How do we also ensure that our customers and Group segments can now approach their future challenges even our suppliers alike improve their individual CO2 footprint too? What more strategically. Developing and selling digital products, tailoring incentives can we apply and which innovative solutions are we able distribution grids to match the energy transition and designing to offer for this? energy concepts for growing metropolises – this is rather different from operating conventional large-scale power plants and trading in raw materials. „RWE is one of the most important players in the energy transition“ 02 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 In conversation with Peter Terium  Content What solutions are you thinking of there? For many years, the focus of RWE was almost exclusively on Europe. TERIUM: One example: We are currently testing a prototype for a In the meantime, your employees are now also working in other product called Consenze. This stands for Connected Sensors. Conregions – for example in the Arabian Peninsula. Will RWE be seeking senze empowers all the production companies to identify the elecits fortune in new markets? tricity consumption of different plants quickly and to make processes TERIUM: Western and Central Europe remains our core area. However, more efficient. This is achieved by an array of small sensors providing we are also looking at other countries and regions, such as Turkey, data from the operating sites. In future, Consenze will even control the Middle East and North Africa, the so-called MENAT region. We the energy consumption of machines and heating systems fully autohave ambitious targets there for restructuring the energy supply. Our matically. This saves money and effort at our industrial and commerknow-how is in demand in these markets – for the expansion of cial customers, as well as helping the climate. renewable energies and for the management of energy systems. The countries at the Paris Climate Summit in December 2015 set How are you going to convince customers in these regions to work ambitious targets. How does the climate footprint at RWE look for together with RWE? the past year? TERIUM: When we constructed Gwynt y Môr we proved that we have TERIUM: We are satisfied. All the important indicators in our climate the capability to roll out major projects. Building the wind farm took footprint are pointing in the right direction. In 2015, we produced up more than nine million working hours – half of this time was spent more electricity than in 2014. However, we also reduced our CO2 on the water, sometimes under extremely adverse weather condiemissions at the same time – both for per generated unit of electrictions. ity and in absolute terms. We have carried out a number of measures in order to achieve this – e.g. with the construction of the two new Is good project management enough of a reason for doing business? offshore wind farms Nordsee Ost and Gwynt y Môr. TERIUM: Gwynt y Môr is not just a symbol of good management. The project has also demonstrated that we have harnessed the complex technologies necessary for the energy system of the future. RWE is one of the most important players in the energy transition. We are The interview was conducted by developing a new infrastructure for grids, storage facilities and conDr Matthias Kussin and Franziska Klapper, trol technologies in order to systematically convert an industrial RWE Corporate Responsibility country to renewable energies. 03 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our Company  Content OUR COMPANY RWE is one of the biggest electricity and gas utilities in Europe. We supply more than 16.4 million customers with electricity and another 7 million with gas. Around 59,700 employees work at all levels of the supply chain to ensure that all our customers are satisfied. Alongside electricity and gas, we also supply our customers with products like energy advice, photovoltaic systems (PV), storage facilities, electromobility solutions and house automation technology. In Europe, we are ranked by retail business in second place for elecAt the end of 2015, RWE had power plant capacities totalling tricity and in sixth place for gas. In Germany, the Netherlands and 48,052 megawatts (MW). Out of this 32% were attributable to gas the United Kingdom, we are positioned among the biggest electricity (2014: 32%), 23% to lignite (2014: 23%), 22% to hard coal (2014: and gas utilities. In the Czech Republic, we occupy the first place in 21%), 8% to nuclear energy (2014: 8%) and 9% to renewable enerthe gas business and we also have leading positions in other markets gies (2014: 8%). This includes 4,373 MW of capacity generated by located in Central Europe. We have electricity and gas distribution contracted power stations owned by other companies. We are able grids with a total length of around 505,000 km in Germany, the to access these capacities freely through long-term contracts. Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. RWE is also working on innovative solutions in the area of grids and the company is carryRWE covers the entire energy value chain. We are involved in the proing out research into new technologies. duction of lignite, the generation of electricity from gas, lignite and hard coal, nuclear energy and renewable sources, energy-trading operations, distribution and supply of electricity and gas, as well as Overview of the key performance indicators for the company in 2015: operating in the supply of energy-related services. As an international group, we have a workforce of full-time employees in 21 countries. In the business year 2015, we generated revenue of around € 48.6 59,762 0.71 9% 2.2 € 48.6 billion. billion external Employees metric tons (mt) of share of renewable LTIF1 occupational revenues CO2 per MWh of energies in power plant accidents electricity capacity 1 Number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per 1 million worked hours (Lost Time Incident Frequency) incl. reports known to us from partner companies (subcontractors). 04 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Important sustainability indicators  Content IMPORTANT SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS 1 Figures for 2013 adjusted due to the first-time 2015 2014 20131 2012 2011 application of IFRS 11. Environment 2 Since 2015 including power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion NOx emissions2 g/kWh 0.54 0.60 0.68 0.69 0.60 on the basis of long-term agreements. SO2 emissions2 g/kWh 0.25 0.33 0.37 0.40 0.31 3 Difference between power plant water withParticulate emissions 2 g/kWh 0,017 0.020 0.022 0.025 0.021 drawals and returns to rivers and other surface water; excluding power plants with sea Ash2 thousand mt 8,495 8,115 8,308 8,710 7,843 water cooling. Gypsum 2 thousand mt 2,172 2,200 2,192 2,200 2,148 4 Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (oil and gas production, gas transmisPrimary energy consumption2 billion kWh 407.4 393.4 409.6 435.7 390.6 sion and electricity generation). Water consumption2, 3 m3/MWh 1.40 1.46 1.45 1.56 1.62 5 Including power plants not owned by RWE CO2 emissions Scope 14, 5 million mt 152.3 156.6 165.8 181.7 163.8 that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. CO2 emissions Scope 26 million mt 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.9 2.4 6 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the CO2 emissions Scope 37 million mt 93.9 90.8 105.0 105.2 121.0 transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties. Specific CO2 emissions mt/MWh 0.708 0.745 0.751 0.792 0.787 7 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not Capital expenditure of the Renewables Division € million 418 738 1,086 1,093 891 fall under scope 1 and scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured Share of the Group’s electricity generation accounted for by renewables % 5.3 4.8 6.3 5.5 4.3 from third parties, the transmission and disR&D costs € million 101 110 151 150 146 tribution of electricity in third-party networks, Society the production of used combustion fuels, as well as the consumption of gas sold to cusEmployees8 59,762 59,784 64,896 70,208 72,068 tomers. Fluctuation rate % 11.2 14.2 11.5 10.8 10.1 8 Converted to full-time positions. 9 Lost Time Incident Frequency (sum of all acciTraining days per employee (Germany) 3.8 3.9 4.2 4.5 4.6 dents resulting in at least one day of absence Health ratio % 95.1 95.4 95.4 95.5 95.8 for every 1 million hours worked). Figures for Lost-time incident frequency LTIF9 2.2 2.3 2.3 2.8 2.8 2012 incl. reports known to us from thirdparty companies (subcontractors). Fatal work-related accidents10 4 5 1 4 3 10 Including employees of partner companies Corporate governance (subcontractors). 11 In 2015, encompasses the top four manageShare of women in the company % 26.8 26.6 27.7 27.5 27.1 ment levels. Share of women in executive positions 11 % 15.2 14.3 13.9 12.3 11.3 12 Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by Share of the RWE Group’s revenue earned in countries with a high % 10.5 10.0 13.0 13.7 12.4 the anti-corruption organisation Transparency or a very high risk of corruption12 International (TI), with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. 05 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our value chain  Content OUR VALUE CHAIN RWE is an integrated energy supplier and operates at all stages of the value chain. At the moment, we are adapting our business model to the changes in the sector. This is because the energy industry in Europe is undergoing a fundamental change. We are increasingly focusing on initiatives for local energy supply, seeking out partnerships with municipal utilities and other investors, and we want to drive the energy transition forward together with local residents in the community. We are achieving these goals by offering our customers products and services on the basis of innovative technologies. This is also reflected in the structure of our value chain. We have allocated our CR areas for action to the stages of the value chain and highlighted the relevant challenges. These vary according to the different stages of the value chain. Furthermore, the representation includes an allocation of the key aspects in accordance with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (p. 24). The GRI Guidelines are the leading standard in sustainability reporting and they have been implemented by RWE since 2001. Within this framework, we also state whether the opportunities for exerting influence to overcome the key challenges confronting us are inside or outside the RWE Group. GRI G4-18; G4-23 06 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our value chain  Content Our value chain Extraction of lignite and provision and supply of biomass Activities: KPIs 2015: RWE extracts lignite in its own opencast mines, and produces wood pellets and other biomass fuels 5 opencast lignite mines (10,823 hectares) 22,950 hectares of recultivated land at opencast 104 million mt of lignite products at our opencast mines in the Rhineland lignite mining area mines in the Rhineland lignite mining area and in 699,719 t mt of wood pellets manufactured at the Hungary Waycross pellet plant (USA) Challenges and key impact opportunity Area for action Challenges Material GRI aspects Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Environmental Protection and --Sustainable recultivation of mining areas --Water Biodiversity --Safeguarding the water resources in the region --Biodiversity --Structuring environmental mitigation measures --Effluents and waste --Minimising particulate and noise emissions --Compliance (environment) --Overall (environment) --Environmental grievance mechanisms Supply Chain --Sustainable production of wood pellets and other biomass fuels Procurement practices Community Engagement --Resettlement of residents under social and ethical conditions --Indirect economic impacts --Acceptance in the population --Local communities --Public policy --Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Occupational Safety and --Guaranteeing the health and work ability of our employees and the employees --Occupational health and safety Healthcare Management of our subcontractors Security of Supply --Quality and appropriate quantities supplied to power plants --Availability and reliability --Maintenance of infrastructure for coal extraction from approved mines --Demand-side managemen GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 07 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our value chain  Content Supply and trading Activities: KPIs 2015: RWE supplies and trades in commodities including coal, natural gas, biomass, electricity 1,448 TWh of electricity 864 million mt of hard coal 557 million CO2 certificates and CO2 certificates 648 billion m3 of gas 1,258 million barrels of oil Challenges and key impact opportunity Area for action Challenges Material GRI aspects Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Supply Chain --Human rights, social standards, and environmental protection in the producing --Procurement practices countries --Supplier environmental assessment --Sustainable cultivation of biomass in the supply countries --Supplier assessment for labour practices --Supplier human rights assessment --Supplier assessment for impacts on society GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 08 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our value chain  Content Power and heat generation Activities: KPIs 2015: RWE constructs and operates fossil-fired power stations, in the field of renewable energies principally 77.8 TWh of lignite 42.6 TWh of gas 11.4 TWh of renewable energies wind farms as well as hydropower plants, and biomass power stations. Other activities of the Group 46.5 TWh of hard coal 31.7 TWh of nuclear energy 3 TWh of pumped storage, oil, include operation and decommissioning of our nuclear power stations. miscellaneous Challenges and key impact opportunity Area for action Challenges Material GRI aspects Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Climate Protection --Reduction in CO2 emissions --Plant decommissioning --Making the power plant portfolio more flexible in order to adjust to the volatile --Efficiency of the power plant portfolio and the distribution feed-in of renewable energies --Emissions --Connection to offshore wind farms --Products and services Energy Efficiency --Increase in the efficiency of energy use in the power plants Efficiency of the power Energy plant portfolio Environmental Protection --Limiting the emissions of pollutants --Preparation and safe implementation of --Water and Biodiversity --Treatment and minimisation of the decommissioning concepts --Biodiversity (cooling) water used --Sustainable freshwater management --Effluents and waste --Use of pumped water for heat supply --Noise abatement during the construc--Compliance (environment) --Reduction of particulate and noise tion of offshore wind farms --Overall (environment) emissions --Compliance with national and --Environmental grievance --Safe operation of nuclear power stations international requirements for the mechanisms --Disposal of radioactive waste sustainability of the biomass used Community Engagement --Acceptance for construction measures --Indirect economic impacts --Grievance mechanisms for --Acceptance for plant operation --Local communities impacts on society --Public policy Occupational Safety and --Safeguarding the health and work ability of our employees and the employees Occupational health and Healthcare Management of our partner companies (subcontractors) safety Security of Supply --Guaranteeing security of supply Availability and reliability Demand-side management --Contribution to system stability --Access Innovation Development of climate-friendly and efficient technologies, projects and concepts --Research and development GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 09 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our value chain  Content Distribution of electricity and gas Activities: KPIs 2015: RWE expands, operates and maintains distribution grids for electricity and gas. 393,000 km of distributions grids for electricity 315,000 of generating plants for renewable energies 112,000 km of distribution grids for gas connected to our German grids Challenges and key impact opportunity Area for action Challenges Material GRI aspects Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Environmental Protection Reduction of impacts on local ecosystems --Water and Biodiversity --Biodiversity --Effluents and waste --Compliance (environment) --Overall (environment) --Environmental grievance mechanisms Occupational Safety and Safeguarding the health and work ability of our employees and the employees of --Occupational health and safety Healthcare Management our partner companies (subcontractors) Security of Supply Concepts for flexible load distribution for feed-in of renewable energies --Availability and reliability --Expansion of suitable storage facilities --Demand-side management --Uninterrupted supply with electricity --Access --Acceptance of grid expansion --Uninterrupted supply with gas Innovation --Integration of renewable energies, innovative and technical solutions for avoiding Research and development unnecessary grid expansion GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 10 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our value chain  Content Retail business and use of electricity and gas Activities: KPIs 2015: RWE supplies electricity and gas to residential, business and industrial customers, and to distributors such 16.42 million electricity customers 262.1 TWh of external retail business for electricity as municipal utilities. RWE also offers its customers a broad range of innovative products and services, 7.02 million gas customers 296.7 TWh of external retail business for gas such as energy consulting, electromobility and intelligent house control. Challenges and key impact opportunity Area for action Challenges Material GRI aspects Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Climate Protection --Measures and packages for climate protection at our customers --Emissions --Products and services Market and Customers --Competitive, individualised and flexible packages --Demand-side management --Support for customers in energy savings --Products and services --Product and service labelling --Customer privacy Innovation --Development of technologies, products and ser-vices for controlling the generation, --Research and development consumption and storage of energy at the customer GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 11 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Our value chain  Content Our employees Activities: KPIs 2015: RWE takes responsibility for its employees and offers them support for their personal and career 59,762 employees1 26.8% proportion of 2,339 apprentices 2,381 severely disabled development alongside ethical treatment and fair remuneration. women in the company employees in Germany Challenges and key impact opportunity Area for action Challenges Material GRI aspects Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Employees --Maintaining and promoting the motivation and work ability of our employees --Employment --Restructuring measures at social and ethical conditions --Labour/Management relations --Promotion of diversity and inclusion in the company --Training and education --Diversity and equal opportunity --Equal remuneration for women and men Other material GRI aspects (across value added stages): --Economic performance --Labour practices Grievance mechanisms --Humans rights Grievance mechanisms --Anti-corruption --Anti-competitive behaviour --Compliance (society) --Disaster/Emergency planning and response 1 Calculated in Full Time Equivalents (FTE) GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 12 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions  Content DEVELOPMENTS IN OUR REGIONS Our market environment and the demands of the community are changing with the transition of the energy systems in Europe. We are meeting the diverse challenges faced by the RWE group at all levels of the value chain and in all the regions where we are operating. Europe’s energy industry in transition These factors and the ongoing reduction of prices in the electricity Climate-friendly, decentralised and digital: These are the current wholesale market are therefore cutting down the revenues derived trends in the energy economy. They have arisen particularly as a from our conventional power plants, especially in Continental Europe. result of the expansion of renewable energies and the trends are Many plants, in particular gas-fired power plants, are no longer able associated with increasing challenges for integration in the grid. to cover their operating costs. Paradoxically, their use is popular with These changes are modifying the way energy markets operate – a large number of stakeholders because they are regarded as flexible with major impacts on our business success. and by comparison with coal-fired power stations emit less CO2 per unit of electricity generated. Alongside energy generated in a cliAs a result, the operating result of RWE Innogy, the subsidiary mate-friendly way, customers in virtually all European countries focusing on renewable energies, more than doubled in 2015. expect more service quality and lower prices for electricity and gas. This has therefore consolidated the position of the company in A top priority for RWE is therefore on good value for money in existthe marketplace. ing brands and when new brands are introduced. In wholesale markets for electricity generation, regulatory instruCitizens, companies and energy cooperatives generate electricity ments like the feed-in priority for renewable energies and their themselves at decentralised plants, for their own use or to feed into remuneration through the system of subsidies increase demand. the public electricity grid. This opens up opportunities for new busiAs a result, electricity prices are falling in this market segment and ness models such as offers of package solutions for photovoltaic also the associated utilisation of our conventional power plants. systems, which also include assembly and an insurance policy. 13 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions  Content These systems have already been prepared for connection to an At the same time, the motivator of innovations is also driving forward electricity storage device. We also offer solar power storage units for new conceptual and operational approaches with the organisation at controlling electricity generators’ own consumption of the energy RWE. In 2015, measures supporting the cultural change included the they have produced and energy cooperatives in which citizens themfollowing projects: selves can be directly involved in expansion of renewable energies. Digitisation helps to link up these and other local market players with QQ New Way of Working (NWoW): The name of the programme each other as efficiently as possible. As a consequence of the change represents a new mindset and approach to carrying out work. in market conditions, RWE is taking on an aggregator role as a marIn a difficult period the Group wants to strike out on the new keter of flexibilities. pathways into the future created by NWoW. This will change our entire working culture over the long term. So that we can continue to successfully maintain our position in the QQ Next Level Leadership (NLL): NLL is a programme for our top changed market environment, we have already taken a variety of managers. It is intended to empower them to successfully bring measures. These include comprehensive activities for reducing costs about the transformation of RWE. and a strategic realignment with a stronger focus on new business QQ Deliver Breakthrough Performance (DBP): We are carrying out the models so that we are in a position to offer our customers innovative DBP in order to implement group-wide projects and establish a solutions. RWE is continuing to expand the Innovation Hub estabuniform understanding of change and leadership. lished in 2014 to further development of these solutions (p. 84). 14 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | Our regions  Content Our regions RWE is an international Group which employs a total of 59,762 permanent employees in 21 countries. Germany Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg United Kingdom Customers 1 8,122 Customers 1 4,704 Customers1 5,205 Power plant capacities in MW Power plant capacities in MW Power plant capacities in MW Renewable energies 1,630 Renewable energies 355 Renewable energies 1,313 Conventional power plants 26,441 Conventional power plants 6,070 Conventional power plants 8,581 Employees2 35,170 Employees2 3,098 Employees2 9,220 Western and Southern Europe Central Eastern and South-eastern Customers1 – Europe and Turkey Power plant capacities in MW Customers1 5,406 Renewable energies 586 Power plant capacities in MW Conventional power plants – Renewable energies 261 Employees 2 74 Conventional power plants 1,634 Employees2 12,076 Overall Customers1 23,437 Power plant capacities in MW Renewable energies 4,146 Conventional power plants 43,906 Employees2 59,762 1 In thousands. 2 Employees in FTE. The total number incl. 9 FTE in Switzerland, 95 FTE in the USA and 20 FTE in Asia. 15 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | Germany  Content Germany Our biggest market is Germany. This is where we generate 57% of has an installed output of 295 MW and this ranks it among the bigour total sales amounting to € 26.3 billion (not including levies on gest wind farms of its kind. At the beginning of the autumn months natural gas/electricity). The historic roots of our company are also when there is plenty of wind, a production record of around 6,500 based in Germany. We manage the entire RWE Group from our Head MWh was achieved at this wind farm in one day. In the Rhineland ligOffice located in Essen. nite mining area, we also brought the Königshoven Heights wind farm on stream. This is a joint project between RWE Innogy and the Grids and retail business town of Bedburg, with total installed output of 67 MW. RWE also RWE is one of the biggest operators of distribution grids in Germany supports the development of future-proof technologies and provides and we operate electricity distribution grids with a total length of seed capital for innovative companies at the pump-priming stage or 331,000 km and gas distribution grids with a total length of around finance for them in the growth phase. 48,000 km. At the end of 2015, we were granted around 3,000 electricity grid and 800 gas grid concession agreements in Germany with Extraction and conventional generation of electricity a term of at least 15 to 20 years. Alongside the sale of electricity, gas RWE operates three large opencast mines in Germany for the producand heat, we are also active in the areas of energy efficiency and tion of lignite. We have four lignite-fired power stations with a total electromobility, as well as in the development and operation of generating capacity of 10,221 MW located very close to our lignite smart devices to measure and control energy consumption. Overall, mines at Neurath, Niederaußem, Weisweiler and Frimmersdorf. These we supply around 8.1 million customers in Germany with electricity include the lignite-fired power stations BoA1, and BoA 2 & 3 with and gas, in addition to other energy services. The regional compaoptimised plant technology, which are currently the most advanced nies enviaM, LEW, Süwag and VSE are part of the RWE Group and we lignite-fired units in the world. In Germany, we also have generating also have shareholdings in around 70 regional and local-authority capacity of 5,352 MW from hard coal and 4,411 MW from gas in our energy utilities. portfolio. At the end of 2015, we additionally had generating capacities of nuclear energy in Germany amounting to 3,908 MW. Following Renewable energies the exit from nuclear energy adopted by the German Government, In Germany, we are particularly strong in the area of renewable enerour last nuclear power station is scheduled to exit from the grid in gies. At the end of 2015, RWE in Germany was operating consoli2022. We are not involved in investment projects for nuclear energy. dated generating capacity of renewable energies amounting to We have a further generating capacity of 2,549 MW in the area of 1,630 MW, of which 621 MW is generated by hydropower, 921 MW is pumped-storage and other power-plant capacities. Overall, RWE in wind energy, and 31 MW is biomass. In May 2015, RWE officially Germany operates conventional power plants with a total capacity of opened the Nordsee Ost offshore wind farm off the German coast. It 26,441 MW. 16 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | Germany  Content Further stages in the energy transition Initially, they are to be used for security standby, but after this By 2020, CO2 emissions in Germany are projected to fall by 40% period has come to an end they will be shut down completely. compared with levels in 1990. The German Government has made This would reduce the production of electricity from lignite a commitment to this target. The reduction of electricity generaextracted in the Rhineland lignite mining region by 15%. While tion from lignite is intended to make a major contribution. In the power-plant units are kept in reserve, the operators will October 2015, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy receive remuneration. RWE welcomed this plan as a constructive submitted a plan detailing how older and less efficient lignitesolution for structuring the energy transition with socially ethical fired power stations should gradually be phased out from the conditions. The security standby replaced the climate protection grid. Eight power-plant units across Germany are affected with a levy rebate for older power plants that had previously been concombined output of 2,730 MW, including five units operated by sidered. The rebate was strongly criticised by companies and RWE in Frimmersdorf, Niederaußem and Neurath (p. 44). unions alike because of its impact on jobs in the region. 17 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | United Kingdom  Content United Kingdom The United Kingdom is an important market for us. RWE is one of all the households in Wales. The capital expenditure of € 2.8 billion the six biggest energy suppliers in the country and produces around has been split between RWE Innogy (50%), Stadtwerke München 10% of the electricity used there. In 2015, we generated sales of GmbH (30%), Siemens (10%) and UK Green Investment Bank (10%). € 10 billion in the UK with a total workforce of 9,220 employees. The construction phase for the onshore wind farms Goole Fields 2 Retail business with a planned capacity of 35 MW and Batsworthy Cross with a We are one of the leading suppliers of electricity and gas with around planned capacity of 18 MW started in 2015.We also started up oper5.2 million retail and business customers in the United Kingdom. ation with a hydropower plant at Black Rock, Scotland, with a capacWe also offer energy services. ity of 3.5 MW. Our retail company there – RWE npower – concluded 2015 with an Conventional electricity generation operating loss of € 137 million. Apart from market-related effects, In the United Kingdom, RWE operates hard-coal, and combined-cycle process and system problems in residential customer accounting gas turbine power stations, as well as efficient cogeneration power played a major role in this result. RWE accepted the consequences in plants, with a total capacity of 8,581 MW. Gas-fired power stations 2015 and appointed a new Board of Management for its British subform the biggest proportion. The Pembroke combined-cycle gas power sidiaries. A restructuring concept was also submitted and a lot of station is one of the most efficient power plants of its kind in Europe work was done on stabilisation of the IT infrastructure. Most of the with a net output of more than 2,200 MW. It also has the highest level process and system problems should have been eliminated by the of efficiency with more than 60%. end of 2016. In 2011, the government of the United Kingdom announced a plan Renewable energies to reform the electricity market. One element of this plan is the aucIn 2015, RWE in the United Kingdom concentrated on the expansion tion of electricity in the capacity market. It was introduced two years of renewable energies in onshore and offshore wind farms. Overall, ago and is intended to prevent potential power outages. Generators we operate 1,313 MW of generating capacity from renewable energies. guarantee the availability of certain capacities over a period of four years and receive financial compensation for this. In 2015, we brought on stream the second biggest offshore wind farm in the world, Gwynt y Môr wind farm located off the coast of In 2015, there was a change in energy policy. The United Kingdom GovNorth Wales with a total capacity of 576 MW, and it is now operating ernment announced proposals to build new gas-fired power stations at full capacity. This enables Gwynt y Môr to supply 400,000 houseand close existing hard-coal power stations. The consultation period for holds with electricity, and this amounts to approximately one third of these proposals is scheduled to start at the beginning of 2016. 18 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | United Kingdom  Content A new purchasing concept for energy In 2015, RWE concluded a partnership with a company from New Customers of Powershop can also decide whether they pay for Zealand, Meridian Energy, which presents an innovative concept their energy before or after consuming it, and they can change the for obtaining energy. way they pay at any time. They can also opt to get their energy from renewable sources. This partnership enables RWE to bring “Powershop” to the United Kingdom as the world’s first online shop for gas and electricity. The A comprehensive system test by the project team at Powershop shop concept is easily accessible and allows customers to purchase and RWE will be carried out in 2016. This is intended to ensure that energy in defined units known as Power Packs. This enables them the launch of the pack age runs smoothly and that customers have to purchase electricity precisely when energy prices are particularly good experiences with it. low. Long-term contractual conditions are no longer necessary. 19 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | Netherlands · Belgium · Luxembourg  Content Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg RWE is one of the leading energy utilities in the Netherlands and BelThe Thornton Bank offshore wind farm has a capacity of 325 MW and gium, with conventional and renewable electricity generation, as well is one of the biggest facilities of its kind in the Belgian section of the as electricity and gas supply. North Sea. RWE has a stake of around 27% in this offshore wind farm. Retail business At the end of 2015 RWE Innogy announced its intention join forces In the Netherlands, in Belgium and in Luxembourg we have about 4.7 with partners and take part in the tender for the Borssele offshore million electricity and gas customers. Since the start of 2015, our wind farm with a planned capacity of 700 MW. retail company there – Essent – has become the market leader and the largest utility in the Dutch Energy market. The biggest challenger Conventional energy generation in the market is our subsidiary Energiedirect.nl. More than one milIn the Netherlands and Belgium, RWE operates conventional power lion customers use our “green power” product. In Belgium, we have plants with a total generating capacity of 6,070 MW. At our coal-fired 350,000 customers and we are continuing to expand our energy power station in Geertruidenberg, the older Amer 8 unit was taken retail business there to offer our customers products and services out of the grid at the end of 2015. The Amer 9 power plant is alongside gas and electricity. equipped to fire up to 35% biomass. As a result of a technical fault, this amount of combined combustion was not fully utilised. FurtherRenewable energies more, the government support scheme for combined combustion RWE is one of the major investors in wind farms in the Netherlands came to an end in April 2015. We hope to restart cofiring biomass to and Belgium, and its portfolio includes onshore and offshore facilireplace hard coal in 2017. The new hard-coal power station in Eemties. At the end of 2015, we were operating wind turbines here with shaven with a total capacity of 1,554 MW started commercial operaa total capacity of 203 MW. In November 2015, the first 7.5 MW turtion in 2015. We also intend to use biomass for electricity generation bine of the Zuidwester (90 MW) wind farm was connected to the there as well if technical and commercial conditions permit. RWE also grid. From 2017, this wind farm is estimated to provide electricity for holds a minority shareholding of 30% in the Borssele nuclear power nominally 90,000 households. In the north of the Netherlands, the station in the Netherlands. government is currently examining various possible sites for new wind farms with the objective of minimising the impacts on local residents. The plan favoured by the government involves RWE building 15 wind turbines. 20 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | Netherlands · Belgium · Luxembourg  Content In Luxembourg, we operate the Vianden pumped-storage power Following the Paris Climate Conference in December (p. 42), the plant. This is one of the largest power generating facilities of its type Dutch Parliament adopted a motion to work out scenarios for exiting in Europe. The plant plays a key role in the stabilisation of Europe’s from coal-fired generation of electricity in the Netherlands. The govelectricity grids and in maintaining the balance between feed-in and ernment has made a commitment to the Parliament that it would consumption of electricity and it is connected to the German grid. reach a decision based on the results of a study about the future development of the Dutch energy market before the end of the current legislative period in March 2017. Retail channels in transition relating to the legislation governing this form of selling. After consultation with the Consumer Authority, Essent has now In the Netherlands, we are being challenged by increasing switch extended its two-week cooling-off period, when a new customer is and price competition, and a decreasing energy and gas usage as free to reverse their decision. This now includes all retail channels a result of increasing energy efficiency and decentralised generaand the intention is to avoid any confusion among customers. tion. In 2015, we successfully maintained our position in this competitive situation by increasing our retail channel footprint Our aim is to gradually make Essent a more efficient company and claiming the home domain of residential customers in a with the customer placed at the centre of all our activities. In strong business. Alongside energy and gas, we offer customers 2015, Essent Retail was awarded the Bronze Standard for our other products for digital control of household technology that internal so-called House in Order programme. increase their comfort and quality of life, as well as helping them to save energy at the same time. In Belgium, Essent plays an active role in the debate about energy policy conducted in the public domain. The company A successful retail channel was provided by the “shop-in-shop” actively looks to cooperate with the government and other parconcept in partnership with well-known retail stores. This concept ties with the objective of offering alternative solutions for energy involves customers receiving a gift voucher when they opt for an supplies in Belgium and constructing a new, sustainable model Essent energy contract. In 2015, issues were raised in the market for the energy market of the future. 21 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | Central Eastern Europe · South-eastern Europe · Turkey  Content Central Eastern and South-eastern Europe and Turkey RWE is also an active player in Central Eastern and South-eastern Romania and we supply customers there with electricity. Our focus is Europe, and Turkey with operations in the areas of retail business and directed towards small and mid-size companies, and industrial cusgrids. The Group also operates in conventional generation and renewatomers. Since the summer of 2015, RWE has been supplying comble energies. We have businesses in the Czech Republic, Hungary, mercial and residential customers in Slovenia with electricity. We Poland, Slovakia, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania, and Turkey. Overall, we were the first large European energy company to start operating in supply around 5.4 million customers there with energy and services. this country. Grids and retail business Renewable energies Retail business, distribution, decentralised energy generation and In Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland, we have a consolidated storage of gas are the focus of our business in the Czech Republic. generating capacity of renewable energies amounting to 261 MW. RWE operates a gas distribution grid there with a length of 63,875 km In Poland, we are continuing to expand these capacities. We have a and supplies 1.35 million customers with natural gas. We also sell total of eight wind farms there with an installed output of 242 MW. electricity in the Czech Republic and we supply around 300,000 cusIn Hungary, we opened a photovoltaic plant with an installed output tomers with power. In Hungary, RWE operates an electricity distribuof 16 MW next to the Mátra power plant. The plant can supply an tion grid with a length of 46,200 km and we supply around 2.1 milestimated 4,000 households with renewable energy. lion customers with electricity. The retail business of selling gas to business customers started up in 2015. We have an electricity distriConventional electricity generation bution grid in Poland with a total length of 15,998 km and we supply In our region of Central Eastern, and South-eastern Europe and around 934,000 customers with electricity. We also supply natural Turkey, we operate conventional power plants with a total capacity gas in Poland. We supply more than 125,000 customers in Slovakia of 1,634 MW. In Hungary, we operate the Mátra lignite-fired power with natural gas. We also operate an electricity grid 22,108 km in station in conjunction with two associated opencast lignite mines length and we are developing decentralised energy solutions in Cenencompassing an operating area of 1,283 hectares. In 2015, we tral and Eastern Slovakia. We are active in energy retail business in produced a total of 8.8 million mt of lignite. The power plant has a Croatia and we supply nearly 107,000 customers with electricity. This generating output of 780 MW and it was also fuelled using biomass. year also saw the gas retail business starting up in this country. Since In Turkey, RWE operates a modern, highly efficient gas-fired power 2014, RWE has been operating a nationwide retail organisation in station with an output of 775 MW. 22 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Developments in our regions | Western and Southern Europe · Other countries  Content Western and Southern Europe RWE is only active in the area of renewable energies in Spain, Italy, France and Portugal. It operates wind farms and hydropower plants in these countries. Furthermore, RWE has a stake in the Andasol solar thermal power plant in Spain. Overall, we have a total installed generating output of 513 MW for wind energy and 73 MW for hydropower in Spain, Italy, France and Portugal. Other countries We carry out activities outside Europe in the USA and the MENAT region (Near East, and North Africa). RWE also has trading locations in Mumbai, New York and Singapore. 23 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 CR strategy and management  Content CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT We pursue the objective of integrating sustainability in the core business of RWE through our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy. At an early stage, we defined ten areas for action with concrete goals and measurable key performance indicators (KPI), and these have been developed over the years. The realignment of the Group that has now been adopted and the rapid transformation of our sector means that we now also have to consider and modify our CR Strategy. Roadmap of our Corporate Responsibility Launch Structuring Implementation Role of CR driver (1998 – 2000) (2001 – 2005) (2006 – 2010) (2011 – 2015) Strategy Group Guideline on Group CR guidelines Review of CR areas for action Continuous updating of the Environmental Management CR areas for action CR strategy Embedding of CR in all business areas Coordination and Permanent staff of Introduction of occupational Key performance indicators CR targets as a constituent management environmental officers safety management system concept for CR element of the variable compensation payable to members of the Executive Board Introduction of Environmental Introduction of group-wide Group programme for Regular reporting on KPIs Reporting and Information System Code of Conduct implementation of CR (Key Performance Indicators) Reporting and 1st systematic environmental 1st CR Report Institutionalised stakeholder Industry leader in transparency dialogue report dialogue Inclusion in the Dow Jones Convention on the future of Corporate Volunteering – Sustainability Index sustainable development Programme 24 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 CR strategy and management  Content Ongoing development and transformation Since 2014, the RWE Stakeholder Council (p. 30) has been advising In our Roadmap 2020, we defined our goal of being the transparency the Executive Board of the Group on sustainability issues. Furtherleader in the sector by 2015. We achieved this goal with acknowlmore, representatives from the Group Centre and the major operatedged comprehensive reporting, controlling of our areas for action in ing companies come together at meetings held by the staff of CR accordance with measurable key performance indicators, and inteofficers several times a year. These meetings serve as forums for gration of CR aspects in the variable compensation for the members coordinating ideas and discussing joint activities. of the Executive Board. The goal for the upcoming years was defined as: Best in Class. Fundamentally, this goal is still driving us forward. Making CR successes quantifiable However, the radical structural changes in the energy industry and We consistently pursue the goal of making governance and its effecthe agreed realignment of the Group mean that we now have to tiveness quantifiable and controllable. Targets, measures and conredefine exactly what we mean by this, and how it can be measured crete key performance indicators underpin each of our ten areas for and controlled. Some of our previous ten areas for action will simply action. The annual review shows whether we are on the right track or be developed further, although we will additionally define comhighlights whether modifications need to be made and where these pletely new focuses for others in order to reflect the transformation are required. This review takes account of developments in the areas of our sector and the restructuring of our Group. for action, the strategy of the RWE Group and the expectations of our stakeholders (p. 35). Corporate Responsibility will continue to play a central role at RWE. The objective will be to deal with the changes taking place within We have also created long-term incentives for sustainable corporate our company and our lines of business, and to be a successful comgovernance by linking part of the variable compensation payable to mercial player with a sound community reputation in the energy Members of the Executive Board with the achievement of our CR world of tomorrow. The many years of experience in dialogue with goals. The assessment of the outcome is carried out by the Superviour stakeholders will assist us in this endeavour alongside the tested sory Board of the RWE Group. Relevant CR aspects are also channelled structures of our CR Management, which we have built up and develinto the individual balanced scorecards of the operating companies. oped continuously since 1998. Transparency with high standards Anchoring CR in the organisation Our reporting is based on the globally acknowledged guidelines of the The group-wide implementation and realisation of Corporate ResponGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI), the principles of the UN Global Comsibility is coordinated by the Group Corporate Responsibility/Environpact, and the demands of the financial market – the so-called ESG Model ment/Diversity Department within Group Corporate Affairs. The head (Environment, Social, Governance). This enables us to ensure that we of this department reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. comply comprehensively with the growing demands being placed on 25 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 CR strategy and management  Content the quality of our CR Management and our reporting. We have also we track all important developments on the issue of sustainability developed a Data Recording Manual with the aim of continuously and evaluate them for their relevance to the RWE Group. We engage improving the quality of our CR indicators. This manual sets out binding in dialogue with stakeholders at different levels – European, definitions, assessment limits and processes for collecting data. national, and regional – and they provide us with important information. However, we are also aware that broad sections of society Transparency with dialogue have a critical stance in relation to our company. A key target of our The community has expectations of openness, dialogue and particiCR Strategy in the process of realignment will therefore also be the pation, and RWE meets these expectations by going beyond the expansion of dialogue in order to generate understanding and scope of reporting. In collaboration with the operating companies, acceptance for our actions. GRI G4-27 26 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Compliance and risk management  Content COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Challenge and targets Compliance organisation Acting in accordance with the law and rules and procedures is an The Centre of Expertise Legal & Compliance based at RWE Group integral part of our corporate culture at RWE. Any breaches mean Business Services GmbH is responsible for directing our Compliance that the company can suffer major and serious reputational damage. Management system. The Group Centre continues to have overall RWE therefore bases all its activities and business decisions on estabresponsibility for governance. National Compliance Officers in all the lished rules for compliance and does not tolerate any corruption or operating companies are responsible for uniform implementation of other breaches of compliance regulations. Compliance requirements group-wide principles. In some regions where RWE is operating with are factored in when taking all decisions on entering into business several subsidiary companies, compliance functions are bundled and relations with suppliers or business partners (p. 70 f.). dealt with by a national compliance officer. An independent, external ombudsman is also available to receive information about any reaches The main focus of our internal compliance management is to raise of the Code of Conduct from employees and from external third parthe level of awareness among our employees and our governance ties. Reports can be submitted in the relevant national languages bodies in order to prevent the possibility of any breaches. The RWE and must remain anonymous if requested by the whistleblower. Code of Conduct is a group-wide reference standard which sets out a guidance framework for all our employees. This document defines The Chief Compliance Officer submits regular reports about issues binding conditions for compliance with national and international relevant to compliance to the Executive Board and the Audit Commitlaws and regulations, as well as rules for fair dealings with market tee of RWE AG. Internal media within the Group inform our employparticipants and competitors. The prevention of corruption is particuees about behaviour that conforms with compliance guidelines and larly important here. Compliance with the guidelines is supported also highlight potential risks if compliance is breached. Members of by organisational regulations, notably the double-checking principle, our workforce are also able to take part in a wide range of training separation of functions, authorisation concept and rules for approval. sessions through a web-based training programme and at presentaThe Code of Conduct is given concrete form by additional Group tion events. Participation is obligatory and calibrated according Guidelines. to the risk of corruption associated with the relevant activity. The Executive Board too is integrated in this training concept. We have 27 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Compliance and risk management  Content developed our training further taking risk aspects into account and Auditing firm KPMG audited the Compliance Management System in we will start a new training cycle in 2016. On completion of the curorder to combat any corruption in accordance with the IDW Audit rent cycle, we were able to deliver training at face-to-face events to Standard 980 drawn up by the German Institute of Auditors (Institut around 2,800 employees in Germany and around 500 employees der Wirtschaftsprüfer). The efficacy audit was successfully completed in other regions where RWE operates over the course of 2015. at year-end 2013/14. Compliance monitoring Group security We are able to track all compliance-sensitive procedures using our As an operator of a critical infrastructure, RWE is aware of its commugroup-wide database. The use of this compliance IT tool is mandanity importance in delivering a secure supply of energy. Security tory. This is how we are able to guarantee maximum transparency Management is therefore a central management function at RWE. within the company. We also offer comprehensive assistance in proThe Group Security Department reports directly to the Executive cessing the defined transactions. Board of RWE AG. As a governance function, it provides universal structures and controls for the issue of security in the Group. MeasWe use a two-stage process to identify and assess compliance risks ures are derived on the basis of predictive risk management which which arise for the RWE Group in the area of corruption. After we had achieves a commercially appropriate level of protection for tangible established the risk profiles for the Group companies reporting and intangible company assets, and for personnel and sensitive busidirectly to RWE AG in 2012, we moved onto a second stage in 2013 ness processes. Information security is an integral element of secuwhich focused on developing detailed corruption risk scenarios. In rity management within this structure. 2015, other companies were included in the detailed analysis, and risk workshops were carried out for this purpose in the individual In July 2015, the German IT Security Act (IT-SiG) came into force in Group companies. The analysis is being continued in 2016. Germany. This act committed operators of critical infrastructures to protect their sensitive systems and processes against cyber-attacks. The Group Audit Department regularly carries out preventive compliA directive providing specific guidelines is expected for the year ance audits in the Group companies. This enables us to review the 2016 and this will give further details. RWE is actively contributing its implementation and effectiveness of our Compliance Management specialist expertise and is a member of various committees and speacross the Group. We always follow up any information relating to cialist associations working on these issues. RWE has joined together potential breaches of compliance and we take any necessary measwith other energy utilities and is doing intensive work on establishures as required. The reviews carried out by the Group Audit Departing a sector solution (CyberSecurityHub-E) to implement the reportment for the year 2015 revealed no material or systematic breaches ing requirements of the IT Security Act (IT-SiG). of our compliance guidelines. Any individual shortcomings in processes or in the documentation were remedied. 28 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Compliance and risk management  Content RWE is a member of the “Cyber Security Council Germany” (CyberHowever, we are not only investing in security partnerships but also Sicherheitsrat Deutschland e.V.) and the “Alliance for Cyber Security” in the high quality and advanced training of our employees. The of the Federal Office for Security in Information Technology (Bundesqualifications of our security specialists are therefore based on interamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, BSI). At the moment, nationally accredited and verifiable standards. We believe that it is Group Security provides the Spokesman for the Energy Sector in the important to engage in ongoing communication with other experts. UP KRITIS of the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI), the iniTraining courses for RWE security experts, including courses provided tiative for cooperation between industry and government for protectat the National Cyber-Forensics & Training Alliance (NCFTA) in the ing critical infrastructures in Germany. USA make an important contribution on this issue. More information is provided on additional management systems in the sections on the relevant areas for action: QQ Environmental Management (p. 51) QQ Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management (p. 75) QQ Innovation Management (p. 84) 29 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Stakeholder dialogue  Content STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Our stakeholders include all persons and organisations with which important for us to discuss expectations and projections about the we maintain relations and engage in dialogue. We also regard as future of energy supply with external stakeholders. At the same time, stakeholders individuals and entities who seek communication with this dialogue provides us with the opportunity to give them better us or who are interested in our company. The expectations placed on communication on our company decisions and explain the underlying RWE are very different and depend on the area of business and on motivation. the region. The dialogue takes place at different levels. Accordingly, we engage In order to identify the different aspirations and take account of in discussions at local level with neighbouring residents and citizens’ them in our corporate policy, we are in continuous communication initiatives, for example about construction measures and approval with our stakeholders. Our company regularly engages in communiproceedings. Our local residents frequently follow our projects and cation based on differing formats with customers, academics, politiactivities with a great deal of interest, perhaps because they may be cians, representatives of environmental organisations, neighbours of looking for positive effects to give upside impact on the local econour locations and other citizens. We also seek contact with other omy. Alternatively, they may be anxious about negative effects on players who are involved in issues relating to the energy industry and their own lives and the surrounding environment. We meet these the entrepreneurial actions of RWE and their effects on the commuexpectations with an honest exchange of views and an interest in nity at large. constructive proposals. At national level, we engage in discussions with our stakeholders about wide-ranging issues, such as our contriConstructive exchange of ideas at different levels bution to the energy transition and climate change, the future of the The communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable ideas for energy market, sustainability in international supply relationships or the orientation of our corporate activities (p. 35). As a company a responsible approach to customers. undergoing a process of change at the present time, it is particularly GRI G4-24; G4-25; G4-26; G4-27 30 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Stakeholder dialogue  Content STATEMENT STAKEHOLDER COUNCIL The RWE Stakeholder Council was rolled out in 2014. The council has a remit to raise the profile within the company for expectations from the wider community through regular communication with the Chief Executive Officer of RWE. This body is made up of experts representing different specialist perspectives and from various regions in Europe. The Stakeholder Council enables us to hear about opinions from people who we would not normally come into contact with in the course of our routine business activities. Dear Colleagues, Stakeholders and Partners, During the year under review, the Stakeholder Council convened two The report by the Stakeholder Council is provided below. This is the meetings, on 18 May and on 16 November. These meetings were first time it will be published in this form in the RWE CR Report. The attended by the members of the Council, and in part also by senior RWE Stakeholder Council was established in 2014. The Council is an managers from the areas of Strategic Planning, Investor Relations, external body and it is intended to support the Executive Board of Corporate Responsibility, as well as the Chief Executive Officer. Professor Dr Justus Haucap, RWE AG on its journey of steering the company towards being a Chairman of the RWE Stakeholder more sustainable enterprise. The RWE Stakeholder Council achieves Thematic focuses and recommendations of the Council Council this by bringing the positions and assessments of stakeholders into The overarching theme discussed by the Council during this year the company and discussing them together with the Chief Executive related to how RWE can strengthen the trust of the community at Officer Peter Terium and other representatives of the company. The large in its activities and its role in the energy transition. The Council preparation for the meetings and the organisational implementation gave a comprehensive review of its position on the future image of are carried out by the Department of Corporate Responsibility. the company developed internally and of the associated strategic goal of being a credible partner of the energy transition. Members Since 2015, the Stakeholder Council has had the following composiIn this connection, the Council challenged RWE to reinforce its comtion: Richard Adams (United Kingdom), Christoph Bals (Germany), municative messages relating to the future vision of the company Steven De Bie (Netherlands), Anke Domscheit-Berg (Germany), Stephand present them even more forcefully. It stressed that RWE needed anie Draper (United Kingdom), Manfred Fischedick (Germany) and to make clear how the company perceives its role in the energy world Anna Radwan1 (Poland). of the future in five, ten and 25 years. Focusing on the current situa1 Anna Radwan stepped down from the Council in 2015 at her own request. We are looking to appoint her replacement in 2016. GRI G4-26; G4-27 31 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Stakeholder dialogue  Content tion, the Council emphasised that it perceives RWE to be in a field of forward on a large scale. The Council therefore welcomes the initiatension between the stated ambition of being a credible partner in tive adopted by RWE to dedicate more of its ambitions to these areas the energy transition and the perception in the public domain, which of business. This will involve developing new products and services sees the company defending the status quo of the conventional through partnerships with technology companies and also financial energy system. The Council recognises that the expectations of the investors, and promoting them in the marketplace. community are different in the individual national markets and acknowledges that this makes it difficult to maintain a consistent positioning. The Council has also identified Corporate Responsibility in other chalNevertheless, the Council believes that such a position is possible. lenges such as protecting customers’ data, particularly in the new digital lines of business, as well as ethical issues associated with proKey factors in the view of the Council are the focuses defined by RWE jects in new regions. for its capital expenditure in future and the lines of business the company decides to concentrate on. The Council believes that RWE Outlook will only be regarded as credible by the community when its actions Over the coming year, the Council will focus more intensively on new in the future are in harmony with the approach being promoted by lines of business as well as on new growth regions, such as the the company as a partner of the energy transition and by making a MENAT countries. The Council will work together with the Executive contribution to decarbonisation. Board to discuss which activities, opportunities and risks are entailed by the company adopting a sustainable trajectory. In concrete terms, the Council has identified an important line of business for RWE. This involves integrating the individual compoOn behalf of the RWE Stakeholder Council nents of the energy transition, such as renewable energies, new storage technologies, electromobility and intelligent grids in the sysProfessor Dr Justus Haucap tem as a whole, and linking them up together efficiently. RWE would Chairman be able to play this role in its home markets and in other regions as well. RWE would then be empowered to drive the energy transition > RWE Corporate Responsibility Stakeholder Council GRI G4-26; G4-27 32 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Stakeholder dialogue  Content Stakeholder dialogue by regions the RWE Talk. In 2015, this was held in Berlin four times and twice in Our stakeholders and their perspectives are nuanced in tune with the Brussels. Managing Directors and members of the Executive Board at diversity of the regions where we have operations. We have a range RWE swapped information and ideas in discussions about important of different formats for conducting the dialogue and an exchange of current issues with politicians, representatives of other companies, ideas with the stakeholder groups at our locations. journalists, representatives of unions, and various special-interest groups. The discussions focused on a new design for the electricity Germany market, the future climate protection policy, new opportunities for The targets, consequences and challenges of the energy transition applications of electrical energy, and innovations for implementing and climate protection continue to be the most important topics in the energy transition. the communication framework with our stakeholders in Germany. In 2015, the dominant issues were how the energy industry contribThe Customer Council met twice during the course of 2015. At the utes to achieving the national climate change targets and how the first meeting, the members engaged in a debate about the topic of structural change in the area of lignite production and conventional fuel poverty and initiatives carried out by the company to help cusenergy generation can be managed in a socially and ethically respontomers with acute payment problems (p. 56). At the second meeting sible approach. We engaged in an intensive dialogue on this issue in September, the discussion centred on problems of acceptance for with a large number of stakeholders from politics, business, unions renewable energies, such as shade levels and the development of and members of the public. For example, we are in a dialogue at the noise cause by wind turbines. level of elected politicians in local authorities and at political and specialist conferences in the Rhineland lignite mining region. AlongThe Energy RWE Round Table (Energiestammtisch) is another diaside issues relating to the energy transition and climate protection, logue format. In 2015, it was held in Mülheim an der Ruhr and dealt the key issues were security of supply, job security and perspectives with the topic of electronic electricity meters. for the future at the locations. We have also become involved in the innovation region in the Rhineland lignite mining region which is The Neighbourhood Forum (Nachbarschaftsforum) Niederaußem, intended to support the structural change. Within this framework, which RWE set up in the Rhineland lignite mining area, continued on RWE is involved in four out of ten starter projects, for example in a successful trajectory. The forum offers neighbours, associations setting up a climate protection settlement, in the project Factor X – and other stakeholders the opportunity to engage in discussion with Resource Efficient Building, and in research into uses for the material RWE about issues related to electricity generation and power stations. lignite (p. 86). In 2015, the forum met twice. The agenda focused on topics such as the impacts of cold air flows on agriculture, perspectives on the use We also discussed the challenges of the energy transition with a view of CO2 as a material, and the climate protection plan in North Rhineto further expanding and integrating renewable energies. We reguWestphalia. larly hold events on this subject and on similar issues, for example GRI G4-26 33 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Stakeholder dialogue  Content The environmental compatibility of new offshore wind farms was also Netherlands an important topic, which we discussed with neighbours at our locaDiscussion with our stakeholders in the Netherlands focused on how tions. This forum links up those people affected and special-interest we could reduce our CO2 emissions and which methods will effecgroups, and involves them in the planning process. We inform them tively enable the Netherlands to achieve its climate protection goals about our projects and at the same time find out about everyone’s for the years 2020 and 2050. The Dutch Parliament authorised the aspirations so we can take them into account. government to review possible scenarios for exiting from generation > RWE Customer Council (German) of electricity by burning hard coal and to submit a proposal. > Neighbourhood Forum Niederaußem (German) At the same time, issues relating to the supply chain for coal and bioUnited Kingdom mass again formed a subject for discussion in 2015. Our stakeholdIn the United Kingdom, debate in 2015 focused mainly on the politiers believe that the upholding of human rights by our suppliers is cisation of the energy industry and the many regulatory changes extremely relevant in this context. Companies using coal, including made by the new government. Issues relating to security of supply RWE, came to an agreement with the government guaranteeing for electricity were also a focus. The British government established a increased transparency. A key module for this agreement is the Betcapacity market in order to guarantee security of supply. After 2014, tercoal Initiative (p. 71). We were also intensively involved in discusthe second capacity auction to ensure security was held in December sion about sustainability criteria for biomass (p. 72). Subsidies for 2015. RWE successfully took part in this auction. Another issue was biomass with combustion in hard-coal power stations was halted in related to the future energy mix. Since hard-coal power stations are April 2015. The extent to which this type of plant will able to attract being taken out of the system, there remains the issue of the proporsubsidies in the future now depends on the final subsidy mechanism tion of the generation mix that will be taken up by gas, nuclear and on the discussion about the future of hard-coal power stations. power and renewable energies in future. The debate in the United Kingdom also addressed the production of gas from unconventional The topic of expansion of renewable energies has also become extraction sources using fracking technology, issues which RWE is more important for the stakeholder dialogue in the Netherlands not involved in. As far as RWE was concerned, the main topic here because some residents living nearby have raised critical objections was in the area for action Market and Customers, and related to the to the construction of wind turbines. For example, some local resioperational problems associated with issuing bills. This has caused dents have staged a campaign against a planned wind farm in a great deal of dissatisfaction in the residential sector (p. 17). The Meeden. We believe that it is our responsibility there and at other expansion of wind energy is also provoking debate in the United locations to arrive at mutually acceptable solutions for restructuring Kingdom because the impact of the technology on the natural envithe energy supply through a process of dialogue and maximum ronment is regarded as problematic. transparency. GRI G4-26 34 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Stakeholder dialogue  Content Central and Eastern Europe The main topic of debate in the Czech Republic was the issue of security of supply. The focus of various stakeholder dialogues was on gas deliveries. Against the background of differences between Russia and Ukraine, we explained the measures necessary for security of gas supplies to politicians and the ERU energy regulator, who is responsible for setting energy prices each year in the Czech Republic. Our role as the biggest gas storage operator in the country was the central focus. The responsible Minister for Industry and Commerce came to find out the facts on the ground at the beginning of the season when people start to need more heating. GRI G4-26 35 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Materiality Analysis  Content MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Management of Corporate Responsibility and reporting is based on the relevant issues that we have determined and evaluated in a Materiality Analysis. This approach also corresponds to the current G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) which form the basis for this report. We adopt two perspectives in our analysis so that we are in a posiWe carried out the internal evaluation in a group-wide consultation tion to evaluate which areas for action and issues are particularly process: important for sustainable governance at RWE. Firstly, we record the QQ Initially, we brought together the key issues and assessed their expectations of our stakeholders and then we evaluate the issues relevance for RWE at the level of experts and line managers in the from the perspective of the company. Group companies. QQ A second stage involved the departmental managers of RWE AG The survey of external expectations in 2015 was based on two and the board members of the Group companies responsible for sources of information: CR in a validation process. QQ We asked representatives of our most important stakeholders about which challenges, areas for action and issues they believed Areas for action and issues were prioritised in the internal and exterare particularly important for the company from their perspective. nal survey. This enabled a set of key areas for action and issues to be We also asked them about what they expect from RWE. This defined. The Materiality Analysis along with the identified issues and information was obtained by carrying out detailed and structured areas for action are used as a platform. We then allocated the mateinterviews with 38 representatives of organisations and institurial GRI-aspects (p. 5 ff.). tions from civil society in Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Republic. Presentation of the key issues QQ These results are then supplemented with information that we As in earlier reports, the vertical axis of the presentation in the have obtained from other conversations with our stakeholder Materiality Analysis represents the expectations of stakeholders. (p. 29 ff.). The evaluation of this information was agreed in a joint Conversely, our approach in relation to the horizontal axis has discussion with the CR Officers of the RWE companies and it was returned to the presentation of the perspective from 2013. incorporated appropriately into the Materiality Analysis. This maps the relevance of the areas for action in relation to GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-25; G4-26 36 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Materiality Analysis  Content our business, while in 2014 we plotted the impacts of the RWE Group The following matrix sets out the assessed importance of our areas on the community. Our most relevant areas for action are therefore for action which were each evaluated with the categories “modercharacterised by the high expectations of our stakeholders in comate”, “high” and “very high”. The matrix bundles differing perspecbination with the high level of relevance for the corporate developtives at Group level. The assessments of issues in the regions may ment of RWE. therefore differ from the individual Group areas. We attribute above-average importance to all the issues listed in the Materiality Matrix for the sustainable alignment of the RWE Group. The contents Materiality Analysis 2015 very high CP SC I MC CE EB EM high EE Expectations of Stakeholders SS OH moderate high very high Relevance for RWE CP Climate Protection EE Energy Efficiency EB Environmental Protection and Biodiversity CE Community Engagement MC Market and Customers EM Employees SC Supply Chain OH Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management SS Security of Supply I Innovation GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 37 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Materiality Analysis  Content of this report were defined in accordance with the results of the mately, innovations are necessary in order to make conventional elecMateriality Analysis. We provide a more extensive presentation of the tricity generation, which is indispensable for the foreseeable future, three most important areas for action – Climate Protection, Market more flexible and lower emission. and Customers, and Innovation – in this report (p. 41, 59 and p. 83). Market and Customers: Developments in the CR areas for action Alongside Climate Protection and Innovation, our stakeholders attribute a great deal of importance to this area for action in regard Climate Protection: to the sustainable development of RWE. They believe that it is imporAs far as our stakeholders are concerned, climate protection contintant for us to offer new products and service packages, which will ues to remain the most important challenge for RWE. The majority of empower our customers to have better control of their energy constakeholders regard the expansion of renewable energies as the most sumption in a digitised energy world. Simultaneously, our stakeholdimportant instrument for low-carbon generation of electricity. Stakeers perceive new challenges relating to adopting a responsible holders also see a significant need to take action in this area in the approach to dealing with customer data, and protection against data future. In turn, RWE continues to consider climate protection as the being accessed by unauthorised persons. It is also extremely impormost important area for action in order to achieve a more sustainable tant for RWE as a company to be successful in new markets and to alignment of our actions. The political discussions and decisions on play a role in structuring the supply of energy in a digitised energy climate protection at global, national and regional level demonstrate world. This needs to be achieved with high standards of data security the extent to which this topic impacts on the regulatory and social and protection of customer data. organisational framework of RWE. Investors have also addressed the issue with us in terms of the issue of decarbonisation. Energy Efficiency: This area for action relates to energy savings in our company. A high Innovation: level of efficiency for energy use at our power plants is the most This area for action has gained massively in importance in the conimportant lever here from an external and internal perspective. text of the energy transition. Innovations are becoming increasingly important for us so that we can play a role in structuring changes like Environmental Protection and Biodiversity: integration of renewable energies and digitisation of the energy Protecting the environment is very important to our stakeholders. At industry. The expectations of our stakeholders have also risen in this the same time, we have received feedback from the majority of stakearea. This is especially the case in the management of the increasholders indicating that they consider the approach of RWE towards ingly digital energy system which they perceive to be an important the handling of emissions, waste and water management to be of a topic. At the same time, stakeholders are demanding innovative soluhigh order. They also perceive it as being organised within the contions in order to structure the expansion of renewable energies in an text of an ordered process. Stakeholders see a special need for inforaffordable way and to make it environmentally compatible. Ultimation on the issue of nuclear waste (p. 52) and they regard this as a GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-27 38 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Materiality Analysis  Content major challenge. We are working intensively on the topic of biodiverchain for hard coal. We are working intensively together with other sity, particularly in the management of opencast mines and in the European suppliers within the Bettercoal sector initiative in order to expansion of wind energy. The expectations of our stakeholders in achieve an impact in this area (p. 71). Another factor motivating our these areas relate to solutions for protecting biological diversity at cooperation is that we can only secure our access to these materials existing and new locations. at commercially viable prices if the supply chain has a sustainable structure. Community Engagement: Our stakeholders want us to engage proactively at our locations in Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management: dialogue with civil society and to take account of their concerns in Occupational safety is an indispensable component of our corporate our corporate policy. At the same time, they want us to provide culture which is manifested in our many reference standards and inititransparent reporting on our donation and sponsorship activities. atives (p. 76 ff.). We meet the demands of our stakeholders in this area for action. On an international sector comparison, these requireEmployees: ments are based on a high level of attainment in occupational safety The pressure on costs resulting from the energy transition continues and healthcare management. Our stakeholders have highlighted to exert an impact on our personnel policy and presents us with stress management as a particularly important issue here. Dealing major challenges in the area for action of Employees. We consider appropriately with stress is also important to us because the company our main task to be the adaptation of our human resource structure is currently undergoing a process of change which demands a very to the difficult new framework conditions of the energy economy and high level of commitment from our employees. at the same time increase diversity within the workforce. Our stakeholders share this perspective. They also expect us to give our Security of Supply: employees clearly-defined perspectives and offer them opportunities In 2015, this area for action continued to have a high level of imporfor personal development. This topic is also a top priority within the tance, in particular for our stakeholders in Germany and the Czech company for the development of the business with the objective of Republic. A primary focus of stakeholders is the ongoing developreinforcing the motivation and expertise of all the employees so that ment of our distribution grids, and they consider the transition they are encouraged to implement the energy transition. towards intelligent and simultaneously stable grids to be absolutely essential. A platform of adequate availability for power-plant capacSupply Chain: ity is also regarded as important so that we can cover the supply A sustainable structure for the supply chain continues to be an requirement, for example in the phases when renewable energies important area for action at RWE. Our stakeholders attribute major generate less electricity due to the weather conditions. responsibility to us in this area and most importantly in the supply GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-27 39 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives  Content OVERVIEW OF OUR TEN AREAS FOR ACTION AND OUR CR OBJECTIVES We have converted our CR Strategy into ten concrete areas for action – in an intensive dialogue with our stakeholders. We have defined concrete, quantifiable targets in each area for action and made them a constituent element in the compensation package for our Executive Board. Area for action Target KPI Target value Due1 Status at the end of 2015 Target attainment Climate We are committed to significantly reducCO2 emissions in metric 0.62 mt CO2/MWh 2020 0.708 mt CO2/MWh Protection ing the CO2 intensity of our power plant tons (mt) per megawatt portfolio. hour of electricity generated (mt CO2/MWh) Energy Efficiency We are committed to increasing our own Increase in energy RWE power 2018 Average efficiency of energy efficiency. efficiency in % plants2: 40.3%3 energy use 40.2% Environmental We are committed to operating our plants Compliance with licens100% compliance 2018 No significant breaches Protection and safely and in compliance with licensing ing requirements in % of environmental protecBiodiversity regulations at all times. tion laws and licensing We are committed to 100% implementaregulations tion of our environmental management Group-wide environmen100% coverage 2018 100% environmental system to ensure that our plants and tal management covermanagement coverage grids are operated in 100% compliance age in % with legal requirements at all times. Community We are committed to strengthening our Reputation Index Reputation Index 2018 Reputation Index of 58.4 Engagement regional reputation by making efficient of at least 59.03 use of resources. Market and We are committed to maintaining satisfied Customer Loyalty Index Customer Loyalty 2018 Customer Loyalty Index Customers and hence loyal customers. Index of at least 773 of 76 40 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives  Content Area for action Target KPI Target value Due1 Status at the end of 2015 Target attainment Employees We are committed to ongoing motivation Demography Index (DEX) Demography Index 2018 Demography Index of our managers and employees, and to of at least 84 of 82.5 achieving a necessary reduction in the number of jobs through a responsible Motivation Index Motivation Index 2017 Motivation Index and ethical approach. of 72.2 of 72.4 Supply Chain We are committed to avoiding reputaSecuring environmental 100% of the pur2018 Securing standards in tional risks by ensuring compliance with and social standards in chasing volume3 supply management environmental and social standards in our all procurement areas 99.4% supply chain. in % Occupational We are committed to ensuring that all our Number of accidents LTIF of max. 1.8 2018 LTIF (own staff and partner Safety and own and our subcontractors’ employees leading to the loss of one including partner companies (subcontracHealthcare return home just as healthy at the end of person day per 1 million companies tors)): 2.2 Management the day as they were when they arrived working hours LTIF4 (subcontractors)3,4 for work. Security of We are committed to supplying our Average grid outage SAIDI < 15 min/ 2018 SAIDI (2014): 13.4 min./ Supply customers with the electricity they need durations in min. per year Customer (only customer (only Germany) at all times. and customer (System Germany)3 Average Interruption Duration Index, SAIDI) Innovation We are committed to ensuring the Degree of coverage and At least 98% 2018 Processing and communiavailability of the best solutions for our communication of stratecation of strategically relpurposes in our core processes through gically relevant R&D evant R&D issues, degree innovations. issues in % of coverage 100% 1 We adjusted our dates for target attainment in 2015 to ensure compatibility with the compensation of the Executive Board. 2 Average efficiency of energy use. 3 We adjusted our target values in 2015 to ensure compatibility with the compensation of the Executive Board. 4 LTIF=X/1,000,000 h; including reports known to us from partner companies (subcontractors). 41 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection  Content CLIMATE PROTECTION Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising the impacts of climate change are important targets for energy policy in Europe. As one of the biggest European energy utilities, we want to make a contribution to this objective. More than € Reduction Since spring 2014 RWE is erecting the onshore 0.71 in the specific CO2 emissions to CO2 reduction by 4.4 3,070 Around 6.7 mt CO2/MWh billion of capital wind farm Zuidwester at the Ijsselmeer. It is part oft the wind farm Noordoostpolder – with emissions 0.62 million mt in 2014 MW of wind power has come into operation expenditure on renewable energies 429 MW of installed output being one of the mt CO2/MWh by 2020 over eight years most ambitious onshore projects in Europe. 42 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection  Content The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is an important target in around 15% in the Rhineland lignite mining area compared with European energy policy and in the individual national energy politoday by 2020. Depending on the further expansion of renewable cies. We also intend to make a contribution to this target, primarily energies, an additional fall in the area of conventional energy generby expanding renewable energies and by reducing the specific CO2 ation is anticipated. The associated further reduction of full-load emissions from our lignite-fired, hard-coal and gas-fired power stahours will combine with the depletion of lignite supplies at the Inden tions. At the same time, we are offering our customers energy effiopencast mine, and the consequent decommissioning of the Weisciency products and advice which allow them to bring down the weiler power plant will lead to further CO2 reductions. Overall, the amount of electricity and the heat that they consume, and as a result CO2 emissions from lignite will therefore be reduced by 40% to 50% also reduce corresponding CO2 emissions (p. 61 ff.). compared with the present day by 2030. Challenge During the period running up to 2030, electricity generation from ligAccording to the assessment by the Intergovernmental Panel on Clinite-fired power stations will be even more strongly oriented towards mate Change (IPCC), climate change can modify the living conditions the further expansion of renewable energies and the fluctuating feedof people and the environment across the world. It can also lead to in that results. The focus will then be on flexibility and the provision of high macroeconomic costs. The resolutions passed by the Paris Clibackup capacities. In line with this development, the CO2 emissions mate Conference (COP 21) have jointly committed all the counties will be further reduced. During the phase-out period of the Garzweiler to limiting the global temperature increase to significantly below 2 and Hambach opencast mines towards the middle of the century, the degrees Celsius compared with the preindustrial level. RWE welvolumes of CO2 will gradually continue to decrease until the extraction comes the climate change treaty. A broadly-based international conof lignite comes to an end. sensus is the only way of bringing about genuine structural change throughout the world to create a more sustainable economic model. RWE is participating in the debate going on in the public domain and climate protection is also playing an important role here. Our stakeThe ambition of the European Union is to achieve a 40% reduction in holders, including environmental organisations, customers and politithe emission of greenhouse gases by 2030 compared with the basecians, regard the reduction of CO2 as the biggest challenge for RWE in line year of 1990. Germany has already made a commitment to this order to become more sustainable (p. 37). target for 2020. As a major energy utility and Europe’s biggest single emitter of CO2, RWE intends to make a substantial contribution and Motivation and targets support these targets. For example, our plans for generating electricRWE supports the German and European climate targets of cutting ity from lignite in the Rhineland lignite mining area are in harmony the emission of greenhouse gases by at least 80% by 2050. The with national and European climate-protection targets. The switch to reduction of in-house CO2 emissions is an absolute priority for us. We security standby (p. 44) will enable us to achieve a CO2 reduction of have therefore defined a concrete target. By 2020, we want to have 43 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection  Content reduced our specific CO2 emissions from the current level of 0.71 mt cates. During the year under review, we succeeded in reducing our for each megawatt hour (MWh) generated to 0.62 mt/MWh. By specific CO2 emissions by around 5%. In absolute terms, we reduced decreasing the CO2 intensity of our power plant portfolio, we meet the CO2 emissions from our power plants by some 3% from 155.2 our obligations of social responsibility while at the same time bringmillion mt in 2014 to 150.8 million mt in 2015. ing down the financial risks arising from the purchase of CO2 certifiMonitoring and performance measurement We use the CO2 emissions for each megawatt hour of electricity Specific and absolute CO2 emissions generated as the KPI in order to measure our target attainment. Advances and successes are used in the assessment of the long-term Unit 2010 2011 2012 20131 2014 2015 variable compensation for the Executive Board of RWE AG. Specific CO2 emissions 1 mt/MWh 0.732 0.787 0.792 0.751 0.745 0.708 Scope 1 emissions2 million mt 167.1 163.8 181.7 165.8 156.6 152.3 The financial risks associated with emissions trading are reflected in Scope 2 emissions 3 million mt 3.1 2.4 1.9 1.5 1.4 1.3 our risk management. We reduce these risks by concluding appropriScope 3 emissions4 million mt 135.7 121.0 105.2 105.0 90.8 93.9 ate hedging transactions. At the same time as we sell a specific 1 Calculated on the basis of electricity production, without emissions from biogenic fuels. amount of electricity in the futures market, we procure the combus2 Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (gas transmission & electricity generation). tion fuel required and purchase any necessary emission certificates. 3 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties. 4 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 or Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, from the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party networks, from the production and from the Renewal of our power plants consumption of gas sold to customers. Since 2006, we have replaced more than 20% of our conventional capacities with advanced, highly efficient plants. We have spent a total of more than € 12 billion in the biggest programme of capital Important new conventional power plants since 2013 expenditure throughout the history of RWE. In May and July of 2015, the two units at the Eemshaven location in the Netherlands started Installed Key capital Start of up commercial operation. This is one of the most advanced hard-coal capacity in expenditure Proportion Efficiency commercial power stations in the world. Apart from these newbuilds, we also MW in € billion of RWE in % in % operation modernised existing power plants in 2015, for example the gas turD Hamm Hard coal 764 2.4 100 46 2013 bines in Pembroke and Staythorpe, and unit 9 at the Aberthaw power NL Eemshaven Hard coal 1,554 >2 100 46 2015 plant (all in the United Kingdom). The latter was upgraded with low and NOx burners in the course of overhauls. This has enabled us to biomass1 improve efficiency in electricity generation, reduce the consumption TR Denizli Gas 787 0.5 70 57 2013 of resources for each unit of energy generated and therefore also 1 No biogas is currently used at the Eemshaven site. No decision was taken yet in 2015 about the future use of biomass. bring down the emissions of greenhouse gases. 44 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection  Content Security standby for lignite-fired power stations at Frimmersdorf (1 October 2017), Niederaußen (1 October 2018), At the beginning of November, the German Federal Cabinet passed and one unit at Neurath (1 October 2019). As a result, the gross CO2 a resolution on a draft bill for proposed legislation relating to the emissions will decline by around 12.3 million mt CO2. limited period of security standby and subsequent shutdown of lignite-fired power stations which had been adopted in the previous Capital expenditure on renewable energies July. The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWi) The expansion of renewable energies is a very important lever for had reached agreement on details regarding this move with RWE making our electricity generation more climate-friendly. In 2015, we and the energy companies MIBRAG and Vatenfall. The legislation increased our installed output of renewable energies from 3,677 MW envisages that plants with a total of 2.7 GW generating capacity to 4,146 MW. The proportion of renewable energies in installed outwill be gradually phased out of the market from 2016. Each of the put has therefore risen from 7.5% to 9%. At the same time, we are plants will then be used to guarantee standby readiness for supply pursuing the objective of driving forward growth in new regions and of electricity over a period of four years. The plants will then be with different technologies (p. 46). finally shut down. Their operators will receive remuneration for maintaining security standby. These measures are primarily intended Offshore wind power to ensure that Germany achieves its emission reduction target for Today, RWE already ranks among the five leading offshore wind-farm 2020. RWE will transfer five lignite-fired power station units of operators in Europe with around 1,000 MW of installed output. In 2015, 300 MW each to security standby. These include two units each two big offshore wind farms run by RWE started operating. In the German section of the North Sea, the Nordsee Ost wind farm was commissioned and fully operational with an output of 295 MW. This renewable facility supplies around 320,000 households with electricity and conseImportant new power plants for generating electricity from renewable energies quently avoids the emission of 850,000 mt of CO2 each year. The Gwynt y Môr wind farm located off the Welsh coast was also brought fully on Installed Key capital Start of stream. It is the second biggest offshore wind farm in the world with a capacity expenditure Proportion Full-load commercial capacity of 576 MW. RWE has joined forces with Northland Power Inc. in MW in € billion of RWE in % hours1 operation and is currently constructing the German Nordsee Ost offshore wind D Nordsee Ost Offshore 295 1 100 3,688 2015 farm project with 332 MW of installed output. Another project is the wind British Galloper offshore wind farm with 336 MW of installed output. We UK Gwynt y Môr Offshore 576 2.8 50 3,329 2015 are planning this wind farm together with our partners UK Green Investwind ment Bank, Siemens Financial Services and Macquarie Capital. D Königs­hovener Onshore 67 0.11 51 3,000 2015 Heights wind 1 Planned full-load hours. 45 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection  Content Onshore wind power Other renewable energies RWE is also driving forward the expansion of onshore wind energy. Although the focus of activities is in the area of wind energy, RWE We started operating the Königshoven Heights wind farm with a total also operates plants for generating energy from hydropower, biooutput of 67 MW located in the Rhineland lignite mining area. During mass and biogas, as well as solar energy. Following the sale of twelve the year under review, RWE also erected two additional wind farms in German power plants, RWE still has 784 MW of installed output for Poland with a total output of 45 MW and brought them on stream. generating electricity from run-of-river plants. The installed output This brings our installed output for onshore wind farms to 2,145 MW. of biogas plants is 16 MW and the output for biomass plants is RWE is also building seven wind farms in four European countries. 253 MW. This includes the Dutch Zuidwester project with 90 MW of installed output, which is comprised of twelve of the world’s biggest onshore In October 2015, RWE opened the biggest photovoltaic park in Hunwind turbines with each generating 7.5 MW. The wind farm is schedgary. The facility contains 72,480 solar modules with a total output uled to come on stream in 2017. of 16 MW and it was constructed over the ash dump of the power plant in Mátra. RWE is responsible for operating a total of 21 MW of photovoltaic and solar capacity. 46 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection  Content INTERVIEW CONTINUOUS EXPANSION OF RENEWABLE ENERGIES Renewable energies are at the centre of the energy transition. What overall assessment can be reached for 2015 and how will this impact on the strategy for the near future? Our editorial team asked Dr Hans Bünting, the Chairman of the Executive Board of RWE Innogy GmbH, for his view. Dr Bünting, are you on track with renewable energies? What are you planning to do in concrete terms? BÜNTING: Most certainly! In 2015, the operating result of RWE Innogy BÜNTING: Last year, we looked at a lot of different markets with the increased to more than € 400 million and this represents an increase focus on onshore wind power while also reviewing the possibilities of more than two-fold. We are one of the biggest providers of offfor photovoltaic systems. This analysis revealed that the Middle East, shore wind energy in Europe with around 1,000 MW of installed outNorth Africa and Turkey, alongside Ireland and the USA are extremely put. This also applies to the onshore sector. There we currently have promising markets. We are going to examine these options more capacity of around 2,000 MW across Europe. And our aim is to concarefully. tinue growing. Why are these regions of particular interest? Dr Hans Bünting, What should be the profile of this growth trajectory? BÜNTING: In the MENAT region (Middle East, North Africa and Turkey), Chairman of the Executive Board BÜNTING: We are adopting a four-track approach. Our objectives are there is an optimum relationship between hours of sunshine and of RWE Innogy GmbH to increase our shares in projects and we are open to acquisitions. major business opportunities as a result of the growing demand for We want to grow organically in the area of onshore and offshore energy. This makes these countries very attractive for photovoltaic wind power, develop new markets and expand our portfolio with systems. Turkey, Ireland and the USA are also particularly favourable major photovoltaic projects. The current status is that € one billion for wind energy projects because of the very promising wind locahave been earmarked for this capital expenditure on these projects tions. from 2015 to 2017. The interview was conducted by Dr Matthias Kussin, RWE Corporate Responsibility 47 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Energy Efficiency  Content ENERGY EFFICIENCY Energy efficiency is essential for achieving the European climate protection targets. The reduction of CO2 emissions at our generating plants is the central focus of our efficiency measures. We are modernising our power plants and making use of innovative technologies to achieve this purpose. RWE is continuously working on improving the efficiency of our power plant portfolio. For example at the Eemshaven location: In 2015 one of the most advanced hard-coal power stations in the world started up commercial operation there. 40.2% New challenges as a result of change in the method of EU regulations on energy efficiency 29% 12% efficiency of energy improvement in energy fuel saving with implemented use at our power operation for efficiency with new vehicles throughout the Group plants in 2015 power plants upgraded buildings 48 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Energy Efficiency  Content Challenge converted unit of energy. This enables us to bring down our expendiThe European climate-protection targets can only be achieved with a ture on CO2 certificates as well. We have defined our goal as increashigh level of energy efficiency. Electricity and heat producers are able ing the average efficiency of energy use for our power plant portfolio to make particular contributions to this ambition. We are reducing to at least 40.3% by 2018. Achieving this goal will be more demandour CO2 emissions per unit of electricity or heat generated by using ing in future because the role of our power plants is undergoing parmore efficient power plants while at the same time bringing down tial change. They are no longer operating round the clock but instead our consumption of resources. these power plants are adjusting their feed-in to take account of the fluctuating supply of renewable energies. Motivation and targets We want to drive energy efficiency forward in our power plant portfoAside from rationalising the operation of power plants, we are reduclio and in other company activities. This makes business and environing the amount of energy expended on our vehicle fleet, in our real mental sense. High levels for efficiency of energy use enable us to estate portfolio and for other areas of the company, such as openreduce our combustion fuel costs and cut our CO2 emissions for each cast lignite mines and other production facilities. There are also big potential opportunities for saving energy with our customers. This is why we are offering consumers comprehensive energy service packEfficiency of energy use for our power plants by country and energy source ages and consultation for the improvement of their energy efficiency in % (p. 61 ff.). 100 Monitoring and performance measurement In the context of our CR management, the average efficiency of 80 energy use for our power plants is the key performance indicator for 73 67 calculating our energy efficiency. This indicator shows how much pri60 mary energy we use for each kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity pro55 54 48 47 duced or heat generated. 45 40 38 37 36 Development in energy efficiency 20 We will achieve a higher level of efficiency in the production of electricity mainly by modernising our conventional power plant portfolio. 0 In 2015, one of the most advanced hard-coal power stations in the Lignite Hard coal Gas Gas CHP Waste world with an output of 1,554 MW started up commercial operation at the Eemshaven location in the Netherlands in 2015. Germany United Kingdom Netherlands 49 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Energy Efficiency  Content We were able to keep our efficiency almost constant at 40.2% comA continuous process of modernisation enabled us to increase the pared with 2014 (40.4%). A negative impact was exerted as a result energy efficiency in our real estate portfolio during the course of of lower heat generation, declining use of our gas-fired power sta2015 – by a total of 29% for the refurbished buildings. Measures tions and increased part-load operation. This change in the method such as upgrades for roofs and modernisation of heating systems of operation comes as a result of the major expansion of renewable contributed to this improvement. energies, which have priority for feed-in of electricity to the grid. This development is at the expense of efficiencies for conventional power During the year under review, we replaced 520 older vehicles in our plants, which are increasingly being used in unfavourable operating vehicle fleet by 560 new vehicles which caused on average 12% states. This is because they generate electricity at times when renewfewer CO2 emissions per kilometre. We have also included five elecable energies are unable to supply power. tric cars in the vehicle fleet which are available to all our employees in Essen and Dortmund. In future, we will achieve additional efficiency increases primarily by decommissioning older power plants. When building new power proExpanded energy management system duction plants, we will concentrate on the expansion of renewable We have expanded certification in conformity with ISO 50001 in the energies in future. Overall, our newly installed output here in 2015 sectors opencast mining, lignite and hard coal/gas to include nuclear amounts to 474 MW of renewable energies, other plants with a total energy, hydropower and refinement. capacity of 246.6 MW are currently being constructed. In 2015 all RWE companies with more than 250 employees were Furthermore, we are retaining the option of building another ligniteaudited on energy efficiency by an external service provider. We have fired power station “Optimised Unit Plus” (BoAplus) located at our therefore promptly complied with the regulations implemented Niederaußem site. This will achieve an efficiency of more than 45% under German legislation and defined in the Energy Efficiency Direcand would replace four old power stations with an output of 300 MW tive of the European Union. The Eemshaven hard-coal power station each operating at a lower level of efficiency. located in the Netherlands constitutes an exception. The audit there will only take place in 2016 because commercial operation was only If the energy savings made in our real estate portfolio and vehicle started up in 2015. We have obtained a special licence for this. fleet are set against the total footprint of our Group, they only make up a small proportion. Nevertheless, these efforts highlight the crediThe ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group in Hungary was the first energy company to bility of our actions and also contribute to raising the awareness of receive a certificate in compliance with ISO 50001 there. our employees for energy and environmental issues. 50 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity  Content ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND BIODIVERSITY We want to avoid any impacts on the environment that are associated with our business activity or if this is not possible minimise the effects as much as possible. That is why RWE has an effective environmental management system in place. We consistently reduce waste and we are committed to protecting and reinstating ecosystems. Expenditure on 0 environmental protection amounting 88% 100% 22,950 With its approach on recultivation RWE has built up of all run-of-river hectares of recultivated a reputation: Extensive lakes, ponds and wetland major to € coverage by an power stations land at opencast mines 2 environmental environmental biotopes came into being in the former extraction equipped with fish in the Rhineland lignite sites of the Rhineland lignite mining area. They proincidents management system ladders mining area vide new habitats to numberous endangered animal billion and plant species. 51 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity  Content Challenge Monitoring and performance measurement The operation of conventional power stations and plants for generatWe are continuously carrying out analyses and evaluations of enviing electricity from renewable energies, the production of lignite and ronmental issues in order to assess their relevance for the RWE the operation of our distribution grids inevitably result in our impactGroup. The key performance indicator in the area of environmental ing on natural ecosystems. Pollutants are released during the producprotection is compliance with the licensing regulations for the instaltion of electricity and heat in our power plants or the operation of lation and operation of our plants and facilities. Our compliance with our opencast mines and they can lead to negative impacts on people such systems is ensured with regular on-site checks. The percentage and the environment. We are therefore committed to ensuring air coverage by our environmental management system provides us with pollution control and to conserving natural resources. This applies in a further key performance indicator. particular to the use of water. We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining activities by recultivating the extraction sites. This All RWE companies have an obligation to act in compliance with our approach enables us to return usable areas of land to agriculture and Group Directive on Environmental Management and set up a dedifor other use while also creating space for nature conservation where cated environmental management system in conformity with the we can strategically foster biological diversity. requirements of the ISO 14001 international standard. Compliance with this standard is ensured by annual audits. During the course of Motivation and targets 2015, group-wide expenditure on environmental protection We want to avoid direct and indirect interventions in ecosystems amounted to € 2 billion. through our activities. If this is not feasible, our aim is to keep the impact to a minimum. As far as possible, we mitigate unavoidable or During the year under review, there were no major incidents at the irreversible negative consequences with adequate nature conservaplants of the RWE Group that resulted in significant impacts relevant tion measures. This means that we create ecosystems with at least to the environment. Compliance with all licensing regulations was the same functional capability as before the intervention and as a consistently ensured. In 2015, 20 notifiable events at notification result frequently go beyond the statutory requirements. We carry out level 0 were registered for our nuclear power stations. There were a major share of our activities in the area of environmental protec14 notifiable events in the previous year. Our fossil-fired power tion on the basis of the licensing regulations that we have to comply stations were operated in 2015 without any major disturbances. with when we construct and operate our plants. We are therefore continuously driving forward our group-wide coverage of RWE’s Pollutant emissions and waste activities by our environmental management system. Furthermore, Upgrading our power plant portfolio with modern burner technolowe are also committed to steadily promoting and improving the gies and optimised separation processes enable us to reduce the elimination or reduction of environmental impacts. At the same emissions of pollutants which are released during the production time, we are regularly in dialogue with our stakeholders, in order of electricity and heat at our power plants. One example of this is to strengthen acceptance for our activities (p. 29). mercury, where the advanced technologies used today for flue-gas 52 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity  Content Avoid, recovery, disposal – this is the principle underlying our waste Development of specific pollutant emissions management. We are continually reducing the amount of waste which cannot be recycled for further downstream application. Accordingly, Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20151 all residual waste is disposed of in compliance with statutory regulaSpecific NOX emissions g/kWh 0.58 0.60 0.69 0.68 0.60 0.54 tions. Specific SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.29 0.31 0.40 0.37 0.33 0.25 Specific particulate emissions g/kWh 0.019 0.021 0.025 0.022 0.020 0.017 This also applies to residual materials and waste from our nuclear 1 From 2015 incl. power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. power stations which occur while they are being operated as well as when the power plants are decommissioned. Only a small part of the scrubbing remove up to 90% of this pollutant with pure coal com­ entire mass of the nuclear plants ever comes into contact with radiobustion. At the Coal Innovation Centre in the Rhineland lignite minactive materials when they are operational. The greatest proportion ing area, we are currently working on improved procedures for the of this material is then cleaned with the assistance of decontaminaremoval of mercury, for example by adding activated coke to flue gas. tion measures so that it can be released by the government authoriThe results of test trials to date lead to the expectation of further ties and then returned to the normal cycle of materials. The remainimproved separation of mercury. However, further, tests still need ing residue – only around 3% of the total mass of a nuclear power to be carried out. There is not currently a standard marketable techstation – is destined for disposal in a final repository for radioactive nology that could be used directly in our plants to reduce mercury waste. This material primarily includes components near the core of transmissions. the reactor. Until the material is consigned under statutory regulations to a final repository operated by the government, these waste However, the Federal Environment Ministry has not identified any adverse readings when measurements have been taken – even in the environment of coal-fired power stations. The level of pollution Expenditure on environmental protection 2015 measured in the ambient air outside, in other words the amount of in € million pollutants which impact on people and nature are in the range between 1 and 2 billionths of a gram (ng) per standard cubic metre Air pollution control 228 of air (ng/Nm³). In Bergheim, this figure is actually significantly less Nature conservation and protection of the landscape 71 at 0.04 ng/Nm³. The critical value for outside air is 50 billionths of a Water protection 168 gram per Nm³. This value describes the concentration of a substance Waste disposal 273 in the air which does not result in any health impairment when a sinNoise abatement 9.5 gle substance is analysed, if an individual is exposed to this for their Polluted sites, soil contamination 8 entire life. Climate protection 1,246 Total 2,002 53 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity  Content materials, such as spent fuel rods, are kept at an intermediate A green bridge was constructed over the German A 61 highway at a storage facility under the supervision of the nuclear regulatory cost of € 4 million. The structure is part of the species protection authorities. concept for the Hambach opencast mine and helps to provide an integrated network of habitats outside the mining excavation area. Water use The main reason for erecting the green bridge was as a crossing aid A top priority for RWE is ensuring that our use of water exerts minifor the bats from Hambach Forest. It provides a route for these parmum impact on natural resources when we supply our thermal power ticularly shy animals to cross the motorway in the protected landplants with cooling water. We also provide the best protection for scapes and nature conservation areas of the Erftal Valley. Bats make aquatic habitats and other ecosystems linked with such habitats use of ultrasound waves for purposes of orientation and they need against adverse effects. Environmental impacts are prevented by trees and bushes growing more closely together than is the case in a methods such as recycling water, more intensive use of pumped motorway corridor so that they can utilise this echolocation system water from opencast mines and using collected rainwater, as well as effectively. The bridge helps the animals to negotiate the space withrecovering and re-using process water from operations. Our internal out any danger. Naturally, other wild animals also benefit from the wastewater treatment and continuous monitoring of the process bridge. ensure that potential contamination is eliminated. We provide verifiable compliance with the statutory threshold values. This enables us Our cooperation with the International Union for Conservation of to avoid negative impacts on nature and human health. Nature (IUCN) was based on the topic of biodiversity management in the context of recultivation of opencast mining extraction areas and Protection and promotion of biodiversity this was successfully completed in the summer of 2015. The final In 2015, we adopted a Biodiversity Policy for the Group. This guidereport compiled by the IUCN describes exemplary approaches by our line establishes how RWE intends to protect and promote biodiverbiodiversity management and also puts forward proposals for sity stewardship as the company carries out its business activities. improvement. We protect species diversity by strategic measures if natural habitats are destroyed by our activities. These include fish ladders at run-ofDuring the course of 2015, we continued our activities for the proriver power stations and the use of technical measures to protect tection of birds in Hungary. In the Bükk National Park, almost 9,000 marine species at offshore wind farms. The same approach continues electricity masts were insulated and some of them were replaced by as we reinstate substitute habitats or facilitate the repopulation of underground cables. The project was financed by capital expenditure existing habitats. We also contribute to the promotion of biodiversity of € 4.2 million. Alongside sponsorship provided by the Environmenthrough the recultivation of mining areas. tal Fund, ÉMÁSZ also made a contribution of € 0.86 million. > RWE Biodiversity Policy > IUCN final report 54 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement  Content COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our role is to be the credible partner at our locations and at national level. We are therefore committed to taking action in many different ways for the benefit of the community. This ranges from providing support for lowincome households, through our in-house education initiatives on the topics of energy and technology, to promotion of volunteering engagement by our employees. RWE Foundation for Reputation Index Energy and the Teaching about energy Donations amounting of Community sponsors in 148 schools with 23.9% to € 58.4 7,233 3.5 projects with € By RWE Companius RWE is supporting of employees volunteer 1.7 employees in helping others since with RWE Companius 2007. In many voluntary projects they points school children million handed over million also take care of those people who had to flee their home countries. 55 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement  Content Challenge Motivation and targets We carry out key functions for energy supply and the employment The challenges of the energy transition can only be solved at the market with our products and services, our capital expenditure, and level of society as a whole. We are the credible partner for this chalalso as an employer. Our mission is to ensure a secure supply of eleclenge and we want to enhance trust in our company within our tricity and gas at all times. Part of that mission is also to provide regional and local environment, as well as within society overall. That jobs. The activities we pursue are dependent on trust and acceptis why we promote social developments through initiatives in social, ance at international, national, regional and local level, particularly in environmental and cultural spheres, with volunteering engagement the districts surrounding our sites. RWE seeks dialogue in order to by RWE employees, by neighbourhood support and through financial create trust. We communicate with groups impacted by the activities assistance. We want to continue strengthening our acceptance in this of our company or groups carrying out activities influencing our busiway and create a profile that is distinct from our competitors. ness operations. We want to know about their positions and respond to their concerns in an appropriate way (p. 29). Monitoring and performance measurement We want to use the resources available effectively and in conformity with our compliance objectives. We have defined the rules for the allocation of resources in our Guideline on Donations and Sponsorship which applies throughout the Group. A standardised annual surDistribution of value added in 2015 (in € million) vey is used to measure the results of our engagement in order to determine the Reputation Index. We apply the results to check the effectiveness of our measures. In 2015, we achieved a score of 58.4 -170 Net income but this still remains below our target score of at least 59.0 points. 5 Dividend payment to shareholders1 4,803 To employees (wages, Our objective is to have achieved this target by 2018. salaries, social security contributions) 454 To other shareholders Action on fuel poverty Value added We help to ameliorate fuel poverty in the countries where we are 2015: 11,391 € million operating – particularly where the government and civil society do 3,454 To lenders 2,845 To the government not provide enough support. Fuel poverty is defined as households (taxes and deductions) which have to spend more than 10% of their net income on energy needs. There are various differences here between the needs and offerings in the individual countries. 1 Dividend proposal for the business year 2015 of RWE AG, subject to a resolution being passed by the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2016. Dividend of € 0 per common share, dividend of € 0.13 per preference share. 56 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement  Content RWE has been cooperating with the Trussell Trust in a number of selves. RWE also helps people affected by cancer who cannot pay communities across the United Kingdom. This is a charity working to their energy bills through its partnership with the non-profit organialleviate poverty and the two organisations have launched the Fuel sation Macmillan Cancer Support in the United Kingdom. Bank Initiative to help vulnerable families which are unable to afford to purchase electricity and gas. The initiative provides vouchers In Hungary, we work together with aid organisations and local worth about € 68 (£ 49) each that can be used to purchase energy authorities in order to help vulnerable customers by providing adviallocations. The vouchers are issued through the organisation Trussory services on energy consumption and pre-paid electricity meters sell Trust Food Banks, which distribute food packages to vulnerable so that they have the capability to control their own costs. We also people. offer lignite to residents living in the vicinity of the Mátra power plant for use as a heating fuel at a reduced price. The Health Through Warmth Programme enables us to support vulnerable people with long-term illnesses who need help to install The Croatian Government has issued a Directive on Energy Poverty. heating and carry out insulation measures, or to repair existing sysOn 1 October 2015, around 60,000 vulnerable households in Croatia tems and appliances, which they cannot afford to fully fund themstarted receiving monthly vouchers to help cover their bills for electricity consumption. As one of the major electricity suppliers in the Croatian market, RWE has given its support to this solution. Corporate volunteering Distribution of projects for RWE Companius according to thematic topic in 2015 We promote volunteering by our employees under the umbrella of in % the group-wide Corporate Volunteering Programme known as RWE Companius. Targeted formats help us to allocate employees to a vol2 Development aid 7 Nature conservation/Landscape preservation unteering role appropriate to their requirements. The Expertise Exchange gives the local community access to the know-how of our 1 Animals 3 Knowledge and skills transfer employees, including on topics such as public relations work and per2 Energy formance audits. In cooperation with the Caritas Association for the 17 Care and support 10 Culture Diocese of Essen, we qualify and make arrangements for employees to act as support mentors for older people. The RWE Companius for18 Sport mat “Kopfverleih” or “Expert Advisor Group” is our way of enabling colleagues to provide advice for non-governmental organisations. 40 Craft activities This year the Expert Advisor Group was integrated in an internal strategy meeting for the first time. Around 75 employees from 15 international RWE companies provided comprehensive advice for 57 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement  Content organisations keen to benefit from this assistance. We also integrate ble, for example in Niederaußem, Essen-Karnap, Weisweiler and Companius projects into commercial training in order to expand the Ibbenbüren. These premises and sites are made available free of expertise of apprentices at RWE. In 2015, a total of more than 2,031 charge. Only the provision and disposal of the facilities is compenemployees dedicated their time to providing assistance on 1,344 prosated on the basis of cost. jects. The amount contributed to these projects totalled € 2 million during the period under review. RWE Education Initiative 3malE “Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to generate Charitable projects in Hungary included giving Christmas presents enthusiasm among young people for energy and technological and donating 1,000 hot meals to vulnerable people there. We also issues. We discuss the energy supply of the future with them under carried out several blood donation campaigns and contributed to this focus. “3malE Education with Energy” bundles the education the Smiling Hospital Project. RWE also provided support for a nonpackages of all RWE companies in Germany. This initiative is intended denominational aid organisation with donations and a 14 kW phototo help young people research, discover and experience energy. Durvoltaic plant so that it could generate its own electricity. ing the year under review, we significantly expanded these packages for children, teenagers, students and teachers. School competitions, Aid for refugees trips, preparation of teaching materials and packages in social media In cooperation with its long-standing community partners, RWE Comare some of the activities making a contribution to communicating panius Volunteering develops projects in the area of aid for refugees. knowledge about topics related to energy in an informative approach. Employees of the entire Group, from apprentices to the executive Another example is a digital game which helps young people to learn management make a commitment to team projects and individual about generating and using renewable energy. In 2015, 492 experiprojects for refugees. In this year alone, 239 employees provided ment kits were loaned to 62 schools and 62 nurseries. 85 RWE employassistance for refugees. They provided support by collecting aid supees were sent into schools as energy ambassadors. Around 600 school plies, worked as language teachers or renovated refugee homes. Refclasses, with more than 1,700 school children, and a large number of ugees in Hungary were helped through the provision of blankets and students paid a visit to the company’s operational locations. opportunities to charge their mobile phones. RWE employees from different companies in Germany took part in a project where they Education initiative in Poland worked together with refugees and local people to establish a Talent In 2013, the RWE Foundation in Poland and the Copernicus Science Workshop. RWE Companius promotes volunteering engagement. Centre (CNK) launched their own educational programme the RWE Power Box. The initiative is based on an innovative approach in which Furthermore, RWE provided refugees with apartments located in forteachers apply modern teaching methods based on experiments when mer villages in the Rhineland lignite mining area which had been they work together with school children. The focus is on important vacated when the people in the villages were resettled. Land in the topics relating to energy generation, storage and use. The system surrounding areas of some power plant sites was also made availaalso gives teachers in schools the opportunity to engage in discus58 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement  Content sions on natural phenomena and sustainable development. The profrom foundations, municipal utilities, administrative districts, the gramme is intended for teachers and children attending elementary Federal Environment Agency and also private individuals. Over the schools and lower grades at secondary schools. course of the year, additional members are expected to join up. The Energy Avant-garde Anhalt has joined forces with partners from In 2015, the third edition of the workshop in the RWE Power Box the region and a supraregional consortium to establish and trial a Programme was held in Warsaw, Szczecin, Lublin, Elbląg, Poznań, regional energy system which will be increasingly based on renew­ Wrocław, Gdańsk, Kraków and Katowice. able energy sources, a decentralised approach and prosumer roles. The Real Laboratory enables the organisation to create an interactive The 1st edition of the RWE Power Box Programme was used at 60 and flexible project structure which gets regional players and elementary schools in Warsaw. 40 educational institutions located national institutions from the public and private sectors around in Malbork and the Suwałki regions participated in the 2nd edition. one table. A total of more than 100 RWE Power Box sets were handed over to schools. Ten thousand school children participated in the two ediDonations and sponsorship tions of the programme. The programme is also being continued in € million in 2016. RWE Foundation for Energy and Community 15 13.3 Since the realignment of the foundation in July 2014, the RWE Foundation for Energy and Community has consistently worked to rede12 fine its profile from primarily a funding institution to a player in the community and a think tank. The RWE Foundation has been able to 9 8.0 significantly expand its scope to provide financial assistance because 6 5.9 5.7 it is now operating as a non-perpetual trust. In addition to the foun5.4 4.5 dation’s income, the endowed assets of € 60 million can now also be 4.0 3.5 used to fund projects. In 2015, the outgoings for sponsoring projects 3 and donations amounted to a total of around € 1.7 million. The “Energy Avant-garde Anhalt: in the Real Laboratory of the Post-fossil 0 Future” is a particularly appropriate example of the new direction. Donations Sponsorship The sponsoring organisation Energy Avant-garde Anhalt (Energie­ avantgarde Anhalt e. V.) was set up with around 20 representatives 2012 2013 2014 2015 59 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers  Content MARKET AND CUSTOMERS Electricity producers and customers have a strong partner in RWE. We are continuously improving our performance in order to ensure that this situation continues. The use of innovative technologies and applications is enabling us to make the lives of our customers easier, to help them save energy and to play a role in structuring a new energy market which has undergone a fundamental transition. Charging grid network More than Customer Loyalty More than More than for electric vehicles Index in Germany at 16.4 7 60,000 with more than 76 points million electricity customers million gas customers energy consultation sessions mediated in 100 municipal utility Making life easier and more comfortable: That’s what RWE SmartHome is assisting with. Heating Germany in 2015 partners and electronic devices can easily be controlled wirelessly. Data protection is guaranteed. 60 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers  Content More than 23.4 million customers trust us to supply them with elecnet-based providers who do not have their own generating capacitricity, gas and heat at any time. We also support them with futureties. This presents us with new challenges. If we are going to retain proof products and services. These include electricity and heat storexisting customers and acquire new ones, we have to provide elecage facilities for domestic households, solutions for saving energy, tricity, gas and heat at fair prices. We also need to convince custombut also service packages for management of their photovoltaic ers about intelligent solutions for efficient and sustainable energy plants and wind-power systems. In parallel to this, we are also continmanagement. Achieving this goal requires us to understand the uously expanding the array of advice we offer, particularly in the area modified requirements of our customers even better and offer new of energy efficiency. bespoke products and services which have been tailored to their requirements. This is why innovation has been given an even higher Challenge profile in the strategic focus of our company (p. 37). Future strategy Energy generation has become more dynamic. Apart from energy will increasingly be about not simply responding to the needs of cusutilities, an increasing number of ordinary citizens, mid-sized compatomers but also about anticipating their aspirations in advance. nies and cooperative ventures are generating electricity and feeding the power into the public grid. The market has also changed in the Motivation and targets consumer retail business. Here we are also in competition with InterWe want our customers to remain loyal, to be interested in new products and to recommend our company to other people. Our stated objective is to be accepted by our customers as a service provider Customer Loyalty Index1 and supplier, and also as a partner who can work with them to create individual solutions. 80 Our usual high level of product quality, fast and streamlined processes and competitive prices continue to remain our top priorities 76 76 75 in this relationship. 73 73 72 Monitoring and performance measurement 71 70 The Customer Loyalty Index provides our method for measuring success. Since 2009, we have been determining this rating uniformly for all retail businesses in Germany and we have also been using the rat65 ing in a similar form for other countries. This indicator is based on surveys conducted among our residential and commercial customers. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 These surveys ask customers whether they want to remain as customers of the relevant RWE company in the future, whether customers 1 Based on residential electricity customers in Germany. 61 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers  Content would recommend RWE to other consumers and whether customers International customer loyalty and satisfaction can also imagine sourcing other such products from RWE. Loyalty is The score for the Customer Loyalty Index for Essent in the Netherrated as low for scores of 70 or less, moderate for scores of 70 to 79 lands was 77, slightly higher than in 2014 (76). The loyalty of our and high for scores above 80. During the year under review, we customers in the Czech Republic remained stable and it is currently achieved a rating of 76 for the Customer Loyalty Index in Germany at an index score of 71. The switch rates came down here over the and this means we retain the score gained in the previous year. We course of 2015. Our score for the Customer Loyalty Index in Poland want to continue to improve and achieve a score of at least 77 in the was 80 in 2015. coming years up to 2018 in spite of the increasing competition. Apart from customer loyalty, we also survey customer satisfaction. The Customer Satisfaction Index for retail electricity customers of RWE Awards for customer service Germany was 77 in 2015. Customer satisfaction in the Netherlands Award RWE company Type of study Awarded by with a score of 85 was marginally higher than in 2014, while it is 63 in the United Kingdom. Customer satisfaction in Belgium improved Second place in the category RWE Vertrieb, Study of gas providers 2015 German Institute for Service of customer service Germany Quality (Deutsches Institut to 86 by comparison with 2014. In the Czech Republic, the segment (score of 1) für Servicequalität, DISQ) average was around 65. The customer satisfaction for our business Second place for electricity, RWE Vertrieb, Web study Energy supply Process Management and residential customers in Hungary was rather higher in 2015 than second place for gas Germany companies 2015 Consulting GmbH in 2014. In Poland, customer satisfaction achieved a score of 79. Rating: Top Performer RWE Vertrieb, Sector analysis imug Beratungsgesellschaft Germany mbH Intelligent home control with SmartHome RWE SmartHome is a wireless-based home control system offering Best value for money Eprimo, Germany Ranking YouGov (energy supplier) a value-for-money and uncomplicated entry into the Internet of Things. RWE SmartHome can network building technology and Best website in the energy Essent, Netherlands Regular study of consumer Website benchmarker WUA! currently about 30 household appliances into a smart home. Over sector experience when looking for a new energy supplier the course of 2015, the system was also continuously developed and supplemented by new components. Data from the Netatmo Best business partner in the Essent, Netherlands Survey carried out among weather station enables fans, roller shutters and electrical applienergy sector readers of the magazine ances to be controlled automatically. The Energy Control read-out Management Team who are unit is another new component which enables conventional electricresponsible for purchasing ity meters to be integrated in the RWE SmartHome. This allows elecenergy as part of their job tricity consumption to be tracked by smart phone and controlled in Customer Friendly Company RWE Poland Investigation of customer Management Obser­vatory this way. service Foundation 62 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers  Content Data security and data protection are a top priority for RWE in this rate charges and is incremental on the basis of consumption. Cusprocess. The security concept of RWE SmartHome ranges from tomers are allocated a flat-rate amount for the next twelve months encoded communication between the appliances, through the RWE on the basis of consumption in the previous year. If a customer conIT back-end, to the safe online shop. Data security was confirmed sumes more electricity, it is not necessary to pay a supplement but by independent institutions, such as the Association for Electrical, the account is regraded to a higher increment for the following year. Electronic and IT Technologies (VDE), the independent testing On the other hand, thrifty households are rewarded with a bonus. organisation for IT safety AV-Test, and the TÜViT technical inspectorate. Individual energy services for residential customers We are helping our customers to identify potential energy savings Flat rate for green electricity and make the most of them. Examples of these offers include energy RWE Vertrieb is offering the first flat rate for green electricity in Gerconcepts, provision of advice on reducing energy use and building many. This has been undergoing a field test in Hannover since the analyses. Anybody interested can also find out on the Internet about beginning of September 2015. This rate is made up of various flatissues such as building insulation, promotion measures for energybased refurbishment and particularly efficient household appliances. We use our network of professional energy advisors to provide advice for residential customers in Germany. RWE solar weeks > www.energiewelt.de (German) Our customers in Hungary have access to two energy advice cenDuring the first half of the year, RWE strategitres and we also provide information on the Internet about options cally promoted entry into photovoltaics and for saving energy. We also offer energy audits for households under storage of solar electricity within the framethe enHome brand. enHome has been able to position itself as marwork of its Solar Weeks (Solarwochen). It ket leader in retail business and construction of photovoltaic syscooperated with local professional installers tems for residential households in Hungary. to offer solar packages. Customers provided photos of their house and received advice free Similarly, we give assistance to our customers in the Czech Republic of charge. RWE clarified any data relevant for by helping them to reduce their energy consumption. Customers the house and electricity consumption, and are able to use the website setrimenergii.cz (“I save energy”) to then provided a bespoke offer for the installaanalyse the different consumers in their household and compare tion of a photovoltaic system. the saving measures with other customers. 63 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers  Content Individual energy services for commercial customers Joint-ventures and packages in the area of electromobility We offer our commercial customers an energy controlling system in In the area of electromobility, we are focusing on the establishment Germany. This allows them to strategically increase their energy effiand sale of charging infrastructure and mobility services, and on netciency. The process encompasses recording the relevant data relating working existing technologies in the everyday world. RWE operates to the consumption of electricity, heat energy and water, and evaluamany thousands of charging stations and it is one of the leading tion by presentation of the potential savings and concrete recomEuropean providers and operators of charging infrastructure. More mendations for action. than 100 municipal utility partners have joined forces with RWE to provide the biggest public charging network in Germany. In order to increase energy efficiency and reduce energy costs in companies, RWE also offers planning, finance, construction and operAs a technology supplier, RWE has acquired major partners and cusation of advanced combined heat and power energy plants for tomers, including discounter ALDI Süd which offers its customers energy consumers in Germany with high requirements for heat and charging facilities without any payment at around 50 locations. The electricity. We support the operators of plants for electricity generaenergy is generated at the individual sites by photovoltaic systems tion using renewable energies with cost-optimised feed-in of the located on the roofs of the supermarkets at each branch. electricity they generate to the public grid. A package has also been developed to enable customers of RWE to Commercial customers in Hungary have access to our EnergiaNet charge their car at home. This comprises a photovoltaic system with online portal for optimising their energy consumption. energy management and solar power storage. RWE carried out a study in cooperation with the Association of Czech The ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group in Hungary operates the country’s most Small and Mid-sized Enterprises (SME). The result demonstrated that comprehensive eMobility charging infrastructure grid. In 2015, the although a large number of companies measure their energy consystem was bolstered by another DC fast-charge device at Budapest sumption they do not pursue active energy management. RWE has Airport. strategic offers of advice geared towards optimising the energy consumption of small and mid-sized companies. 64 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers  Content INTERVIEW DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY Data are extremely important for the transition in the European energy sector as well as for the megatrend of digitisation. How does RWE guarantee the security of data? Our Editorial Team talked to Florian Haacke, Head of Group Security RWE AG, and Uwe Bargmann, Head of Group Data Protection RWE AG. Many RWE products are based on networking appliances and the How are the issues of data protection and IT security dealt with in analysis of consumption data. How are security and data protection the Big Data lighthouse project? guaranteed here? BARGMANN: Group Data Protection has been supporting the project BARGMANN: The requirements for protecting information have right from the beginning. Personal information is often not necessary changed significantly. This presents new challenges not just for RWE. at all. A good example of this is provided by the SmartHome applicaThat is why all new products are checked for legal, technical and tions of RWE. We regularly check our protection measures for techniFlorian Haacke, organisational compliance. In order to protect the private sphere of cal status and connection data. We also adopt a critical approach to Head of Group Security RWE AG the customer, we use comprehensible data protection declarations, our processes and in some cases go beyond the industry standard. effective consents and technologies for anonymisation, pseudonimisation and encryption. Outsourcing and cloud computing are leading to a distribution of our data to different places with access opportunities for different It seems that the competition for customers is likely to be won by the service providers. What requirements do you have to take account particular energy provider who takes the smartest approach to using of here? data. How is RWE making use of customers’ data? HAACKE: As one of the first DAX groups, we have developed a Cloud HAACKE: The winning provider will generate the greatest value added Security Policy for ourselves and our partner companies. In many for its customers. Group Security and Group Data Protection join cases, we also have to consider the transmission of personal data together with the specialist departments to identify the relevant to non-EU countries. Service providers for service and support often data. Our aim is to create transparency for the processing of customhave their registered office in countries with an inadequate level Uwe Bargmann, Head of Group Data ers’ data. The trust of the customer becomes a differentiating comof data protection. This means that an appropriate level of data Protection RWE AG petitive factor particularly in the case of retail business. protection has to be achieved by means of technical and organisational measures. A method of risk assessment was worked out to The interview was conducted by Franziska Klapper, achieve this. RWE Corporate Responsibility 65 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees  Content EMPLOYEES RWE needs to adapt to the new framework conditions in the energy economy. Organisational changes are inevitable in this process. We intend to structure the cultural change responsibly and in close communication with our employees. If we are to create a working environment which will enable us to remain an attractive employer, we are dependent on the key elements of flexibility and diversity. Motivation Index at Demography Index at 2,339 Number of employees 15.2% 72.4 points 82.5 points apprenticeship places at 50 sites remained virtually constant proportion of women in management The new standards for RWE’s future working practices are being defined in the programme positions1 New Way of Working (NWoW). About 17,000 employees are currently being trained in the new working methods. 1 Comprises the top four management levels 66 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees  Content Challenge We also use the Demography Index as the second indicator in the area The RWE Group continues to be confronted by the biggest chalfor action Employees. This indicator provides a method of assessing lenges in the history of the company. And our human resource policy the age structure of the employees in the company. In 2015, the is no exception. Restructuring operations and organisational realignDemography Index was 82.5 points. As the value of the index ments are unavoidable as far as we are concerned. New areas of busiapproaches 100, the age structure within the Group becomes more ness have been built up, while the number of employees is stagnatbalanced. By 2018, we intend to achieve a score of at least 84 points. ing or declining with others. The number of employees in our workforce (expressed in full-time jobs or full-time equivalents, FTE) Group-wide job market remained virtually constant with 59,784 at the end of 2014 comChange in employment driven by the energy transition entails a farpared to 59,762 at the end of 2015. reaching restructuring of the workforce. In April 2015, our central SWITCH Job Platform was therefore launched as a dedicated business Motivation and targets unit with group-wide focus. SWITCH offers an overview of vacant jobs We are organising necessary restructuring measures, reallocations of within the Group, supports recruitment to posts from the vacancy human resources and a reduction in the overall number of jobs in a notice to the appointment, helps employees to recalibrate their career, socially responsible and ethical approach. The process involves ongoachieve further qualifications and mediates new jobs for them as necing conversations with employee representatives throughout the essary. SWITCH is also building up its own employee base which can Group and with union representatives. We are structuring our work be booked for projects in other areas over a limited period of time. culture together with our employees in order to remain competitive and attractive. In this process, we believe it is important for us to Cultural change in the company maintain the engagement and motivation of our employees at all The growing business pressure being exerted on the RWE Group and times even though the framework conditions have become tougher. the changes occurring in the energy market present us with challenges which necessitate a cultural change at our company. We have Monitoring and performance measurement therefore initiated an array of different programmes in order to make We have defined the Motivation Index as a benchmark for measuring this a reality. the engagement and motivation of our employees. This is recorded in a staff survey carried out across the entire Group. This index is Our objective is to establish new mindsets and new ways of working integrated as a performance indicator in the calculation of the variawithin the Group. The programme New Way of Working (NWoW) has ble compensation paid to the Executive Board of RWE. During the been designed to achieve this. We are defining new standards for our year under review 2015, the index had a value of 72.4 points. We working practices, promoting the skills of our employees and develhave therefore already reached our target value of 72.2 for 2017. oping a common working culture in the three areas of leadership and alignment, universal process management, and operational excellence. We are also analysing functions, processes and methods of 67 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees  Content working in different areas of the Group and initiating any changes talented young people to work at RWE. We use a range of different required, for example we are improving internal cooperation and tools to make contact with them including our Online Career Portal implementing a more robust feedback culture. Our intention is to and our Applicant Academy where we advise graduates, school chiluse these and other measures to enhance customer satisfaction dren and people with career experience. The aim is to help them and improve the financial result. make a start on the career ladder in the world of work or change jobs. We focus our on-site activities on selected universities in Germany At the moment, around 200 NWoW experts are currently working and abroad, as well as offering personal interviews. We also provide on a total of 20 projects for rolling out the concept more extensively around 2,400 young people with a high-quality apprenticeship trainin the Group. Alongside 70 employees at Group Headquarters, 130 ing in 30 different training vocations encompassing industrial, techlocal experts are working in the companies. Some 17,000 colleagues nical and commercial fields. In addition, we also offer twin-track are now being trained in new working practices. degree courses incorporating practical and in-service training modules within the course structure. We continue to carry out training Appeal as an employer and training that extends beyond our own specific needs and this gives a large We will only be able to continue mastering the future challenges prenumber of young people an opportunity to enter the job market. sented in the energy business by having professional and dedicated employees and managers. Our aim is therefore to continue recruiting We have been using the initiative: “I can do this” (Ich pack’ das) for a long time to provide support for teenagers and young adults who have not yet been able to gain an apprenticeship place although Development of the Motivation index1 they have successfully completed education at school. Since the programme was launched, more than 1,000 participants have benefited 75 from the one-year entry-level foundation qualification. 80% of them have gone on to obtain an apprenticeship place afterwards. 72.4 71.3 71.1 Diversity and equal opportunity 70.3 70.7 70 70 Diversity represents an opportunity for cultural change in our company and it improves our routine work every day. Taking advantage 68 of this opportunity involves us in promoting the careers of women, integrating people with disabilities, fostering intercultural exchange within the Group and getting the work-life balance right between 65 career and family. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Changing rhythm: Companies have been determining the Motivation Index since 2011 every three years. Group values as moving averages. 68 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees  Content We established the Inclusive Culture Focus Group in our subsidiary Group was 15.2% (2014: 14.3%). In order to comply with the new companies with the aim of promoting diversity among our employstatutory regulation in Germany, we have defined targets for the proees. The objective is also to design measures through discussions, portion of women in Supervisory Boards and management bodies for which will be able to continue strengthening integrative corporate RWE AG and all our subsidiary companies affected by the legislation. culture throughout the Group. Participants include men and women As far as RWE AG is concerned, this means achieving a percentage of from different origins, religion and sexual orientation, and any indiwomen on the Supervisory Board amounting to a minimum of 30% viduals with and without disabilities. by 2017. In future, at least one position on the Executive Board of RWE AG should be occupied by a woman. Our ambition is to achieve Increasing the proportion of women a proportion of women amounting to 25% at the first management Our original aim was to increase the overall proportion of women in level below the Executive Board and a proportion of 30% at the secmanagement positions to 22% by 2018. However, this has become ond level below the Executive Board. Three women are currently too ambitious a goal in view of the sustained restructuring measures. members of the 20-strong Supervisory Board of RWE AG and two of We have therefore redefined the target as 17%. By the end of 2015, these are elected by the employees. During the year under review, the proportion of women in management positions throughout the the Executive Board did not have a woman representative. 69 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain  Content SUPPLY CHAIN As globalisation of markets continues apace, national borders also lose their relevance for trade in energy sources. However, internationally binding standards for environmental protection, human rights and occupational safety have hardly been established. Companies like RWE are therefore being challenged by their stakeholders to exert influence on suppliers through their procurement policy. € 6.8 billion for standard 99.4% of the purchasing Sustainable Biomass Partnership publishes Combustion fuels procured for 12 In order to guarantee environmental € 8.2 standard in March self and site and socially sustainable methods of goods, services and volume is subject to 2015 assessments available cultivation and production of biomass, power-station sustainability RWE is using the new industrial standbillion through Bettercoal components requirements ard of the Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP). 70 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain  Content Challenge chasing decision. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact, our RWE purchases a large proportion of its combustion fuels in global Code of Conduct and other detailed guidelines form the basis for wholesale markets. This also applies to many goods and services. these requirements. Our stakeholders expect us to purchase these products from companies which observe compliance with human rights, offer workers Monitoring and performance measurement reasonable working conditions and operate effective environmental We use the proportion of the purchase volume subject to the requireprotection. ments of our Code of Conduct as a constituent element of the contractual relationship in the form of the key performance indicator (KPI) Motivation and targets and indicator for target attainment in the area for action of Supply In cooperation with our suppliers, we intend to go beyond the statuChain. This proportion should be at least 98% of our purchasing voltory requirements relating to compliance and promotion of internaume. Our target here is complete coverage of our purchasing volume. tional environmental and social standards for procurement. All supDuring the year under review, the degree of coverage was 99.4%. pliers of RWE should understand and take account of the relevant international environmental and social standards, and other detailed Sourcing energy commodities and trading requirements as necessary. We therefore include information about Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard coal how our suppliers comply with sustainability requirements in our purand natural gas, as well as trading in combustion fuels (p. 7). Raw materials are traded as standardised products with defined quality attributes on international virtual wholesale markets. These markets are the most important source of procurement. Trading is carried out Hard coal by supply countries 2015 along standardised processes with the involvement of a large numin % ber of market players. Before we take physical ownership of the raw materials, they have often changed ownership several times in the 3.4 Poland virtual market after they were first offered for sale by the producers. 3.8 Other Generally, it is only possible for us to identify the immediate upstream 8.2 South Africa 25.1 Russia owner, but the precise geographical origin of the raw material is not 9.8 USA known. There are therefore only direct supplier relationships to a limited extent between RWE and the producers. This means we have vir13.5 Germany tually no opportunities to exert any direct pressure on production 19.8 Colombia conditions. 16.3 United Kingdom 71 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain  Content Review of trading partners joined forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the We review all potential trading partners for energy commodities Bettercoal initiative. By the end of 2015, twelve of the biggest Eurobefore we enter into any business relationships with them. Our Counpean energy companies were already members of Bettercoal. The terparty Risk Assessment (CPRA) provides helpful assistance in carryDutch ports also joined the initiative as associate members. ing out this review. We undertake a standardised, multistage process to check international databases and information systems to see The first inspection of a coal mine by independent auditors was carwhether any misconduct is known in relation to the ten principles of ried out in Columbia in 2014. On the basis of the results, an improvethe UN Global Compact or our Code of Conduct. Since 2014, we have ment process was agreed with clear targets and deadlines. At the been taking account of the information garnered in the Bettercoal end of 2015, another inspection took place and confirmed the impleInitiative. The number of our accredited trading partners fluctuates mentation of the agreed measures. Bettercoal uses a central dataand is generally between 1,500 and 2,500. The purchasing volume base to provide its member companies with the results of the audits procured through wholesale markets amounted to around € 8.2 bilor the outcomes of self-assessments by the mines. The names of the lion in 2015. mines which have undergone a self-assessment or an on-site audit are regularly listed on the Bettercoal website – provided that the Requirements for procurement of hard coal mines agree to publication. At the end of 2015, 12 mines had been Our goal is to ensure sourcing of hard coal in the necessary amounts recorded in this way. They cover the key potential supplier countries and to the required quality while at the same time monitoring envifor Europe. In the summer of 2015, Bettercoal published its first ronmental and social standards in our supply chain. In 2015, we annual report. imported around 57% of our hard coal from countries which are not > Bettercoal members of the OECD. When Germany ceases production of hard coal after 2018, the country will be completely dependent on the Implementation of commitment import of this combustion fuel. At the end of 2014, the Dutch utility companies, including RWE subsidiary company Essent, and the Dutch government signed a Bettercoal Initiative declaration of commitment for improvements in the international Acting alone as an individual company, RWE can only exert a very production and procurement of hard coal. An initial progress report limited impact on compliance with standards in occupational safety, was published at the end of 2015. It presents the progress that employment relations and environmental protection in the supply energy utilities and government institutions made during the year chain for hard coal. Cooperating with other energy companies is under review. One of the core elements is the Bettercoal initiative. absolutely essential in order to be in a position to exert more presThe report and further steps to be taken for the year 2016 were sure and achieve sustainable production conditions. In 2012, we discussed in a stakeholder dialogue. 72 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain  Content Requirements for the procurement of biomass An initial appraisal of potential suppliers based on a self-assessment In order to be able to establish biomass as a sustainable alternative helps us to gather additional information on the issues of environto fossil fuels, environmental and socially ethical conditions must be mental protection, occupational safety and compliance. During the guaranteed for the methods of cultivation and production. Certifiyear under review, 285 suppliers were assessed on the issue of envicates are used for this in order to guarantee compliance with sustainronmental protection and 3,362 on occupational safety. Regular ability aspects along the entire supply chain for the wood pellets reviews are carried out for all suppliers to verify conformity with imported by us. Up until the end of 2015, we applied the Green Gold potential compliance risks and we also carry out reconciliations with Label (GGL) for certification. In future, we will use the new industrial the Black List maintained by the World Bank and with the sanctions standard of the Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP) for this purlists drawn up by the EU. When any problems occur in the course of a pose. The reference standard was published in March 2015. Up to business relationship, we address the matter with our suppliers and now, the United Kingdom and Denmark have acknowledged the SBP work together with them to achieve improvements jointly. Standard as being compliant with the national sustainability criteria. During the first half of 2016, this should also be confirmed in the Around 11,900 suppliers are registered in our supplier portfolio, Netherlands in the course of an official proceeding by the authorities 330 of them are of particular strategic importance. We are in regular, there. Over the coming months, the standard will be continuously close contact with these specific suppliers. The purchasing volume improved and this process will have been published by the end of for goods, services and for plant components was € 6.8 billion in 2016. 2015. > Sustainable Biomass Partnership Sourcing goods, services and plants Our uniform Group reference standard is the tool we use to monitor the purchase of goods, services and plant components for the oper­ ation, maintenance and new-build of our plants. Direct business relationships we have with individual suppliers and service providers mean that we can include our Code of Conduct as an addendum and constituent element of each contract. This enables us to communicate a clearly defined specification of our expectations for our suppliers and service providers. 73 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain  Content INTERVIEW RWE AS A SUPPLIER Wacker Chemie requires registration by EcoVadis for their important suppliers, including RWE. EcoVadis offers Wacker Chemie and other industrial concerns a method of scoring that can be applied to the supplier base in relation to sustainability. What are the consequences if a supplier cannot or does not want to provide verification? Our Editorial Team talked to Jochen Lediger, Senior Procurement Manager of Wacker Chemie AG. What is the importance of sustainability for Wacker? better evaluation of suppliers. We expect transparency in the indusLEDIGER: Wacker Chemie AG has made sustainability a top priority for try for sustainability aspects across the different stages of the value corporate governance for a long time. Participation of Wacker in two chain, which will ultimately contribute to an improvement in the comglobal initiatives provides the platform: Responsible Care® of the munity. Our commitment and our interest is directed towards using chemical industry and the Global Compact of the United Nations. In this engagement to exert a positive impact on the social, environ2015, Wacker joined the company initiative “Together for Sustainabilmental and economic aspects of the communities we are associated ity” in order to strengthen the issue of sustainability in its global supwith. ply chain. The objective of this initiative is to evaluate suppliers in Jochen Lediger, accordance with sustainability criteria in an audit or a self-assessWas good performance at EcoVadis one of the key factors for the Senior Procurement Manager of ment and to work together on the potential for possible improveselection of RWE as an energy supplier? Wacker Chemie AG ments. Participation in the programme is voluntary for suppliers but LEDIGER: RWE has been an important supplier to Wacker Chemie AG there are advantages for both sides. for various products in the electricity market in Germany over a very long period of time. Our internal supplier evaluation will therefore be Why is a sustainable supply chain relevant for Wacker? regularly used to compare RWE with other suppliers. RWE complied LEDIGER: Overall, we believe it is important for the evaluation of our with another criterion in this supplier evaluation by participating in suppliers to exert a beneficial effect on the entire value chain in the the company initiative Together for Sustainability and in particular its chemicals industry. Naturally, we expect risks to be minimised for the willingness to complete the EcoVadis questionnaire. Naturally, a company because we will be in a better position to achieve an even good performance rating is also a key factor for us. 74 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain  Content INTERVIEW What sustainability aspects relating to energy generation are Will you also be considering delistings for poor performance ratings assessed by Ecovadis? in future or will you be working towards achieving more sustainable LEDIGER: The questionnaire from EcoVadis covers all the key aspects behaviour from suppliers? for evaluation of a company on the basis of sustainability criteria. LEDIGER: In future, this appraisal will be included in our supplier evalEach individual questionnaire is nuanced for different groups of supuation. We have established a process for all our key suppliers in our pliers, depending on their size and the focus of the particular comprocurement of raw materials. This highlights potential for improvepany. The focuses for energy suppliers are on the aspects of environments and permits joint tracking together with the supplier. These ment/climate, management processes and governance. possibilities for potential improvement also include sustainability aspects. Of course, it is important to us that we work together with strong partners who like us represent the core values in compliance with the Global Compact and Responsible Care®. Suppliers also need to implement the values within their companies and make them a living reality. Our view of RWE is that the company is on a good trajectory. The interview was conducted by Dr Marita Hilgenstock, RWE Corporate Responsibility 75 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management  Content OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT The safety, the health and the work ability of our employees and the employees of our partner companies are extremely important at RWE. This objective involves us in continuously improving our workplace safety management in cooperation with our partner companies, as well as carrying out measures for healthcare promotion. In the Safety Team experts of RWE and partner companies are working together for the improvement of occupational safety. Through the concept the accident rate of subcontractors could be reduced again by one third during the second year of the project. Reduction of the Around accident rate by an Current LTIF is 4 average of 22,600 Group-wide health ratio at 2.2 fatal occupational accidents 15% each year during the responses to the Work Ability Index 95.1% (WAI) in Germany past ten years 76 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management  Content Challenge health of our staff. We believe that this is a particularly important Our employees and the employees of our partner companies often task in times of change within the company, which are also accompacarry out their assignments at workplaces with special requirements nied by uncertainties. for occupational health and safety. In particular, these include activities in the area of opencast mining, in technical areas at our power Motivation and targets plants, and at transmission lines or wind turbines. As an employer, Our aim is to achieve a uniformly high level of occupational health and we take our responsibilities very seriously and minimise the risks of safety by developing standards. This ambition is fostered by carrying accidents and health hazards. Alongside retaining the physical health out needs-based prevention campaigns focusing on accident prevenor our employees, we also have a duty to look after the mental tion. Our objective is to promote the health of our workforce, as well as preventing all accidents and work-related health hazards relating to our employees and colleagues working with partner companies. Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF)1 Monitoring and performance management The key performance indicator we use for occupational safety is the 5 5 number of accidents with the loss of at least one day of work for every one million hours worked (Lost Time Incident Frequency, LTIF). 4 4 4 In the reporting year 2015, we succeeded in maintaining the number of occupational accidents at a uniformly good level and achieved an 3 2.8 2.8 LTIF of 2.2. We intend to reduce this level to 1.8 by 2018. 3 2.3 2.3 2.2 2 A Health and Safety Index (H&S Index) was determined in the staff survey for the first time in 2015. It reflects the cultural development 1 1 in the field of safety at RWE. In the long term, the H&S Index will be used to document progress in the development of the health 0 and safety culture over the years in relation to team orientation and 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 coaching. In 2015, the Health and Safety Index (H & S Index) was 71.5. Fatal occupational accidents1 We also measure the progress in healthcare management on the Occupational and commuting accidents2 basis of annual indicators such as the health ratio or the Work Ability 1 Including reports known to us submitted by employees of partner companies (subcontractors). Index (WAI). In 2015, the health ratio was 95.1% (2014: 95.4%) in 2 Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents with at least one day of absence from the RWE Group. work for each 1 million hours worked); occupational accidents from 2012 including reports known to us from partner companies (subcontractors). 77 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management  Content We very much regret to have to report that four fatal occupational appropriate funds for implementing the project and pursuing the accidents occurred in 2015. The causes of these accidents are being goal of developing the health and safety culture in a sustainable investigated by international accident analysis teams. On the basis of approach. the results of the analyses carried out by our specialist experts, we are taking action together with our partner companies to adopt suitOccupational safety with partner companies able measures for preventing similar accidents of this nature in the The concept of the Safety Team is implemented within the framework future. of workplace safety management throughout the RWE Group. Experts from RWE and partner companies work together in teams to Anchoring at management level improve workplace safety in all areas of the companies involved. The In 2015, Health and Safety Culture Development was launched in the Safety Team proved to be successful especially in the pilot sector of RWE Group. This project analyses and develops the issues of health Süwag in 2015. The accident rate of partner companies had already and occupational safety for the first time within the framework of been reduced by 50% during the first year of the project and it fell cultural development. The aim of the project is to increase the health again by one third during the second year. Based on this success the ratio sustainably and reduce the LTIF rate. This was implemented by Safety Teams is now increasingly to be installed group-wide. starting three processes in parallel: Excellent occupational safety QQ Managers come together with employees in order to discuss the In 2015, an RWE company was awarded the German Workplace issues of health and occupational safety in concrete terms and in Safety Prize for the second time in succession. RWE’s subsidiary coma joint forum. The prime aim is to bring down the level of pany Süwag and its Safety Team were awarded the prize in the cateabsences linked to motivation, reduce mental stress and physical gory of Organisational Solutions at large companies. The workplace burdens, and prevent accidents from happening in the first place. safety prize is awarded every two years and is presented at the QQ Furthermore, relationships in the workplace and autonomous world’s biggest specialist forum for workplace safety and occuparesponsibility of employees are discussed together with line tional safety in Dusseldorf. managers. Moreover, the employees are given the opportunity of integrating the issue of health into employee discussions, during In the Czech Republic, RWE received the highest award as a Health inspections and at meetings. Promoting Company from the Institute for Public Health. A sevenQQ As a third measure, best practices from individual companies are point programme allows every employee to monitor their own health. recorded and transferred to other companies. The package includes mobile diagnostic instruments located directly at workplaces and benefits with service providers in the healthcare The project was launched in January 2015. In the meantime, more sector. than 800 managers have been trained in 35 workshops and approximately 300 experts in ten workshops. The Group is providing the 78 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management  Content Expansion of Operational Healthcare Management number of measures including the Work Ability Index (WAI) to record Since June 2015, international management and coordination in the employees’ performance and ability to carry out their work. This is area of health has been carried out in the Centre of Expertise Health. based on the subjective assessments by the employees in our workThe centre bundles the issues of occupational medicine, healthcare force and it records the extent to which they are in a position to carry management, social counselling service and emergency medicine. out their work satisfactorily at the present time and in the future. An important focus is provided by raising the awareness of effective At the end of 2015, 70% of the employees in our German companies handling of stress and career workload. We have developed a moduwere recorded in the index (2014: 70%). By the end of 2015, a total lar package on the issue of resilience as part of the training package of 22,600 questionnaires had been completed for the index. offered by Operational Healthcare Management (OHM). We use a 79 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply  Content SECURITY OF SUPPLY One of our central functions is to provide an uninterrupted and affordable supply of electricity, gas and heat to our customers. RWE produces and procures the necessary raw materials for producing energy, and constructs and operates renewable and conventional plants for generation of electricity. It also deploys innovative solutions for the modernisation and maintenance of our distribution grids. RWE is one of the major distribution system operators in Germany. 13.4 minutes fault-based One of the biggest operators of distribution grids in Germany with Gas distribution grid of 48,000 0.6 minutes fault-based Award for the projects AmpaCity, Grid4EU, Already now the RWE grids are taking up lage amounts of electricity from renewable energies and non-availability of the electricity grid in Germany in 2014 331,000 km in Germany and 63,875 km in the Czech Republic non-availability of the gas grid in Germany in 2014 Smart Country and Power to Gas are distributing it in the urban and industrial consumption centres. 80 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply  Content Comparison of grid outages per year and customer Challenge in minutes The expansion and integration of renewable energies and decentralised generating units present continuously increasing demands for 500 the performance of distribution grids and conventional power plants. 476.1 Securing the supply of energy under these conditions is a challenge 450 that we are having to deal with in Germany and in our other markets. 427.7 400 Motivation and targets 376.1 We want to guarantee our customers a secure and affordable supply 358.0 of electricity and gas continuously and at all times. In order to 350 achieve this goal, we have defined our target as restricting power 300 180 outages in Germany to a maximum of 15 minutes per customer each year. The dependable availability of our power plants and secure supOutage times min/year ply with fuels for combustion are crucial factors as far as we are con174.6 cerned. We also want to guarantee security of supply for the genera120 170 tion and distribution of energy as the further expansion of renewable 100 102.4 energies continues. In 2015, we connected another 7,000 renewable 93.6 97.0 89 energy plants to our distribution grid. A total of 315,000 plants are 80 91 77.5 feeding into our grids. 75.7 76.3 74.0 66.0 65.4 74.6 Monitoring and performance assessment 60 69.0 62.1 64.0 We use the number of minutes of power outages that occur for each 60.1 58.9 40 52.1 52.4 customer and year as the key performance indicator in the area of security of supply (System Average Interruption Index, SAIDI). In 2014, 20 21.9 we succeeded in continuing to provide a largely uninterrupted supply 18.1 17.1 15.7 13.4 of electricity and gas for our customers. Fault-based non-availability 14.9 15.3 15.9 15.3 12.3 for the electricity distribution grid in Germany amounted to an aver0 age of 13.4 minutes for each customer in 2014. This value for non2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 availability had still been 15.7 minutes in 2013. The average nonavailability for the gas supply resulting from faults in Germany was  WE distribution grid Germany R RWE distribution grid Hungary (Elmű) RWE distribution grid Average for Germany1 RWE distribution grid Hungary (Émász) Poland 0.59 minutes for each customer and year in 2014, compared with Average for Hungary2 Average for Poland 1 Source: German Federal Network Agency (2014)  2 Source: Council of European Energy Regulators (2014) * The data for the year 2015 were not available when this report went to press. 81 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply  Content 0.46 minutes in 2013. The energy sources necessary for secure operWeather-dependent and seasonal electricity production from renew­ ation of our power plants were available continuously throughout able plants takes place primarily in rural settings. It requires newly 2015. sized energy distribution grids and a more dynamic load management. Today, our distribution grids already accept large amounts of Initiatives and projects electricity generated from wind and solar energy, and biogas, and Conventional power plants are still necessary to provide secure and distribute this in municipal and industrial centres of high demand. reliable electricity supply in spite of the further expansion of renewaSince the expansion of renewable energies is on an upward trajecble energies. The fluctuating availability of wind and solar plants tory, we will tailor our electricity and natural-gas grids even more to means that gaps in supply could regularly occur without these the local feed-ins from the grid subscribers. sources of electricity. The conventional RWE power plants therefore make a significant contribution to security of supply. Over the past Proactive Distribution Grid several years, we have invested in the flexibility of our lignite-fired The demonstration project for the Proactive Distribution Grid operpower stations so that we are even better able to respond to the ated by RWE and Westnetz GmbH describes the changing role of a fluctuations. The focus of this capital expenditure was on digitisation distribution grid operator towards more organisational capability. of control technology in order to increase the load change rate and The project involves developing and testing technical solutions which to reduce the minimum load point. We have increased quick-start enable the operator to deal with grid bottlenecks by calling on flexicapability in our gas-fired power stations. As an example, the combility in the market. This method is significantly more cost effective bined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power station in Lingen (Germany) compared with a conventional grid structure. An important element only requires 45 minutes to reach 540 MW from a cold start. This is of the project is developing rules for coordination between grid and defining new benchmarks. market, and their prototypical implementation. A communication and service platform is being worked out as the technological base in Our power plants are available to the transmission system operators order to facilitate more efficient load management by permitting pro(TSO) for so-called redispatch measures in order to minimise the vision of new system services from the distribution grid. Against the loads placed on the grid as a result of electricity supplied to custombackground of the generally local feed-in from renewable energies ers. In future, the security standby of lignite-fired power stations will and other small systems into the distribution grids, measures like this be available to provide a backup of last resort for a limited period of provide a potential solution for operating grids with high penetration tim (p. 41 ff.). of renewable energies without having to engage in a comprehensive expansion of the grid. Adequate power plant capacities are available at any time to cover the exceptionally rare case of a blackout. These have their own supply for starting up and they are on standby to restore the grid. 82 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply  Content Power to Gas situated in Wettringen, Münsterland, is particularly effective and ecoStorage systems are gaining increasing importance in order to comnomical, since it avoids what would otherwise be a need to create a pensate for natural fluctuations caused by the steadily increasing grid today until a large-scale restriction of the grid is implemented. proportion of renewable energies used to generate electricity. We The mobility of the storage can be used in order to solve temporary need to develop new technologies so that we are able to store large grid problems in other regions on the basis of this application case. quantities of surplus electricity over longer periods of time as necessary. In 2015, RWE started also up operation of a power-to-gas Awards for intelligent grids plant for this purpose in Ibbenbüren, North Rhine-Westphalia. The In 2015, KlimaExpo.NRW conferred an award on the RWE AmpaCity advanced plant is the centrepiece of a system solution used for the model project which uses a superconductor to enable transmission of first time, which links up local supply of electricity, natural gas and electric current virtually without any resistance at all. This technology district heating to a storage chain. The plant converts surplus eleccould render innercity transformer substations superfluous in the tricity generated from renewable energies into hydrogen. This can future. RWE Germany also received the German Innovation Prize for subsequently be stored as natural gas. The energy stored in this way Climate and the Environment 2015 (IKU) for its AmpaCity model procan then be used for conversion to heat or for energy generation at ject in the category of “Environmentally Friendly Technology”. any subsequent point in time. The advantage offered by this type of > AmpaCity electricity storage is being able to use the energy infrastructure that is already available today with powerful grids and very large storage The RWE Grid4EU project also received an award. This involves opticapacities. The plant in Ibbenbüren is the most efficient power-to-gas mising the technology of existing medium-voltage grids such that plant in Germany with an efficiency of energy use amounting to 86%. they respond more dynamically and flexibly to the fluctuating feed-in The plant received an award from KlimaExpo.NRW saluting it as an of electricity from renewable energies. In 2015, the Grid4EU project engine of progress for environmental protection. gained the Award of Excellence from the International Smart Grid Action Network (ISGAN). Grid-supportive battery storage systems > Grid4EU RWE launched the trial operation of a pilot plant for a grid-supportive battery storage system in 2015. The use of storage systems like this RWE Germany was also granted the Green Tec Award 2015 for its is particularly effective where grids have not yet been specifically Smart Country model project. This is one of the most important envidesigned for their new functions, for example in the case of large ronmental and business prizes for the “Energy” category in Europe. quantities of local feed-in of electricity from photovoltaic plants or Smart Country delivers knowledge and solutions demonstrating how wind power. These storage systems can take excess energy out of the challenges confronting electricity supply in rural areas can be the grid. During phases of low feed-in, electricity can be withdrawn overcome, as well as using intelligent solutions and new technical from storage to cover the local requirement. The application case components for this purpose. 83 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation  Content INNOVATION RWE is continuously driving forward innovations so that the Group is in a position to play a role in structuring the energy system of the future. We also promote the ideas of our employees to achieve this ambition. RWE development teams are working in our Innovation Hub to develop new business models and bring them to market readiness within a short space of time. We are engaged in a large number of research areas through around 200 projects that we are running in the area of research and development. We are also continually registering new patents. More than 200 100%coverage of 4 300 200 test households in the R&D projects along the lighthouse projects at patent applications in strategically relevant EnergieKoplopers entire value chain Innovation@RWE 7 years, of which 50 Buoys can measure movements of wind and waves in the offshore wind R&D issues project in 2015 farms distincly more cost-effectively than fixed masts. Since a test trial with the EOLOS buoy provided good results, RWE continues the testing. 84 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation  Content Challenge The instruments used at RWE R&D also include Technology Foresight. We will not be able to master the challenges for energy supply in This involves RWE identifying technology at an early stage by drawthe future with the products and technologies that are currently ing on a group-wide network of experts who analyse existing fields available. Achieving an appropriate energy system demands more of technology on a continuous basis, and identify and evaluate new climate-friendly, intelligent and efficient solutions. The challenge is ones. The knowledge gained as a result of this process is suppleto develop these solutions rapidly and then launch them quickly in mented by analysis of social trends with the aim of identifying options the marketplace. Our level of achievement in this endeavour and the for new and advanced developments. R&D also presents the results quality of our solutions will have a decisive impact on the success of this process to other departments within the group, such as Policy, of our company. Strategy and Innovation in order to be able to derive maximum benefit for the company from the research carried out. Motivation and targets We want to play a role in structuring the transformation to a more Laboratory for future ideas climate-friendly electricity supply and to continue to meet the need In 2014, RWE established the RWE Innovation Hub in order to take for energy reliably, without any outages and at affordable prices. The up a leading position in the decentralised energy world of tomorrow. only effective approach to realising our ambition is generating a conAlmost 100 experts from different departments within the Group are tinuous stream of innovations that address the challenges of our core working here on the development of new business ideas and bringbusiness and are directed towards achieving the best possible soluing the best of them to market readiness. Four focus issues that are tions for the energy system of the future. Solutions like this are the particularly important for the future of RWE define the activities of only way of ensuring that we will be in a position to offer our customthe Innovation Hub: ers precisely the products and services they need. QQ Opportunities generated from the digital revolution, Monitoring and performance measurement QQ Intelligent networked solutions for residential and commercial Our central department of research and development (R&D) is customers, responsible for establishing a uniform process from planning to interQQ Energy concepts for Europe’s urban centres, nal reporting that applies to all the relevant RWE companies. We use QQ New products and services through the use of data. the extent of coverage in relation to strategically relevant R&D issues in % as the KPI and indicator for target attainment. During the year The first products from these categories are already being used by under review, this amounted to 100%. RWE therefore occupies a leadcustomers on a test basis. Wireless power charging technology is ing position for R&D in the Innovation Index of the European School one such example. A leading company from system gastronomy of Management and Technology (ESMT) by comparison with other uses this technology to offer its customers charging facilities for energy utilities – particularly as a result of complete coverage for the mobile devices at no cost. Use in home environments is being tested analysed areas of research and the number of patent applications. together with a furniture manufacturer through installation of the 85 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation  Content technology in furniture. The RWE Innovation Team is also working on unlike Bluetooth it can penetrate thick walls and communicate over the new and secure Lemonbeat digital wireless protocol standard. large distances. The wireless protocol is projected to be established This protocol enables appropriately equipped electrical devices or as an international standard. complex machines to communicate with each other. Lemonbeat has clear advantages compared with established protocols. For example, RWE is looking for strategic partners at global Hot Spots for digital innovations in order to accelerate the pace of development for innovative products and solutions. In Berlin, we are cooperating with the German Tech Entrepreneurship Centre (GTEC) with the objective of gaining access to the Berlin start-up scene. RWE Innovation Teams are working in Berlin, in Silicon Valley in California, and in Tel Aviv Apps from RWE in Israel. Projects for electromobility Digital information has become an integral RWE aims to progress electromobility on the back of networked techcomponent of everyday life for most residennologies and to benefit from the sale of charging infrastructure and tial customers. RWE has launched a series of mobility services. We are taking part in subsidised projects in order apps in the marketplace for these customers: to work out new opportunities with our partners. For example, the eMERGE project is a joint venture with Daimler AG, Fraunhofer FOKUS, QQ npower App NP: empowers customers to PTV AG , Berlin Technical University, RWTH Aachen University and have an overview of previous and current the University of Siegen geared towards optimising the overall sysbills, payments and meter readings. tem of electromobility, encompassing the vehicle, energy, water, QQ e-kWh: provides assistance in Germany traffic and the user. We have also been cooperating with technical when drivers are looking for charging stations to power their electric cars and enables inspectorate TÜV Rheinland Industrie Service GmbH, Vattenfall payment to be made through a contract account, PayPal or credit card. Europe Innovation GmbH, TOTAL Deutschland GmbH, Berlin Technical QQ EnergyManager: informs Dutch customers with smart meters about their monthly University, Daimler AG and the German Aerospace Centre (DLR) to electricity and gas consumption, offers comparisons with the previous year and develop another project for developing, integrating and demonstratwith model households and presents an insight into the supply of electricity using ing the Combined AC/DC Charging System (CCS Berlin). This comsolar panels. bined charging procedure using direct and alternating current has QQ Közvilágítási hibabejelentő, an app of the ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group: enables faults in Huna standardised plug-in system, and it has been tested at seven fast gary’s street lighting system to be reported. This simplifies and improves work on repairs. charging stations in Berlin. We received government subsidies amounting to around € 1 million for eMERGE and some € 550,000 for CCS Berlin. 86 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation  Content Innovations for coal Intelligent street lighting RWE still intends to exploit opportunities to optimise potential with Intelligent street lighting was developed in the Smart City initiative the generation of electricity from coal and also develop new applicaby the ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group and several joint-venture partners, and tions, for example in order to make use of lignite as a material. This is put into operation in Budapest. This system involved IT tools and the mission of our Coal Innovation Centre in Niederaußem (Gerenergy solutions such as Wifi, monitoring cameras, charging options many). We are using a test rig there to trial catalytic converters for for electric cars and an emergency button integrated in street lamps. producing naphtha, waxes, fuels, methanol, and methane from ligThese intelligent street lighting systems with new technologies are nite-based synthesis gas. Alongside the fluidised-bed drier for moist now being tested in various cities in Hungary. lignite, the test rig also represents a key component for use of the material on a laboratory scale and provides important data for the IT Innovation Award for RWE Generation manufacture of customer-specific products from lignite. Over the The IT Innovation Award conferred by the “Handelsblatt” Conference long term, lignite could thereby make an important contribution to on “Strategic IT Management” for a project run by RWE Generation in securing the supply of industrial raw materials. We are also carrying January 2016 demonstrates that RWE innovations are already being out research into a number of techniques for the reduction of emisprogressed successfully today at each value-added stage. Technicians sions with our pilot plants for CO2 scrubbing and flue-gas desulphuriare able to use a tablet to enter data on location in opencast mines sation (REAplus). The integrated operation of these pilot plants at and call up operating procedures, manuals and safety instructions. one site in this way represents a world first. The concept highlights the possibilities presented by digitisation for empowering major efficiency enhancements and more flexibility in Energy management for flexibility the routine world of everyday work of technicians working in electricEssent has joined forces with other companies and the Dutch local ity generation. The project is initially being rolled out internally and authority of Heerhugowaard to launch the EnergieKoplopers project. will then also be marketed to other mine operators and energy Some 200 households are taking part in this project. The core is cengenerators. tred on an energy management system which communicates with intelligent appliances, for example heat pumps, electric boilers, fuel Autonomous gas pressure regulatory station cells or solar modules. The system permits maximum flexibility and Gas pressure regulator and measurement stations (GDRM) ensure demand-oriented energy supply and use at local level. Local network that customers receive their natural gas supplies at the right pressure operators can sell the flexibility created by the system to reduce and in the desired amount. RWE has now installed the first autonopeak loads, and the households receive remuneration in return. mous GDRM station in the Czech town of Nehvizdy and this system significantly reduces the operating expenses. It is connected to a wind turbine, a photovoltaic plant and a large battery. A radio mast provides the capability for remote control of the station. 87 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation  Content Measuring buoys for weather data Since March 2015, RWE Innogy has been using meteorological buoys manufactured by EOLOS in a research project being carried out off the Dutch coast. The buoys transmit weather data, which is essential for the development, construction and operation of offshore wind farms, from the open sea to the wind-farm operators onshore. The research project is investigating whether the buoys can deliver precise and reliable measurement data that is comparable to that produced with the fixed masts that have been used to date. This would enable them to be operated more cost-effectively and with greater environmental compatibility. 88 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation  Content INTERVIEW RWE INNOVATION HUB RWE has merged a number of different innovation activities in the RWE Innovation Hub. This is intended to strengthen the development of new products and new business models. How does this concept work? Our Editorial Team talked to Dr Inken Braunschmidt, Head of the RWE Innovation Hub. The future of the energy system is uncertain, the conventional busiHow do you distinguish the concept from previous innovation ness with electricity generation is not going well. What role can the activities? RWE Innovation Hub play? BRAUNSCHMIDT: RWE has always been an innovative company. We are BRAUNSCHMIDT: We are looking at new business models for the future developing new solutions and at the same time implementing them energy system. Renewable energies, grids and supply will play an on a large scale. Just think for a moment about climate protection even more important role in the future. Our aim is to drive forward technologies in lignite originating from our Coal Innovation Centre. the development in these areas through our innovations – most By the same token, a new approach is being adopted in our work on importantly in retail business with consumers. The RWE Innovation so-called disruptive innovations which compete with our existing Hub is intended to contribute to identifying new market opportunibusiness areas and may even displace them. Dr Inken Braunschmidt, ties and making use of these. Head of the RWE Innovation Hub Have you defined focuses? Or is it okay to have a little chaos in Where can you identify these innovations? this process? BRAUNSCHMIDT: Speed is of the utmost importance in relation to BRAUNSCHMIDT: It is important that there is scope for thinking outinnovations. We are therefore doing a lot of our work in networks side the box, designing new ideas and rejecting them. At the same and with partners in innovation ecosystems. We have established a time, we are focusing our efforts and we have defined key areas of presence in Silicon Valley in California, in Tel Aviv in Israel and in Berimportance. One such area is called Urban Concepts. We are developlin. We are identifying new digital solutions in these locations. The ing business models here which arise from the trend towards increastransfer of ideas to operating business is the key factor in this proingly large metropolises and urban areas. More than 60% of the cess. This can only succeed if colleagues from different divisions at global population will already be living in such “megacities” by the RWE cooperate on developing these areas of interest. 90 colleagues year 2030. We want to develop solutions for these conurbations. are working in the RWE Innovation Hub. These solutions will be in the area of energy but they will also be The interview was conducted by Franziska Klapper, associated with logistics, security, communication and mobility. RWE Corporate Responsibility 89 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | Report profile  Content ABOUT THIS REPORT Report profile This report entitled “Our Responsibility. Report 2015” is aimed at Approach analysts and investors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and We developed our CR Strategy on the basis of the challenges posed our workforce, customers and suppliers, policymakers and governby our business and taking account of the general conditions and ment agencies and the people living in the regions where we do challenges prevailing in individual regions. The report is introduced business. It describes the most important social, environmental and with a portrait of the RWE Group and a detailed description of the economic challenges facing our core business, the conflicting aims greatest challenges along our value chain and the challenges in the that can arise, and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy we regions where we are operating. The structure of the report is based have developed in response. on the Ten Areas for Action of the CR Strategy. We use a Materiality Analysis to assess the relevance of individual Areas for Action in The report is published in pdf format. This report was audited order to evaluate the opportunities of the RWE Group for exerting throughout by the accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) influence and gauge the expectations of stakeholders for our comin conformity with ISAE 3000 (p. 91). The subject of the report essenpany. The report also serves as our progress report for the Global tially focused on the criteria “Inclusion of stakeholders”, “SustainabilCompact of the United Nations (p. 97). ity context”, “Materiality” and “Completeness” of the GRI G4. The CR Report includes an overview of all the important indicators (p. 4). We provide detailed indicators for the years 2006 to 2015 interactively with the indicator tool and as an Excel download. GRI G4-18 90 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | Report profile  Content Basic principles For reference The report is based on our CR Strategy and was developed out of This report is published in German and English. The Executive Board findings from our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. The relevant of RWE AG has approved the report for publication. The editorial data are presented in line with the latest guidelines of the Global deadline was on 29 February 2016. This report continues our policy Reporting Initiative (GRI) to allow our readers to compare our perforof annual reporting. The next report will be published in the spring mance with that of other companies. We explain how we have impleof 2017. The term “employee” refers to male and female employees. mented these guidelines and the requirements of G4 Electric Utilities > Archive CR Reports Sector Disclosures in the GRI G4 Content Index (p. 94). The report was drawn up taking account of the option “In accordance” core. Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the future Data development of the RWE Group and its companies as well as ecoThe period under review is fiscal 2015, which began on 1 January nomic and political developments. These statements are assessments and ended on 31 December. The data provided in this report relate that we have made based on information available at the time this to all affiliated companies of the RWE Group which are included in report was drawn up. In the event that the underlying assumptions the consolidated financial statements. Any deviations from this are do not materialise or additional risks arise, actual performance may clearly stated. The financial data were taken from the RWE Annual deviate from the performance expected at present. We are therefore Report 2015. We present financial data denominated in the relevant unable to assume any responsibility whatsoever for the accuracy of national currency and have converted these based on the average these statements. annual values for 2015 (1 US dollar = € 0.91, 1 UK pound sterling = € 1.38, 100 Czech crowns = € 3.67, 100 Hungarian forints = € 0.32, 1 Polish zloty = € 0.24). GRI G4-17 91 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | Assurance Report  Content Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report To RWE AG, Essen Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding on the sustainability information marked with in the Corporate independence as well as other ethical requirements. Responsibility Report (hereafter the “CRReport”) of RWE AG, Essen (hereafter the “Company”) for the period January 1, 2015 to DecemThe audit firm applies the national legal requirements and profesber 31, 2015.1 sional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Management’s Responsibility Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presas the joint opinion of the Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of entation of the CRReport in accordance with the criteria as set out German Public Auditors; WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to qualInitiative (GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of ity control for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der WPK the information to be assessed. und des IDW: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: “VO 1/2006”) – and accordingly maintains This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropria comprehensive system of quality control including documented ate methods to prepare the CRReport as well as the use of assumppolicies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requiretions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which ments, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility requirements. includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the CR-Report, which is free of Practitioner’s Responsibility material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information marked with in the CR-Report based on our work performed. 1 Our engagement applies to the German version of the CR-Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report issued in German language – the German text is authoritative. 92 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | Assurance Report  Content Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on QQ Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the the CR-Report CR-Report. QQ Comparison of selected sustainability information with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standgroup management report ard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance QQ Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial information in the Report regarding the sustainability perforInformation” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we mance plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us Conclusion to believe that the sustainability information marked with in the Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to CR-Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordour attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability inforance with the GRI-Criteria. mation marked with in the CR-Report of the Company for the period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 has not been preIn a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. dures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reaEmphasis of Matter – Recommendations sonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following the practitioner's judgement. This includes the assessment of the recommendations: risks of material misstatements of the sustainability information marked with in the CR-Report with regard to the GRI-Criteria. QQ Further focusing, developing and formalizing internal control systems at corporate level and at the level of individual sites and Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the automatization of critical interfaces following procedures: QQ Establishment of a process to update continuously all handbooks and process descriptions that are relevant for any CR-data QQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability QQ Increase linkage between financial and non-financial information organization and of the stakeholder engagement for controlling and reporting purposes. QQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the CRReport regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal control system and selected sustainability information 93 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | Assurance Report  Content Restriction on Use and Distribution We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with RWE AG. The audit has been performed for purposes of RWE AG and is solely intended to inform RWE AG about the results of the assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Frankfurt, March 16, 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft sgn. Michael Conrad sgn. ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) 94 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | GRI G4 Content Index  Content GRI G4 Content Index Summary “Our responsibility. Report 2015” was prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) taking account of the option “In accordance” core. The G4 Guidelines valid since May 2013 have been applied. The “G4 Sector Disclosure” for Electric Utilities was also applied. Page Page General Standard Disclosures Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Strategy and Analysis G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 90; AR 151-158 G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1 f. G4-18 Process for defining the report content 5, 35-38, 89 Organisational Profile G4-19 Material Aspects identified 6-11, 35-38 G4-3 Name of the organisation RWE Group G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organisation 6-11, 35-38 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 3 G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization 6-11, 35-38 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Essen, Germany G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports 99 G4-6 Countries with significant operations 14 G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 5 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form RWE AG; AR 14 Stakeholder Engagement G4-8 Markets served 14; Key Data Tool G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 29 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 3, 14; Key Data Tool; AR 49 f., 96 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 29, 35; Online Index G4-10 Employees by employment type, gender and region Key Data Tool; Online Index; G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency 29-34, 35 AR 58 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response 25, 29-31, 37 f. G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 99,8%; Online Index Report Profile G4-12 Description of the supply chain 70-72 G4-28 Reporting period 90 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 19-20, 38-41, 100-102 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report April 2015 G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle 26, 50, 76; AR 78-80 G4-30 Reporting cycle annually G4-15 External initiatives that the organisation endorses 24, 53, 70-72 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 101 G4-16 Significant memberships in industry and business associations 70-72; Online Index G4-32 GRI Content Index chosen for the “In accordance” option 89, 94-96 EU1 Installed capacity 3, 14 f., 17, 19, 21 f.; Key Data Tool; Online Index G4-33 External verification of the report 89, 91-93 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source 8; Key Data Tool; AR 44 f. Governance EU3 Residential, industrial and commercial customer accounts 3, 10, 14; Key Data Tool; AR 47-49 G4-34 Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest governance body 24; AR 7-10 EU4 Length of transmission and distribution lines 9, 15, 21; Online Index Ethics and Integrity EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances Key Data Tool; AR 46 G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 26, 70 95 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | GRI G4 Content Index  Content Page Page Specific Standard Disclosures Aspect: Emissions – Management Approach 39, 41–43, 50–52 Economic G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 43; Key Data Tool; Online Index Aspect: Economic Performance – Management Approach 12–13 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 43; Key Data Tool G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 54 f., 58; Key Data Tool G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 43; Key Data Tool G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 42–45; Key Data Tool; Online Index; G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 42–43; Key Data Tool climate change AR 18, 20–22, 30 f., 33 f., 36 f., 83 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 42–43 G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations Key Data Tool; AR 128–132 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Online Index G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from governments Online Index; AR 14, 26 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions 52; Key Data Tool; Online Index Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts – Management Approach 39, 54 f.; Online Index Aspect: Effluents and Waste – Management Approach 39, 50–53 G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services provided 54–58 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Key Data Tool; Online Index G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 54–56 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Key Data Tool; Online Index Aspect: Procurement Practices – Management Approach 40, 69–70 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills None; Online Index G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers* Online Index Aspect: Products and Services – Management Approach 39, 41–43 Aspect: Availability and Reliability – Management Approach 79–81 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 41–43, 47–49, 51 f. EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand* 16, 19, 44 f., 48 Aspect: Compliance – Management Approach 39, 50 f. Aspect: Demand-Side Management – Management Approach 59 f., 61–63, 84–86 G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations None; Online Index Aspect: Research and Development – Management Approach 83 f.; AR 23–27 Aspect: Overall – Management Approach 39, 50 f. Aspect: Plant Decommissioning – Management Approach AR 127, 132–134 G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments Key Data Tool Aspect: System Efficiency of the power plant portfolio and distribution – 39, 47–48, 82 Management Approach Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment – Management Approach 40, 70–72 EU11 Average generation efficiency 48 f. G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 71–72 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses Online Index G4-EN33 Significant environmental impacts in the supply chain* 71–72 Environmental Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach 26 Aspect: Energy – Management Approach 39, 47–49 G4-EN34 Formal grievances about environmental impacts** G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 407,4 TWh = 1.466,6 PJ; Key Data Tool Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Water – Management Approach 39, 50 f., 53 Aspect: Employment – Management Approach 40, 65–67 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Key Data Tool; Online Index G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover* 4; Key Data Tool Aspect: Biodiversity – Management Approach 39, 50 f., 53 EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years Key Data Tool G4-EN11 Operational sites in protected areas Online Index EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees Online Index G4-EN12 Impacts on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value 39, 50 f., 53 EU18 Health and safety training of contractor and subcontractor employees 77; Online Index EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats 53; Online Index Aspect: Labour/Management Relations – Management Approach 65 f. G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 66; Online Index 96 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | GRI G4 Content Index  Content Page Page Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety – Management Approach 40, 75 f. Aspect: Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response – Management Approach 27 G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related fatalities* 76–77; Key Data Tool Aspect: Anti-corruption – Management Approach 26 f. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases 76 G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and 27; Online Index risks identified* Aspect: Training and Education – Management Approach 66 f.; Online Index G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption* 26 f. G4-LA10 Programmes that support the continued employability of employees 66 f.; Online Index Aspect: Public Policy – Management Approach 27 f., 29, 32–34 Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety – Management Approach 65–68 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions Online Index G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 68; Key Data Tool; by indicators of diversity* AR 7, 177–179 Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour – Management Approach 26 Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – Management Approach Online Index G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly AR 84, 144 practices G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Online Index Aspect: Compliance – Management Approach 26 f. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices – Management Approach 40, 70–72 G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Keine; Online Index G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices 71–72 criteria Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society – Management Approach 40, 70–72 G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labour practices in the supply chain* 71–72 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for 71–72 impacts on society Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach 26 G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken* 71–72 G4-LA16 Formal grievances about labour practices** Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society – Management Approach 26 Human Rights Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment – Management Approach 40, 70–72 G4-SO11 Number of formal grievances about impacts on society** G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights 71–72 Product Responsibility criteria Aspect: Product and Service Labelling – Management Approach 39, 59–61 G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the supply chain* 71–72 G4-PR3 Principles/procedures for product and service information and labelling Online Index Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach 26 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 60 f. G4-HR12 Formal grievances about human rights impacts** Aspect: Customer Privacy – Management Approach 27 f., 62, 64 Society G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy** Aspect: Local Communities – Management Approach 32 f., 39, 54 f. Aspect: Access – Management Approach 79–81 G4-SO1 P ercentage of operations with implemented local community 29, 32 f., 54 f.; Online Index engagement, impact assessments, and development programs EU28 Power outage frequency Online Index G4-SO2 O perations with actual and potential negative impacts on local 27, 50; Online Index EU29 Average power outage duration 80 communities EU22 Number of people displaced and compensation Ca. 220; Online Index AR = Annual Report 2015 * = Status: partially reported A > detailed GRI Index including additional information and explanations in case of only partial reporting or no Online Index = detailed GRI Index ** = not reported reporting is available on the Internet. This detailed index was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI confirmed the correctness of the locations of the G4 materiality disclosures (G4-17 – G4-27). 97 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | UN Global Compact Progress Report 2015  Content UN Global Compact Progress Report 2015 RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants to make a contribution with the worldwide implementation of its ten principles. These have been adopted word for word in the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies the guidelines, programmes and management systems which we have also introduced with our sphere of influence. The table also highlights the measures that have been taken during the period under review and the specific results obtained. Principle Systems Measures Results Principle 1: Support of human rights Social Charter and minimum standards for restructuring operaRestructuring with social compensation by working together Compliance with principles 1 – 5 assured through national legislations carried out for the European companies in the RWE Group, with employee representatives and unions (p. 66) tion in Europe, cooperation with the unions, and RWE’s own princovering 99.8% of the workforce. Assessment and audit of suppliers (p. 70 ff.) ciples which apply to all employees of the company Principle 2: Elimination of human rights violations ILO core standards are defined for the Social Charter Co-founder of Bettercoal, auditing of coal mines, application of Supplier management (p. 69 ff.) information for “Counterparty Risk Assessment” (p. 71) Principle 3: Ensuring freedom of association Pay and social benefits above the national average 12 self and site assessments available through Bettercoal (S. 69 ff.) Principle 4: Abolition of all forms of forced labour Principle 5: Abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination Diversity management (S. 67 f.) Establishment of the “Inclusive Culture Focus Group” (p. 68) Percentage of women in management positions increased to Group-wide women’s network 15.2% (p. 68) Percentage of people with severe disabilities with 6.2% in Germany virtually constant Principle 7: Precautionary environmental protection Environmental management (p. 50 ff.) Climate protection, energy efficiency and environmental protecReduction in specific emissions of the air pollutants NOX by Strategy for reducing the CO2 emission factor (p. 41 ff.) tion and biodiversity as part of the CR Programme (p. 39) more than 8% and SO2 by more than 20% (p. 52) Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk Cooperation with IUCN concluded (p. 53) management (p. 43) Adoption of a group-wide Biodiversity Guideline (p. 53) Annual audit for setting up environmental management systems in conformity with ISO 14001 (p. 51) 98 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | UN Global Compact Progress Report 2015  Content Principle Systems Measures Results Principle 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental Consultancy and services for intelligent use of energy with resiMore than 60,000 energy consultancy sessions in Germany responsibility dential and commercial customers (p. 62 f.) (p. 59) Initiative for energy education 3malE (p. 57) Offerings for controlling energy for commercial customers (p. 63) RWE Foundation for Energy and Society (p. 58) Energy education packages for children and teenagers (p. 57) Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmental Strategy to reduce the CO2 emission factor (p. 41 ff.) Expansion of renewables-based energies (p. 44 f.) Modernisation of the power plant portfolio (p. 44) friendly technologies Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk manageNew business ideas in four focus themes of the Innovation Hub Expansion of installed output of renewable energies by 469 MW ment (p. 43) (p. 84 f.) (p. 44) Innovation management (p. 83 ff.) Participation in sponsored projects for networking existing techRange of intelligent energy products such as RWE SmartHome Innovation Hub (p. 84 f.) nologies for electromobility (p. 86) or Energy Control (p. 61) Research on using lignite as a material (p. 86) Provider and operator of 4,900 charging points in Europe Principle 10: Anti-corruption measures RWE Code of Conduct and Group guidelines for prevention of Drawing up detailed corruption risk scenarios with other consolHolding risk workshops in individual Group companies (p. 27) corruption and organisation regulations (p. 26) idated companies (p. 27) Compliance training sessions for around 2,800 employees in Audited Compliance Management System for anti-corruption in Training of the workforce with an Intranet-based training proGermany and around 500 employees in other regions where accordance with the IDW Audit Standard promulgated by the gramme and on-site training (p. 26 f.) RWE operates, in on-site events (p. 27) Institute of German Public Auditors (p. 27) 99 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | Explanations of the indicators  Content Explanations of the indicators The following table provides explanations of our indicators. They are sorted according to the sequence in the indicator tool. Indicator category Explanations Electricity generation Including electricity procured from power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the business year 2015, this electricity generation amounted to 11.1 billion kWh (previous year: 15.9 billion kWh) in the Conventional Electricity Generation Division, of which 7.7 billion kWh was generated from hard coal. Partly adjusted values for 2013 due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Power plant capacities Including capacities of power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. On 31 December, 2015, this electricity generating capacity amounted to 4,629 MW (previous year: 4,607 MW), of which 2,173 MW were based on hard coal (previous year: 2,151 MW). Partly adjusted values for 2013 due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). CO2 emissions Including power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the year under review, these plants produced 6.9 million mt of CO2 (previous year: 13.1 million mt). 2014 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2015. Calculated on the basis of electricity production, not including emissions from biogenic fuels. Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (gas transmission, electricity generation) including power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties. Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party grids, from the production of used fuel, as well as from the consumption of gas sold to customers. Partly adjusted values for 2013 due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Pollutant emissions Not including gas-fired plants for blast furnaces. Fuels Fiscal 2007, adjusted since “Our Responsibility. Report 2007”. Fossil fuels used, without biomass. Waste Owing to a change in the regulatory rules, the use of ash to fill disused opencast mines has no longer counted as recycling since 2010 Water Difference between water withdrawals for power plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with seawater cooling. Reportable nuclear incidents at our INES: International Nuclear Event Scale. nuclear power stations (INES) GRI G4-22 100 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 About this Report | Explanations of the indicators  Content Indicator category Explanations Workforce FTE = Full-Time Equivalent: converted to full-time positions. 2009 excluding Essent; In 2015, encompasses the top four management levels. Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Occupational Health and Safety Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per million working hours); occupational accidents from 2012 onwards including employees of contractors. Including employees of contractors. Staff costs Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Customers Not including non-controlling interests External electricity and gas sales volume Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Financial indicators Foundation of RWE Innogy in February 2008 Countries rated with a score of at least 60 points on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International, with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. Since 2008, EBITDA has also included operating income from investments. Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Value Management Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Chash flow/capital expenditure/ Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 depreciation and amortisation (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Asset/capital structure Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Dividend/Payout Dividend proposal for the fiscal year 2015 of RWE AG, subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2016: Dividend of € 0 per common share, dividend of € 0.13 per preference share. Value added 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water), 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). Only the taxes actually paid are included, not tax expenditure, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water), 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41). 2008 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2009, 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water), 2015 proposed dividend. 101 Our Responsibility. Report 2015 Contact and imprint  Content CONTACT AND IMPRINT Published by Dr Marita Hilgenstock RWE Aktiengesellschaft Phone +49 201 12-15251 Opernplatz 1 EMail marita.hilgenstock@rwe.com 45128 Essen Germany Ines Hasenbusch Phone +49 201 12-00 Phone +49 201 12-17459 Email responsibility@rwe.com EMail ines.hasenbusch@rwe.com Editorial office Responsible RWE Aktiengesellschaft Professor Dr Henning Rentz Group Corporate Responsibility Phone +49 201 12-15818 EMail henning.rentz@rwe.com Dr Matthias Kussin Phone +49 201 12-15302 Concept, texts, layout in cooperation with EMail matthias.kussin@rwe.com akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH Munich Franziska Klapper www.akzente.de Phone +49 201 12-17417 EMail franziska.klapper@rwe.com Translation by Tristam Carrington-Windo Stefanie Dudley Creation of the data tool in cooperation with Phone +49 201 12-15594 NEW.EGO GmbH EMail stefanie.dudley@rwe.com Munich www.newego.de Dr Thomas Gremme Phone +49 201 12-15634 Editorial Deadline EMail thomas.gremme@rwe.com 29 February 2016 STAY IN DIALOGUE responsibility@rwe.com RWE Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 1 45128 Essen Germany T +49 201 12-00 I www.rwe.com
