GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AUGUST 2016 1 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT Contents Letter from SkyPower’s President & Chief Executive Officer 3 Introduction 4 About SkyPower 7 Our Actions as a Global Citizen Climate Action Leadership 13 Community Development 23 Ethics & Anti-Corruption 32 Environmental Stewardship 36 Safe & Healthy Workplace 40 Taking Our Actions Forward 45 Press Releases 46 2 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer, SkyPower and Lise Kingo, Executive Director, UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Recognizes SkyPower Founder and Chief Executive Officer as the 2016 Local SDG Pioneer for Climate Action LETTER FROM SKYPOWER’S PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER KERRY ADLER Clean, renewable solar energy has the power to change the world. Solar energy generates a • Also in June 2016, SkyPower was voted by Canadians as the winner of a Canadian SDG significant reduction in emissions and pollution, creates jobs, provides a more sustainable Award from the UN Global Compact Network Canada (UN GCNC) for our work to advance supply of energy and reduces barriers for energy access. Solar energy has proven to support a climate action and support clean energy. healthier environment, a robust economy and social equity. SkyPower continues to make significant strides, setting an example of true global citizenship While these tenets are built into the work we do, it is important to go even further. That’s why through our reach, which extends around the world, and through our actions, which reflect the I’m pleased to present to you SkyPower’s second annual Global Citizenship Report for our values of a global citizen. By taking concrete steps to commit to sustainability, I believe we can fiscal year, August 2015 to August 2016. share in the responsibility to strive for a better world and a new era of progress and prosperity. I also strongly believe that we may operate profitably while acting responsibly. In other words, In this report, SkyPower provides a detailed account of the work we have done to advance our we can do well and do good. commitments to the UN Global Compact and Caring for Climate initiative, as well as our own innovative corporate social responsibility activities. On behalf of our team members, and stakeholders globally, we are proud to express our unwavering support for the SDGs and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and hereby This year, among the many accomplishments of our team, there are a few achievements I am reaffirm SkyPower’s commitment to this initiative, as well as to the Caring for Climate initiative. particularly proud of and wish to highlight: To generating a brighter future, • In late 2015, SkyPower became an Official Partner of COP21, the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris, France. SkyPower was the only Canadian company to participate in this capacity. • In fall 2015, SkyPower deepened our commitment to education and leadership on anticorruption by providing mandatory training to all team members globally. Moreover all KERRY ADLER suppliers, partners and service providers are required to sign an undertaking that they will PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER conduct their business activities in accordance with anti-corruption laws and guidelines SKYPOWER for ethical business practice. • In June 2016, at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in New York, I was honoured to be recognized as the 2016 Local SDG Pioneer for Climate Action for SkyPower’s work in support of the UN Sustainable Development Goal 13 on Climate Action. This was a proud moment – both for me, personally, and for my team at SkyPower. 3 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION SkyPower is pleased to present our second annual Global Citizenship Report. In this report we provide a detailed look at the corporate social responsibility activities we undertook over the past year. 4 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION ABOUT THIS REPORT In addition to sharing our achievements with our partners and Change takes time, as well as a shared commitment from all stakeholders, this document meets our reporting requirements as a stakeholders. SkyPower is always interested to hear innovative ideas member of the UN Global Compact and a Strategic Champion for the as we work together to usher in a new era of sustainability and we UN Caring for Climate initiative. It follows on our first annual report, invite your feedback at executive@skypower.com. called SkyPower Communication on Progress, 2014-2015 that can be downloaded in full here: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/participation/report/cop/createand-submit/active/166111 This report covers a reporting period of August 15, 2015 to August 14, 2016 and is divided into five sections: Climate Action Leadership, Community Development, Environmental Stewardship, Ethics and AntiCorruption, and Safe and Healthy Workplace. As you read each section, you will see that our values are the key drivers of our work. These values include a commitment to sustainability, employment creation, economic development, credibility and solar energy education. 5 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT By committing to sustainability, we generate a brighter future for all. Sustainable development is a part of SkyPower’s DNA. As a truly global company with a business mandate to develop and provide clean, green, renewable solar power, acting as a global citizen remains firmly at the center of our identity. 6 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ABOUT SKYPOWER GENERATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE SkyPower is the largest and one of the most successful developers and owners of utilityscale solar energy projects in the world. With roots dating back more than a dozen years, SkyPower’s global team possesses a vast track record of over 900 years of combined experience in power and large infrastructure projects. The SkyPower team over the past decade has proudly established long-term strategic hybrid partnerships with local communities, governments and in-country developers. As well, SkyPower has consulted for and advised utilities, international leaders and Heads of State in its unprecedented approach to working in unison with these environmentally conscious leaders to ensure a brighter future for generations to come. Through its dedicated team members, composed of employees, consultants and advisors working out of 36 international locations, SkyPower develops, finances, owns and operates solar energy projects from the initial stages through commercial operation in nearly every region of the world. SkyPower prides itself on its established relationships with worldleading banks and financial institutions, as well as with its global and local suppliers, and the indigenous peoples and communities who work hand in hand with SkyPower with the shared objective of producing hundreds of millions of kWh of clean electricity each and every year. 7 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ABOUT SKYPOWER “SkyPower is committed to making a positive difference in addressing issues related to climate change and providing access to electricity for those who need it the most.” -Charles Cohen, Chief Commercial Officer, Commercial Strategy & Development 8 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ABOUT SKYPOWER PROUD TO BE GLOBAL SkyPower has 36 international offices and works in nearly every region of the world. 9 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ABOUT SKYPOWER OUR VALUES POWER OUR BUSINESS Sustainability Credibility We leverage our expertise to develop Each day we work to ensure our greatest clean, green renewable solutions by assets—our name, our brand and our harnessing the sun’s abundant power track record—are upheld, communicating to generate environmentally sustainopenly with full transparency and with able electricity. respect for all our stakeholders, suppliers, and fellow employees. Employment Creation SkyPower invests in people. Our dynamic projects across the Solar-Energy Education world create valuable employment opportunities, providing local workers We believe that basic power is critical with training and hands-on experience. to educate our youth and empower them to become leaders of tomorrow. At SkyPower, we have a fundamental Economic Development commitment to green education for youths in the communities in which we We’re dedicated to supporting work—generating a brighter future for all. economic development internationally. Our solar projects help communities and governments build upon new or replacement power to fuel local industry. 10 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION OUR KEY GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP ACHIEVEMENTS FROM AUGUST 2015 AUGUST 2016 September 2015 2015 June 2016 SkyPower began SkyPower was voted SkyPower supported the documenting its actions by Canadians as the adoption of the United Nations toward ISO 26000:2010 winner of a Canadian (UN) Sustainable Development Social Responsibility SDG Awards from the UN Goals (SDGs) GCNC September Nov-Dec March June June 2015 2016 2015 2015 2016 2016 November & December 2015 March 2016 June 2016 SkyPower became an Official SkyPower became a SkyPower’s President & Partner of COP21, the UN Corporate Supporter of Chief Executive Officer, Kerry Climate Change Conference Transparency International Adler, was recognized and in Paris, France Canada honoured as the 2016 Local SDG Pioneer for Climate Action at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 11 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ABOUT SKYPOWER SKYPOWER IS GENERATING REAL BUSINESS RESULTS The experienced and accomplished SkyPower team has built, assembled and SKYPOWER’S ADVANTAGE acquired an extensive pipeline of over 25 GW worldwide – 9 GW of which were recently announced in bilateral agreements, and other contract awards, to be built in • A global presence with a community focus the Middle East, Africa and South Asia over the next five years. • An experienced management team with a proven track record • Profitable operations driven by strong corporate values SkyPower’s over 30 utility-scale solar Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) and Contracts in aggregate represent well in excess of approximately US $80 billion • Extensive relationships with governments, utilities, landowners worth of long-term renewable energy sales to leading utilities and governments and communities around the world. • Strong partnerships with world class manufacturers and local suppliers; engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) SkyPower is majority owned by CIM Group, a premier full service urban real estate providers; and operation and maintenance (O&M) providers and infrastructure fund manager with approximately $18.8 billion of assets under • Leading-edge energy storage for onand off-grid projects management. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS PART OF SKYPOWER’S DNA 12 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 1 CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP “By promoting new energy in a developing country we can be part of a movement of change; in fact we can be the agent of change. We’re not only allowing for more job creation, but we are also maximizing the impact of natural resources on the economy, making it more sustainable for all.” – Benoit Fortin, Vice President, Development, Africa & India, SkyPower 13 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP SkyPower is proud to be recognized as a global leader for climate action. We know that the time is right for change, and we passionately believe SKYPOWER’S PRIORITIES: that we can do well and do good. • Spark dialogue that promotes climate action SkyPower is spearheading action and igniting dialogue all over the world to advance climate action, and engaging partners to collaborate • Engage in climate action events for change. • Collaborate with partners who share common values This year SkyPower was particularly proud to be an Official Partner of COP21, the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, France. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kerry Adler, was also honoured to be named as the 2016 Local SDG Pioneer for Climate Action at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit, and SkyPower was voted by Canadians as one of the winners of the 2016 Canadian SDG Awards from the UN GCNC. 14 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP SPREADING THE MESSAGE FOR CLIMATE ACTION As we travel to different countries and events, we look forward to speaking with audiences about the work SkyPower is doing to advance solar power development and achieve a new era of sustainability. Some of the speaking and leadership events that our Chief Executive Officer was proud to participate in to help spread the message and to challenge others to take positive steps for climate action include: August 2015 September 2015 September 2015 January 2016 June 2016 World Renewable Energy Sustainable Energy for Climate Week NYC World Future Energy UN Global Compact Technology Congress, All High-Level Event: Signature Event, New Summit, Abu Dhabi, Leaders Summit, New New Delhi, India Implementing Sustainable York, USA United Arab Emirates York, USA Development Goal 7: Financing Sustainable Energy for All, New York, USA August September September September September December January June June June 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 September 2015 September 2015 December 2015 June 2016 June 2016 Global Solar United Nations Private Caring for Climate, International Economic Business Climate Leaders Summit, Sector Forum, New High Level Discussion Forum of the Americas, Summit, London, Dubai, United Arab York, USA at COP21, Paris, France Montreal, Canada United Kingdom Emirates 15 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP PARTICIPATING IN THOUGHT LEADERSHIP This year, SkyPower contributed its take on renewable energy trends to the G20 through the Research Group’s official magazine in an article called SkyPower Perspective: Bringing Power To The People. In this article we outline that the time is now for sustainable and ethical solar energy development and climate action. The full article can be accessed here: http://www.skypower.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/SkyPower-G20-2015-web.pdf “…providing power to people living in darkness with solar energy means an improved quality of life – not only for citizens of the world, but also for the planet itself.” – excerpt from SkyPower Perspective: Bringing Power To The People, G20 Turkey, 2015. 16 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP “SkyPower has offered me a unique opportunity to become a global citizen. Every day I connect with people from various countries. Together, we determine how best to achieve our common goal: Bringing power to the people and protecting our planet.” Maria Vorobieva, Senior Director, International Public Affairs, SkyPower 17 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP LEADING CHANGE THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA This year we saw exciting growth in our social media impact: SkyPower has an active social media presence on Twitter and LinkedIn. Since social media has the power to reach wide audiences and spark inspiring dialogue, we incorporate climate action messages into our social media posts and updates. SkyPower Global – SkyPower has proudly become a Climate Bonds Partner. The Climate Bonds Initiative is mobilizing the world’s US $100 trillion bond market as a low-cost financing tool for climate change solutions (February 2016) SkyPower@SkyPowerGlobal – Excited to be part of the convo about how biz can play a role for #SDGs at UN @globalcompact Leaders Summit #sdgpioneers (June 22, 2016) SkyPower@SkyPowerGlobal – #EnergyAccess is fundamental to achieving the #SGDs #EndEnergyPoverty (June 7, 2016) 18 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP SKYPOWER, OFFICIAL PARTNER OF COP21, PARIS, FRANCE SkyPower was pleased to be an Official Partner of COP21, the 2015 United At COP21, SkyPower: Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, France. Climate change is one of the most important issues of our time, and we were proud to be at COP21 as a • Participated in the Caring for Climate Business Forum corporate leader for action. • Contributed to the High-Level Meeting of the Caring for Climate Business Forum, where SkyPower’s Kerry Adler spoke alongside COP21 was attended by Heads of State and government delegations H.E. Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General, United Nations representing over 150 countries from around the world. It was held over 12 • Attended the Opening Ceremonies, along with over 150 Heads of State days from November 30 to December 12, 2015. At COP21, a historic agreement • Hosted a booth to showcase SkyPower’s achievements and engage with was reached to address climate change and to accelerate and intensify the other global leaders of clean energy actions and investments needed for a sustainable low carbon future. • Held bilateral discussions with representatives from 12 countries across the world Ahead of the conference, SkyPower’s President and CEO, Kerry Adler, stated: • Attended Energy for Tomorrow hosted by The New York Times “SkyPower is proud to be a part of helping to propel the world’s transition to a low carbon future. As an Official Partner of COP21, our senior management SkyPower was the only Canadian company to be an Official Partner of COP21. team will also be on-site in Paris to participate with the world’s leaders, proponents of sustainability and delegations from over 150 countries, to help them explore how utility-scale solar energy can be part of the solution mix in helping them meet their respective climate commitments, objectives and initiatives.” 19 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP “I enjoy my work at SkyPower in a green industry, as I am making a contribution to make the world better for the next generations. SkyPower is bringing clean power to people.” – Kelly Yin, Vice President, Asia Strategy, SkyPower 20 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP CAPACITY-BUILDING FOR CLIMATE ACTION “At SkyPower, we strive to build a better world for our future generations. Solar power will become the mainstream power source in many people’s daily life. It is abundant and readily available.” – Thomas Fung, Manager, Finance, SkyPower Building capacity at home and on the international stage is critical Additionally, in February 2016, SkyPower announced that it became a to success. SkyPower has played an important role in advising Climate Bonds Partner. The Climate Bonds Initiative is mobilizing the international leaders and Heads of State on its approach to world’s US $100 trillion bond market as a low-cost financing tool for collaborating for a brighter future. climate change solutions. Access to capital is a key factor impacting the spread of solar energy project developments, and providing This year SkyPower was pleased to support and participate in the 6th countries with the means to do so will help realize their clean energy Renewable Energy Technology Congress in Delhi, India, from August goals. 21-23, 2015. This forum offered a place to share the latest information on industry issues, keep up to date on emerging technologies and discuss how to translate knowledge into action. 21 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP COLLABORATING FOR CLIMATE ACTION Transformational action requires a commitment from many participants. That is Our memberships board involvement include: why SkyPower has been working hard over the past 10 years to establish longterm, strategic partnerships with local, national and international leaders. By working together, we can promote sustainable change and leave a better world for our future generations. SkyPower has established itself as a member of key international associations. This enables us to work alongside non-profit organizations, inter-governmental bodies, industry experts and other successful companies to develop shared objectives for innovative climate action. 22 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 22 2 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT “We are shaping the world by providing affordable and clean energy to millions of people. I’m very proud to be part of it – making efforts towards something meaningful.” – Kaylie Dong, Associate, Finance, SkyPower 23 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT At SkyPower, we design and deliver sustainable programs that provide education, SKYPOWER’S PRIORITIES: skills training and local development; we develop solar energy to help address climate change and ensure access to sustainable energy for all; and we give back • Empower communities and bring power to the to society to empower those who need energy the most. Sustainable energy and people who need it most international development are part of our DNA, and investment in the long-term prosperity of communities is at the core of our business. • Support localization and local economic growth • Advance the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 24 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ADVANCING OUR COMMITMENTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT TO EMPOWER COMMUNITIES To help empower communities throughout Africa to access sustainable energy, SkyPower made a two-part commitment to the UN in 2014. This year, we’re pleased to report that SkyPower has continued to make good progress against these commitments. SKYPOWER’S COMMITMENTS SKYPOWER’S 20152016 ACTIONS “By 2020, SkyPower is targeting to develop and build a minimum of 9 GW were recently announced in bilateral agreement and other contract 5,000 MW of utility-scale solar power projects throughout Africa.” awards to be built in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia over the next five years. “SkyPower’s goal is to expand its successful SkyPower Cares Solar Light In the fall of 2015, SkyPower, in partnership with a literacy-based charity, initiative with the target of distributing 100,000 portable solar-powered provided solar lights to the Mufindi Orphans Project in Tanzania. Gifting lights by 2020 to students in African communities with limited or no priority was given to families with girls who have lost their parents and access to electricity.” whose guardians (often their grandparents) are not able to afford electricity in their homes. 25 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ADVANCING OUR COMMITMENTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT TO EMPOWER COMMUNITIES This year, SkyPower has undertaken several additional projects that aim to bring clean, renewable power to the people who need it most, while stimulating the local economy. • During the 6th annual Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Nairobi, Kenya, SkyPower Indigenous communities in new generation and transmission projects, as well announced its plan to gift two million SkyPower Home solar systems to families as conservation and community energy planning initiatives. SkyPower has led across Kenya without access to electricity as part of our commitment to develop by example in developing utility-scale solar energy projects in partnership with 2 GW of solar projects for the people of Kenya. These durable and high-quality Indigenous communities including Fort William First Nation, one of the first utilitySkyPower Home solar systems include a solar panel, two LED lightbulbs, a torch, scale solar parks to be operational on First Nation land in North America. USB charging capabilities for cell phones and other devices, a solar-powered radio and clear operating and use instructions. These systems will be gifted to families • This year SkyPower announced a commitment to provide a brighter future to in Kenya who have a remote opportunity to be able to access any form of electricity students in India through the creation of a new renewable energy scholarship in the near future to help them move up the energy ladder. program at three leading universities to help promote innovation in solar technology and energy storage. The meritand needs-based scholarship program will provide • In March 2016, SkyPower announced its partnership with Sachigo Lake First 10 scholarships a year, over 25 years, to benefit a total of 750 Indian students to Nation to develop utility-scale solar photovoltaic projects in Ontario, Canada. pursue higher education in renewable energy technology. SkyPower is aligned with government mandates to prioritize the involvement of 26 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPPORTING LOCALIZATION “Renewable energy projects keep money circulating within local economies. Increasing renewable energy has the exponential potential to create still more much needed jobs across our planet.” – Ava Wojcik, Senior Director, Compliance and Administration, SkyPower SkyPower works to build strong local connections to the regions and communities SkyPower’s preference for localization is demonstrated through a number of new where our projects are located. We conduct business in compliance with all local partnerships developed over the past year, including, for example: applicable laws, while also taking into consideration and working within local governance structures. • The announcement of Sterling and Wilson, the world-leading and top Indian solar engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) company, as SkyPower’s EPC SkyPower hires and collaborates with local people and organizations, whenever and operation and maintenance (O&M) partner for the awarded 350 MW (AC) possible, from initial project development through to commercial operation and solar projects to be built in Madhya Pradesh and Telangana in India. maintenance. Co-developed projects promote entrepreneurship at a local level, provide thousands of direct and indirect jobs and build strong business relationships • Our commitment to gift durable, superior-quality SkyPower Home solar systems based on mutual respect. Building partnerships with local community members, to families in Kenya who need them most. The distribution of these systems will leaders and outreach organizations enables SkyPower to ensure the needs of be done in a structured and multi-phased approach, using local input and with communities are fully understood and addressed. careful consideration of local needs. • Our joint venture with Grupo Uribe for the strategic development of solar energy in Mexico. 27 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT “I enjoy working at SkyPower because I feel I can use my skills to contribute to a better planet. Every time I enable the solar farms I operate to produce more energy, I feel I am making the world a better place. I grew up in Cuba and when I was a kid my country was suffering from a deep fossil fuel crisis. We suffered power outages that lasted more than 16 hours, and when I was just 7 years old I had to pump water by hand because there was no electricity. We all lost our crops because there was no energy to irrigate the land. I came to understand the hard way the need for a different way of doing things. Since then I have focused my life on renewable energies, and on how to use the energy we do have more efficiently.” – Gibert Espinosa, Operations & Maintenance Manager, SkyPower 28 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2015, the United Nations announced seventeen transformational goals, called the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which SkyPower supports and ensures all of its activities globally take into consideration. 29 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADVANCING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SkyPower is proud to support the UN SDGs – not only in principle, but through the work we do. In fact, our work enables progress to be made directly and indirectly against 13 of the 17 goals. Here are some examples of how our work directly advances the SDGs: By replacing kerosene lamps with solar-powered sources of light, SkyPower is substantially reducing the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air (Goal 3.9). Through the development of utility-scale solar projects and the distribution of home solar Through SkyPower’s renewable energy scholarship kits and lights, SkyPower is helping to ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services (Goal 7.1), increase the share of renewable energy in the program, along with the provision of solar lanterns global energy mix (Goal 7.2), advance the adoption of clean and environmentally sound or home solar kits to households with no access technologies and industrial processes (Goal 9.4) and take action to combat climate to electricity, the additional hours of light in the change and its impacts (Goal 13). evening provides students an opportunity to study and advance their education (Goal 4). 30 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADVANCING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Here are some examples of how our work directly advances the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): By promoting innovation in solar technology and By distributing home solar kits, SkyPower is helping energy storage through its renewable energy equip households with safe and affordable basic scholarship program in India, SkyPower is enhancing electric services (Goal 11.1). scientific research, encouraging innovation and supporting research and innovation in developing countries (Goals 9.5 and 9b). Through local procurement, partnerships, and direct and indirect job creation as a result of its utility-scale solar projects and the distribution of home solar kits and lights, SkyPower is contributing to sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work (Goal 8), and leveraging effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships (Goal 17.17). 31 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 3 ANTI-CORRUPTION “We firmly believe that we can be a profitable business while acting responsibly. More simply put, we can do well and do good. It’s simply the right thing to do.” – Kerry Adler, Founder, President & Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower 32 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION What does ethics mean to SkyPower? Ethics means conducting all of SKYPOWER’S PRIORITIES: our activities with the highest of integrity, abiding by all applicable local and internationally proclaimed human rights laws and requirements, and • Respect and uphold internationally proclaimed upholding a firm commitment to anti-corruption. Ethical conduct provides a human rights foundation for all of the work we do – because it makes good business sense and because it is the right thing to do. • Work with partners and suppliers who respect internationally proclaimed human rights • Zero-tolerance approach for corruption 33 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ABIDING BY INTERNATIONALLY ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS SkyPower’s respects and protects all internationally proclaimed human rights and all applicable laws at the local, regional and national levels globally. Our respect for human rights is embedded within the work we do and, since our Requiring Accountability from Third-Parties, Suppliers and Other founding in 2003, has been written into our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Representatives SkyPower regularly reviews our Code and policies relating to human rights to ensure compliance with all applicable state/provincial, national and international To avoid the risk of SkyPower becoming complicit in any contravention of human standards. The Code is disseminated to all SkyPower employees, directors, officers rights law by way of third-party activities, SkyPower extends its human rights and consultants. commitments to all of our dealings with third-party agents, consultants, suppliers, contractors or other business partners. If any employee, officer, director or consultant suspects a violation of a law, rule, regulation or the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, they are required to report SkyPower refuses to do business with any third parties if the company has any it immediately to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Director of Compliance. To knowledge of, or if circumstances indicate, that they violate any applicable laws or encourage reporting, SkyPower protects employees who file complaints in good do not respect internationally proclaimed human rights guidelines. faith. We believe it is fundamental to foster a workplace where every employee may speak openly without fear of reprisal. Wherever possible, we work with third parties who hold certifications or have made commitments to corporate social responsibility (CSR). To take our actions further, in 2015 SkyPower made a commitment to adhere to ISO 26000:2010 Social Responsibility, a guideline for how businesses and organizations As of August 2016, we are proud to say that: can operate in a socially responsible, ethical and transparent way that contributes to the health and welfare of society. • 83% of our suppliers hold certifications (e.g., ISO 9001, ISO 18001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 12100, ISO 17025) • 68% of our suppliers have made a commitment to corporate sustainability and responsibility 34 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ZERO TOLERANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY FOR CORRUPTION “At SkyPower, we take anti-corruption very seriously. We promote high standards of business ethics in the way we conduct our business and through our involvement in leading anti-corruption organizations.” – Stuart Miller, Senior Vice President, Financial Operations, SkyPower For SkyPower, conducting business ethically lies at the core of our identity and is vital to our SkyPower also mandates that all third-party representatives understand and comply with our success. SkyPower is committed to the highest standard of responsible business conduct Anti-Corruption Policy and applicable laws. Prior to engaging any third-party representative around the world -ensuring that all business transactions are conducted in a proper, fair, who is likely to interact with public officials on behalf of the company, SkyPower is required to impartial and ethical manner, avoiding even the appearance of impropriety. conduct extensive background checks and due diligence. We are proud of the actions we took this year to take a firm stand against corruption: In these ways, SkyPower is proud of its commitment to compliance with all local applicable laws in the jurisdictions we operate, including compliance with Canada’s Corruption of Foreign • In March 2016, SkyPower became a Corporate Supporter of Transparency International, Public Officials Act (CFPOA), the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the joining a global coalition fighting against foreign bribery and corruption and making a United Kingdom Bribery Act (UKBA), and other laws prohibiting the offer, payment, solicitation commitment to transparency and corporate good governance. or acceptance of bribes, kickbacks, facilitation payments or improper gratuities of any kind. • In May 2016, SkyPower participated in Transparency International’s Day of Dialogue: Spotlight on Corruption, along with like-minded global leaders. Doing Our Due Diligence • In October 2015, SkyPower provided mandatory anti-corruption training by independent experts to all of its team members globally. The training educates new team members of As part of our comprehensive due diligence process, SkyPower carefully examines local our obligations and responsibilities to avoid and prevent corruption. This training has now markets and their dynamics. This process includes researching human rights records and become a mandatory requirement for all new staff as part of our on-boarding process. considering corruption risks. For instance, Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contracts and Operations and Maintenance (O&M) contracts are reviewed from the perspective SkyPower’s commitment to anti-corruption is codified by our comprehensive Anti-Corruption of human rights and labour laws. Compliance Policy. This policy, which is updated regularly and distributed throughout the company, prohibits our employees and representatives from giving, offering, soliciting or SkyPower also takes actions to verify that the land we procure has a clean title. This is often accepting bribes to or from any person or entity, or bribing domestic or foreign government done with advice from local legal experts to ensure compliance with all applicable regulations. or public officials, including elected officials and government employees at the local, regional, national or international level. The policy requires that staff must notify the Chief Executive Officer and our Corporate Governance and Compliance team of any illegal, dishonest or unethical act, including a possible violation of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy or any other company policy or legal requirement. To facilitate reporting, SkyPower provides for an environment that fosters open communication without fear of reprisal and forbids retaliation or penalization of any kind against employees for filing complaints in good faith. 35 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 4 “Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children. We do not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors, we borrow it from our children.” – Ancient Indian Proverb 36 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Developing clean, green, renewable energy is our business. But at SkyPower, SKYPOWER’S PRIORITIES: we go even further. Our commitment to environmental stewardship is a way of life everywhere throughout our global organization – from the offices we • Develop clean and renewable solar energy to occupy to the suppliers we choose. Environmental responsibility is at the support a healthy environment core of our company’s mission, values and operations and we proactively take measures wherever possible to reduce our environmental footprint. • Reduce our impact on the environment We are an innovative and forward-thinking company that is in the business of generating a greener future for generations to come and our actions and • Source from environmentally-responsible suppliers conduct speak to that. 37 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT GENERATING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP A GREENER FUTURE FOR ALL Reducing Harmful Emissions Ensuring Environmental Compliance We are proud to report that our operating solar projects have, over the past year, SkyPower undertakes comprehensive environmental studies to ensure our solar powered thousands of homes with clean, emission-free electricity. In fact, the green farms have minimal negative environmental impacts and meet all applicable electricity produced by our operating projects each year offsets thousands of tonnes environmental laws. In Ontario, Canada SkyPower’s operating projects abide by of carbon dioxide (CO2), mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) and methane (CH4) emissions the Renewable Energy Approvals regulation (Ontario Regulation 359/09) made from our atmosphere, which is equivalent to growing hundreds of thousands of new under Part V.0.1 of the Environmental Protection Act. Each of our projects have trees over 10 years. undergone this approval process to ensure compliance with certain requirements, including provincial set back and noise standards, environmental impact studies, In South Africa and Tanzania, where we distributed more than 5,000 solarand consultation with the public, municipalities and Aboriginal communities. powered lights in 2014 and 2015 to remote communities through our SkyPower Cares Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative continue to generate about 21,531 kilowatt-hours of renewable electricity per year. This provides more than 7.3 million hours of light per year and eliminates the reliance on kerosene lamps, offsetting approximately 2,260 tonnes of CO2 emissions. A Better Way to Generate Power Solar is the most environmentally-friendly renewable resource on the planet. Compared to other forms of traditional and renewable energy, solar has minimal negative impacts on the environment and wildlife: • No pollutants or toxins are released by solar panels • There are no air emissions from solar projects • Solar PV cells are recyclable • No chemical weed treatments are used to control weeds at SkyPower’s solar farms • SkyPower will not use panels that are made of cadmium telluride or any other form of manufactured rare and toxic materials 38 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP REDUCING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT Greening Our Workplace Environmentally Responsible Sourcing To reduce our footprint, SkyPower headquarters in downtown Toronto, Canada is The photocopiers we use at SkyPower are ENERGY STAR® energy efficiency rated located in First Canadian Place, a LEED® EB:OM (Existing Building: Operations & all-in-one printers that use solid ink technology, which require no cartridges and use Maintenance) Gold Certified building. The LEED® Green Building Rating System is less packaging than alternatives. In fact, according to the manufacturer, solid ink a leading program that provides third-party verification of green buildings. Through printers produce only 19 pounds of waste over a typical four-year lifespan, compared the certification process, the building has: to 246 pounds from a conventional cartridge-based toner printer. • Improved its energy use by approximately 24% SkyPower, where available, uses recycled paper or paper that is certified by the • Reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 16,000 metric tonnes Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), an international certification that promotes of carbon dioxide equivalent (MtCO2e) responsible management of the world’s forests by ensuring that the trees used to • Improved its water efficiency by approximately 66 million litres per year produced paper are grown specifically for the industry. • Diverted 76% of waste from landfills The beverage and food supplier we have chosen provides Fair Trade coffee and These reductions are equivalent to powering approximately 800 homes, removing Rainforest Alliance Certified products, and food from local restaurants with a 1,400 cars from the road for one year and filling approximately 26 Olympic-sized preference for using locally-grown, fair trade and organic ingredients where possible. swimming pools. Reducing Our Waste SkyPower has implemented measures to reduce the amount of office waste we generate. SkyPower promotes recycling amongst staff by equipping our kitchen, photocopier room and each desk with a recycling bin. We also have bins for collecting compostable waste in our kitchens and a used battery collection bin in our photocopier room. These actions increase the amount of recyclable, compostable and hazardous waste that is diverted from our landfills each year. In total, SkyPower has saved over 78 trees in the past year by recycling documents. We have also greened our holiday season by switching to electronic greeting cards, saving thousands of cards from being printed on paper. 39 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 5 “At SkyPower it is inspiring to work with such a diverse team with many different skills, expertise, abilities and cultures, where people are not fit into jobs but rather job descriptions match people’s skills.” – Charmaine Klawiter, Senior Vice President, Global Implementation & Logistics, SkyPower 40 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE At SkyPower we recognize that our team members are our greatest SKYPOWER’S PRIORITIES: asset. We focus on attracting skilled leaders and innovators who are committed to paving the way to a more sustainable planet. We • Uphold employee rights and foster diversity embrace diversity as a strength and uphold the highest standards of integrity and our Code of Conduct. • Ensure a safe and healthy workplace At SkyPower we have taken measures to ensure that all of • Champion the health and well-being of our our employees, officers, consultants and directors work in an employees environment that is safe and healthy and focuses on a balanced approach to a working environment with initiatives such as mandatory holidays and standards for travel and accomodations to always ensure, regardless where in the world a SkyPower team member may be at any time, their safety is at the forefront of our planning and of paramount importance. 41 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND DIVERSITY “Our distinctive collaborative team spirit and focus on high internal standards is what I find most inspiring about SkyPower.” – Cristiano Spillati, Regional Manager, Middle East, SkyPower Upholding Employee Rights Fostering Diversity With offices around the world, SkyPower reviews and updates its policies and SkyPower is an equal opportunity employer that respects diversity, inclusion and the procedures on a regular basis to comply with all applicable labour and occupational fair and equitable treatment of all employees and team members. health and safety legislation in the countries it operates. With offices located across the globe, the diversity of the people of SkyPower is one of To ensure legislation is put into practice, SkyPower has developed and maintains a its greatest strengths. SkyPower is dedicated to creating and fostering a workplace comprehensive Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This Code lays out a set of that values and uses the contributions of people with different backgrounds, policies relating to employee rights and diversity and is enforced in accordance with experiences and perspectives. We see inclusion and diversity as fundamental to our our guidelines. culture and an integral part of fostering innovation, collaboration and a high-energy work environment. A respect for equity, dignity and integrity, and compliance with Contained in the Code is SkyPower’s zero tolerance policy and our commitment to all legal and regulatory requirements is written into our policies. providing a workplace environment free from discrimination and harassment on the basis of race, gender, sexual orientation, national or ethnic origin, religion, marital For SkyPower, diversity refers to all of the characteristics that make individuals status, family status, citizenship status, veteran status, age, medical status, physical different from each other. We take the widest possible view of inclusion and or mental disability or any other characteristic protected by law. diversity, going beyond factors such as national origin, race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, or having a disability, to create an environment that welcomes all forms of difference. Our respect for diversity and inclusion provides us with a competitive edge in the global marketplace and makes us stand apart from our competitors. 42 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE “ I believe Confucius said it best: If you choose a job you love, you will never work a day in your life. Working for SkyPower, for me, is that job. It’s the ability to come in every day and enjoy the people I work with and teams I work with. The motivation is there and the excitement is there.” – Robert Foran, Senior Vice President, Operations, SkyPower 43 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT EMPLOYEE SAFETY, SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE HEALTH AND WELLNESS “The people at SkyPower are among the most talented and passionate that I’ve had the opportunity to work with in my career.” – Shannah McElrea, Administration, SkyPower Addressing Employee Grievances Championing Employee Health and Well-Being SkyPower takes employee grievances seriously and has a comprehensive process Beyond providing a safe and healthy work environment, SkyPower offers competitive in place to ensure fair and timely resolution. In the event any complaint or grievance benefits to its employees to foster their personal health and well-being. regarding suspected violations of company policy or applicable laws was filed, appropriate executive and/or directors would be involved to ensure compliance with To support physical and mental health, SkyPower provides all employees with a established best practices and applicable laws in the relevant jurisdiction. premium health and dental plan, as well as access to high-quality fitness facilities where available. SkyPower’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics also contains a strict policy that forbids penalizing or retaliating against any employee for filing a complaint or a Where practical, SkyPower serves daily nutritious lunches to its employees to grievance of any kind that is made in good faith. contribute to a nourishing diet and allow an opportunity for employees to interact and build positive relationships. Ensuring a Safe and Healthy Workplace Work-Life Balance The health and safety of our employees, directors, officers and consultants is always at the forefront of our work. Since its inception, SkyPower has enforced a mandatory two-week holiday shutdown in December of all its offices globally, to encouage team members to rest and spend SkyPower’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines clear policies that time with their families and loved ones. We believe helping to achieve a healthy address our commitment to a safe and healthy workplace. Furthermore, the work-life balance for employees is a critical responsibility of an employer. company is dedicated to complying strictly with all relevant occupational health and safety legislation in the countries it operates, following work procedures referenced Accessibility in health and safety laws. SkyPower’s website and content complies with the World Wide Web Consortium SkyPower has zero tolerance for any acts of violence, harassment or any other – Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Level A of the W3C Website actions that compromise the health and safety of fellow employees, directors, Accessibility Initiative. officers, consultants and other stakeholders. Facilities around the world where SkyPower houses its team members are fully accessible or accomodations are made as required. 44 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT TAKING SkyPower is so very proud of the achievements we have made this year in ensuring we continue to meet our obligations as a signatory of the UN Global Compact and a Strategic Partner of the UN Caring for Climate initiative. OUR ACTIONS We have continued to integrate the principles of the UN Sustainable Development Goals in the work we do, the manner in which we conduct FORWARD ourselves and the way we operate. As we move forward, climate action, community development, human rights and anti-corruption, a healthy environment, and a safe and healthy workplace for our employees continue to be at the top of our mind and in all of our conduct and actions. We look forward to the coming fiscal year, which begins in late August with the distribution of the first SkyPower Home solar systems to families in Kenya who need energy the most. This is part of our commitment to develop 2 GW of solar energy projects in Kenya over the next 5 years. But our work is not yet done. Together, as a global community, we still have a long way to go in actualizing the 17 SDGs. In the coming year we look forward to continuing to collaborate with non-profit organizations, governments and other stakeholders, and we call on business leaders to join us in our commitment to corporate social responsibility and sustainability. We cannot do it alone, but together we can affect real change that will leave a legacy of clean, sustainable, renewable energy for generations to come. 45 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT RECENT LARGE SOLAR ENERGY INITIATIVES 46 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE UN Secretary General NEW YORK, 22 June 2016 -Today at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2016 in New York, Kerry Adler, founder and CEO of SkyPower was announced the SDGs. A Pioneers Selection Group, comprised of experts from the UN, academia, civil society and the private sector, ranked the nominees based on Ban Ki-moon announced as one of ten 2016 Local SDG Pioneers. Mr. Adler was recognized for his efforts that align with Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 13 on Climate a set of criteria, resulting in the ten 2016 Global Compact Local SDG Pioneers. In the years to come, the Global Compact’s Pioneers programme will become the UN Global Compact's Action. a vital part of the organization’s priority to make global goals local business. recognition of SkyPower Launched in 2016 as part of the UN Global Compact’s Making Global Goals Local Business campaign, the Local SDG Pioneers programme seeks out “I am honoured to be part of the inaugural class of Local SDG Pioneers and humbled by the recognition from the UN Global Compact,” said Mr. Adler. Founder and Chief individuals who are demonstrating how the Sustainable Development Goals “Sustainable Developments Goals are core to SkyPower’s global operations (SDGs) can enable business to unlock economic, social and environmental because I fundamentally believe that businesses have a duty to be responsible Executive Officer as a gains for the world. Over 600 nominations were received from 100 countries corporate citizens and leave an inhabitable world for future generations.” between February and April 2016. Pioneer for Climate Action The UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2016 is a two-day gathering of at the UN Leaders Summit The 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development – adopted by world leaders in September 2015 at an historic UN the private sector, UN, Government and civil society to jump-start action to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. Together, over 800 Summit – officially came into force on 1 January 2016. Over the next fifteen leaders from around the world are gathered in New York to identify how to years with these new goals that universally apply to all, countries will mobilize unleash the business activities, thinking and innovation required fro a new efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change, era of sustainability. while ensuring that no one is left behind. The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate sustainability “Each of the 2016 Local SDG Pioneers exemplifies how business can be a initiative, calling on companies to align strategies and operations with force for good in addressing the challenges we face as a global society,” said universal principles on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, Lise Kingo, UN Global Compact Executive Director. “Mr. Adler is a passionate and take actions that advance societal goals. In Canada, over 80 companies advocate for climate change, particularly clean energy. He is leading and non-business organizations have joined the initiative, and the Global developments towards a renewable power sector in Canada and international Compact Network Canada has supported their efforts to advance sustainable markets for sustainable energy solutions – making him a Pioneer on climate business practices since 2013. action.” The Pioneers are made up of entrepreneurs who are championing sustainability through their business models and changemakers who are mobilizing the business community broadly to take action in support of 47 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE SkyPower Enters into VANCOUVER, CANADA, May 13, 2016 –SkyPower is pleased to announce it has entered into an agreement with BYD to submit a joint bid in the upcoming BYD is headquartered in Guangdong, China’s most populated province, accounting for more than twenty-five percent of China’s foreign trade. “We Agreement with BYD tenders for solar power generation capacity and energy storage of up to 750 MW in India. are thrilled to join forces with like-minded visionary leaders at SkyPower,” stated Stella Li, Senior Corporate Vice President of BYD. “BYD is the global to Submit Joint Bid for The agreement was signed during the opening ceremony of the China-Canada leader in reliable, efficient battery storage and solar technology, and we are committed to providing affordable, sustainable energy solutions that not only 750 MW of Solar Energy Economic and Trade Cooperation Conference in the presence of Hu Chunhua, help countries recover economically but also help reduce air pollution caused Party Secretary of China’s Guangdong Province. The conference, hosted by by traditional, dirty fossil fuels.” Development in India British Columbia Premier Christy Clark, was aimed at strengthening the sociocultural and economic ties between China and Canada. The Government of Guangdong continues to invest in clean energy mass transit solutions to help address the environmental objectives of China’s 13th “SkyPower, an industry leader in the development of large-scale solar energy Five-Year Plan. projects, is excited to work with BYD, a global leader in battery technology, to bring together a highly-competitive bid for low-carbon, clean technology solutions,” said Charles Cohen, SkyPower’s Chief Commercial Officer, Commercial Strategy and Development. The joint venture will draw upon SkyPower’s vast global experience and its proprietary development platform to develop clean energy solutions in India at truly market-competitive rates, while ensuring the highest quality construction and world-class execution. BYD’s award-winning environmentally-friendly battery storage technology, in concert with SkyPower’s wealth of experience in developing utility-scale solar projects, will enable a significant solar implementation strategy in India. “One of the key components of our trade missions and ongoing relationship with our sister province of Guangdong is promoting cooperation between clean technology companies, like SkyPower in Canada and BYD in China,” said Premier Christy Clark. “It creates opportunity on both sides of the Pacific, and encourages the innovative use of clean technologies to support the transition to a lower carbon economy, and a cleaner environment for us all.” 48 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE Leading global solar TORONTO, Feb. 22, 2016 – We are proud to announce that SkyPower, the largest and one of the most successful developers of utility-scale solar energy Climate Bonds CEO Sean Kidney said: developer SkyPower projects in the world, has agreed to become a Climate Bonds Partner. “We are excited to add SkyPower to the growing ranks of Climate Bonds becomes a Climate The Climate Bonds Initiative is mobilizing the world’s US $100 trillion bond Partners, all supporting our mission to mobilize the world’s USD $100 trillion bond market for climate change solutions. As a global leader and active Bonds Partner market as a low-cost financing tool for climate change solutions. pioneer in building renewable energy markets, SkyPower brings a deep well With over 25 GW of solar energy projects in various stages of development of knowledge to our partnership programme. SkyPower’s global experience worldwide, SkyPower is helping lead a rapid transition to a low-carbon and provides a welcome capability that can assist Climate Bonds regional carbon resilient economy. initiatives to boost low emission energy and infrastructure investment.” Kerry Adler, President and CEO of SkyPower said: “Globally, access to capital is by far the biggest factor impacting the spread of solar energy project developments. This historic partnership will exponentially grow the green debt capital market, thereby driving down the cost of capital for solar energy projects. We are proud to work with the Climate Bonds Initiative, which will give all countries the means to realize their clean energy goals.” 49 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE bySrinivasaPrasath-Ramzan Shopping SkyPower signs Power NEW DELHI, Feb. 22, 2016 – SkyPower, the largest and one of the most successful developers and owners of utility-scale solar energy projects in the “SkyPower is excited to add these projects for Telangana to our growing list of utility-scale solar projects in India and around the globe. Construction for Purchase Agreement to world, is proud to announce the signing of four Power Purchase Agreements our solar energy projects in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh is planned deliver 200 MW of solar (PPA) with the Indian state of Telangana to build and operate a total of 200 megawatts (MW) AC of solar energy projects. to commence in 2016,” said Aviv Garten, SkyPower’s Senior Vice President of Development. energy projects to the The agreements with Telangana mark the continuation of SkyPower’s growth SkyPower’s continued commitment to develop, finance and build gigawatts Indian state of Telangana strategy in India, one of the fastest growing solar markets in the world. of solar photovoltaic projects in India represents a significant amount of the Over the past several months, SkyPower has secured 400 MW AC of solar Government of India’s 100 GW solar target for 2022 and SkyPower is proud PV projects in the states of Madhya Pradesh and Telangana and a strong to be a part of this exemplary program of the state and federal governments foundation for SkyPower to grow its presence across India. of India. “India is a world leader in deploying solar, not only with its significant targets but through its very actions,” said Kerry Adler, SkyPower’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “SkyPower is committed to making a powerful contribution to India’s goal of generating 100 GW of solar power by 2022, while the people of Telangana will benefit from clean, reliable and affordable energy as a result of the vision and leadership of this great state.” The vast global experience of the SkyPower team combined with the company’s proprietary development platform enable SkyPower to provide solar power in India at truly market competitive rates, while ensuring the highest quality construction and world-class execution using our global purchasing power and highly advanced systems and processes that have been developed by the SkyPower team over the past 13 years. 50 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE The Honourable Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh greets Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower, on his visit to Madhya Pradesh SkyPower Signs Power NEW DELHI, INDIA, October 1, 2015 SkyPower has entered into a long-term power purchase agreement (PPA) The SkyPower team’s vast global experience coupled with its Purchase Agreement to Deliver with the Government of Madhya Pradesh to provide 150 megawatts proprietary development platform when combined, permit us to provide 150 Megawatts of Solar Power (MW) AC of utility-scale solar power to the Indian state. solar power in India at truly market competitive rates whilst ensuring the highest quality construction and world-class execution using our to the Indian State of Madhya “SkyPower is committed to making a powerful contribution to India’s goal of generating 100 gigawatts of solar power by 2022,” said Kerry global purchasing power and highly advanced systems and processes that have been developed by the SkyPower team over the past 12 years. Pradesh Adler, SkyPower President and Chief Executive Officer. “India is leading the world in deploying solar, not only with its significant targets but by its very actions, and the people of Madhya Pradesh will benefit from clean, reliable and affordable energy as a result of the vision and leadership of this great state.” “Renewable energy is a big focus for the State of Madhya Pradesh and signing this power purchase agreement with SkyPower highlights our commitment,” said Mr. Sanjay Kumar Shukla, IAS, Managing Director, M.P. Power Management Company Limited (MPPMCL). “SkyPower is a globally renowned company and we are sure that our partnership will pave the way for a wave of solar energy projects to support India’s renewable energy mission.” The PPAs were signed with Dr. Navin Kumar Kohli, Addl. General Manager (IPC), MPPMCL. 51 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE Uhuru Kenyatta, the President of the Republic of Kenya, greets Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower, on his visit to Nairobi. SkyPower Signs US $2.2 NAIROBI, KENYA, July 27, 2015 – SkyPower signed a landmark agreement with the Kenyan Ministry of Energy and Petroleum for the “We are very pleased to work with a world-leader in solar energy like SkyPower,” said Henry Rotich, Cabinet Secretary of the Kenyan Ministry Billion Agreement to Develop development of 1 GW of world-class solar projects to be built in four of Energy and Petroleum. “Sustainable electrification is a central policy and Build 1 GW of Solar Energy phases in Kenya over the next five years. issue in Kenya, and we are committed to making this a reality for our citizens, while accelerating economic growth in the process.” Projects in Kenya The monumental US $2.2 billion agreement was signed in Nairobi, Kenya at the sixth annual Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES). GES 2015 hosted an unprecedented convention of high-level leaders from “SkyPower’s US $2.2 billion investment will create more than 25,000 around the globe, including U.S. President Barack Obama and H.E. total job years in Kenya and includes 200 MW of fabrication and Uhuru Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya. SkyPower proudly assembly facilities, as well as a commitment of US $173 million toward sponsored the summit as an official Solar Energy Partner. education, training, and research and development,” said SkyPower Executive Vice President Charles Cohen. “Kenya has become an African hub for innovation and entrepreneurship, and SkyPower is proud to contribute to this unprecedented milestone in Kenya’s ambitious renewable energy plan,” said SkyPower President and Chief Executive Officer Kerry Adler. “SkyPower’s solar projects will help Kenya realize its electrification goals, support the development of the country’s renewable energy industry and help the development of strong communities, generating a brighter future for all.” 52 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE SkyPower to Donate Two NAIROBI, KENYA, July 28, 2015 – SkyPower signed a landmark US $2.2 billion agreement with the Government of Kenya during the 6th annual SkyPower Home solar kits will help Kenya’s citizens leapfrog towards greater energy access and increase the standard of living as a whole. Million Home Solar Kits in Global Entrepreneurship Summit to develop 1 GW of solar projects in Kenya and its people are realizing rapid growth as the largest economy Kenya July, 2015. As part of this historic moment for Kenya, SkyPower will be gifting two million SkyPower Home solar kits to people of Kenya. in East Africa. SkyPower is proud to play an integral role in creating new green energy jobs, advancing opportunities for skills development and training, and providing basic access to energy with its recent SkyPower, under the guidance of the Government of Kenya, will distribute commitments in the country. two million solar kits to homes and working families across the nation currently without access to electricity. The portable SkyPower Home “We are delighted to work with the Kenyan Government in the rapid solar kits include a solar panel and an inverter to help Kenyans harness implementation of this micro-electrification initiative that will help the power of the sun. The home solar kits include LED bulbs, a fan, USB millions of people,” said Charles Cohen, Executive Vice President of charging capabilities and a radio that will be powered and recharged by SkyPower Global. “This progressive partnership is the next step in the sun. generating a brighter future for Kenya.” “This monumental grant marks the largest single commitment in history, which provides an unprecedented solar solution to give power to the people of Kenya and communities without access to basic power,” said Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower. “We are proud to help empower Kenya to harness the abundant power of the sun to improve the lives and economic prospects of its people, ultimately positioning Kenya to become a renewable energy hub for Africa.” 53 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi (right) congratulates the President and Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower Global Kerry Adler (centre), on the SkyPower-IGD US$5 billion boost to Egypt’s solar sector. Egyptian Government SHARM EL-SHEIKH, EGYPT, March 17, 2015 – SkyPower and International Gulf Development (IGD) have signed a historic agreement with the Government “The availability of energy and managing the demand for it is one of the main priorities on the Egyptian development agenda,” said President of Egypt, and SkyPower IGD sign of Egypt for the development of 3,000 megawatts (MW) of utility-scale solar Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. historic solar power photovoltaic (PV) projects to be built over the next four years. Bringing together extensive international expertise, the venture – in which agreement The agreement represents an unprecedented milestone in Egypt’s strategic plan to develop a sustainable renewable energy industry, creating thousands SkyPower joins forces with Middle Eastern infrastructure specialists IGD – will entail a multi-phase development that will result in the production of of new green energy jobs and attracting billions in capital investment. clean, sustainable and cost-effective energy to support the growing energy needs of Egypt and directly contribute to the government’s goal of producing SkyPower, in partnership with IGD, finalized the agreement with the Egyptian 20% of energy from renewables by 2020. government at the first ever Egypt Economic Development Conference (EEDC) during a signing ceremony where many key infrastructure projects were unveiled for Egypt’s prosperous future. 54 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina greets Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Charles Cohen, Chief Commercial Officer, Commercial Strategy and Development, of SkyPower, on their visit to Bangladesh SkyPower Announces NEW YORK, USA, October 1, 2015 During the 70th United Nations General Assembly in New York, SkyPower, “The new development agenda makes it clear that all our actions need to be underpinned by our strong commitment to protect and preserve our planet, our 2 GW of Solar Energy the world’s largest developer and owner of utility-scale solar projects, made biodiversity and our climate. We have only a small window of opportunity and Projects in Bangladesh a historic announcement with Prime Minister Hasina, unveiling its plans to build 2 GW of utility-scale solar energy over the next five years in Bangladesh, we must succeed to set the world on a safer, greener, and more prosperous path,” said Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina at the 70th UN General Assembly. representing an investment of US $4.3 billion. “SkyPower’s $4.3 billion USD investment will create more than 42,000 total As part of this historic moment for Bangladesh, SkyPower also announced it job years in Bangladesh and will include 500 MW of fabrication and assembly will be gifting 1.5 million SkyPower Home solar kits to people of Bangladesh facilities,” said SkyPower Chief Commercial Officer, Charles Cohen. over the course of the next five years. SkyPower has a long history of working closely with local communities to The SkyPower Home solar kits consist of a solar panel, battery, LED lights, produce hundreds of millions of kilowatt hours (kWh) of clean electricity every fan, radio, and USB port to charge mobile phones designed to allow families year, while ensuring that those closest to the developments reap the rewards to harness the power of the sun. The high quality home solar kits are durable, of new jobs, education, skills training and accessible energy. portable and IEC certified. “SkyPower is proud to help Bangladesh achieve its sustainable development goals,” said SkyPower President and Chief Executive Officer Kerry Adler. “The investment in Bangladesh will help increase grid connectivity, ease energy poverty and create new green energy jobs.” 55 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE MonterreyPano-by-Rick_Gonzalez SkyPower and Grupo MEXICO CITY, MEXICO, August 7, 2015 – SkyPower announced the formation of a joint venture with Grupo Uribe, a leading energy company based in “Grupo Uribe looks forward to this strategic partnership with SkyPower, a truly global company that is committed to deploying renewable energy solutions Uribe Form Joint Mexico with over 50 years of experience serving households, businesses and for Mexico,” said Fabian Uribe of Grupo Uribe. “Our collective strengths will Venture for the Strategic industries. The joint venture will form the single largest solar development company in Mexico and will focus on the development of an integrated allow us to harness the vast solar energy potential in Mexico with agility and speed.” Development of Solar pipeline of utility-scale solar photovoltaic projects across the country. Mexico has one of the fastest growing economies in the Americas and is committed Charles Cohen, Executive Vice President and Global Head of Development Energy in Mexico to diversifying its energy supply mix in order to rapidly move forward with said, “This is another remarkable moment in the history of SkyPower and it energy reform. makes me proud to see this joint venture between two incredible companies who are committed to making a positive difference in addressing issues “SkyPower is truly excited to be a part of this historical change in the energy related to climate change and providing access to electricity for those who sector for Mexico, which will undoubtedly create new jobs and stimulate need it the most.” economic growth and development in both rural and urban communities around the country,” said Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower. 56 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT For more information: executiveteam@skypower.com @SkyPowerGlobal +1 416 979 4625 www.linkedin.com/company/skypower-global www.skypower.com 57 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT
