Sustainability Report 2016 NORTH AMERICA BRENNTAG WORLDWIDE FACTS AND FIGURES EUR 3.6 EXTERNAL SALES BN > 4,500 EMPLOYEES IN NORTH AMERICA READING MÜLHEIM/RU GERMA USA HOUSTON USA LATIN AMERICA EUR 0.9 BN EXTERNAL SALES > 1,500 EMPLOYEES IN LATIN AMERICA EMEA FACT S AN D FI GU RE S EUR 4.7 EXTERNAL SALES BN ASIA PACIFIC > 6,600 HR 0.8 NY EUR BN EXTERNAL SALES EMPLOYEES IN EMEA > 1,800 EMPLOYEES IN ASIA PACIFIC Umsatz nach Regionen SINGAPORE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE SALES BY REGION EMPLOYEES BY REGION (as at Dec. 31, 2015) (as at Dec. 31, 2015) n IN % IN % Mitarbeiter nach Regionen 3.2 12.3 0.9 8.1 8.9 10.4 34.8 45.0 31.0 45.4 EMEA North America Latin America Asia Pacific All other segments nen WE ARE BRENNTAG FACT S AN ABOUT BRENNTAG D FI GU RE S Brenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution and is present on all of the key world markets with its wide portfolio of products and services. Headquartered in Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany, the Group operates a global network of locations and provides its suppliers and customers with tailor-made distribution solutions for industrial and specialty chemicals. Brenntag manages complex supply chains and connects chemical manufacturers and chemical users. several 1,000 suppliers more than 530 locations in 74 countries around 180,000 customers more than 10,000 various products KEY FIGURES IN EUR M 2015 2014 2013 Sales 10,346.1 10,015.6 9,769.5 Gross profit 2,266.0 2,027.5 1,945.5 Operating EBITDA 807.4 726.7 698.3 Profit after tax 368.1 339.7 338.9 Free cash flow 764.3 521.6 543.4 Employees  at Dec. 31 14,707 13,870 13,297 Accident rate (LTIR) * 1.6 1.9 2.0 Employee fluctuation in % 5.8 6.5 5.8 ISO 9001 certifications % of operating sites 89 90 88 * Number of accidents resulting in at least 1 day’s absence/1 million working hours ﻿ 1 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG Our slogan “ConnectingChemistry” represents Brenntag’s self-image as well as its role in the chemical industry: as the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag connects chemical manufacturers and users in a value-creating partnership. Brenntag’s key role in the value chain offers huge potential – but also entails an obligation to contribute towards greater sustainability in the industry. FOR BRENNTAG, RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR entails more than just commercial success. We also aim to achieve sustainable value creation. For this reason, we also consider the effects of our business activities on the environment and factor in social issues when making strategic decisions. THIS REPORT FOCUSES on the issues of safety, environmental protection, responsibility in the supply chain as well as employees and social commitment. They are associated with our daily business and our service portfolio and are critical to Brenntag’s long-term business success. These key issues have been identified through a materiality assessment and on the basis of a stakeholder survey. We aim to continuously improve on our performance in these areas. For this purpose, we establish and optimize appropriate standards and processes within our international corporate structures, we sensitize our employees accordingly and we provide them with suitable training on a continuous basis. Our goal is the ongoing global development of our sustainability strategy, thus harmonizing economics with ecology and social issues within our company. CONTENTS 2 CEO Letter 4 Sustainability at Brenntag 14 Safety 22 Environmental Protection 30 Supply Chain Responsibility 32 Employees 38 Community 40 Report Profile 42 GRI Content Index Imprint More information online More information within the report 2 ConnectingChemistry WELCOME TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY worldwide are further key factors in our success. In its longREPORT. term corporate strategy, Brenntag aims to expand its market leadership. In doing so, we rely on the organic growth of our Brenntag is the global market leader in product and service portfolio as well as on growth through chemical distribution and aims to play acquisitions. Our “2020 vision” sets out how we intend to a leading role also in the area of susposition ourselves in our target markets and industries in tainability. We have a central position future. In the 2015 financial year, we once again successfully in the chemical industry’s supply chain implemented our strategy in a challenging macroeconomic and connect manufacturers and users environment. We increased the results for our key figures and of chemical products in a value-creating executed ten acquisitions amounting to more than EUR 550 partnership. This function is reflected million of enterprise value. in our slogan “ConnectingChemistry”. Effective July 1, 2015, the Management Board of Brenntag AG Our market leadership is based on our was expanded to five members. Karsten Beckmann, Markus broad portfolio of products and ser­ Klähn and Henri Nejade, who have served as managers at vices, our global footprint and business Brenntag for many years, are providing the Management activities spanning multiple sectors. The Board with additional industry knowledge, huge expertise outstanding market and technical exand, above all, further international and regional experience pertise and the strong customer ­focus and skills. Our company’s growth is thereby also reflected of our more than 14,000 employees in this body. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 CEO LETTER 3 „ALSO WITH REGARD TO SUSTAINABILITY, WE AIM TO SET STANDARDS IN OUR INDUSTRY AND WORK TO ENHANCE SUSTAINABILITY WITHIN OUR COMPANY AND ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN.“ STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO Brenntag’s market leadership and size entail a responsibility sibility in relation to safety. Based on which is not limited to economic aspects alone. Our busithe extensive results of this survey, we ness activities affect the environment and the communities have drawn up, among others, global, in which we operate. We are aware of this responsibility and regional and local action plans. we intend to live up to it in our daily work. We aim to achieve a continual improvement in our performance in the area of Our 2016 sustainability report was sustainability and to contribute towards greater sustainability prepared using the G4 Guidelines of in all the industries and applications we serve. We have made the Global Reporting Initiative. It also important progress here in the 2015 year under review. serves as a progress report for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As In a materiality analysis, we consulted selected groups of a member, Brenntag affirms its cominternal and external stakeholders regarding their assessmitment to the UNGC’s ten principles ment of the significance of various sustainability issues for in the areas of human rights, labour Brenntag. You will find the results of this analysis on page 7 standards, environmental protection of this report. On this basis, we will continue to further develand fighting corruption. These princiop our sustainability strategy in a targeted manner. For this ples complement the standards which purpose, we have also drawn up initial sustainability targets we apply in evaluating all of our busifor the period up to 2020 (see page 8) as benchmarks for ness activities. us to evaluate our progress. The global energy programme introduced in the year under review will also promote greatWe are continuously working to imer transparency. Here, we intend to achieve savings in our prove and develop sustainability as a energy consumption and our CO2 emissions. core value within our company. Thank you for taking the time and interest to As a member of the chemical industry’s “Together for Suslearn where we are on our journey to tainability” initiative, in mid-2015 we requested a good 200 embrace sustainability as part of our of our suppliers to undergo sustainability assessments for daily lives. Please feel free to send us the first time. There will be further surveys on an annual any questions or suggestions by email basis. We will evaluate the results in order to achieve greater to sustainability@brenntag.de or online transparency of our suppliers’ sustainability performance. at www.brenntag.com/sustainability. Safety is of paramount importance at Brenntag, and a strong Best wishes, safety awareness – safety first – is part of our corporate values. I am therefore particularly pleased that in 2015, we were able to achieve a further reduction in the Group’s LTIR1day (lost time injury rate) accident rate to 1.6. However, we are not content to rest on our laurels. We have launched the Steven Holland BEST initiative (Brenntag Enhanced Safety Thinking), which Chief Executive Officer Brenntag Group is intended to deliver continual improvements in our Group’s Mülheim an der Ruhr, June 2016 safety culture. As part of this initiative, in 2015 we consulted our employees throughout our Group for the first time regarding their assessment and handling of health and safety issues in their workplaces. We can be very proud that the participation rate is at more than 80%. This shows that our employees have already developed a strong sense of responBRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 4 ConnectingChemistry SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG CONSIDER THE FUTURE For Brenntag, sustainability means striking an appropriate as society as a whole – and only by livbalance between business, ecology and social issues in its ing these values can we achieve success. corporate activities, and reconciling these different priorities. We do not identify success purely in terms of our pursuit Sustainability is therefore a basic prinand fulfilment of commercial objectives, but we also aim to ciple in Brenntag’s business model, and achieve sustainable value creation and to live up to our reone which is practised in our company’s sponsibility towards the environment and to society at large. day-to-day work. We seek to consider environmental as well as social issues Brenntag is the number one in global chemical distribution in our activities and to factor in the efand also aims to assume a leading position when it comes to fects of our business operations when sustainability. Our portfolio of products and services as well making strategic decisions. To this end, as our key role in the chemical industry’s supply chain entail we have established corresponding numerous challenges in the area of sustainability which distan­dards and processes in our interrectly affect our business. Safety, health and environmental national corporate structures. Brenntag protection, efficient use of resources and compliance are valcontinuously sensitizes its employees ues and goals which are deeply rooted in our company. These for this issue and provides them with values are the cornerstones of our responsible practices in the suitable training. interests of our employees, suppliers and customers, as well CHEMICAL CREATING VALUE – A MANUFACTURERS PURCHASING TRANSPORT STORAGE CENTRAL FUNCTION IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Our suppliers Brenntag’s slogan “ConnectingChemistry” / Several thousand / Network with more than 530 locations in 74 countries stands for our self-image as well as our obsuppliers worldwide / Local purchasing teams and global sourcing organization with jective and the promise that we make to / Full-line product more than 1,000 experts all of our partners in the supply chain. As a portfolio with more / Cost of materials in 2015: EUR 8.02 billion than 10,000 industrial provider of a full-line product portfolio and and specialty chemical as a “one-stop-shop”, Brenntag plays a key products role in the chemical industry’s value chain and, as a strategic partner, contributes to greater efficiency. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 5 2020 VISION / We are the safest chemical distributor, striving for zero accidents and incidents. / Throughout the world, we connect chemistry by providing the most effective industry channel for our customers and suppliers. / We are the global leader in all our chosen markets and industries, offering the most professional sales & marketing organization in the industry, ensuring consistently high standards every day, everywhere. / We strive to provide a working environment where the best people want to work. / We aim to generate sustainable and high returns for our shareholders and all other stakeholders. COMPANY PROFILE intends to position itself in the chemBrenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution. ical distribution market in the future, See the inside front cover for the COMPANY’S Connecting chemical manufacturers (our suppliers) and chemin order to continue its successful deKEY FIGURES for 2015. ical users (our customers), we provide both complete distribuvelopment. Efficiency, safety and retion solutions as well as individual chemical products. sponsibility towards our employees are fundamental aspects of our corporate Brenntag distributes industrial and specialty chemicals for thoustrategy and therefore also of Brenntag’s sands of suppliers. We maintain a global network with more sustainability strategy. than 530 locations in 74 countries in the regions North America, Latin America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East & Africa) and Asia Pacific. We serve around 180,000 customers worldwide in various end-market industries. With its corporate strategy Brenntag pursues the goal to be the preferred distributor for both specialty and industrial chemicals for its customers and suppliers and, at the same time, the industry leader in safety, growth and profitability. Our “2020 Vision” serves as a guideline as to how Brenntag CHEMICAL USERS FILLING MIXING AND EXTENSIVE WAREHOUSE PACKAGING PACKAGING BLENDING TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT TRANSPORT LABELLING SUPPORT Our customers Around 180,000 customers worldwide in various end-mar/ Repackaging / Just-in-time delivery and inventory manageket industries, e. g.: ment / Filling, labelling, barcoding and palletizing / Adhesives / Return of packaging drums / Local distribution and marketing teams comprising more than / Paints 5,000 experts / Efficient logistics and transport management / Oil & gas / Product mixing in line with specific customer requirements / Food / Blending and technical service in our own application laboratories / Water treatment / Personal care / Pharmaceuticals BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 6 ConnectingChemistry SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT participation, and also made accessible SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT: In to all of Brenntag’s employees via its September/October 2015, Brenntag conducted a materiality global intranet. The stakeholders were assessment which is based on the principles defined by the invited to assess these issues in terms of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): sustainability context, materitheir relevance for Brenntag’s long-term ality, completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness. This assesscommercial success. They were also ment was intended to determine key sustainability issues for able to comment on these issues and For further information Brenntag and its relevant stakeholder groups, and therefore indicate further issues. In total, 1,031 on Brenntag’s STAKEHOLDER GROUPS, please to further develop Brenntag’s sustainability strategy. stakeholders took part in the company’s see page 13. Materiality Assessment 2015. An internal group of experts was tasked with determining the key issues for Brenntag. It comprised members of Brenntag’s The stakeholder survey confirmed the On SUSTAINABILITY two sustainability committees as well as representatives of materiality of almost all of the issues deMANAGEMENT at Brenntag, see page 8. selected Corporate Departments. On the basis of a compretermined by Brenntag’s experts, which hensive list of potential sustainability issues resulting from were found to be either “important” or Brenntag’s current activities as well as an assessment of vari“very important”. The results of the exous benchmarks, these experts were asked to determine and pert and stakeholder surveys are comweight key issues for Brenntag. These are issues which may pared in the materiality matrix. The directly affect our business development, relationships with matrix therefore indicates the relevant our business partners as well as our reputation. In their assustainability issues from the point of sessment, the experts drew upon their experiences resulting view of Brenntag and the stakeholders from dialogue with the stakeholders as well as their insights consulted. The results were presented to in relation to the competitive environment and the industry the Management Board of Brenntag AG as a whole. and discussed. As a guideline, they help to further develop the Group’s sustain­ The results show that the understanding of sustainability at ability approach in a targeted fashion, to Brenntag is closely linked with the company’s own value chain initiate suitable projects to improve our and that the key sustainability issues derive from our ­business sustainability performance, to prioritize activities and our service portfolio. More than 40 issues were measures and to provide greater focus identified as material within the following six categories: for our reporting. The contents of this ­safety, environment, supply chain, corporate governance/ sustainability report are directly based compliance, employees and social responsibility. upon the matrix. It comprises chapters on safety, environmental protection, The subsequent stakeholder survey focused on customers, supply chain responsibility, employees › GRI suppliers and employees. The issues identified in the expert and community. G4-18 survey were forwarded to selected customers and suppliers G4-27 in the form of an online questionnaire with a request for their MORE THAN 1,000 STAKEHOLDERS TOOK PART IN THE COMPANY´S 2015 MATERIALITY ­ASSESSMENT SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 7 BRENNTAG MATERIALITY MATRIX Very important 12 8 13 10 9 11 2 14 3 36 31 28 6 15 30 32 5 29 1 27 19 4 7 17 24 22 33 16 21 18 23 Stakeholder surveys 20 37 35 25 34 26 40 38 39 Important Important Very important Brenntag expert surveys Corporate Governance Environment Employees 1 Compliance 14 Protection of soil, air, water 28 Personnel development 2  Ethical/moral principles 15 Water management 29 Training 3  Anti-corruption 16 Emissions reduction/climate 30 Compensation and benefits 4 Code of conduct protection 31 Working conditions 5 Risk management 17 Resource efficiency 32 Work-life balance 6 Human rights 18 Energy efficiency 33 Talent management 7  Anti-trust & competition laws 19 Environmental management 34 Diversity 20 Recycling 35 Labour and social policy rights Safety 21 Waste management 36 Employee satisfaction and 8 Occupational safety and 22 Transport engagement health protection 37 Recruiting 9 Product safety Supply chain 10 Product quality 23 Sustainable procurement Social responsibility 11 Process safety 24 Supplier management 38 Social/charitable commitments 12 Safe handling of chemicals 25 Supplier qualification/training 39 Local community engagement 13 Risk prevention 26 Sub-contractor management 40 Participation in industry 27 Sustainable customer solutions associations › GRI (products/services) G4-19 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 8 ConnectingChemistry SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT: At Group level, there are development of the company’s global numerous strategic guidelines, policies and projects in the sustainability strategy and maintains a area of sustainability that have a global focus. Standards and dialogue with those colleagues responprocesses are implemented, established and optimized. More­ sible for sustainability at Group level and over, in accordance with the Group’s guidelines and objecin Brenntag’s regions. This coordinator tives, Brenntag’s individual companies and locations pursue reports to the Management Board, which a large number of activities of their own accord and in line supports the work of the committees. with local and regional requirements and commitments. We raise our employees’ awareness accordingly and provide them In 2015, the sustainability committees with further training. In this way, we intend to shape our susmainly focused on the following issues tainability strategy at a global level and to develop it further. and projects: Brenntag has two committees working in the area of sustain// “ Sustainable purchasing”: perforability: an international project team, which consists of repremance of sustainability assessments sentatives of the areas HSE, Compliance, Human Resources, for suppliers Operations, Purchasing and Communications, is responsible // Development and implementation for the systematic development of sustainability at Group level. of a global energy reporting and There is also a steering committee comprising representatives CO2 savings programme of the top management from Brenntag’s various regions. This // Measures to improve Brenntag’s primarily serves as an interface to the operating units and is EcoVadis scoring intended to reinforce integration relating to the issue of sus// Ongoing development of tainability at an operational level. A sustainability coordinator Brenntag’s sustainability strategy: who is based in Brenntag AG’s Corporate Development depart–– Materiality assessment ment initiates and coordinates global projects and initiatives in –– Development of Brenntag’s cooperation with these two committees, promotes the ongoing sustainability targets 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG: OUR GOALS GOALS BY STATUS Safety LTIR1 day/1 million < 1.0 for Brenntag Group 2020 LTIR1 day/1 million 2015: 1.6 (see p. 19) Sustainable procurement Analyze 50% of total chemical spend (in 2020 Achieved supplier assessments in 2015 repEUR) with sustainability assessments or resent approx. 3% of total chemical spend audits as part of the Together for Sustain­ (in EUR) (see p. 30 – 31) ability initiative Environmental protection Reduce Scope I and II CO2 emissions (per 2020 Saving programme developed and implewarehouse tonne sold) by 6% (compared mented in 2015 (see p. 22) with 2016) Compliance Achieve and maintain a coverage of 100% 2017 Among others, global e-learning training in compliance trainings for relevant emfor Brenntag’s Code of Business Conduct ployees and Ethics initiated in 2016 (see p. 33, 36) Employees Provide a working environment where the On­ Various global HR projects and initiatives best people want to work going developed and launched in 2015 (see p. 34) Sustainable solutions Become preferred distributor for sustain2020 First pilot project started in 2015 able solutions by setting up pilot projects with 10 selected key suppliers Rating Achieve and maintain EcoVadis scoring of On­ Scoring January 2016: 58 points, silver 62 points and gold recognition level going recognition level (see p. 31) BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 9 ACQUISITIONS: THE DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS Brenntag takes the due diligence proAT BRENNTAG cess very seriously. Through this comAlongside organic growth, acquisitions are the second pillar prehensive analysis, we acquire an For information on the company’s mergers & of Brenntag’s long-term growth strategy. By acquiring suitable overview of the status quo of the tarACQUISITIONS in 2015, companies, we continuously expand our market presence and get business and of the quality of its please see pages 79 ff. of Brenntag’s 2015 Annual optimize our product and service portfolio. Brenntag has a processes. It is only in this way that Report. long and successful track record of acquisitions. We have exewe can identify possible risks early on cuted more than 30 transactions since 2010 alone. In the 2015 and consider them in further negotiayear under review, we completed ten acquisitions, amounting tions and in the company’s subsequent to more than EUR 550 million of enterprise value, in countries integration into the Brenntag Group. such as the USA, Singapore, Turkey, Spain, Germany and South Subsequent integration processes are Africa. planned on the basis of the information thus obtained. Every acquisition undergoes a thorough and comprehensive due diligence process. We hold a large number of face-to-face In the event of the due diligence promeetings and make many on-site visits in order to understand, cess revealing any shortcomings or if analyze and assess the history, the current situation and the key issues remain unresolved, Brenntag potential of the target business. Another element is an extenwill generally ask the target to permit sive analysis which covers, besides commercial issues such a more in-depth review. We will then as the company’s structure and financing, tax and insurance decide on a case-by-case basis how to arrangements, legal affairs and its information technology proceed in case of insufficient clarificasystem, also the fields of HSE, corporate governance/complition or even whether to terminate the ance and human resources. negotiations outright. Alongside established processes in the area of environmental Acquisitions are integrated into the protection, the target company is also required to regularly Brenntag Group by way of a structured disclose any contamination that may have occurred on its sites process which may unfold over a peand any remediation measures implemented in response. In riod of several years, depending on the area of occupational safety, topics such as on-site safety Brenntag’s strategy for the company, its measures and employees’ personal safety equipment, among size and the complexity of the business. others, must be outlined. The company is likewise obliged to If any discrepancies are identified in redisclose its corporate governance structure and its compliance lation to Brenntag standards – e. g. in requirements. In the area of human resources, topics such terms of the issues of safety, environas agreements on social benefits, retirement provision and mental protection, human resources company pension schemes as well as collective bargaining and compliance – a key integration obagreements must be covered. jective is their rapid elimination. QUALITY MANAGEMENT improvement of our service quality. The Brenntag is a chemical distributor which differentiates itself basis for quality management within the from its competitors through the high level of quality of its Brenntag Group is the internationally products and services as well as its strong customer focus and applicable ISO 9001 standard. the excellent level of service provided by its employees. Our Group’s sustainability performance has now also become a competitive advantage. Year Locations with ISO 9001 certification (in %) Using management systems, certificates and audits, we conFor the MANAGEMENT 2011 81 SYSTEMS and certificastantly verify and ensure compliance with the quality standtions in the fields of en2012 86 ards required of us and which we ourselves define. Procevironmental protection 2013 88 and occupational safety, dures are in place at our company which are designed to please see the “Envi2014 90 ensure that products are procured from reliable sources and ronmental Protection” 2015 89* chapter on page 16. are of appropriate quality. Through various mechanisms, we obtain customer feedback for the continuous monitoring and * The decline is due to the acquisition of companies that are not yet ISO 9001 certified. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 10 ConnectingChemistry MEMBERSHIPS / Since November 2002: Participation in the “Responsible Care” and “Responsible Distri­ company values, ethical principles, compliance with laws, bution” association initiatives rules and regulations as well as the relevant guidelines and / Since October 2014: Membership of the procedures which are of key significance for Brenntag and UN Global Compact its reputation are summarized in a comprehensive Code of / Since July 2015: Member of the chemical inBusiness Conduct and Ethics. dustry’s “Together for Sustainability” initiative As a central part of our compliance system, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics encompasses the fundamental requirements for Brenntag’s overall business activities in fields such as: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND // Health, safety and the environment COMPLIANCE // Human rights and working conditions Brenntag has always attached great // Relationships with business partners and public importance to responsible, prudent institutions and sustainable corporate governance. // Bribery and corruption With these objectives in mind, its man// Competition and anti-trust law Brenntag’s CONTROL agement uses various internal control // Avoidance of conflicts of interest AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM is and risk management systems and has // Data privacy and information security described in detail established a compliance organization on pages 122 ff. of Brenntag’s 2015 Annual within the company. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all of the Report. Group’s employees and is intended to give them guidance In all its business activities, Brenntag in the legal and ethical challenges of their daily work and to is committed to acting honestly, fairly encourage proper conduct. This Code of Business Conduct Brenntag’s CORPORATE and in good faith in its dealings with and Ethics has been translated into various languages and GOVERNANCE REPORT may be found on pages customers, suppliers and competitors has been distributed throughout the entire Brenntag Group 48 ff. of its 2015 Annual as well as with its employees and the and made available to all of our employees. Its observance is Report. public. Every Brenntag employee is permonitored by the respective management teams of Brenntag’s sonally responsible for complying with companies. Every infringement of this code of conduct may all applicable laws, directives, policies lead to disciplinary action and is punished in line with the and regulations. common company policies. As well as the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there The Brenntag CODE OF CODE OF CONDUCT: Brenntag is a glo­ are further Group guidelines which stipulate compliance reBUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS is freely bal company and is therefore subject to quirements, including an anti-corruption guideline which was available in German a large number of laws, directives, regu­ implemented throughout the Group in May 2016. and English on the company’s website at lations and ordinances. Furthermore, www.brenntag.com/ Brenntag’s highest priorities are hon­esty Brenntag attaches great importance to respect for human compliance. and integrity. All of our fundamental rights within its sphere of influence. We aim to safeguard BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT: THE 10 PRINCIPLES 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 2 proclaimed human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should ensure 3 that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. these rights through our commitment LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should to uphold the principles of the United uphold the freedom of association and the 4 Nations Global Compact. In the reporteffective recognition of the right to collective ing year, Brenntag did not learn of any bargaining. violation of human rights within its corporate group. 5 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should UN GLOBAL COMPACT: In October 2014, commit themselves to eliminating all forms of forced labour. Brenntag was the first-ever chemicals distributor to sign up to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should prestigious, international, voluntary in­commit themselves to abolishing child labour. 6 itiative aims to encourage sustainable development and social commitment. To this end, ten principles in the fields LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should of human rights, labour standards, commit themselves to eliminating 7 ­discrimination in respect of employment environmental protection and fightand occupation. ing corruption have been endorsed. In signing up to the UNGC, Brenntag has undertaken to enshrine these princiENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses should take a precautionary approach to dealples as an integral part of its corporate 8 ing with environmental challenges. strategy. They supplement the corporate values and principles which guide our activities. This Sustainability Report is ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses also a progress report which must be should undertake initiatives to promote 9 published annually within the scope of greater environmental awareness. our membership (“Communication on Progress”). ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses should encourage the development and 10 distribution of environmentally friendly ­technologies. FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 12 SHOWING PRESENCE: Brenntag companies pursue dialogue with their customers and suppliers worldwide at the many trade fairs and events where Brenntag presents itself. COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION: At the head of Brenntag’s comour global e-learning system. The goal pliance organization is the Board of Management and, within is for all of our employees to have rethis body, its chairman. Brenntag AG’s Governance, Risk & ceived training on the Code of BusiCompliance (GRC) manager regularly reports to the Board of ness Conduct and Ethics by the end of Management on compliance issues and in urgent cases will 2016. “Anti-corruption Activities” and do so immediately. Furthermore, the regular meetings of the “European Anti-trust Law” will be furSupervisory Board’s Audit Committee include reporting on ther key areas for training in 2016. This compliance and whistle-blowing as well as on the ongoing training will likewise be provided on a development of the Group-wide compliance management target-group-oriented basis through system. The Compliance Committee supports the GRC manthe newly implemented global e-learnager as an internal advisory body. This includes representaing tool. tives from the areas of Legal, Audit, Accounting, Information Security, HSE as well as Human Resources. WHISTLE-BLOWER SYSTEM: Tried-andtested processes are in place at Brenntag At a regional level, the Regional Executive Management is for the orderly acceptance and processresponsible for the issue of compliance. Regional compliance ing of Group-wide complaints and remanagers have been appointed in Brenntag’s regions who enports. Our employees can report relesure close integration with our business activities at a regional vant information either to their direct level. They receive, assess and report any compliance issues line manager, to the regional compliand/or questions referred to them, coordinate the compliance manager or alternatively via a cenance management system at a regional level and regularly tral email address. Third parties can also pass on information and experience through dialogue with submit complaints and report violations Brenntag AG’s GRC manager. by getting in touch with the compliance contact indicated on Brenntag AG’s glo­ TRAINING: Our compliance programme focuses particularly bal website. The information received on observing anti-trust law requirements as well as environwill always be dealt with on a strictly mental and health protection, since it is here that Brenntag confidential basis. The reports received sees the greatest risks. We therefore hold regular employee are examined and appropriate action training sessions covering these issues – through regional taken if a compliance infringement has On the issue of events which employees attend either in person or via e-learntaken place. These processes are manE-LEARNING at Brenntag, see pages 33 and 36. ing systems. The aim is to keep all of Brenntag’s employees’ aged by Brenntag AG’s GRC manager. knowledge up to date and to avoid any illegal actions as well Email addresses have also been set up as to protect the environment and employees. at a regional level. The regional compliance managers receive and assess any Furthermore, a global training programme for Brenntag’s incoming reports and initiate appropriCode of Business Conduct and Ethics was initiated in 2016. ate measures, where necessary. This training programme is being gradually rolled out through BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 13 Incoming reports mainly concern cases in future. They also include groups that may influence the of suspected fraud and theft. Violations economic, ecological or social impact of Brenntag now and of the code of conduct (e. g. discriminain the future. tion in the workplace) and reports concerning other compliance issues (e. g. The following persons and entities are Brenntag’s violations of regulations) are also rekey stakeholders: ported. If a suspected case is confirmed, this will incur the sanctions permitted // Suppliers under employment law. Compliance // Customers managers also receive general ­inquiries, // Employees e. g. concerning possible conflicts of // Investors and analysts inter­est as well as inquiries regarding // Journalists the acceptance of gifts or invitations. // Governments and authorities // Associations and organizations Year Number of confirmed // Neighbours and local residents, local communities compliance incidents* The Brenntag Group pursues dialogue with its stakeholders 2013 8 in various ways. Due to the nature of the business model, 2014 12 our employees maintain close contact with suppliers and 2015 12 customers on a day-to-day basis. Systematic customer and *These are cases notified to the GRC manager and for supplier surveys are also regularly carried out. We pursue which sufficient evidence has been established. Compliance incidents may also occur which are notified, dialogue with business partners worldwide at the many assessed and processed at a local or regional level but trade fairs where Brenntag presents itself and its portfolio. which are not reported centrally on grounds of insufficient relevance. Brenntag maintains an active dialogue concerning industry-specific issues as a member of relevant technical and inYou will find a LIST OF BRENNTAG’S KEY MEMSTAKEHOLDERS dustry associations at a local, regional and international level. BERSHIPS in the SusBrenntag engages in regular, transparBrenntag’s Corporate Investor Relations and Communications tainability Management section of our website ent and target-group-specific dialogue departments regularly and promptly notify investors, analysts, at www.brenntag.com/ with its stakeholders. Brenntag aims to journalists, etc. of developments within the company, e. g. by sustainability. notify its various target groups promptpresenting the company at road shows, in analyst conference ly and appropriately regarding developcalls, press conferences and events as well as via the com­ ments at Brenntag and its objectives, pany’s website. thus enabling its stakeholders to obtain a comprehensive picture of our Brenntag’s employees are regularly kept informed of current company and its business activities. In issues and company matters through their line managers and return, this dialogue enables Brenntag also through our internal print and online media. Conversely, to identify the needs and expectations our employees are able to discuss issues directly with their of our stakeholders, to evaluate them line managers or with the personnel managers responsible. and to appropriately reflect them in our Many Brenntag companies also offer employees the oppor­ business decisions. As well as specific tunity to contribute ideas, e. g. by means of a company sugbusiness-related issues, sustainability gestion scheme. At its various locations, Brenntag pursues issues such as safety, the environment, lively dialogue with local residents and local authorities. Open the supply chain and compliance also days or events such as the “Long Night of Industry”, which regularly feature in these discussions. A took place at its German location in Duisburg in October 2015, good flow of information in every direcprovide the opportunity to inform the general public about tion therefore contributes to Brenntag’s Brenntag and to get to know one another. commercial success and enables the company to fulfil its social responsibility. › GRI Our stakeholders include those interest G4-24 groups that are significantly affected by G4-25 the economic, ecological or social imG4-26 pact of our business or who may be so G4-27 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 14 ConnectingChemistry SAFETY SHARPENING AWARENESS Safety is part of the Brenntag corporate strategy and is the For details of Brenntag’s highest priority in our “2020 Vision”. We want to be the safest “2020 VISION”, see page 5. chemical distributor worldwide, which is why we operate in line with the “safety first” principle. This applies both to the safety and health of our employees, as well as to product For details of ENVIRONsafety and environmental protection. We are bound by the MENTAL PROTECTION at Brenntag, see the chaphighest standards in the industry and adopt policies which ter starting on page 22. often exceed the statutory requirements. We are working continuously to further enhance safety within our company. We invest in our infrastructure and train our employees with this goal in mind. HSE STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Brenntag has implemented a global health, safety and environment (HSE) strategy. This encapsulates our principles in the areas of safety, product stewardship, the environment, adherence to laws (compliance) and quality. The global strategy is implemented in the regions as part of their own HSE programmes. Our HSE manuals define processes, procedures and measures that are implemented at the regional sites. Regional HSE officers and location teams are responsible for coordinating the programmes and measures. Together with the central Corporate Health, Safety & Environment department, they form Brenntag’s global HSE network. They regularly share their experiences, develop measures to remedy identified deficits and work together on further improving the company’s safety culture. Compliance with the HSE programme is reviewed through regular internal and external audits. SAFETY﻿ 15 HSE AT BRENNTAG: OUR APPROACH  Commitment to the principles of our Responsible Care/Responsible Distribution programme / P roduct stewardship and product safety / Occupational health and safety, including transportation / Comprehensive protection of the environment (air, water, soil, raw materials and waste) The Brenntag approach SAFETY AND A SAFETY HSE PROGRAMMES CLEAR GUIDELINES APPROPRIATE REGULAR CULTURE AROUND THE AND REGULAR AND PROCEDURES TECHNOLOGY INTERNAL AND WORLD TRAINING EXTERNAL REPORTING 16 ConnectingChemistry Brenntag manages HSE data in various databases at regional PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SAFETY level and also forwards them to the company’s central HSE Brenntag takes appropriate measures to department. The environmental risks and historical data are ensure the proper handling of our prodrecorded and evaluated at each individual location together ucts while they are under the Group’s with external experts. This allows conclusions to be drawn stewardship. These measures include about potential contamination, among other things. This inprocurement, packaging, classification formation is collated in an environmental database which also and labelling, handling, storage and serves as a basis for determining environmental provisions transportation. We produce product dosand is an instrument for organizing necessary environmental siers and safety instructions and see to remediation work. disposal. We act in accordance with the applicable standards and regulations and Brenntag has implemented various management systems also cooperate closely with the industry’s in the field of HSE in order to ensure its compliance with national and regional umbrella associ­ applic­able standards. Our performance is also regularly docations which our national organizations umented by independent third parties on the basis of assessbelong to. ments and certifications. In the year under review, SQAS-ESAD ­assessments were successfully completed by 14 Brenntag UK RESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRI& Ireland locations and 13 Brenntag GmbH locations in GerBUTION: For many years now, Brenntag many, among others. has taken part in the Responsible Care/ Responsible Distribution (RC/RD) proCertified and assessed operating ISO 14001 OHSAS SQASgramme of the International Council of The ICCTA was renamed locations (in %)* 18001 ESAD** Chemical Trade Associations (ICCTA). As the International Chem(Europe) ical Trade Association such, we implement the eight guidelines (ICTA) in February 2016. 2011 27 18 63 laid down in this global programme covFor more information, go to www.icta-chem.org. 2012 26 18 68 ering the following areas: 2013 28 17 69 2014 26 17 69*** // Legal requirements // Management of risk 2015 26 17 73 // Policies and documentation *T  he percentage figures for ISO 14001 include purely sales-based locations as well // Provision of information as warehouse locations. The OHSAS 18001 figures exclusively refer to warehouse locations. // Training ** S QAS-ESAD (Safety and Quality Assessment System, European Single Assessment // Emergency response Document) is a catalogue featuring more than 500 detailed questions on the handling of chemicals. It is intended to provide a uniform assessment of the HSE // Ongoing improvements and quality management system of chemical distributors and is associated with ›G RI // Community interaction the Responsible Care/Responsible Distribution industry initiative. G4-22 *** In the 2015 Sustainability Report, accidentally the incorrect figure of 79 was reported for 2014 due to a counting error. “In the course of the SQAS-ESAD assessments conducted at 13 Brenntag locations in Germany in 2015, I was able to determine that a global HSE strategy is in place and that the principles stipulated within the strategy regarding safety, product stewardship, compliance, responsible care, the environment and quality are actively practised. I encountered highly motivated Brenntag employees at all of the locations and their dealings with each other were frank and honest. Particularly noteworthy is the employees’ highly specific expertise in the areas of storage, dangerous goods and cargo securing. There was an overall pleasant and open PETER WIRTH, assessor at atmosphere during the audits. The recommendations and comments that I made green duck GmbH were taken on board immediately and were implemented positively.” BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 SAFETY﻿ 17 Brenntag’s implementation of the contents of the RC/RD Due to the fact that there is no RC/RD programme is reviewed by external experts. Brenntag’s enviprogramme offered by national organizaronmental performance and safe handling of chemicals are tions in every country in which Brenntag thus documented by independent third parties. Our national operates, we are currently working on deorganizations are regularly recognized for their achievements veloping an internal solution for Brenntag following such audits: among others, the Indonesian sub­ to ensure that we adhere to and can sidiary PT. Brenntag received a gold Responsible Care Award evaluate the guidelines in force in these in the year under review for the processes implemented and countries. measures taken in the areas of employee and distribution safety and involvement of the community in its emergency To ensure effective and systematic chemplans and exercises. In July 2015, Brenntag Ecuador received icals management, data that are necesa second Responsible Care Award from Ecuador’s Association sary for the safe handling of our products of Chemical Producers, APROQUE. The company achieved the during storage, transport and within the highest performance level of all the businesses evaluated. supply chain are stored in central databases at Brenntag. This data is therefore avail­ Year Proportion of Brenntag legal entities able to most of the Group, and in this way participating in the RC/RD programme it is possible, for example, to implement (in %) all amendments to European laws simul2011 67 taneously in all countries and make them Since 2002 Brenntag has been participating in 2012 67 accessible to the staff. Further Brenntag the chemical industry´s 2013 70 organizations are continuously signing up “Responsible Care” programme. 2014 76 to these databases. 2015 76 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 18 ConnectingChemistry REACH: Since June 1, 2007, regulation (EU) No. 1907/2006 Accidents at work, near misses and simconcerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and ilar occurrences are recorded and evaluRestriction of Chemicals (REACH) has formed the European ated centrally according to a standardlegal framework for the safe handling of chemicals in order ized system. Any important conclusions to protect the environment and human health. The regulation are communicated throughout our prescribes mandatory provisions for the production, import, organization. The assessment findings handling and use of chemical substances as they are and when and the measures derived from these mixed. One of the cornerstones of REACH is the mandatory are incorporated into the global HSE registration on the part of manufacturers and importers. The guidelines, regional HSE manuals, and final deadline for registrating substances will expire at the end prevention and training measures. In of May 2018. this way, the guidelines regarding the selection of and dealing with external As part of its business operations as a distributor, importer, companies, which, for example, carry formulator and, in certain cases, as a producer of chemicals, out construction and maintenance work Brenntag is affected by REACH in many ways. With our transat Brenntag locations, have been extennational REACH team, consisting of a European network of exsively expanded. They now apply to the perienced HSE and REACH experts, Brenntag is well equipped Brenntag Group as a whole. to meet the numerous requirements of the REACH regulation in full. This ongoing process of improvement has enabled us to steadily reduce the Our REACH-trained product and sales managers are able to number of reportable industrial acciproficiently address the wishes of our suppliers and customers: dents within the Group. There were no fatal accidents in the year under review. // E  nsuring a REACH-compliant supply and usage system // Safeguarding optimal communication within the supply chain // Support in relation to many REACH-related issues // Assistance with imported substances // Identifying alternative substances OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY The health and safety of our employees are our top priority. Brenntag continually works towards improving the company’s safety culture and takes necessary and appropriate measures to prevent accidents and incidents. An important element here is regular training for our em­ ployees, in order to raise their awareness of potential hazards and to enable them to work safely. This training goes above and beyond the statutory requirements and ranges from s­ afety instruction for new employees to comprehensive training measures that are specially tailored for the work situation and the risk potential of specific occupational groups or individual employees. Training is given by internal HSE managers and also by external experts, both in the form of face-to-face events as well as digitally. Brenntag is also continuously investing in its equipment and infrastructure so as to optimize plant safety and work processes at its locations and thus further minimize safety risks and sources of accidents. These range from simple construction measures to better separate forklift trucks from pedestrian traffic, for example, to acquiring safer, automated filling systems. SAFETY﻿ 19 than 80% of cases. The aim of the programme is to increase our Year Group accident rate LTIR1day* employees’ awareness of their own safety-related ­behaviour. 2011 3.0 Brenntag’s first Group-wide employee survey on safety-re­ 2012 2.5 lated behaviour was conducted in 2015 as part of the BEST 2013 2.0 programme. Plans of action and measures were and are being 2014 1.9 developed and implemented on the basis of the survey results, 2015 1.6 with a view to promoting safe behaviour in all areas of work and at all levels. * LTIR1day (Lost Time Injury Rate): number of industrial accidents resulting in at least one day’s absence from work per one million working hours. We switched Below are a number of practical examples from our regions, from a Group accident rate of LTIR3days (3 days/1 million working hours) as our performance indicator giving an insight into the safety culture at Brenntag: to LTIR1day in the year under review. At Brenntag Northeast in the USA, representatives from almost Brenntag’s primary objective is to preevery company division founded a committee in 2014 to work vent all accidents and incidents. That is together to achieve maximum safety in the working environwhy rather than resting on our ­laurels, ment. In an exemplary manner, this group of employees has we continually endeavour to further repeatedly succeeded in raising their colleagues’ awareness For more details on the Brenntag Enhanced improve our safety culture. For this of safety issues by means of a newsletter and clever ideas Safety Thinking (BEST) purpose, we initiated the Brenntag and campaigns, bringing room for improvement to their atprogramme, see the case study on page 21. Enhanced Safety Thinking (BEST) protention and improving the safety processes and infrastructure gramme in the year under review. This at the Brenntag Northeast sites. For example, the evacuation focuses on human behaviour, which is procedures were revised, new evacuation zones were created › GRI the primary cause of accidents in more and windsocks were put in place to help to facilitate a quick G4-22 A SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT: Brenntag’s employees receive training covering the correct use of machinery and equipment and wear suitable personal protective gear. 20 and safe evacuation in the event of an Occupational safety is an integral part of Brenntag Latin AmeriCASA stands for quality emergency. The existing fire alarms and ca’s comprehensive CASA programme. A health and safety week (CALIDAD), health and safety (SEGURIDAD extinguishers, spill kits, eyewashes and involving workshops and informative events is held every year & SALUD) and the ­showers were marked on the site maps. at all of the region’s locations as part of this programme. There environment (MEDIO AMBIENTE). There are now also regular warehouse are demonstrations and exercises, e. g. covering the correct inspections conducted by a multi-departuse of protective clothing, emergency procedures, responsible mental group of employees (”Managedriving and healthy lifestyles. The employees are offered free ment by Walking Around”): thanks to health check-ups, as are their family members in many cases. A their impartiality, these employees can high degree of safety awareness has developed among the emspot hazard sources that are otherwise ployees as a result. Together with regular training sessions and easily overlooked in day-to-day work. the established safety measures and processes, Brenntag Latin Safety awareness at the warehouses has America has succeeded in considerably reducing its accident improved again considerably and comrate over the past five years thanks to the CASA programme. munication has become much more Not a single accident-related day of absence was recorded in open since these walkabouts were the 2015 reporting year. introduced. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 SAFETY﻿ 21 CASE STUDY BRENNTAG ENHANCED SAFETY This standard then served as the basis for a global employee THINKING (BEST): OUR PATH TO EVEN survey conducted in the fourth quarter of 2015. All Brenntag GREATER SAFETY employees and managers in the areas of sales, operations and The global Brenntag Enhanced Safety administration as well as the top management, were called Thinking (BEST) programme launched upon to take part. Before the survey was conducted, the Keil in 2015 is a so-far unique project at Centre trained 38 HSE experts from all the regions as “BEST Brenntag in terms of its comprehenfacilitators”. The survey was issued in paper form and online sive, worldwide approach and scope. It and also included 364 workshops at which more than 3,600 demonstrates once again how imporemployees were taken through the survey personally by the tant the issue of occupational safety is trained facilitators. A total of 11,321 employees took part in to our company and that we are not gothe survey, which represents an excellent participation rate ing to simply settle for the positive deof 81.3%. velopment in the incidence of accidents which has been achieved over the past The survey provided Brenntag with a comprehensive and defew years. tailed picture of the safety culture practised within the company and gave it an insight into the employees’ needs in this area. BEST focuses on the safety-related beThe results were evaluated in the first quarter of 2016, after haviour of Brenntag employees at all which initial global, regional and local plans of action were levels of the company. The programme developed in order to promote safe and remedy hazardous is based on the Safety Behaviour Stan­ behaviours. Additionally, three global themes were identified dard, a framework encompassing the which Brenntag will focus on as it continues to develop the key behaviours expected at Brenntag that company’s safety culture: contribute to creating a safe environment and safe work. These are compared to be1. More regular and more in-depth communication of all safetyhaviours that jeopardize safety and which re­lated aspects, to further raise risk awareness within the comwe want to avoid (“dos and don’ts”). The pany (e. g. by means of reports on real cases and training in standard was developed with the assisthe safety standard) tance of the behavioural psychologists at the Keil Centre. It is based on the find2. Empowering employees to get more involved in safety proings of 19 workshops held in all of the jects and initiatives and to take ownership for safety Brenntag regions at which examples of good and bad company practice, obser3. Greater visibility of safety leaders within the company that vations and requirements were collated. get their employees on board with this topic SAFETY BEHAVIOUR STANDARD The Brenntag “Safety Behaviour Standard” deTHEME EVERYONE SUPERVISORS MANAGERS fines sets of expected and undesired behaviours for the three main groups of employees – Ensure Set high “Everyone”, “Supervisor” and “Manager” – in the Standards Follow rules compliance standards four common themes “Standards”, “CommunicaEncourage Communicate tion”, “Risk Management” and “Involvement”. In Communication Speak up the team openly the field of “Communication”, for example, we expect all employees to immediately intervene Promote Risk Management Be mindful Confront risk when noticing hazardous behaviour, regardless risk awareness the position of the people involved. Involve the Involvement Get involved Involve the team workforce BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 22 ConnectingChemistry ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION USING RESOURCES IN A TARGETED MANNER Protecting the environment has always been of importance to Brenntag. We endeavour to save resources or use them optimally around the world, and to minimize the impact that our business activities have on the soil, water and air. At our locations we implement diverse measures in order to use electricity, fuel, water and other resources as efficiently as possible and to reduce our emissions. At the same time, Brenntag supports its customers with sustainable solutions and helps to preserve the environment with ecologically efficient products, processes and services. ENERGY REPORTING AND CO2 SAVINGS PROGRAMME: In 2015, Brenntag developed a Group-wide energy and CO2 savings programme in order to make its own energy consumption more transparent. The locations’ energy consumption figures are being recorded per quarter and compiled centrally. This data is then used to identify future energy saving potential. To complement this reporting, the employees in the Brenntag regions share their best-practice experiences and their successful energy saving measures. As this reporting was first introduced at the end of 2015, there is no consolidated Group-wide data available for the year under review. We are therefore showing the figures for the first quarter of 2016 as an example only. We will report full-year figures for the Brenntag Group starting with the 2016 financial year. ENERGY CONSUMPTION BRENNTAG GROUP JANUARY – MARCH 2016 Electricity Gas Diesel Petrol Others* (in mwh) (in mwh) (in 1,000 (in 1,000 (in 1,000 litres) litres) litres) Total 37,343 62,456 7,804 1,327 1,169 Per 1,000 tonnes product sold 11.31 18.92 2.36 0.40 0.35 * Gas oil, Kerosene, Propane CO2 EMISSIONS* BRENNTAG GROUP JANUARY – MARCH 2016 Scope I Scope II Scope I + II Total (in tonnes) 15,787 37,789 53,576 Per 1,000 tonnes product sold (in tonnes) 4.78 11.45 16.23 * CO2 emissions are calculated for electricity on the basis of the respective country-specific factors, in accordance with the Green House Gas Protocol Factors (2012), and for all other energy types on the basis of the energy-specific factors defined in the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2016). These data do not include the following operating units: Brenntag International Chemicals and all units in Africa and the Middle East. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 23 40,000 CUBIC METRES OF DEMINERALIZED WATER PER ANNUM ARE PRODUCED AT BRENNTAG ITALY BY USING INDUSTRIAL WATER. INTERNAL EFFICIENCY MEASURES FOR THIS PURPOSE, Brenntag’s locations around the world implement a wide range of measures RAINWATER AND based on the local and regional par­ PRODUCTION WASTE ameters and legal requirements and WATER ARE CLEANED IN depending on their specific areas of activity, all with the common aim of MODERN WASTE WATER making the business as resource-efTREATMENT PLANTS. ficient as possible. The data collected in the course of the HSE programmes See “Safety” chapter from page 14. implemented and in the energy reporting introduced at the end of 2015 give an insight into the type and volume of resource consumption. The measures focus on water and energy consumption, waste reduction, and transport and fleet management. The following practical examples from Brenntag’s regions provide an insight into the numerous measures which our company has implemented to manage the issue of resource efficiency. WATER: In the production of ammonia water, the Brenntag location in Høsten, Denmark, uses demineralized water made locally in an own plant installation. Those plants need to be regenerated with tap water regularly. Due to a newly installed system, fifty cubic metres of demineralized water can now be made, compared to the previous output figure of just six cubic metres, before the regeneration process with two cubic metres of tap water is necessary. Thanks to this investment, the location’s water consumption was reduced from more than 10,000 cubic metres in 2013 to less than 3,000 cubic metres in 2015. Brenntag Italy produces approximately 40,000 cubic metres of demineralized water per annum in a very resource efficient way by using industrial water. 24 ConnectingChemistry For this purpose, rainwater collected and processed at the 2013 to 2015 water consumption at the locations and production waste water are cleaned by means location in Santo Domingo was reduced of reverse osmosis in modern waste water treatment plants. by 46%. Brenntag Caribe submitted full The demineralized water produced in this way is then used in documentation of the relevant projects other processes and procedures such as in chemical dilution. and the results achieved to the country’s Ministry of Environment and Natural ReBrenntag Latin America regularly records the water consources as proof of the steady improveCASA stands for quality sumption at all of its locations as part of its extensive CASA ment in its environmental management (CALIDAD), health and safety (SEGURIDAD programme. This enables the region to document, analyze processes. An evaluation committee vis& SALUD) and the and manage the volume and type of consumption over time ited the premises to validate the practienvironment (MEDIO AMBIENTE). and to implement various efficiency measures. For example, cal implementation on site. rainwater is collected at a number of locations for use in the sanitary facilities, for emergency showers and fire extinguishENERGY: A photovoltaic system that ing systems, to irrigate green spaces and in the production generates approximately 150 megaprocess. The higher water consumption in the year under watt-hours of electricity per annum was review is attributable to the increase in the number of cominstalled on the roof of the Brenntag lopany locations in Latin America and changes in the product cation in Mouscron, Belgium, in April portfolio – e. g. in the course of integrating the specialty 2014. More than 70% of this electricity chemical distributors Gafor Distribuidora und SurtiQuímicos is used for the local production pro­ acquired in 2014. cesses, accounting for a good 20% of the location’s entire energy requireBRENNTAG LATIN AMERICA ments on average. The surplus solar 2015 2014** 2013 electricity, which is primarily generated at the weekend and in the summer, is Water consumption per 80.0 69.3 94.1 tonne of goods sold* fed into the public grid. Brenntag only (in litres) has to cover the costs of maintaining the Total water consumption 86.0 73.2 77.0 solar system, which was installed by an (in millions of litres) external service provider and is financed *Warehouse sales by means of third-party green energy **In the 2015 Sustainability Report, accidentally incorrect figures were reported for 2014 due to a counting error. certificates. An additional energy audit resulted in further efficiency ­measures Brenntag Caribe in the Dominican Republic was the winner being implemented in Mouscron, such of the National Cleaner Production Award at the end of 2015, as tube lighting being replaced by LED thanks to its holistic approach to environmental protection. lamps in various production areas and › GRI The company made impressive progress in the reduction of energy-efficient compressors being G4-22 its water and energy consumption, and developed very pospurchased. itively in the area of waste management. For example, from OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT: In late 2015, Carlos Rodríguez, CASA Manager at Brenntag Caribe, received a “Cleaner Production Award” for the environmental protection improvements introduced. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 25 TYPICAL TYPES OF BRENNTAG PACKAGING: A HIGH PROPORTION OF REUSABLE PACKAGING Brenntag markets solid and liquid chemicals. The packaging used depends on the product type and the quantity supplied. The typical means of transport and packaging types are tankers and trucks, sacks, and various For liquids/solids metal and plastic containers. The majority of these are reusable forms of packaging which are used safely by Brenntag and its customers for many years. Agreements have been made with the manufacturers and third-party service providers for the used units to be returned and professionally cleaned and, if necessary, for damage to be remedied. There is therefore TRUCKS TANKERS a great amount of reconditioned units in circulation at Brenntag, and as such we take a leading role in the industry. The large proportion of reusable packaging and reconditioned units within our company contributes to reducing the resources used to manufacture new packaging and reducing waste overall. In addition, Brenntag frequently uses product-dedicated For solids containers, i. e. they are only ever refilled with the same product. This is the case with, for example, the IBC (intermediate bulk container) units made of steel, which are usually used to hold flammable solvents. Product-dedicated refilling dispenses with the need to clean the units, thereby saving water and other cleaning agents, and thus reducing the impact on the environment. SACKS For liquids Around 10 million of these chemical packaging units are in circulation worldwide (at Brenntag and its customers), with a capacity in excess of 1 million tonnes. IBC DRUMS SMALL CONTAINERS Steel/plastic Steel/plastic Steel/plastic particularly sustainable High-grade steel IBC // N  o cleaning necessary, as product-dedicated refilling // Long useful life of 15–20 years // Rate of turnover: approx. 6 times per year (in Germany) // 100% recyclable BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 26 ConnectingChemistry EXPERTS: Brenntag’s employees have in-depth expertise in the fields of chemicals, components, procedures, processes and application technologies. They assist our customers in developing tailored formulations. After an energy audit at the Brenntag business. In this context, we maintain a close dialogue with Italy site in Trezzano at the end of 2015, manufacturers and with the national umbrella associations a pilot project was initiated to test vari­ of chemicals dealers, with the common goal of reducing the ous efficiency measures and assess their volume of waste in the industry and increasing recycling rates. impact on energy consumption in order By giving its employees intensive and regular training in the to improve energy management. The handling, storage and transportation of chemical products, potential measures include replacement Brenntag also ensures that unnecessary waste is avoided right of the forklift battery chargers, the use from the outset and that the volume of waste is reduced. of highly efficient lighting systems and installing inverters for electric and comTRANSPORT/FLEET MANAGEMENT pressor motors. Based on a thorough As a distributor, Brenntag maintains its own fleet of vehicles. cost-benefit analysis, a decision will To keep fuel consumption and harmful emissions to a minithen be made as to which measures mum, our locations implement structured transport logistics are to be implemented and the timing. to avoid unnecessary trips and to make the routes and trips taken by our trucks as efficient as possible. Additionally, fuel-­ Thanks to modern lighting systems efficient driving is part of the regular training undergone by ­newly installed at six Brenntag North the Brenntag drivers. America locations in 2015, the consumption was reduced by more than 755,000 Many Brenntag companies use telematics systems in order to kilowatt-hours or 55% year on year. optimize the use of their vehicle fleets. On-board computers log data including driving times and durations, the number WASTE/RECYCLING: The Brenntag locaof stops, the maximum speed, the kilometres driven and fuel tions have implemented processes for consumption. This information is transmitted back to the depot the handling of waste and also takeand is usually also linked to upstream and downstream business back and recycling systems for various management software systems, allowing details of the goods types of packaging and containers, each transported and information about the individual drivers, their in line with the type and volume of the trips and the vehicles to be compiled, tracked and analyzed. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 27 and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and also fulfil our Group’s stringent environmental and safety standards. Due to their many years of industrial use, there is historical soil and groundwater contamination at many Brenntag and acquired locations, which we are combatting with appropriate rehabilitation measures. A comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact of all our locations was conducted for the first time in 2003/2004 by means of an extensive “Environmental Evaluation Questionnaire” and site visits by independent experts. The soil and groundwater situation at all the locations has since been reviewed and recorded annually in cooperation with external partners, and the necessary rehabilitation measures have been derived and implemented. Whenever new buildings or plants are constructed or necessary modernization and renovation work is undertaken, environmental protection issues are considered and reflected both in terms of the construction approach and plant engineering. All of Brenntag’s locations implement suitable environmental protection measures that vary in their form and extent, depending on the work performed, the legal requirements in the country and the location’s construction history. Basic Another advantage of these on-board measures include multilayer soil protection in warehousing units is that they directly foster safe areas, double-walled tanks for acids and alkalis, collection and environmentally efficient driving. tanks, closed water cycles, multi-stage water purification and Visual and acoustic signals warn the treatment processes, and modern air and exhaust air purifiSee case study on page 28. driver when the permitted driving time cation systems. has been reached. Vehicle handling in terms of driving speed, engine speed, In the rare event that chemicals are released during processacceleration, braking and engine idling ing, when being placed in or moved between containers or is also visualized. during transportation, Brenntag takes the appropriate steps to rectify the problem, clean up and dispose the chemicals as PROTECTION OF SOIL, WATER quickly as possible. Such spillages are recorded, categorized AND AIR and evaluated using a standardized system. As well as the efficient use of re­sources, environmental protection plays a key SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS role at all the Brenntag locations. We Brenntag employees have in-depth expertise in the fields of work continuously on minimizing the chemicals, components, procedures, processes and applicaenvironmental impacts of our business tion technologies. They are experts in the respective customer activities on the soil, water and air. Varindustry, cooperate closely with the manufacturers and are faious measures and arrangements such miliar with applicable safety and quality regulations. Our techas investments in the infrastructure, nicians who work in numerous application industries assist our optimized work procedures and emcustomers in developing tailored formulations and advise them ployee qualifications are implemented on ways to optimize the use and handling of the products. with a view to identifying and controlling environmental risks early on Brenntag thus helps to improve the level of efficiency within and to avoid environmental incidents. the supply chain and its customers’ productivity and their opBrenntag’s locations in all of its regions timized use of resources. The following examples illustrate the fully comply with the applicable rules added value associated with our services. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 28 ConnectingChemistry CASE STUDY CATALYTIC OXIDATION: EXHAUST AIR PURIFICATION AT oxidized to become harmless carbon diTHE BRENNTAG SITE IN WIENER NEUSTADT, AUSTRIA oxide. The purified exhaust air can be The Brenntag location in Wiener Neustadt, Austria, runs a released directly via a chimney, as it falls highly efficient exhaust air purification system which ensures within the relevant statutory clean gas that the vapours produced when solvents are processed are values. The advantage of catalytic oxinot released into the environment and that only purified exdation is its comparatively low energy haust air is released. The air is purified by means of catalytic requirements, as the chemical reaction oxidation. The exhaust air containing solvents is sucked away can occur at relatively low temperatures directly from various installations and workplaces at the plant of approximately 300 degrees Celsius. In and is fed into the purification system. Here it is preheated addition, this system involves the puriby a heat exchanger, before being brought up to operating fied, hot exhaust air then being used to temperature by a gas burner. A combustion process then preheat the as yet unpurified air in the occurs in the catalytic converter in which the solvents are heat exchanger. SOLVENTS INSTALLATIONS PURIFIED EXHAUST AIR TO CHIMNEY CONTAMINATED EXHAUST AIR VENTILATOR HEAT EXCHANGER GAS BURNER CATALYTIC CONVERTER PURIFIED EXHAUST AIR WATER TREATMENT: Two examples taken from Brenntag for general cleaning work or as boiler Northeast in the USA demonstrate how holistically our experts feedwater. It was estimated that more provide advice to their customers and how tailored solutions than 80% of the treated waste water come about. The task presented to Brenntag Northeast by could be reused in this way. a new customer in the paper and pulp industry who produces printed corrugated board was to optimize its plant’s A manufacturer of latex foam for matwaste water treatment chemistry by reducing the biochem­ tresses likewise benefited from the inical oxygen demand and the concentration of inorganic and depth expertise and vast experience of organic substances dissolved in the waste water (TDS value). Brenntag Northeast’s water experts. The appropriate products were identified and offered to the The company’s plant was generating customer and as a result the company now produces signifiapproximately 130,000 litres of waste cantly cleaner waste water and has succeeded in lowering its water an hour which was heavily condisposal costs. However, the Brenntag employees had identitaminated with natural and synthetic fied even greater efficiency potential thanks to their site visits latex, primarily due to the cleaning of and analysis of the processes. They recommended that the its production line. This waste water had customer use the physics process of reverse osmosis for its to be collected separately and trucked water treatment, as this leads to a very clean result. Brenntag off for dis­posal. After multiple tests and Northeast uses this method itself at its own facilities. In addisamples both in the lab and at the plant, tion, the purified water was no longer to be disposed of and a suitable combination of various poly­ was instead to be put to use within the company, for example mers was eventually identified which BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 29 turned the milky waste water into a and boost the water vapour permeability and therefore the clear liquid. As a result, the latex waste insulating properties. Buildings that feature materials coated water can now be treated and disposed in this way have significantly more balanced temperatures and of together with the other waste water heating, as they do not cool down as quickly and the room by means of the normal process. The moisture is better regulated. The building structure is also waste water contamination as a whole better protected, thereby extending the building’s lifespan. In was thus reduced, the daily truck trips addition, silicone resins do not contain any substances which needed for disposal became superfluare harmful to health or the environment such as alkylphenol ous and the company now saves apethoxylates (APE) and only have low levels of volatile organproximately USD 30,000 per annum in ic compounds (VOC). Brenntag sells these silicone resins to disposal costs. In its tests, the Brenntag customers in the processing industry throughout Europe and experts determined that the effectivesupports them with technical and application-specific advice, ness of the clarification substances used for example by working on the perfect formulation for a spedepended on the volume of solids suscific construction material at our application laboratories in pended in the waste water and that a France, Hungary and Poland. certain level should not be exceeded. The company now monitors the volWith the SAFE-TAINER™ system and the chemical service ume of solids in its latex waste water, model, Brenntag in Germany offers asphalt laboratories a thereby identifying sources of error in safe and future-proof solution for the use of trichlorethylene the production process and boosting its (tri). This chemical has been used in laboratories as a solproduction efficiency. vent for years, to separate the construction material a ­ sphalt into its two components, rock and bitumen, for quality testCOATINGS/CONSTRUCTION CHEMICALS: ing. However, tri represents a health hazard and, since April Energy and resource efficiency is es2016, has been only allowed to be used in approved exceppecially important in the construction tional cases in accordance with the EU’s chemicals regulaindustry. Measures and products are tion REACH. In such cases, there must be a guarantee and developed with a view to, for example, ­evidence that the substance can be used safely and without reducing the energy consumption of posing a risk. Until an alternative is introduced at the labora­ buildings. Brenntag assists its cus­tomers tories, Brenntag GmbH is offering needs-based supplies of in developing sustainable solutions with tri while observing uniform, strict safety requirements. The a wide array of adhesives, coatings and established ­SAFE-TAINERTM system developed by SAFECHEM construction chemicals. An example of Europe GmbH allows the solvent to be handled, stored, transthis is the range of silicone resins proported and disposed of safely. It is also part of an extensive duced by Bluestar Silicones and marchemical service model devised by Brenntag in cooperation keted in Europe by Brenntag which are with SAFECHEM in 2013 for such applications. The use and used as coatings for insulation materidisposal of the chemical are now controlled and comply with als and feature in plasters and paints, a uniform safety standard throughout the entire industry; the to name but a few. They improve a marisks involved have been minimized and everyone involved is terial’s outer water-repellent properties interested in reducing the amount of tri used. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 30 ConnectingChemistry SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVING TRANSPARENCY Safety and a high level of quality are key factors for success Compact, the chemical industry’s glo­ in the chemical industry. They can only be ensured through bal Responsible Care programme and the close cooperation and participation of all parties along Brenntag’s Code of Business Conduct the supply and value chain. Sustainability issues such as ocand Ethics. cupational safety, environmental protection, working practices, supplier management and compliance are therefore It is important for Brenntag that its supkey topics for the industry. When choosing business partners pliers are familiar with the code of conand making purchasing decisions, they are important criteria duct and that they act accordingly. It can alongside aspects such as product quality, reliability of supply be found on the company’s website and and price. is therefore available to all suppliers. In order to verify compliance with the code As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag of conduct, we reserve the right to invite serves as an important link between the manufacturers of suppliers to undergo a suitability assesschemical products and the companies that process these ment or audit. products. We therefore play a key role in the chemical inSee Company Profile and dustry’s supply and value chain. Brenntag is aware of the reSUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS FOR VALUE CHAIN graph on pages 4–5. sponsibility which comes with this position. We maintain a SUPPLIERS: Within the scope of its close and ongoing dialogue with our suppliers and customers membership of the “Together for Susthrough our regional and global procurement and distributainability” industry initiative, Brenntag tion organizations as well as our HSE structures. has required a defined number of its suppliers to undergo sustainability asSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT sessments every year since mid-2015. In selecting new suppliers and evaluating existing supplier We thereby achieve greater transrelationships, both economic and quality criteria and issues parency in relation to our suppliers’ of environmental protection and safety, labour and social sustainability performance and are standards as well as compliance and governance are releable to better consider sustainability vant for Brenntag. issues in our purchasing decisions. We work together with EcoVadis, a SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT: In October 2015, we drew leading provider of sustainability asup a code of conduct for our suppliers. It outlines what we sessments and well established in the › GRI expect of our suppliers in the above-mentioned areas. The chemical industry. EcoVadis evaluates G4-26 code is based on the principles of the United Nations Global companies in terms of four categories: A JOINT EFFORT: At the suppliers conference which took place in Brazil in June 2015, together with other members of the Together for Sustainability initiative, Brenntag promoted the cause of increased sustainability along the supply chain. SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY﻿ 31 environmental protection, labour practices, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. On the basis of the responses provided in a comprehensive online questionnaire and on the accompanying documentation, EcoVadis awards ZIQING WANG, President of Henan scoring points and produces a detailed profile of strengths Qingshuiyuan Technology Co., Chinese and weaknesses. Brenntag reviews the findings and, based supplier of Brenntag and participant in EcoVadis’ 2015 sustainability on its suppliers’ performance, may require them to make assessment improvements or to undergo a supplementary audit. Participation in the EcoVadis assessments is voluntary. In the “We believe that participation in the TfS/ reporting year, Brenntag requested around 200 suppliers to EcoVadis assessment process will enhance participate, of which 50 completed the process. In connecour company’s brand awareness, since the tion with this, in the year under review around 100 Brenntag findings are shared among all TfS members. purchasing staff underwent internal training covering the It will also help us to identify weaknesses assessment procedure and thereby also sustainability issues, in our management approach and thereby enabling them to assist and to advise their suppliers during achieve further improvements. In the long the review process. term, it will therefore bring us more good customers and business.” BRENNTAG AS A SUPPLIER For a number of years now, Brenntag has registered an increasing demand for information on sustainability issues – particularly on the part of its customers – and is regularly asked to document its sustainability performance. We are pleased to respond to these needs by making our principles and activities in this field transparent and measurable in vari­ ous ways. As well as our annual sustainability report, this founded by six leading multinational also includes our own regular EcoVadis assessment as well chemical companies in 2011. Its goal as issue-specific audits at our locations. is to establish a uniform global programme for the responsible procureECOVADIS SCORING: In its most recent EcoVadis assessment ment of goods and services in the EcoVadis-Scoring 2016: in January 2016, the Brenntag Group achieved a score of 58 chemical industry, to achieve transparSILVER STATUS FOR BRENNTAG points, thereby confirming the silver status that it achieved ency in relation to sustainability perin 2015. This means that we clearly exceed (as at January formance throughout the supply chain 2016) the industry average of 41.7 points. With this result, and to make further improvements Brenntag is among the top 6% of companies in its industry to its suppliers’ ecological and social category and among the top 12% of all of the companies asstandards. For this purpose, all TfS sessed by EcoVadis in all categories. We are keen to achieve members regularly evaluate and review further scoring improvements by continuously refining our their suppliers by means of a standardsustainability strategy and further improving our sustain­ ized process. This information is shared ability performance as well as its documentation. confidentially and used jointly within the network, which provides efficiency SAFETY DATA SHEETS: As a distributor, Brenntag plays a benefits for every participant. As part ­major role in safeguarding the seamless flow of information of this sustainability network, Brenntag along the supply chain and must ensure complete product is able to adopt established standards documentation. Together with every product sold, Brenntag and instruments, and thereby further therefore sends its customers safety data sheets that contain professionalize its own sustainability specific and detailed information on the appropriate and approach. safe handling of the chemical in question. We thereby make a very concrete contribution to greater transparency and Since October 2014, Brenntag has been safety in the supply chain. In 2015, Brenntag EMEA alone involved in various working groups sent a good 450,000 safety data sheets to customers. within the initiative and currently has “onboarding” status, while working to www.tfs-initiative.com TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY meet all of TfS’ admissibility criteria. Since July 2015, Brenntag has been a member of the chemWe intend to complete this phase in ical industry’s “Together for Sustainability” initiative (TfS) 2016 with a further improvement in › GRI – as the first and, so far, only chemical distributor. TfS was our EcoVadis scoring. G4-26 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 32 ConnectingChemistry IN CONTACT: Our HR officers provide information on training and career opportunities at Brenntag at events worldwide and pursue a dialogue with young specialists. EMPLOYEES IDENTIFY AND FOSTER POTENTIAL Brenntag employs almost 15,000 people worldwide. With and values, programmes and measures their expertise and their dedication, they play a key role in are implemented here in the areas of Brenntag’s success and long-term competitiveness. Embedemployee recruitment, support and deded in the corporate strategy and in the “2020 Vision”, the velopment. Employees can turn to our primary goal of our human resources strategy is for us to be experienced HR managers with regard regarded globally as an attractive employer both for current to any HR issues. and potential employees. We offer good working conditions and a modern working environment and we encourage our EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT employees’ personal and professional development in a tarFor junior employees and managers, geted manner. there are special programmes at Group level and in the Brenntag regions HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT which address the needs of these emBrenntag’s Global Human Resources Director reports directly ployees groups, prepare them for their to the CEO and is responsible for developing a global HR management responsibilities and supstrategy, for implementing corresponding measures together port them in their role. By means of with the HR officers in the regions and for centrally managthese development programmes that See also the statement by ing these measures. The global HR strategy focuses on the are largely modular in design, Brenntag Marion Mestrom, Global HR Director, on page 34. areas of people performance management, people developaims to provide and enhance management, identification of potential, succession planning and job ment skills as well as to encourage structures. The overarching objective is to position Brenntag the systematic sharing and transfer of as the preferred employer globally in the field of chemical knowledge at management level. One distribution. example is the global “Brenntag Organic Sustainable Strategies” (BOSS) execu­ Brenntag’s operational human resources management activtive management programme, which is ities are handled on-site in its regions and at its locations. aimed at our company’s experienced True to our company’s global HR strategy, as well as the goals key players. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 EMPLOYEES﻿ 33 Employee development at Brenntag is also supported by trains junior employees in a manner the use of a global e-learning management system, which that is both targeted and forward-lookis being introduced by the end of 2016. The system makes ing. Brenntag offers young people it possible to manage, track and evaluate training modules comprehensive, theoretical and pracbetter and helps to ensure that mandatory and important tice-orientated occupational training material reaches employees even more effectively. A global via the dual education and training e-learning training module on the “Code of Business Consystem in Germany, Austria and SwitSee also the “E-learning at Brenntag” case study on duct and Ethics” has been developed, for example. zerland (DACH region). Alongside the page 36. acquisition of technical skills and exDue to the various regional and local requirements of the pertise, apprentices’ personal developworking environment as well as to cultural differences, ment and the transfer of our corporate Brenntag largely takes charge of and manages development culture and company-specific working measures on a decentralized basis. Our employees receive processes are at the forefront of the training in accordance with their duties in the company and scheme. Brenntag is currently training their individual development needs. The training measures, almost 80 young people across the which take the form of internal and external face-to-face DACH region to become management events, courses and workshops as well as online seminars, assistants in wholesale and foreign cover technical topics – including sales, logistics, chemistrade, logistics management assistants, try, environmental protection and quality management – as laboratory technicians and warehouse well as personal development measures such as interculturstaff. With its job-specific training proal training, negotiating skills, presentation techniques and gramme, Brenntag provides graduates conflict management. in Ger­many with a way in to the world of work. Safeguarding our employees’ safety and health is our top priority. This is why the training courses in all Brenntag regions address the topic of occupational safety. See also “Safety” chapter from page 18. In addition, there are numerous specific training and development programmes for our sales and marketing employees in the various regions and national organizations, such as “Brenntag Way” seminars in North America and the “Sales Excellence Development Program”, which was newly GETTING CONNECTED: Team-building measures such as this one launched in the Brenntag EMEA region in 2015. during Brenntag Indonesia’s annual managers conference reinforce a sense of community and encourage communication. The internal online portal “LINK” helps and encourages Brenntag employees to work together across locations. The platform facilitates the transfer of knowledge and enables our employees from different areas to share information, experiences and best-practice methods. Annual feedback discussions take place between employees and their direct managers in almost every Brenntag com­ pany. During these discussions, the employee’s performance is usually considered, and upcoming challenges and expectations as well as personal motivation are discussed. Their individual development needs are also identified and used as a basis to derive corresponding measures that may be necessary. The goal is to establish a global, transparent system from 2017 onwards. Thanks to the wide array of apprenticeships on offer in various commercial and industrial occupational areas, Brenntag BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT In addition to development opportun­ ities, encouraging employees to play a part in shaping the company is an important aspect that helps to promote employee motivation and loyalty. Ideas management systems are in place at all levels of Brenntag, allowing employees to make proposals to the company. Since 2015, for example, Brenntag Iberia has presented the “Innova Awards” for the best ideas, while in Germany, every employee has the opportunity to actively participate in the development of ideas via the “In4Put” MARION MESTROM, system. Global Human Resources Director, Brenntag AG Brenntag also presents the global “My core responsibilities as Global Human and regional “Emineo Awards” every Resources Director include developing and year to employees who have achieved implementing a global HR strategy for ­Brenntag. outstanding successes in the areas of When I took up my position, I obtained an oversales, safety or professional perforview of the HR activities in the various countries mance. In addition, employees receive and met local employees and managers across regional or local recognition for their the globe. This confirmed that there are many performance and input. In Sweden, issues which need to be addressed at a global for example, exemplary staff members level in order to increase transparency and to can be nominated for “Employee of the provide added value for employees, managers Year”, while Brenntag Southwest in the and Brenntag. The discussions I had also showed USA awards the best driver. that we can harmonize some existing regional concepts and implement them globally in order Brenntag carried out an employee surto adopt proven practices. Based on this, and in vey on safety culture at the company line with the Brenntag strategy, priorities have for the first time in the reporting year been set for HR activities at Brenntag and an HR in order to provide itself with an overstrategy has been developed which is now being view of its employees’ needs in this implemented in cooperation with the regional HR area. At the same time, this further officers. One focus here is on the issues of people raised awareness among employees of performance management, people development, the importance of safety in the workidentification of potential, succession planning place. Based on the findings, suitable and job s­ tructures. measures are being developed in order to further increase occupational safety. When introducing new issues and processes, it is important that Brenntag managers and employees HEALTH AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE at all levels are on board. The decisions and ­changes In each of its regions, Brenntag takes have to be comprehensible and transparent. I have measures to promote the health of its met many highly motivated and extremely wellemployees and their work-life balance. qualified people in our company who give 100% to These measures are based on the reBrenntag. I was impressed by this, and I believe that spective local social systems and conwe have to use these strengths to our benefit. We ventions. In countries with inadequate have embarked on a journey together and we know social security arrangements, for exwhere it should take us.” ample, supplementary private health insurance is offered. In many countries, BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 EMPLOYEES﻿ 35 RECOGNITION: Every year, Brenntag’s Management Board recognizes outstanding employees through its Emineo Awards. The 2015 prize winners in the Safety category included Carlos Oliveira of Brenntag Química Brasil. Brenntag also covers part of the cost Guaranteeing equal opportunities is a matter of course for of preventative measures and pays for Brenntag, as is counteracting and eliminating any form of vaccinations for its employees and their discrimination and harassment. The recruitment, remunerafamilies, for example. Throughout the tion and development of employees solely reflect their qualentire Latin America region, an inforifications and abilities in relation to their respective duties. mation week takes place every year on For Brenntag, it is a matter of course and of utmost importhe topics of safety, health, environtance that discrimination does not occur against employees, See also the case study on page 21 in the “Safety” ment and sustainability and includes business partners or third parties on grounds of their ethnic chapter. numerous initiatives and events. Many origin, gender, marital status, age, religion or belief, skin Brenntag companies help their employcolour, disability or sexual orientation. This is stipulated in ees to reconcile work and family life by our code of business conduct and ethics. Violations of this offering flexible working time models code are investigated by our compliance organization with See COMPLIANCE incidents on page 13. and other supportive services such as the necessary rigour and, if a violation is identified, the sitchildcare or care for relatives. uation is rectified and corresponding action is taken. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL REMUNERATION AND PENSION SCHEMES OPPORTUNITIES Brenntag’s remuneration policy is defined by factors such Brenntag employs people from almost as attractiveness, fairness and competitiveness. Employ90 different nations. Our employee ees’ qualifications, experience and level of responsibility structure is characterized by a good are p­ aramount criteria. Various pension plans are in place balance between women and men and for employees of the Brenntag Group. The pension coma wide age range. The result of this is a mitments vary depending on the legal, tax and economic cultural and social diversity which we circumstances in the respective countries. In addition to use constructively. The multifaceted naemployer-financed company pension schemes, Brenntag ture of our employees’ heterogeneous also supports private pension schemes through various skills and experience is a cornerstone ­offers including deferred compensation or the use of state of our success. contributions. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 36 ConnectingChemistry CASE STUDY E-LEARNING AT BRENNTAG: platform at any time and from any location. The training GLOBAL COMPLIANCE TRAINING module lasts approximately one hour and addresses a total How compliance issues are addressed is crucial to Brenntag’s of twelve topics using examples and exercise questions. The future viability and reputation. It is therefore essential that employees then take a test to ensure that the knowledge has every employee is familiar with our values and ethical prin­ been transferred. The aim is for all Brenntag employees to ciples and puts them into practice when dealing with customhave completed this compliance training by the end of 2016. ers, suppliers, competitors, colleagues and the general public. In order to provide our employees with more detailed know-­ To ensure that the e-learning platform is optimally adminisledge of the area of compliance on a standardized basis across trated at a regional and local level, more than 30 administrathe Group and to help them to adhere to our code of conduct, tors have been trained worldwide. They are on hand to assist a global e-learning training module on the “Brenntag Code of employees with any questions about the tool. Business Conduct and Ethics” has been rolled out. Further compliance training modules at a global and regional The training module was developed by central and regional level, such as on the topics of anti-corruption and anti-trust HR and compliance officers and is offered in 16 languages. It law, are in preparation and are expected to go live on the is available to employees on the internet via the e-learning e-learning platform during 2016. EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE The number of employees given is calculated on the basis of the Group’s workforce at the reporting date. EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 abs. in % abs. in % EMPLOYEES BY AREA OF WORK AND GENDER EMEA 6,681 45.4 6,529 47.1 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 Women 2,454 36.7 2,393 36.7 Men 4,227 63.3 4,136 63.3 abs. in % abs. in % North America 4,554 31.0 4,116 29.7 Sales 5,531 37.6 5,225 37.7 Women 998 21.9 909 22.1 Women 2,707 48.9 2,579 49.4 Men 3,556 78.1 3,207 77.9 Men 2,824 51.1 2,646 50.6 Latin America 1,523 10.4 1,452 10.4 Distribution 2,111 14.4 1,905 13.7 Women 570 37.4 527 36.3 Women 228 10.8 199 10.4 Men 953 62.6 925 63.7 Men 1,883 89.2 1,706 89.6 Asia Pacific 1,817 12.3 1,652 11.9 Warehouses 4,515 30.7 4,282 30.9 Women 851 46.8 775 46.9 Women 504 11.2 465 10.9 Men 966 53.2 877 53.1 Men 4,011 88.8 3,817 89.1 Other segments 132 0.9 121 0.9 Administration 2,550 17.3 2,458 17.7 Women 71 53.8 66 54.5 Women 1,505 59.0 1,427 58.1 Men 61 46.2 55 45.5 Men 1,045 41.0 1,031 41.9 Brenntag Group 14,707 100.0 13,870 100.0 Brenntag Group 14,707 100.0 13,870 100.0 Women 4,944 33.6 4,670 33.7 Women 4,944 33.6 4,670 33.7 Men 9,763 66.4 9,200 66.3 Men 9,763 66.4 9,200 66.3 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 ﻿ 37 EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS* BY GENDER FLUCTUATION* BY REGION Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % Women 69 19.1 64 18.8 EMEA 279 3.9 207 2.9 Men 292 80.9 277 81.2 North America 309 6.6 429 9.0 Brenntag Group 361 100.0 341 100.0 Latin America 124 7.1 154 9.1 Asia Pacific 199 10.1 226 11.5 * Comprises the global executive management and local management groups. Other segments 8 5.6 9 6.2 Brenntag Group 919 5.8 1,025 6.5 * Termination by employees on the basis of Schlüter formula. EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT (FULL/PART-TIME*) Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 EMPLOYEES BY AGE* Dec. 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 abs. in % abs. in % Full-time 14,120 96.0 13,322 96.0 abs. in % abs. in % Part-time* 587 4.0 548 4.0 < 20 47 0.5 42 0.5 Brenntag Group 14,707 100.0 13,870 100.0 20 – 29 1,490 14.6 1,389 14.5 *Including apprentices and trainees. 30 – 39 3,085 30.4 2,948 30.9 40 – 49 2,974 29.3 2,871 30.1 50 – 59 2,071 20.4 1,866 19.5 > 59 486 4.8 432 4.5 NEW EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF ENTRY Brenntag Group* 10,153 100.0 9,548 100.0 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 * Excluding employees in the North America region; due to the legal situation in North America, the data in the region are not recorded in full for all employabs. in % abs. in % ees and therefore cannot be evaluated on a valid basis. In 2014, the evaluation took place at the end of the first quarter. New hires 1,693 64.3 2,211 95.9 Company acquisitions 939 35.7 94 4.1 Brenntag Group 2,632 100.0 2,305 100.0 AVERAGE AGE AND AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE BY REGION* Dec. 31, March 31, Dec. 31, March 31, 2015 2014 2015 2014 NEW EMPLOYEES BY REGION Ø Age Ø Length of service in years in years Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 EMEA 43 43 11 11 abs. in % abs. in % Latin America 39 39 7 7 EMEA 740 28.1 779 33.8 Asia Pacific 38 38 6 6 North America 1,041 39.6 756 32.8 Other segments 45 44 11 11 Latin America 363 13.8 337 14.6 Brenntag Group* 42 41 9 10 Asia Pacific 471 17.9 412 17.9 * Excluding employees in the North America region; due to the legal situation in Other segments 17 0.6 21 0.9 North America, the data in the region are not recorded in full for all employees and therefore cannot be evaluated on a valid basis. In 2014, the evaluation took Brenntag Group 2,632 100.0 2,305 100.0 place at the end of the first quarter. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 38 ConnectingChemistry COMMUNITY SEE THE BIGGER PICTURE At its more than 530 sites in 74 countries worldwide, Brenntag incentive to engage in more community is present as an employer, a business partner and a neighbour projects, every month u ­ nder this pioin local communities in many different countries and cities. neering initiative Brenntag provides a We see ourselves as part of these communities, as a “corpor­ fixed amount as a further support for ate citizen”, and we maintain a lively dialogue with them and a site whose employees demonstrate aim to contribute to a positive environment. a particularly strong level of commitment. This site is then free to decide Brenntag’s social commitment is driven primarily by our emwhich good cause or registered charployees, who collect money and donations in kind and invest ity will benefit from this additional their expertise, time and manpower in support of charitable financial contribution. In May 2016, causes. In many cases, Brenntag supports their contribution Brenntag’s efforts in this arena were either financially and organizationally or else by releasing recognized by the chemical distribution them from their work duties. industry peers, as the British Chemical Business Association honoured the PROMOTING EDUCATION programme with its “Community Inter­ The promotion of education is a focus of Brenntag’s activities action Award”. in all of its regions. A large number of our sites have been cooperating with schools and universities for many years with Within the scope of a long-standing See also case study on the aim of encouraging young people’s interest in chemistry partnership, the employees of Brenntag page 39. and our industry, sensitizing them regarding the handling of North America support projects run by chemicals and supporting their education. Through open days “Habitat for Humanity”, a non-profit orand internships, we give pupils and students in countries such ganization providing active assistance as Malaysia, Romania, Belgium and Finland the opportunity to in building safe and affordable houses develop an understanding of the work of a chemical distribufor those in need. In September 2015, tor and to acquire practical experience. Through trainee proemployees at the company’s headquargrammes and scholarships, Brenntag supports young talents in ters in Mülheim collected clothing and our industry in countries such as Poland, Spain and Germany. donations in kind for a local aid orga­ We provide information on training and career opportunities nization’s refugee project, and Brenntag at events worldwide. In November 2015, for example, Brenntag provided additional financial resources. GmbH sponsored the 5th German Industrial Chemistry Forum In the Dominican Republic, Brenntag emin Münster, where 200 students of this subject from all over ployees at the company’s Haina site have Germany met to network and share their experiences. once again worked actively together with neighbours on a tree planting and PERSONAL AND LOCAL reforestation project in the surrounding Local needs vary in line with governmental, cultural and strucarea. tural differences in the many countries in which Brenntag operates. Since we aim to provide assistance exactly where it A close dialogue with local emergency is needed, Brenntag’s sites make their own decisions on the forces and mutual aid agreements are extent of their commitment. The company therefore pursues typical of many Brenntag sites around so many different activities that only a few examples can be the world. In North America and Latin provided. America, for instance, we provide l­ocal fire brigades as well as police and emerIn 2015, Brenntag UK & Ireland launched “Brenntag Giving”, gency services with financial support a distinguished programme developed and managed entireand equipment and make available to › GRI ly by its employees. As a reward for the charitable committhem our expertise and our sites for G4-26 ment of its already extremely active employees and a further seminars and joint rescue exercises. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY﻿ 39 CASE STUDY “YOU BE THE CHEMIST CHALLENGE”® The “You Be The Chemist Challenge”® (YBTC) is an inter­active science competition in the USA which encourages 5th – 8thgrade pupils to take an interest in chemistry and its applications in everyday life. For nearly ten years, Brenntag North America and its employees have sponsored and supported this programme, which was initiated by the Chemical Education Foundation in 2004. This question-and-answer competition begins at a local level in almost 40 federal states in the USA. The top pupils from each state then face one another in a national final. By participating, children not only improve their knowledge of chemistry, but also develop their learning, communication and time management skills and boost their self-confidence in a playful competitive environment. Brenntag’s commitment to YBTC goes way beyond financial support. Every year, our employees recruit new schools to participate in the programme. We help the children to prepare for the competition through special study guides and chemistry sets for experiments and by visiting schools. At the events at local and state level, Brenntag employees take care of the organizational and catering arrangements, act as hosts and jurors and support the children as they progress through the competition. They therefore develop a strong bond with the young participants on their path together and share in the thrill of every decision. JOHN RICE, Executive Director of the Chemical Educational Foundation “Private-sector companies like Brenntag North America are supporting science education by engaging their communities in science education programmes. Their financial and employee volunteer support of the ‘You Be The Chemist’ programme helps cultivate a future workforce properly educated in the STEM* subjects. Brenntag is leading the way among its industry peers as their outreach efforts encourage students and educators to do better, try harder, reach higher when it comes to STEM education.” * STEM: science, technology, engineering and mathematics › GRI G4-26 40 ConnectingChemistry REPORT PROFILE ABOUT THIS REPORT Brenntag’s 2016 Sustainability Report is its third sustainability Our reporting focuses on key sustain­ report. Brenntag reports on its sustainability activities every ability issues and activities at Brenntag. year. Its next report will therefore be published in 2017. The key issues in this report are based on a materiality assessment, which This report complies with international standards for sustain­ included a survey of external stake­ ability reporting – the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the holders. We have prepared this report principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC): in accordance with the principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, timeliness, // B renntag’s 2016 Sustainability Report is “In Accordance” comparability and reliability. with the GRI G4 Guidelines – Core option. This report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosure Service, The diagram on page 41 shows the and GRI confirmed the correctness of the location of the boundaries between key issues. The rele­ G4 materiality disclosures (G4-17 to G4-27). You will find vant GRI aspects covered by the issue in the GRI Content Index on pages 42 to 47. question are also indicated. // T his 2016 Sustainability Report is also an annual proThe contents and data provided in this gress report (Communication on Progress – COP) for the report have been determined by means United Nations Global Compact, which Brenntag joined of internal processes. They derive from in October 2014. This report has therefore also been Brenntag’s existing management syspublished on this organization’s website tems and from official company docuwww.unglobalcompact.org. ments and have been obtained from the operational units of Brenntag’s regions In order to satisfy the information needs of rating agencies as well as the responsible corporate deand further stakeholders, our reporting exceeds the scope of partments. The contents of this report these requirements. have been reviewed by employees with the relevant specialist expertise. As a rule, this sustainability report covers all Group companies and business units in which Brenntag has a shareholding of The data published in this report have more than 50%. You will find a list of Brenntag’s key sharebeen compiled and processed with meholdings on pages 228 ff. of Brenntag’s 2015 Annual Report. ticulous care. However, we are unable Any deviations from these coverage parameters are identified to completely rule out the possibility of in the relevant section of the report. transmission errors. The reporting period for this sustainability report covers the 2015 financial year (Jan. 1, 2015 to Dec. 31, 2015) of the › GRI Brenntag Group and follows on from the 2015 Sustainability G4-18 Report which was published in August 2015. Any deviations G4-22 in the reporting periods for individual data and contents are G4-23 noted separately. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 REPORT PROFILE﻿ 41 RELEVANT TOPIC * ** RELATED GRI ASPECT *RELEVANT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE **RELEVANT OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION Compliance // Compliance in the Areas of Environment, Society and Product Responsibility // Grievance Mechanisms regarding Labour Practices, Human Rights, Impacts on Society and Environmental // Marketing // Customer Privacy Ethical/Moral Principles Anti-corruption // Anti-corruption Code of Conduct Risk Management Human Rights // Investment // Non-discrimination // Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining // Child Labour // Forced Labour // Security Practices // Indigenous Rights // Assessment // Supplier Human Rights Assessment // Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Anti-trust and Competition Laws // Anti-competitive Behaviour SAFETY Occupational Safety and Health Protection // Occupational Health and Safety Product Safety // Customer Health and Safety Product Quality // Product and Service Labeling Process Safety Safe Handling of Chemicals // Customer Health and Safety // Effluents and Waste // Products and Services Risk Prevention ENVIRONMENT Protection (Soil, Air, Water) // Water // Effluents and Waste // Products and Services Water Management // Water Emissions Reduction/Climate Protection // Emissions Resource Efficiency Energy Efficiency // Energy Environmental Management Recycling // Products and Services Waste Management // Effluents and Waste Transportation // Transport SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainable Procurement, Supplier Management, // Procurement Practices Supplier Qualification/Training, Sub-contractor // Supplier Asssessments regarding Environment, Labour Practices, Management Human Rights and Impacts on Society Sustainable Customer Solutions (Products/Services) // Products and Services // Product and Services Labeling EMPLOYEES Personnel Development/Training/Talent Management // Training and Education Compensation and Benefits // Equal Remunertion for Women and Men Working Conditions // Labour/Management Relations Work-Life Balance Diversity // Diversity and Equal Opportunity // Non-discrimination Labour and Social Policy Rights // Labour/Management Relations // Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Employee Satisfaction/Engagement // (Employment) Recruiting // (Employment) PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY › GRI Social/Charitable Commitments // Local Communities G4-19 Local Community Engagement // Local Communities G4-20 Participation in Industry Associations G4-21 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 42 ConnectingChemistry GRI CONTENT INDEX The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI confirmed the correctness of the locations of the G4 materiality disclosures (G4-17 – G4-27). REFERENCES AND ONLINE G4 ASPECT/G4 INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION COMPLEMENT COMMENTS UNGC Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Foreword from the CEO p. 2 – 3 G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report p. 125 – 131 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Brenntag AG G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Annual Report p. 70, www.brenntag.com G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Mülheim an der Ruhr G4-6 Countries with major operations Map introductory page/ p. 1, Annual Report p. 228 – 236 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report p. 37, 70 – 71 G4-8 Markets served Annual Report p. 70 – 71 G4-9 Scale of the organization Inner fold out page, Annual Report fold out pages, p. 142 – 143 G4-10 Staff structure p. 36 – 37 6 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining Due to its large number of international locations and the broad range of labour 3 agreements regulations applicable for these locations, Brenntag does not record these data in a consolidated format. G4-12 Description of supply chain p. 4 – 5, 30 G4-13 Significant changes regarding size, structure, p. 9, Annual Report p. 4 – 5, ownership 37, 70 – 71 G4-14 Consideration of the precautionary approach Annual Report p. 74, 122 – 124 G4-15 Participation in and support of external p. 10 – 11 , 15, 16 – 17 agreements, principals and initiatives G4-16 Memberships p. 31, www.brenntag.com/ corporate/en/sustainability/ sustainability-management/ index.jsp Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of consolidated entities Annual Report p. 154, 228 – 236 G4-18 Process for defining report content p. 6, 40 G4-19 Material aspects p. 7, 41 G4-20 Material aspects within the organization p. 41 G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization p. 41 G4-22 Effects and explanation of any re-statement p. 16, 19, 24, 40, of information provided in earlier reports Annual Report p. 150 – 153 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, p. 40 , or measurement methods Annual Report p. 150, 154 – 155 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the p. 13 organization G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders p. 13 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement p. 13, 30 – 31, 38 – 39 G4-27 Consideration of stakeholders’ interests p. 6, 13 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period p. 40 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Imprint report G4-32 GRI Content Index p. 42 – 47 G4-33 External assurance for the report This report has not been subject to any external confirmation (audit). Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2015 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 43 REFERENCES AND ONLINE G4 ASPECT/G4 INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION COMPLEMENT COMMENTS UNGC Governance G4-34 Governance structure Annual Report p. 42 – 47, 48 – 49 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of p. 4 – 5, 10 – 11, 10 behavior www.brenntag.com/cor­ porate/en/about-brenntag/ strategy-and-organisation/ vision-and-values/index.jsp ECONOMIC Management Approach Annual Report p. 72 – 74 Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Annual Report fold out distributed pages, p. 140, 178 G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report p. 178, 194 – 204 Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Local and regional purchasing is only of minor significance for the business model of a chemical distributor. ENVIRONMENTAL Management Approach p. 22 – 23 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization p. 22, 24 7, 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity p. 22 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p. 24, 26 8, 9 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal p. 24 Water consumption is not recorded and consolidated on a Group-wide basis 7, 8 at Brenntag. Consumption in the Latin America region is reported here as an example only. G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Brenntag obtains around 90% of its water from the public water supply network. 8 withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused p. 23 – 24 8 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 22 Brenntag developed a Group-wide energy and CO2 savings programme in 2015 7, 8 (Scope 1) which was implemented at the end of 2015. Accordingly, no Group-wide consolidated data are available for the reporting year. The figures for the first quarter of 2016 are shown as an example only. We will report figures for the Brenntag Group for the year as a whole from the 2016 financial year onwards. G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) p. 22 Brenntag developed a Group-wide energy and CO2 savings programme in 2015 7, 8 emissions (Scope 2) which was implemented at the end of 2015. Accordingly, no Group-wide consolidated data are available for the reporting year. The figures for the first quarter of 2016 are shown as an example only. We will report figures for the Brenntag Group for the year as a whole from the 2016 financial year onwards. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p. 22 8 Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Weight of waste p. 25 Waste volumes are not recorded and consolidated on a Group-wide basis at 8 Brenntag. G4-EN24 Significant spills p. 27 In the reporting period, one significant spill occurred through which fluid chem­ 8 icals were discharged into the environment. This was immediately rectified. Products and Services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts p. 27 – 29 7, 8, 9 of products and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products with reused p. 25 8 packaging Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2015 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 44 ConnectingChemistry REFERENCES AND ONLINE G4 ASPECT/G4 INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION COMPLEMENT COMMENTS UNGC Compliance G4-EN29 Significant fines/sanctions for non-comThe Brenntag Group paid fines of approx. EUR 110,000 in the reporting period 8 pliance with environmental laws and due to non-compliance with environmental regulations. regulations Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transp. 26 8 porting products, goods, and employees Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Brenntag aims to analyze 50% of its total chemical spend (in EUR) with sustain8 screened using environmental criteria ability assessments or audits by 2020. This entails a comprehensive review of ecological issues. We do not distinguish between new and existing suppliers in these assessments. Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental p. 13 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance 8 impacts and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. We report on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information is covered by business secrecy. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to environmental impacts. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Management Approach p. 14 – 16, 32 Employment G4-LA1 Employee turnover p. 37 Brenntag only reports the level of employee fluctuation by region. A breakdown 6 by age is not possible, since age data for the North America region have not been fully recorded for all employees due to North American legislation. Valid evaluation of these data is therefore not possible. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 35 Due to our company’s decentralized and international structure, it is not possible 6 to provide a complete list of the benefits which our employees receive. For this reason, only a few examples are provided in this report. Labour/Management Relations G4-LA4 Notice periods regarding operational Brenntag informs its employees of impending operational changes at an early 3 changes stage and comprehensively, while complying with applicable national and international notification periods. Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, and work­ p. 19 Brenntag reports the Group’s LTIR accident rate as well as accidents resulting in related fatalities death. Accidents at work and similar occurrences are recorded and evaluated centrally at Brenntag according to a standardized system. The precise causes of accidents and the nature of injuries are recorded and evaluated internally, but are not reported externally. Training and Education G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning p. 32 – 33, 36 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and staff p. 36 – 37, 6 structure Annual Report p. 56 – 67 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of p. 35 6 women to men Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Brenntag aims to analyze 50% of its total chemical spend (in EUR) with sustainscreened using labour practices criteria ability assessments or audits by 2020. This entails a comprehensive review of labour practices. We do not distinguish between new and existing suppliers in these assessments. Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2015 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 45 REFERENCES AND ONLINE G4 ASPECT/G4 INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION COMPLEMENT COMMENTS UNGC Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour p. 13 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance practices and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. We report on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information is covered by business secrecy. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to labour practices. HUMAN RIGHTS Management Approach p. 10 – 11 Investment G4-HR1 Investment agreements that include human p. 9 For every company acquisition, aspects such as compliance and employment 2 rights clauses agreements are examined in addition to commercial factors as part of due diligence. We disclose information about these transactions in the annual report (p. 79 – 81). Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken p. 13 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance 6 and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. We report on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information is covered by business secrecy. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to discrimination. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers at risk to exercise Upon signing up to the UNGC, we carried out a global investigation within 3 and actions to support freedom of associathe Group in 2014. We did not identify any business units where freedom of tion and collective bargaining association is restricted. In 2015, within the framework of our TfS membership, we began to request that our suppliers undergo sustainability assessments which also include a review of protection of the right of association and the right to collective bargaining. Our code of conduct also requires the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. Child Labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers at risk for incidents Upon signing up to the UNGC, we carried out a global investigation within the 5 of child labour, and measures to eliminate Group in 2014. We did not identify any business units where there was a risk of child labour child labour. In 2015, within the framework of our TfS membership, we began to request that our suppliers undergo sustainability assessments which also include a review of principles and measures implemented to prevent child labour. Our code of conduct also requires the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. Forced and Compulsory Labour G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers at risk for incidents Upon signing up to the UNGC, we carried out a global investigation within the 4 of forced or compulsory labour and measGroup in 2014. We did not identify any business units where there was a risk of ures to eliminate forced and compulsory forced labour. In 2015, within the framework of our TfS membership, we began labour to request that our suppliers undergo sustainability assessments which also include a review of measures implemented to prevent forced labour. Our code of conduct also requires the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. Security Practices G4-HR7 Security personnel trained in aspects of Brenntag will review the relevance of this indicator. 1 human rights Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Incidents of violations involving rights of We have not received any reports of incidents for the reporting period. 1 indigenous peoples Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2015 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 46 ConnectingChemistry REFERENCES AND ONLINE G4 ASPECT/G4 INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION COMPLEMENT COMMENTS UNGC Assessment G4-HR9 Operations subject to human rights reviews In signing up to the UNGC, Brenntag has undertaken to protect human rights. 1 or impact assessments Our code of conduct requires the protection of human rights. Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 New suppliers that were screened using Brenntag aims to analyze 50% of its total chemical spend (in EUR) with sustain2 human rights criteria ability assessments or audits by 2020. This entails a comprehensive review of human rights criteria. We do not distinguish between new and existing suppliers in these assessments. Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights impacts p. 13 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance 1 and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. We report on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information is covered by business secrecy. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to human rights violations. SOCIETY Management Approach p. 10 – 13, 38 Local Communities G4-SO1 Implemented local community engagement, p. 38 – 39 1 impact assessments, and development programs Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to Within the scope of internal audits, a total of 31 Brenntag companies were 10 corruption reviewed in relation to corruption risks, etc. in the reporting year. G4-SO4 Employees trained in anti-corruption poliBrenntag aims to achieve a compliance training coverage rate of 100% for its 10 cies and procedures relevant employees by 2017. The rate was approx. 60% in the reporting year. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and There were no incidents during the reporting period. 10 actions taken Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Annual Report p. 130 – 131 Compliance G4-SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with No significant fines were incurred due to non-compliance with laws and regulalaws and regulations tions in the reporting period. Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 New suppliers that were screened using Brenntag aims to analyze 50% of its total chemical spend (in EUR) with sustain­ criteria for impacts on society ability assessments or audits by 2020. This entails a comprehensive review of the impacts on society. We do not distinguish between new and existing suppliers in these assessments. Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society p. 13 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. We report on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information is covered by business secrecy. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to the impacts on society. Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2015 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 47 REFERENCES AND ONLINE G4 ASPECT/G4 INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION COMPLEMENT COMMENTS UNGC PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Management Approach p. 16 – 18 Customer Health and Safety G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with health and There were no incidents during the reporting period. safety regulations Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Product labeling/product information p. 16 – 18 requirements G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with product There were no incidents during the reporting period. labeling regulations Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products p. 18, 29 G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with marketing There were no incidents during the reporting period. communications regulations Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding p. 13 Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance breaches of customer privacy and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints and reports. We record the precise reason for the complaint, verify reports and, in case of a violation of compliance rules and regulations, initiate appropriate measures. We report on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More detailed information is covered by business secrecy. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints in relation to customer privacy. Compliance G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws concernAnnual Report ing the use of products and services p. 130 – 131 Page references without any other details relate to this sustainability report. References to the annual report relate to the 2015 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 ﻿ IMPRINT Issuer Concept and text Brenntag AG Verena Blaschke, Stinnes-Platz 1 Corporate Communications, Brenntag AG, and 45472 Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Phone: +49 (0) 208 7828 0 Fax: +49 (0) 208 7828 698 Design and layout info@brenntag.de Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany www.brenntag.com Translation Contact EnglishBusiness AG, Hamburg, Germany Brenntag AG Corporate Development Print Dirk Eckert WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Phone: +49 (0) 208 7828 7710 Essen, Germany Fax: +49 (0) 208 7828 7734 sustainability@brenntag.de Productionsmanagement Labude. corporate products, Essen, Germany Project management/ editor-in-chief Picture credits Dirk Eckert, Corporate Development, Page 16: © green duck GmbH; Page 24: Brenntag AG © Ministry of Environment and Natural Re­ Verena Blaschke, Corporate Communications, sources, Dominican Republic; Page 30: © Brenntag AG Together for Sustainability; Page 31: © ­Henan Qingshuiyuan Technology Co.; Page 32: © Wirtschaftschemiker der ­Westfälischen ­Wilhelms-Universität Münster e.V.; Page 39: © Chemical Educational Foundation; other ­pictures: Brenntag, Shutterstock and iStock This Sustainability Report is a translation of the original German version. In case of any differences only the German version is binding. Print compensated Id-No. 1657270 www.bvdm-online.de BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2016 BRENNTAG AG Stinnes-Platz 1 45472 Mülheim an der Ruhr Germany www.brenntag.com
