Annual REPORT 2015 Projects of future Index 04 Letter from 06 About Ineco 16 Activity the Chairman Who we are Aviation 08 18 Our management team Railways 10 22 Our strategic model Intermodal and roads 11 26 Our figures Projects in focus 13 32 Ineco around the world 14 2 56 Integrity and 68 Commitments 100 Annexes transparency Committed to our clients Balance sheet Regulatory 70 102 framework Committed to our team Profit and loss account 58 78 106 Governance model Committed to society 64 84 Committed to the environment 90 Committed to our suppliers 98 3 Letter from the Chairman 4 Dear shareholders, clients and employees, In Europe, the company continues to play a recognised role in the deployment of the ERTMS for the consolidation 2015 has been a good year for our company: For the of the European high speed rail network and in the works first time since the beginning of the economic crisis, for HS2, the high speed rail in the United Kingdom. In our turnover was more than 7% higher than that of the terms of its presence in Africa, Ineco’s strength continues previous year. We have achieved agility, flexibility and to be represented by aeronautical activity, in particular our potential for growth has strengthened, resulting in a the continued work on Cape Verde as well as new studies positive impact on the results of the financial year which in Angola and Mozambique. closed with a pre-tax profit of 13 million euros, over 50% more than in 2014. It has been during this period when The company continues to bet on development of Spanish the result of corporate activities carried out in recent transport infrastructure, maintaining the trust of our years has been most evident. shareholders. Ineco has continued participating both in the good performance of aeronautical activity, and in Our organisation has become stronger and more agile the expansion and maintenance of the entire railroad thanks to the strengthening of knowledge and better network and in road works; here we must mention the resource management. Ineco has always been a leader collaboration with the Ministry of Public Works in the in transport engineering experience and technical search for solutions to the climate condition issue on knowledge, but we now know how to better identify our highway A-8. Personalised attention, technical ability, strengths, manage them better and apply them to new training and a continuous adaptation to necessities are markets and projects. Key decisions were made over seen as an opportunity and an example of how to offer the course of 2015. Internally we continued to make an a first-class consultancy and thus contribute to the effort to adapt and modernise corporate tools, and the success of our shareholders. necessary processes for the correct management of projects and services were developed. One could say that For 2015 we must also highlight Ineco's notable 2015 was the year that concludes the great effort made in collaboration with the Ministry of Public Works and the that chapter. entire sector in the implementation of BIM methodology (Building Information Modelling) in Spain. For years Externally, an important aspect was the reorganisation the company has been putting human and technical of business expansion, increasing local presence, resources into projects with this technology and it leads redefinition of strategic areas and incorporation of new the committee which is committed to this technological products. The creation of teams that bring together tool for project management. The coordination in Spain experience and talent at destinations of interest –with is complemented by a European-wide initiative, meaning more agile and entrepreneurial ways of working– has that Ineco’s commitment to training in BIM takes on a started to yield results. In 2015 Ineco managed live far wider dimension. We will continue to follow along this projects in 41 countries and over 15 international offices route. in places such as the United Kingdom, Turkey, Mexico and Cape Verde. The coordination and support from We renew for another year our adhesion to the Ten the central offices in Spain, with all of the support from Principles of the Global Compact we subscribed seven new technologies that this involves, has been a decisive years ago with the firm commitment of supporting the aspect in the smooth operation of these projects. protection of the environment, human rights and labour standards, to follow good business practices and to fight The strategic and commercial vision has led us to open corruption. offices in Lima, Kuwait, New Delhi and Muscat, while at the same time strengthening those in Abu Dhabi, Finally, we would like to mention that the key role of London, Mexico and Jeddah. All of this entails a better engineering as Brand Spain materialised at the end relationship with our clients, allowing them to gain a of 2015 with the inauguration of an 'ad-hoc' space at thorough understanding of our skills and allowing us to the company's central headquarters in Madrid: a new offer them the most appropriate solutions. The effort has corporate showroom where – as a centre for engineering been worthwhile: expanding on aeronautical and urban interpretation – large projects by both Ineco and the transport studies in Oman, new works on the HS2 high sector are exhibited in a visual, practical and attractive speed rail in the United Kingdom, the waste management presentation. plan in Quito and the project management of Fujairah airport in the United Arab Emirates are an example of Milestones that we could not have achieved without the this effort. confidence of our shareholders and clients, to whom I extend my gratitude for their support, and without the The Asian market remains the third in invoicing after commitment of all magnificent professionals that form Europe and Spain, with work on the high speed Makkahpart of Ineco. Madinah line at the forefront; however, there are also new activities such as the feasibility studies for the high speed line in India and the contract with port authority in Taiwan. We must put a special emphasis on the projects we are carrying out in Latin America in the airports of Chiclayo and Lima, in Peru; and in the airport of Jesús Silva Fernández Cartagena de Indias and the Medellín Metro, in Colombia, Chairman in addition to the work being carried out in Quito. 5 About Ineco “Ineco has nearly 2,500 professionals from different specialist fields that comprise a committed pool of welltrained and highly qualified human capital. Our goal is for every project to satisfy the technical and financial expectations of the client.” Ana Rojo, Engineering Operations and Services Managing Director 6 7 Aviation Railways Roads Urban transport Close to Ports Building 2,500 professionals Environment Transport planning Who we are Global Ineco is an Spanish engineering and engineering and consultancy leader in transport consultancy infrastructures. Linked to Ministry of Public Works, the company offers comprehensive and innovative solutions, through national projects and international, in all modes of transport. More than Ineco is a global leader in transport engineering and consultancy. With a presence in more than 50 countries, it has an expert team of more than 50 2,500 professionals and has, for more than 45 years, contributed to the development of projects in all countries areas of transport: planning, airports, air navigation, railways, urban transport and ports. Its activities More than extend to the environmental sector, architecture and construction. Ineco offers comprehensive solutions in all phases 45 years of a project, from preliminary feasibility studies to commissioning, including making improvements to management, operation and maintenance processes. Its high level of technical expertise allows it to bring the most advanced and innovative developments, both for the public and the private sector, anywhere in the world. 8 Why we are different Global and multimodal We are present in over 50 countries across five continents. We bring a comprehensive approach to the projects that we carry out in all modes of transport. Commitment to our clients This commitment is manifested in the excellence and quality of our work, its long-term success and our dedication to innovation. Multidisciplinary and specialized team Ineco’s value lies in its people, with around 2,500 expert professionals ready to address any engineering challenge. Wide experience Over 45 years working to develop efficient and sustainable transport systems aimed at improving people’s mobility. Flexibility and competitiveness We adapt to our clients’ needs and successfully address the challenges posed by different geographic, climatic, social and cultural situations. High technological capacity Research and innovation are a major part of our raison d'être: to reach the highest levels of quality in our work. Profitability and efficiency We guarantee maximum efficiency in our methodologies and propose the most profitable alternatives possible. Support in decision making We evaluate all the possibilities in order to identify the best solution. Strong commitment to society Our work has a direct impact on the progress of societies. 9 Our management team Ana Rojo Ignacio Fernández-Cuenca Engineering Operations and Corporate Managing Director Services Managing Director June 2016 Jesús Silva José Manuel Tejera Chairman Infrastructures and Transport Managing Director 10 Our strategic model Being as competitive Talent retention as possible in Commitment to innovation international and quality markets Improvement in risk management Revision of critical processes and analysis of lessons learned Remain cost efficient Consolidating Execution of Business the business Plan transfomation In recent years Ineco has developed a growth strategy enabling it to diversify and structure its portfolio of products, develop new lines of business and incorporate key projects which support its global position as a model in the engineering and consultancy of infrastructures specialized in transport. Our company’s strategic model should adapt to a supporting its clients and shareholders in business constantly evolving environment in which international development in Spain, as well as acting as a spearhead markets continue to have a particularly significant impact for the internationalization of the sector. A commitment to on the engineering sector. internationalization which the company could not achieve without the talent of its professionals, and which stands as Accordingly, Ineco has continued, throughout 2015, to the key component in Ineco’s strategy. Innovation, quality make progress in its internationalization strategy in the and process management are the tools which enable the company’s Business Plan framework: a clear focus on organisation to ensure sustainable growth. opening up into the foreign market, which has prompted it to orientate its activity towards those regions with better For 2016, the company is focusing its efforts on business forecasts and to establish stable foundations in boosting its sales and marketing capacity and thus such regions. A focus which also applies to those products increasing the business profitability and efficiency. or services with a greater capacity to generate value, and All of this being supported by an improvement in its which has led Ineco to develop new lines of business and to procedures, a commitment to a digital transformation strengthen key products for current and future demands. and to the company’s talent management and the need to be innovative in order to offer its clients cutting-edge The nature of the organisation enables Ineco to continue solutions, with the highest quality criteria. to be closely tied to the national infrastructures sector, 11 Mission To contribute to the sustainable development of transport infrastructures and to the generation of value and wealth in the countries in which we operate, with an offer of competitive, experienced and flexible consultancy and engineering solutions and services, focused on results for clients and shareholders. Values TEAM EXPERT DYNAMIC EFFICIENT GLOBAL PROFITABLE COMMITTED INNOVATIVE SUSTAINABLE Vision To be the first firm in the world specialised in the presentation of services and transport consultancy and engineering, being recognised for our excellence production within the main global engineering companies. 12 In 2015, Ineco earned 195.39 million euros. This Our figures figure highlights the increase in revenue for services rendered in both the public and private sector. Turnover Operating Staff profit 195.39 M€ 2,416 8.13 M€ employees December 2015 Revenue by geographical region Revenue by service rendered in 2015 Service 2015 2014 Regions Annual revenue Public sector 161,163,015 € 154,937,908 € Europe 146,495,774.14 € Private sector 34,227,755 € 27,522,879 € Spain 137,784,928.79 € Grand total 195,390,770 € 182,460,787 € Asia 30,556,153.63 € America 12,039,659.74 € Africa 6,200,327.19 € Distribution of 2015 portfolio Oceania 98,855.52 € by sector Grand total 195,390,770.22 € Activity Domestic International Railways 72.2% 66.6% Aviation 6.0% 12.3% Intermodal 21.8% 21.2% Revenue by sector Activity 2015 2014 Railways 114,463,099 € 111,394,238 € Aviation 54,520,732 € 46,291,409 € Intermodal 26,406,939 € 24,775,140 € Grand total 195,390,770 € 182,460,787 € 13 Africa Ineco around Algeria Mali Angola Mauritania Cape Verde Morocco Egypt Namibia the world Ethiopia Uganda Kenya America Argentina Jamaica Bolivia Mexico Brazil Nicaragua Chile Panama Colombia Peru Costa Rica Salvador Ecuador Venezuela Europe Bulgaria Norway Croatia Poland Denmark Portugal Estonia Serbia European Commission Spain France Turkey Greece Ukraine Italy United Kingdom Lithuania Middle East Iraq Qatar Jordan Saudi Arabia Kuwait United Arab Emirates Oman Asia And Oceania China New Zealand India Philippines Kazakhstan Samoa Malaysia Singapore Nepal Taiwan 14 Present in more than 50 countries, Ineco continues to Furthermore, Ineco has two subsidiaries: Ineco do reinforce its internationalisation strategy. The company Brasil (Brazil) and Inecomex (Mexico); and has holdings is currently developing infrastructure projects in five in Tenemetro (10%), CEAVMM (1.5%) and in AIE Crida continents, with a permanent presence in: (16.67%). According to the existing contracts, the company has formed various types of association with • Ecuador • Cape Verde other companies in countries where it carries out its • Chile • India activity. • Colombia • Singapore • Panama • Kuwait • Peru • Saudi Arabia • United Kingdom • United Arab Emirates • Turkey • Oman More than 50 countries 15 Activity “Ineco ended 2015 with new projects of particular importance, such as the high speed feasibility studies in India, the Bus Transport Strategic Plan for Oman, or the project management of the Fujairah airport expansion in the United Arab Emirates. These examples endorse our process of internationalisation and Ineco’s positioning at a global level José Manuel Tejera, Infrastructures and Transport managing director 16 17 Aviation The company balance sheet for aeronautical activity in 2015 confirms the consolidation of the positive trend of the past three years: the company saw annual average income increase by 8.3 million euros compared to 2014. With worldwide air traffic in continuous growth, the sector needs larger, more modern airports, greater safety in air navigation and a better managed airspace, in order to meet a demand that continues to increase year on year. Ineco has worked on more than two hundred projects at more than 60 airports around the world, both for airport enlargements and in improving air navigation safety and efficiency, with an increasing focus on the use of satellites. 18 Horizons for growth In 2015, worldwide air transport once again showed Cartagena de Indias and Alfonso Bonilla airport in Cali, an undeniable robustness, reflected in the 3.5 billion which are both undergoing enlargement works to handle passengers transported by regular airlines: a 6.4% increasing traffic. In Brazil, 2015 saw the completion of increase compared to the previous year, according to the block of preliminary designs for group 1 of the project the data from the ICAO, the International Civil Aviation to modernise regional airports, and at Sangster airport Organization. The Spanish market was no exception to in Montego Bay (Jamaica), Ineco drew up plans for the this: the 46 airports and 2 heliports of the Aena national pavement rehabilitation of the runway. network surpassed 200 million passengers, a figure similar to pre-crisis period. Madrid and Barcelona’s In Africa, seven important projects were carried out in airports were the leaders, making up 41.7% of the total Cape Verde, including the inspection of remodelling and number of passengers between them. enlargement works for the passenger terminals at Boa Vista and Sal airports, and the drafting of Master Plans This is the context in which Ineco has continued working for the São Nicolau and Fogo aerodromes. In January both in Spain, for its shareholders ENAIRE and Aena 2015, Ineco presented the National Airports Plan for and institutional clients, the Spain’s Directorate General Uganda, which was drawn up the previous year; in of Civil Aviation (DGAC) and the Spanish Aviation Safety Angola, safety studies were carried out for the airport and Security Agency (AESA), and abroad, in some twenty at the country's capital Luanda, where the company has countries around the world. Of the progress made, already worked in 2012. examples worth highlighting are the consolidation of the company’s presence in great potential markets, Of the new international contracts, noteworthy examples such as the Asian, Latin American and African markets. include the project management of the enlargement The company has surpassed its initial hiring objectives works at Fujairah airport in Abu Dhabi and the two in the Spanish airport market. In general, 2015 saw contracts to design the runway restoration and supervise a confirmation of the trend towards growth in the construction at Faleolo in Samoa. In Europe, two studies company’s aeronautical activities, first observed in 2013; were carried out (into future development and railway total invoicing for the year in the sector was 54.5 million access) for London Luton airport, of which Aena is the euros, compared to 42.6 million in 2014 (annual average). majority shareholder. In 2015, airport projects already underway were At the national level, 2015 was a year of recovery for one continued; examples of these are the operational of Ineco’s main shareholder clients, Aena. This turning readiness and transfer (ORAT) of the new terminal at Abu point was marked by the success of its initial public Dhabi airport, awarded to Ineco and Aena International offering and the rise in traffic through airports in its in 2014, or the project management of the enlargement network, which totalled 207 million passengers, a 5.9% of Kuwait airport, which began in 2011. In the Americas, increase compared to the previous year. Among the the company’s projects in Peru should be noted: the main projects, examples that should be pointed out are supervision until 2021 of the enlargement works at Jorge drawing up plans, such as those for the southern dyke Chávez international airport in Lima and the contract to adaptation at Barcelona-El Prat airport, the two plans for produce preliminary studies and the draft project for the the pavement restoration of runway 06R-24L at Palma de enlargement of Chiclayo airport, where over the course Mallorca airport and runway 18L-36R at Madrid-Barajas of 2015, Ineco produced and successfully presented airport, and the technical assistance provided in the a design for the new terminal. In Colombia, Ineco improvement and enlargement works for bus and hire continued to provide services at Rafael Núñez airport in vehicle parking at Tenerife Sur. 19 There was also the continuation in 2015 of projects that were already underway with the Civil Aviation Department (DGAC), such as the production of drafts of the Airport Regulation Document (Documento de Regulación Aeroportuaria, DORA) or the support provided in the production and execution of urban plans. Ineco also carried out aeronautical inspections for the Spanish Aviation Safety and Security Agency (AESA), for example at the Montmeló circuit heliport, among others. In international air navigation, projects that merit emphasis include the study into the effects on airport operations of the new cranes at the port of Kaohsiung in Taiwan. One field in which Ineco has extensive experience is the design of flight procedures, for example at Changi airport in Singapore and Muscat and Salalah airports in Oman; the company has also been designing approach charts for these airports since 2013. There are also works underway at the new Adam, Al Duqm, Sohar and Ras al Had airports. Satellite-based landing procedures (GNSS) were produced for the Boa Vista and São Vicente international airports in Cape Verde. In Mozambique, Ineco produced designs for traffic control systems and carried out several studies to improve airspace safety and management. In Europe, Ineco worked for another year on Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR) programme (Single European Sky) activities. Specifically, it supported Eurocontrol in work package no. 12, dedicated to the development of technical requirements and the verification of prototypes in the ATM/airports field. Another important project in 2015 was the EGUS (European GNSS User Support) project for the European GNSS Agency (GSA). Ineco has worked on three contracts, focused on the development of the E-GNSS market in aviation, maritime navigation and for commercial use, respectively. Work also continued at the European Galileo programme Service Centre, located in Torrejón de Ardoz (Madrid). In 2015, Ineco designed procedures, processes, products and services for the operation and maintenance of the Centre and continued to collaborate in preparing and validating operations and in the design and implementation of hosting services. In Spain, Ineco provided its specialised services to ENAIRE, the national air navigation manager and the company's principal shareholding client. In the aeronautical communications field, 2015 saw Ineco collaborate in designing facilities and support in the commissioning of the Communications Centres at As Pontes, Veldespina, Alcolea, Valladolid and Paracuellos, which serve the Area Control Centre (ACC) in Madrid (Torrejón ACC), and the Linares Centre, which serves the Seville ACC. In addition, over 100 studies were carried out into the effects to radio installations; the thirteen studies carried out at wind farms near Gran Canaria airport were particularly significant. In the area of satellite navigation, within the European SESAR 1 programme, the company contributed to the analysis, development and validation of innovative manoeuvres based on GNSS systems (SBAS and GBAS) and participated in preparing bids for the programme’s second phase, SESAR 2020. 20 In terms of safety, work worth mentioning is the of air-to-ground and ground-to-ground communications production of national-scale incident analysis reports and in the Canary Islands, and the expansion of the system the preparation of audiovisual material for safety culture that supervises the SCV, SGV systems and radio dissemination and training campaigns in the field of ATM, gateways. As part of the activities to automate the air such as the “At the other end of the signal” campaign. In traffic control system, Ineco participated actively in the terms of security, Ineco supported ENAIRE in preparing analysis, specifications, testing and deployment of the 82 security programmes, evaluating the levels of risk at new Automated Air Traffic Control System (SACTA in 99 air navigation facilities, such as the north tower at Spanish) architecture. Adolfo Suárez Madrid–Barajas Airport, the Barcelona Air Traffic Control Centre and the tower at Málaga airport. Above all, the challenges set in 2015 with a view to 2016 are the improved quality and greater added value of the In the field of TMA operations, the company has company’s products and services, with special emphasis participated in several research programmes: the SALSA on innovation. In the national market, the company is Project (Seasonality of Air mass transport and origin in committed to continuing to provide highly specialised the Lowermost Stratosphere using the HALO Aircraft) technical assistance to its shareholders and institutional and the NARVAL-II Project (Next-generation Aircraft clients in the context of a general economic reactivation. Remote-sensing for VALidation studies), carried out in Abroad, Ineco aims to increase its presence in new collaboration with DLR (the German airspace research countries and to consolidate its presence both in Europe institute). Runway capacity studies were also carried (SESAR programme, GSA) and in regions where the out for Madrid, Barcelona, Palma de Mallorca and Gran aviation market is growing more vigorously, such as AsiaCanaria airports. Pacific (Singapore, Taiwan), Africa and the Middle East (Cape Verde, Oman, United Arab Emirates…) and Latin For the development of air navigation system, AST America, where the need to enlarge the main airports (Accelerated Simulation Techniques) studies were has led to increased demand for airport engineering and carried out using the SCOPE methodology to calculate consulting services. the capacity of the routing sectors at Seville, Barcelona and Madrid and the TMA at Palma. In addition to this, in the area of airspace structuring and organisation, Ineco participated in the TEN-T Project, working on the plan to implement PBN procedures in Spain, and designed RNP APCH manoeuvres with LPV minimums for Alicante, Ibiza, Seville, Málaga, Menorca, Jerez and La Rioja airports. Other significant projects were drawing up plans for the deployment of ENAIRE’s radio navigation integrated management system (SIRA Phase 2) and the completion of the Phase 1 roll-out. Ineco also participated in the implementation of the ORION system for the supervision 21 Railways Ineco’s railway activities, which it has been developing for more than 45 years and which represent on average 70% of the company’s business, closed 2015 with 114.4 million euros in income (annual average), 3 million more than in the previous year. Ineco continued with major international projects already underway in the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia as well as with others in Latin America, Asia and Europe, including in Spain, where new stretches of high speed network were started up. 22 Experience and future largest volume of work for the company. 2015 saw an average annual growth in this sector in relation to 2014, Railways conditioned the emergence of contemporary both in the company’s portfolio (railways represented society and grew along with it. From the Industrial 66.6% of international business and 72.2% of national Revolution to our times, railways have continued to be a business) and in income, which grew from 111.4 million vital mode of passenger and goods transport all around euros in 2014 to 114.4 million in 2015. Ineco’s railway the world. In the mid-20th century, the development of activities span all phases of a project’s life cycle, high speed rail, first in Japan and then in other countries, from planning to maintenance, via construction and was a technological milestone. It transformed the railway, commissioning, and all areas of technical knowledge: enabling it to compete with (and complement) air travel, tracks, rolling stock, telecommunications, signalling, above all for passenger transport and medium-length track inspection… journeys (around 500 kilometres) and as a fast connection between large urban centres. As it has done from the beginning, Ineco for another year worked on the Spanish high speed network for Renfe (the In Spain, where the first high speed line (Madrid–Seville) operator) and Adif (the infrastructure administrator). The was opened in the 1980s, Ineco and its clients and opening of the Valladolid–Palencia–León connection in shareholders Renfe and Adif have from the beginning September and the completion of the Galician Atlantic participated in developing a network of over 3,000 Axis in April were 2015’s main milestones. In both kilometres, the second largest in the world today, after projects, the company has been providing services in all China's. In parallel to this, the company has worked phases of development for several years, from drawing up with all kinds of conventional railway systems, including projects to transfer. This includes a wide range of tasks, commuter trains, light and heavy rail, metro and trams. such as safety certification (ISAs), building (the provisional In recent years, all of this valuable experience has been station in Vigo and others on the Atlantic Axis), urban exported to countries on five continents, such as: the integration (León, Orense, Santiago de Compostela), United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia and India, where large high structural load testing (the Ulla viaduct), etc. speed rail projects are underway; Turkey and Ecuador, where conventional networks are being renovated; and Ineco also carried out design and construction projects Panama, Chile and Colombia, where metro systems are for Adif on other high speed lines across the country, being built or modernised. for example the Basque “Y” and the line to Granada, and provided support for all new lines in all specialised In 2015, Ineco did work in all of those countries, and its technical fields in construction and supply logistics. In railway activities as a whole continue to generate the addition to the projects mentioned above, the company 23 collaborated in the commissioning and transfer phase for Abroad, the company continued with large projects the Olmedo–Zamora and Medina del Campo–Salamanca already underway, such as the HS2 high speed line in the stretches. In terms of maintenance, Ineco does work United Kingdom. Important aspects of the work there throughout the national network, although particularly were continued support in defending the Hybrid Bill () important tasks in 2015 were the inventory-taking and and the successful incorporation into the design of a maintenance of the cuttings and embankments; and number of complicated additional provisions passed in maintenance of Adif’s fibre-optic network. the British Parliament. Other tasks carried out in 2015 were the reference design for planning and construction Another important aspect of this activity is assessment bids, to take place in 2016, and drawing up technical and certification: in 2015, Ineco renewed and increased specifications for the track. Ineco also participated in its ENAC (National Accreditation Entity) certification for an innovation project, promoted by the Rail Safety and the CCS, infrastructure, energy, exploitation and traffic Standards Board (RSSB), to avoid the demolition of management subsystems, for rolling stock and for bridges on existing railway lines which will be electrified. maintenance. This accreditation allows the company to carry out Independent Safety Assessments (ISAs), studies For the European Comission, the most important project guaranteeing an operator or railway authority that a new was the implementation of the ERTMS, in which all line or specific action is compliant with all requirements targets for tasks under Ineco’s responsibility were met. for risk-free operation. Some of the ISAs carried out were The company also carried out ETCS monitoring for TEN-T for the commissioning of the Valladolid–Palencia–León corridors for the European Rail Agency (ERA). Also worth high speed line and the Utrera–Las Cabezas line on the mentioning is the contract for the planning of the Atlantic conventional network. In addition to this, Ineco will for and Mediterranean corridors, in consortium with other the first time carry out an ISA abroad for the Panama European companies. This brings continuity to work metro; this is set for completion in 2019. The company done in previous years and R&D+I efforts with European has also collaborated in independent safety assessments institutions. with several private companies, especially in the technology sector. In collaboration with local partners, the company was contracted for the supervision of modernisation Other significant projects in Spain last year were the works for two projects. For a period of 46 months, provision of support to Renfe in the Improvement Plan for Ineco will be responsible for updating the signalling, 72 commuter train stations across the country, which will telecommunications and energy supply systems and continue until 2017 the development of rolling stock for coordinating the electromechanical installations Renfe, Euskotren and the Madrid Metro, among others, team for the 377.8 km Samsun–Kalin railway line. On and information and communication technology (ICT) the Inönü-Köseköy stretch (158 km) of the Ankara– development. Ineco also worked in close collaboration with Istanbul line, where Ineco started work in 2010, works the Ministry of Public Works in the field of infrastructure were extended in design supervision, construction planning, and with the. State Rail Safety Agency. monitoring and supervision and technical assistance 24 in the commissioning of the railway signalling, projects already underway, such as work for the high telecommunications and electrification systems. speed lines under construction in the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia, or the contract for ERTMS implementation In Saudi Arabia, Ineco continued track assembly works in nine European Union railway corridors. Other projects for the Makkah–Madinah high speed line (Haramain High that will continue in the coming years are the supervision Speed Project). As part of the Hispano-Saudi consortium of construction in Turkey and rolling stock certification responsible for the project, the company provided in Chile and other Latin American countries, where the technical assistance and works quality assurance. company has extensive experience. In Latin America, demand in the railway sector will mainly be for metro Noteworthy projects in Asia are two high speed feasibility and commuter train systems due to the growth of cities; studies carried out in India, for the New Delhi–Kolkata regional transport will continue to be developed almost line and the 1st phase of the Mumbai–Kolkata line (the exclusively for goods transport. Mumbai–Nagpur stretch), totalling approximately 2,300 km of track. In Singapore, the demand and income study Increased activity is foreseen in Southeast Asia, with for the new Kuala Lumpur–Singapore high speed line was projects such as the high speed Malaysia–Singapore revised and updated. connection. In Latin America, safety was improved for 562 level Work for shareholders and institutional clients (Renfe, crossings in two stretches of Ecuador’s rail network Adif and the Ministry of Public Works) will continue in (Quito–Durán and Ibarra–Salinas, 500 km total). Also Spain, with the improvement and enlargement of the in Ecuador, three locomotives originally manufactured national railway network, both for high speed lines under for Euskotren in Spain were certified and modified for construction (Madrid–Galicia, Extremadura, the Basque the Ecuadorian network. 2015 saw the continuation of “Y”, lines into Asturias), and for conventional lines: station Ineco’s supervision of rolling material for the Santiago de modernisation plans, maintenance, etc. Chile metro, where the fleet is being modernised; for the Medellín metro (Colombia), where the network is being There is one more challenge to add to all the above: the enlarged; and for the São Paulo metro in Brazil, where challenge of adding innovation to the company’s 45 years Ineco has been working for more than 10 years and has a of experience, with activities such as the use of Building subsidiary company and permanent offices. In Bolivia, a Information Modelling (BIM), work carried out using strategic environmental assessment study was produced drones, collaboration in integrated transport systems, for the Central Bi-Oceanic Railway Corridor, a proposed developments in smart mobility and smart cities, mobile transnational railway connection between the Pacific and applications… Atlantic oceans. At the international level, the principal challenges in 2016 are the successful continuation of large medium-term 25 Intermodal and roads This section comprises a diverse range of works, including the fields of planning, urban transport, the environment, ports and building. Ineco undertakes this work with multidisciplinary teams made up of experts in different fields, equipped to contribute the knowledge and perspectives required in these types of projects. The company also has experts in the roads sector, who for another year worked both in the improvement and maintenance of the extensive Spanish network and abroad, particularly in Latin America. The economic results were positive, passing from 24.7 million euros in 2014 to 26.4 in 2015 (annual average). 26 Efficient connections Mobility is closely linked to social and economic and Logistics of Spain for the Spanish Ministry of development. Urban areas, home to more than half the Public Works; tasks include drafting the annual report, world’s population, require transport systems that are maintaining and improving the database, etc. multi-modal, well planned, designed and dimensioned, enabling citizens to quickly and efficiently travel and In terms of environmental related work, projects switch between modes of transport. that should be emphasised are the drafting of the Plan for Comprehensive Waste Management in Quito Not only people require transport; we could not conceive and consultancy for the application of transitional a modern world without commercial trade, which provisions for Ecuador’s new Organic Law on Water. requires a transport infrastructure with the capacity to move large volumes of goods, as in the case of ports and roads. Both in the design and in the operation of this infrastructure, information technology provides possibilities that seemed unattainable only a few decades ago. The complexity and cost of this infrastructure necessitate thorough prior planning, proper monitoring of the investment needed for project execution, and the application of modern, efficient management and operating models. Respect for the environment and the research for more sustainable technical solutions are also inescapable commitments both for the designers and for the operators of transport networks. This is the context to Ineco’s intermodal activity, which covers a diverse range of specialised projects and transport modes all around the globe. Last year, income in this area increased once more, climbing from 24.7 million euros in 2014 to 26.4 million in 2015 (annual average). In the area of planning, 2015 saw the launch or execution of projects such as the Bus Transport Strategic Plan for Oman’s national transport operator. Ineco had also developed another public transport plan for Oman’s capital, Muscat, in 2014. Other country-scale plans, this time focusing on multi-modal, are the Malta National Transport Strategy and the Ecuador Mobility Plan. In 2015, the company completed its advisory and assistance role for the Ministry of Transport and Public Works, which lasted two years and included over 200 studies and project supervisions. Other urban transport projects developed last year are the feasibility studies for the rehabilitation of the tram network in Pavlodar, Kazakhstan, and for the future Metrocable project in Quito, Ecuador, a cable car which will be integrated into the city’s metro system. For Panama City Metro, where the line 1 is being expanded and a second line is going to be built, Ineco will carry out the independent safety assessment (ISA). In Spain, Ineco provided independent specialised technical assistance services to financial institutions for Barcelona Metro’s new line 9 project. The company has continued its works on the Observatory for Transport 27 In Spain, the company has collaborated with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment on the PIMA Transport programme, which aims to modernise vehicles intended for transport. Ineco also collaborated with the Ministry on the “Un millón de compromisos por el clima” (“A million commitments for the climate”) initiative for the Paris Climate Summit, held in December; the company carried out a research project, including a web page. The aim of the initiative -succesfully achievedwas to bring together at least a million individual and group initiatives to reduce the global impact of climate change; it was then presented to the Summit by the government of Spain. Ports and their connections to land transport networks were another area of the company’s intermodal activity in 2015. In Spain, Ineco brought to a close its collaboration with the public body Puertos del Estado (Ports of the State) for the launch of the Faros de España (Spanish Lighthouses). The company also began providing support to this body in drafting new tender specifications for port services and in renewing concessions process. It collaborated with different Port Authorities in preparing applications for European Commission CEF subsidies and provided consultancy in the field of rail transport, technical assistance and coordination of construction work health and safety. On the other hand, under the strategic development framework of the Atlantic Freight Rail Corridor, Ineco, as part of a consortium of other European companies, was in 2015 awarded the contract to study the impact of the development of ports of the Atlantic Façade on freight rail activities in the short, medium and long term. A project that should be mentioned in Portugal is the Strategic Plan drafted for the ports of Sines, Portimão and Faro, members of the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T). The document includes the design of business and investment plans and the definition of a new organisational model and implementation plan. As part of its intermodal activity, Ineco also undertakes building projects, such as the ones carried out last year for the General Directorate of Architecture, Housing and Land of the Ministry of Public Works. The company began the inspection and review of 66 buildings owned by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation in 17 countries on the American continent, and completed the tasks started in 2014 for the works management and health and safety coordination for the rehabilitation of the Torre Cuzco building in Madrid, the headquarters of the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness. In the field of railway building, is worth mentioning the Cercanías stations Improvement Plan. In relation to the development of computer applications for transport, in 2015, Ineco continued to collaborate with the Spanish postal service, Correos y Telégrafos, to optimise the information systems of its Transport and Logistics Directorate. It also provided support to the Spanish Institute for Energy Diversification and Saving 28 29 30 (Instituto de Diversificación y Ahorro de la Energía, which will continue for the next ten years. In São Paulo IDAE) in managing grants programmes in the area of (Brazil), the company continued its supervision of the energy efficiency. completion of the Northern Section of the Rodoanel Mario Covas works, the city’s ring road. Roads, fundamental for the overland transport of people and freight, have also been an important chapter With a view towards 2016, the company’s intermodal in Ineco’s history, both in Spain, where the company activity will be set on searching for new opportunities, once more provided support to the General Directorate with both traditional and new markets and clients, of Roads of the Ministry of Public Works, and abroad. especially in the international context. Urban, port and road transport will continue to require infrastructure Ineco’s work within Spain, focusing above all on drafting planning, building and renovation, particularly in projects, with the continuation of projects that started emerging economy countries, such as in Latin America. in 2014 and the beginning of new ones, such as the remodelling of the junction linking the M-40 road with In general, the principal challenges in the coming the A-6 highway in Madrid, the section of the A-74 years are predicted to revolve around strengthening highway between Foz and Barreiros in Lugo, and the collaboration between the public and private division of the A-7 highway between La Mora and La sectors in the development and funding of transport Pobla de Montornés z in Catalonia. The company also infrastructure, improving efficiency and cutting costs provided monitoring and supervision services at the (with more robust initial planning, management and new Gaznata bridge works in Ávila, and environmental financial supervision mechanisms) and the application management at the new Constitución de 1812 bridge in of new technologies: all the possibilities of big data Cádiz (La Pepa bridge). Monitoring of the operation of and smart mobility, the use of BIM, etc. Environmental tunnels in the national network and consultancy on road protection and the optimization of natural resources, lighting are also underway. which have always been part of the company’s activities, will become more important, either as independent Particularly remarkable is the launch of a Public projects or as overarching aims integrated into other Procurement for Innovation procedure, to solve the projects. problem of persistent fog on a section of the A-8 highway in Mondoñedo (Lugo), the Ministry of Public To tackle these challenges, Ineco has refreshed its Works, supported by Ineco, decided to opt for this novel catalogue of products and services, which provides contract procedure. It aims to find alternatives to the clients with a comprehensive, multidisciplinary existing market solutions, replacing the traditional approach, with particular efficiency in the field of requirements (price, minimal risk) with a policy to intermodality. support private innovation, boosting R&D. At the international level, the main roads projects were in Brazil, Mexico and Ecuador, where over the course of 2015, over 300 km of high capacity roads were designed. For the fourth consecutive year, Ineco continued its tasks in Mexico as the administrator and supervisor for the concession of the Guadalajara–Colima highway, 31 Projects in focus Ineco currently has live projects in around 50 countries on five continents, and more than 15 offices internationally. In 2015, new activities were added to those which were already in development, for example those related to the management of waste or natural resources. The company also consolidated other activities, such as the supervision of great works and infrastructure projects, the improvement of air and rail safety, and planning. 32 Turkey Modernisation of the Samsun–Kalin railway line A consortium which includes Ineco will 47 tunnels (the longest measures 556 metres) totalling 7,249 metres and 29 stations. until 2019 be responsible for supervising restoration works for the 377.8 km railway As part of the consortium, Ineco will for 46 months line connecting central Turkey with the supervise signalling, communication and energy supply works and will coordinate the electromechanical Black Sea. The railway, constructed in the installation team. The ERTMS/ETCS-L1 signalling system first half of the 20th century, will be fully will be implemented throughout the line, with a design electrified and equipped with modern speed of 120 km/h. The new system will be capable of carrying out train traffic operations at five minute signalling systems. intervals. This project will be a continuation of Turkey’s work to In terms of track infrastructure, drainage will be modernise its railway network, for which it is receiving improved and terrain will be stabilised; the platform European Union funds through the IPA (Instrument for will be enlarged; and bridges, viaducts, overpasses Pre-Accession Assistance), intended to finance projects and retaining structures and walls will be restored. for economic development in EU candidate countries. Regarding superstructure, works will be undertaken to renovate the ballast, the track and sleepers and level In consortium with two other partners, Ineco was in 2015 crossings, and junctions will be replaced. At stations, awarded the contract to supervise and manage works to 40,800 metres of track will be restored and another 800 modernise the 377.8 kilometres railway line linking the built; new platforms will also be built at Turhal, Zile and cities of Samsun, on the Black Sea coast, and Kalin, at Kizoğlu stations. the centre of the country. There, the line connects with the Ankara–Sivas line. The project, commissioned by Ineco was awarded a similar contract in 2010 to the Turkish Ministry of Transport, is intended to improve supervise high speed adaptation works for the Inönü– connections between inland parts of the country, the Köseköy stretch of the Ankara–Istanbul line. Black Sea and the Mediterranean. The Samsun–Kalin line, completed in 1932, is a conventional line, with a single, non-electrified, international-gauge track with no signalling, running through a mountainous area. It has Length: 377.8 kilometres _ Design speed: 120 km/h _ 29 stations _ 47 tunnels 33 The European Commission Third specific contract for user service of the European Galileo Centre For a further year Ineco has continued year framework contract signed with the GSA in 2014, which includes designing the concept of operations, to provide engineering services for the initial operations and hosting services. Ineco acts as the commissioning of the European GNSS coordinator of two other contracts and the intermediary Service Centre (GSC) of the Galileo with the client. Programme, located in Torrejón de In 2020, the Galileo system will have a total of 30 Ardoz, Madrid. The works are part of the satellites. Throughout 2015, the GSA sent four satellites framework contract signed in 2014 with into space, bringing the total number in orbit to 12. They will provide five kinds of service: open and free of charge, the European GNSS Agency (GSA). for all types of user; commercial, available for a fee and with greater provisions, multi-use features; for critical The European Commission is rolling out the deployment applications, in other words those where safety is of of the infrastructure for the Galileo Navigation Satellite utmost importance, such as air navigation and railway System. To that end, the European GNSS Agency (GSA) applications; public regulated service, such as police and is putting into orbit a constellation of satellites, which, customs; and search and rescue. when complete and fully operational, will allow people and objects to be located with extreme precision. Galileo is the first high-performance navigation satellite system for civilian use and will provide Europe a greater In 2015, Ineco and the consortium in which it participates degree of technological independence with regard to the continued to provide highly qualified engineering current navigation systems, GPS (USA) and GLONASS services for the operation and maintenance of the Galileo (Russia), while also complementing and being compatible Service Centre, located in Torrejón de Ardoz, Madrid. with them. This is this third of the contracts included in the four12 satellites already in orbit (30 in 2020) _ 4 new satellites launched in 2015 _ 5 types of Galileo service: open, commercial, for public regulated use and search and rescue 34 United Kingdom HS2: London–Birmingham high speed line The United Kingdom’s second high 340 km of international-gauge double track. The line will be equipped with trains up to 400 metres long with speed railway line (after HS1, linked capacity for a thousand passengers; their design speed is with France) is continues to advance to 400 km/h and commercial speed is 360 km/h. its commissioning, planned for 2026. Ineco, together with a British consultancy In 2015, Ineco continued working on the preliminary design for the civil work on the northern stretch, around company, is working on the northern 75 km in length and including two tunnels, 60 viaducts stretch of phase 1, which will connect and three railway junctions. After the public information London and Birmingham from 2026. phase and parliamentary approval of the preliminary and reference designs for the northern stretch civil work, Working in consortium with the British consultancy the company’s activities have focused on supporting the Capita, Ineco in 2012 began working on phase 1 of High government in defending the Hybrid Bill in Parliament Speed Two or HS2, the largest railway project carried out and in implementing the design changes approved during in the United Kingdom. This will bring continuity to the the procedure. HS1 line, operated by Eurostar since 1994, which through the tunnel links London to Paris and Brussels via Lille. Ineco also prepared technical documentation as the basis for the design and project specifications for tender When phase 1 enters into service, the line will measure in 2016, produced a detailed design for phase 1 and 220 kilometres and connect the capital London with provided support in producing specifications for the Birmingham, the country's second most populous city. detailed design and work tender for phase 2. In addition, The line will then split into two branches in phase 2, one it is working on the Final Preliminary Design (FDP) and towards Manchester and the other towards Leeds, some the offer to be presented in 2016. Length of phase 1, London-Birmingham: 220 kilometres _ Design maximum speed: 400 km/h _ Commercial maximum speed: 360 km/h _ Planned completion date: 2026 35 European Commission Implementation of the ERTMS in the main European railway corridors The steps taken to achieve the free circulation of trains in Europe have required years of investigation, the development of new equipment and processes, and the update of complex regulations. Ineco collaborates with the European Railway Agency (ERA) and the European Commission in the supervision of the development and implementation of the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS). The objective is to put into operation a system which enables railway interconnection between all of the member countries, a common language which transcends the barriers of the systems, equipments and signalling used in the extensive and varied railway network. The European Railway Agency (ERA), technical advisor of the European Commission and responsible of the ERTMS commissioned a consortium headed by Ineco to follow up and supervise 51 railway projects in the nine main corridors in Europe. The work, which encompasses more that 65,000 km of railway network, also includes the technical supervision of the projects, the provision of economic-financial support and various spreading activities aimed at all of the railway 65,000 km of European companies involved. A common system of operations and railway network communications requires an organizational and regulatory _ environment which guarantees that it operates in complete safety. As well as the technical supervision of its development, Ineco has conducted various presentations 9 main corridors in and conferences, amongst others, in the Ten-T Days 2015 Europe in Riga (Latvia) and in the ERTMS CCRCC 2015 conference _ in Lille (France), which takes place every two years. During this time, Ineco has developed the Strategic Plan Implementation of Action which details the application of the management period: 6 years system and a draft with the structure of the program deployment. The implementation of the ERTMS thus complies with the six year preset time period. 36 Spain Building works for the Ministries of Economy and Foreign Affairs In 2015 Ineco completed the project This is, specifically, three sites and 63 embassies, chancelleries and consulates buildings spread over management works of the restoration of 24 cities in 16 countries throughout America. Ineco´s the Torre Cuzco, a 23 storey building in tasks, which are planned to finish mid 2016, include the the centre of Madrid which houses the analysis of the construction and conservation status of headquarters of the Ministry of Economy. the buildings, as well as their accessibility, and the study and certification of energy efficiency. The information Ineco also began the technical inspections is collected in a database which was also designed by and review of the construction state of Ineco. Furthermore, plans for the 63 buildings have been 63 Spanish embassies and chancelleries produced, as well as surveyings of the three sites. in 16 countries for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the end of 2014, the comprehensive remodelling works of the headquarters of the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness were started, a 23 storey building known as “Torre Cuzco” built in the 70’s. An Ineco team was put in charge of the project management and the health and safety coordination, as well as the transfer of personnel during the works. The building covers an area Restoration of a of 32,000 m² and is located in the heart of Paseo de la 32,000 m2 and 23 storey Castellana, in the centre of Madrid. building in Madrid The objective of the renovation, completed in 2015, was _ to optimize the spaces and give them better flexibility 66 inspected properties and modularity, as well as improving the general level of _ comfort of the facilities. The fire protection systems have also been modernized and the insulation of the façade and windows was improved in order to achieve greater 24 cities in 16 countries energy savings. in America Improving the energy efficiency is also, amongst others, one of the objectives of another Ineco´s work which was started in 2015: A set of inspections of the conservation status of 66 out of the 400 buildings ascribed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are outlined in the 8/2013 law, of the 26th June, of urban restoration, regeneration and renovation. 37 India Feasibility study of the high speed railway line between New Delhi and Kolkata The government of the Republic of India high speed railway in India which the new government set up in the summer of 2015. This is a rhombus made has given a consortium headed by Ineco up of the cities of New Delhi, Kolkata, Bombay and the project of the new high speed railway Chennai, separated from each other by more than 1,500 corridor between New Delhi and Kolkata. km in distance. Since 2015, a team of engineers and experts has been working on the feasibility The study, awarded to the Ineco-led consortium by the state company High Speed Rail Corporation of India study of this new line. Ltd. (HSRC), includes: demand studies; prior analysis After years of postponed initiatives, the government of of alignment alternatives; calculation of journey times; the Republic of India, led by the Prime Minister Narendra selection of the railway technology to be implemented Modi, has taken the final step for the implementation of (gauge, superstructure, electrification, communications the high speed network between the four biggest cities in and safety installations, etc.); necessary special works; the country: New Delhi, Kolkata, Bombay and Chennai. restoration and resettlement of affected populated areas; For the tendering procedure of the high speed study environmental analysis; rolling stock and operation and between New Delhi and Kolkata, Ineco has competed maintenance. with eleven other international consortiums and has had the commercial cooperation of the “Spain Business Lastly, an economic-financial analysis will be carried out, Overseas” office in India. which will be used to determine the feasibility of the new line as well as the most adequate method of funding. The The project is part of the “Diamond Quadrilateral amount awarded to the consortium is over two million Program”, an ambitious development program for the euros and the execution period is one year. Two large cities: New Delhi and Kalkota _ Population served: 31 million inhabitants _ Length: 1,500 kilometres _ Speed: more than 250 km/h 38 Spain Support for the draft of the Airport Regulation Document (DORA) During 2015, the company has provided Among the tasks carried out during 2015, examples that should be pointed out are the production of methods support to the Ministry of Public Works in to evaluate the air traffic estimates and the definition the production process of the document indicators of both capacity, to evaluate investment which will regulate the airport activity requirements within the airport system and quality, to compare the Spanish airports with other European in Spain until 2021, known in Spanish as airports. Furthermore, economic and investment DORA. The processing will last three years studies have been carried out as well as an estimation and will come into force in 2017. procedure which makes it possible to obtain the value of the maximum annual income per passenger and per The Airport Regulation Document (in Spanish, adjusted passenger. Documento de Regulación Aeroportuaria, DORA) which the Ministry of Public Works is drafting will establish the new legal framework of the airport sector in Spain, in accordance with the Spanish law 18/2014, of 15th October. It will be the basic document which defines the minimum conditions necessary to guarantee accessibility, adequacy and suitability of airports infrastructures, as well as the correct provision of basic airport services for the network of 46 airports and two heliports managed by Aena S.A. The document, which will come into force in 2017, will contain the air traffic predictions, the minimum service conditions, the network’s quality and capacity standards and the airport charges. It will have a five year period of validity (2017-2021) and took its first steps in July 2014 with the Spanish Council of Ministers’ approval. A team of technicians and experts in different areas of Ineco have been working ever since providing coordination and technical support services to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGAC in Spanish). The works consist of developing methods and procedures for the decision making of the production and processing of DORA, and analysing the information provided by Aena, such as the capacity of the infrastructures, the minimum conditions and quality of Regulation of the service, investments, etc. Spanish network of 46 airports and 2 heliports _ 5 years validity: 2017-2021 _ 3 years of processing 39 United Arab Emirates Project management of the enlargement of Fujairah international airport In 2015, Ineco was awarded the tender of Ineco’s tasks cover both the project management – control of deadlines, costs and contractual aspects– and the project management and supervision the supervision of the whole project, from the design of the design and construction of phase to the construction and implementation. The the enlargement works of Fujairah company had already taken part in the pre-project international airport, in Abu Dhabi (UAE), planning phase, with the production of the “Concept of Operations” (CONOPS), which consists of a preliminary which plans to triple its cargo operations study in which the main processes of the airport are over the next decade. The launch of the described and evaluated, from the first phases of new facilities is planned to be at the construction to long after the transfer date. end of 2018. Fujairah airport, located in Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates) has launched an enlargement plan with the aim of transforming the airport into a cargo hub for the region. Since it plans to multiply the number of operations by three in the next ten years, ADAC New emergency (Abu Dhabi Airports Company), the project developer, runway of has taken charge of the works in order to adapt the 3,050 x 45 metres infrastructure to expected growth. _ Thus, in 2015 ADAC awarded Ineco and its partner the Extension of runway by comprehensive management of the project and the 700 metres supervision of works, which include the building of a new air traffic control tower, an enlargement of the existing _ runway, and the building of a new emergency runway, as well as new rapid exit taxiways. Furthermore, the New control tower of airfield lightning and the meteorological system will be 57.5 metres in height completely updated, a new electrical power plant and _ substations will be built and the existing CNS systems will be improved (ILS, DVOR). Expected to be commissioned in 2018 40 Oman Bus Transport Strategic Plan The Sultanate has in recent years In 2014, Ineco had drawn up a Public Transport Master Plan for Muscat for the Oman Ministry of Transport and undertaken a process to develop the entire Communications, which, among other actions, proposed country's public transport system, aiming the creation of a single public transport authority, the to boost tourism and economic activity gradual implementation of a network of new routes and in general. In 2015, Ineco has developed the construction of reserved platforms (bus lanes). a Bus Transport Strategic Plan for the These projects have represented a turning point in the national transport operator, Mwasalat. strategic planning of the country's public transport system. They are the starting point from which the Oman wants an urban and interurban transport system Ministry of Transport and Communications, through that is modern, efficient and sustainable, spanning all Mwasalat (formerly the Oman National Transport modes of transport and boosting the social, economic Company, ONTC), has begun to implement new routes and tourism development of this country with a and to renovate the fleet of buses. population of 4.3 million. This is the context in which Ineco and another Spanish partner developed the Bus In November 2015, the first forty urban buses in the Transport Strategic Plan 2016–2040 for the national new fleet began travelling five routes in the capital; this transport operator Mwalasat. was very successful with passengers, who increased in number from 3,500 to 9,000 a day. Equipped with The Plan includes an extensive programme of actions, the latest technology, these low-floored buses have air such as the deployment of the public transport conditioning , extendable ramps for wheel chairs and network of the capital Muscat, the implementation of passenger information systems. In addition, another 10 new urban transport services in other cities such as buses have also begun to provide inter-city services to Salalah and Sohar, and the extension of the current Dubai and Salalah, among other destinations. inter-city transport network. It also includes an infrastructure investment programme (bus stations, workshops, parking areas, etc.), the implementation of new management and operation technologies and the definition of financial plans. Plan effective: 2016-2040 _ Country population: 4.3 million inhabitants _ Increase in users: from 3,500 to 9,000 a day 41 Peru Modernisation of Chiclayo Airport Ineco has since 2015 been carrying out airport since 2008, the volume of passengers is growing at an annual rate of 21% and the number of operations is preliminary studies for the modernisation growing at a rate of 10%. For this reason, it has planned of Chiclayo José Quiñonez Gonzales the enlargement of the airport’s facilities. In December international airport in the north east of 2014, Ineco and its local partner won the international the country. Peru’s fourth most populated tender held by ADP to carry out pre-investment and feasibility studies prior to the beginning of works, starting city, Chiclayo has more than half a million in 2016. Among other actions, these will encompass inhabitants. the renovation and enlargement of the airfield, the construction of a new terminal and the improvement of The city of Chiclayo is capital of the province of the other facilities and equipments. same name and the department of Lambayeque. With almost 600,000 inhabitants, it is the country’s fourth In 2015, Ineco continued to work on the project at most populated city after Lima, Arequipa and Trujillo. the profile level, which it developed using the BIM Its airport, called José Quiñónez, was opened in 1956. In methodology. At the end of the year, this was submitted 2014, it managed 438,904 domestic passengers and an to Aeropuertos de Perú (ADP) for presentation average of 30 operations per day. to and approval by the Ministry of Transport and According to data from the company Aeropuertos de Communications. Following approval, the feasibility Perú, ADP, (Airports from Peru), licensed to run the project will be carried out in 2016. 10% annual: growth in volume of operations _ 500,000 domestic passengers in 2014 _ 600,000 inhabitants: Chiclayo population 42 Ecuador Master Plan for Comprehensive Solid Waste Management for Quito Ecuador’s capital wants to completely To put the plans into action, the city government has a Master Plan for Comprehensive Solid Waste transform the management of the 2,000 Management, developed in 2015 by Ineco with a Spanish tonnes of waste that are generated daily public partner. Some of the main challenges are in the Metropolitan District of Quito, increasing mechanised waste collection by 40% by 2015, increasing the use of new, alternative waste handling which has a population of 2.4 million. models by 60% by 2019 and reducing solid waste To achieve this, it has a Master Plan for production per capita by 5% by 2025, the Plan’s end date. Comprehensive Solid Waste Management, which was developed by Ineco in The document defines management models for different types of waste: household, medical, demolition and consortium with a Spanish public partner. construction waste and special wastes. It also includes an economic-financial analysis of the present situation, Quito wants to transform the management of the waste a proposal for organisational remodelling and the generated by the over 2 and half million inhabitants of regulatory framework that will cover the provision of its Metropolitan District, Ecuador’s most populated area. public containerisation, transport and waste treatment To that end, the City Hall’s Secretary for the Environment and removal services, as well as the activities of private has proposed a strategy which by 2025 aims: to reduce by waste management companies. 10% the total amount of waste which currently goes into landfill; to containerise waste; to build separation and treatment plants; and to run public awareness-raising campaigns on waste recycling and reduction. 2.4 million inhabitants in the Metropolitan District of Quito _ 2,000 tonnes of waste per day _ 40% increase in mechanised collections in 2015 _ 5% decrease in waste per capita in 2025 43 Spain Accessibility Improvement Plan of commuter stations In 2015 Ineco carried out drawing up The type of operation varies according to the cases: overlay and enlargement of surface platform areas, installation of projects, project management and lifts, actions on buildings, car parks and shelters, renovation health and safety coordination tasks for of stairs and installation of escalators, works on buildings Renfe Viajeros, as part of accessibility and installations (electrical, sewerage, supply system…), general improvement of accessibility, and works on improvement works in 72 Cercanías underpasses and enclosures. Other actions have also been stations throughout Spain. The 2014taken with regards to the general accessibility improvement, 2015 Renfe Station Improvement Plan such as outside access, interior refurbishment of some of envisages a total of 109 actions, such the buildings for passengers and, in some cases, such as the Getafe Industrial and Hernani-Centro stations, a whole as lifts and escalators installation, new design. enlargement of platforms and shelters, several building and civil works , etc. In 2011 a new agreement was established between Renfe Operadora and Adif (the Spanish administrator of railway infrastructure) for the provision of services in Cercanías (Spanish commuter trains) stations. Moreover, in 2014 the Ministry of Public Works approved a plan for the Accessibility improvement of the stations, which both entities have improvement of collaborated in. The 2014-2015 plan, approved by Renfe in July 2014, includes the completion of 109 actions in specific 72 commuter stations stations, plus 13 actions grouped together in several city throughout Spain centre stations. _ In 2015, Renfe Viajeros signed a 36 month framework Over a hundred planned actions agreement with Ineco to carry out accessibility improvement _ works in commuter stations throughout Spain: 28 in Catalonia, 15 in Madrid, 7 in Bilbao, 6 in Valencia, 4 in Drawing up projects of Cantabria, 3 in Murcia, another 3 in San Sebastian and 38 stations in Malaga, 2 in Asturias and 1 in Cadiz. The agreement requires that the Ineco services involve drawing up _ construction projects of 38 stations, construction management of 59 specific stations, including the 38 Construction already mentioned, as well as the projects and construction management of management of other stations not yet specified. 59 stations 44 Spain Projects of installations in the basque country's high speed railway network According to the Basque government, Norte and Ezkio-Itsaso. The mountainous terrain of the area has required 44 viaducts and 23 tunnels to be 80% of the construction of the high speed constructed. According to the Basque government, the railway connection which will connect work is currently 80% complete. the three capitals of Basque Country with France and the rest of the Iberian Ineco has provided its services to Adif, the railway infrastructure administrator, at every stage of the project. Peninsula has been carried out. In 2015 In the design and planning phase, the whole stretch’s Ineco developed various works along the construction projects were drafted: This includes line known as the Basque “Y”. track assembly, overhead contact line and associated systems, installations and signalling control points, train The Basque “Y” is a 180.5 kilometre long railway line, protection systems, CTC, auxiliary detection systems, excluding city access, which will connect the capitals of fixed telecommunications and security installations. In the three provinces of the Basque autonomous region, the construction phase, the project management and Vitoria (Álava), San Sebastián (Guipúzcoa) and Bilbao monitoring office work continues to be carried out on the (Vizcaya) through a high speed network. It links with the platform stretches still under construction. rest of the Peninsula and France, through Pamplona, across the Navarre Corridor and provides a continuation In 2015, it is worth noting the audits and project review of the MadridValladolid-Vitoria-French border line. works that were carried out in the Bergara-Irún stretch (which started in 2008), and the drawing up of the It consists of two distinct branches; Vitoria – Bilbao, which construction project of signalling and telecommunications is 90.8 km long; and Bergara – San Sebastián – French installations that were carried out along the whole line. border, which is 89.7 km long. It will have six stations: Astigarraga, Bilbao-Abando, Vitoria, Irún, San Sebastián3 Basque capitals _ 180.5 km in length _ 6 stations _ 44 viaducts and 26 tunnels 45 Panama Independent Safety Assessment (ISA) for Panama Metro The first line of Panama Metro was opened in 2014 and its capacity will be increased; construction of the second line was launched in 2015. In both cases, an safety certificate (ISA) is required; these can only be issued by an accredited assessor, such as Ineco. Works will be completed in 2019. Since 2015, Ineco has been carrying out the Independent Safety Assessments (ISA) for lines L1 and L2 of Panama Metro for the company Alstom. The works are expected to be completed by 2019. Specifically, the works consist of the revision and adaptation of L1 (15.8 km long) in commercial service since April 2014 to increase its capacity. The new trains on L1 will have five cars instead of three, and the fleet will include 26 trains instead of 20; these changes require modifications to be made to the tracks and installations, Line 1, in service new supplies and other complementary works. since 2014: 15.8 km long _ In relation to L2 (21 km), the ISA covers all subsystems, including rolling stock, a signalling system, energy Increase in capacity: 2 extra supply, supervision and control of trains, communications and the SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data cars per train and 6 extra Acquisition system). trains _ ISAs can only be performed by an accredited assessor and are essential for ensuring that a new line is reliable Future Line 2: 21 km long and safe and can enter into or continue in service. Ineco _ has International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) recognition as an inspection entity for the More than 10 years’ Independent Safety Assessment of Railway Applications experience with at an international level. The company has been carrying out for more than a decade independent safety ISAs assessments on the Spanish rail network. In addition to Panama, another Ineco similar work is in Saudi Arabia, for the Haramain project, where the company is currently carrying out the ISA for on-board ERTMS systems that will equip the Makkah-Madinah line. 46 Saudi Arabia Makkah–Madinah high speed line The track assembly works for the high In 2011, a consortium comprising twelve Spanish companies, including Ineco, Renfe and Adif, and two speed line known as “Pilgrims’ high speed Saudi companies, was awarded the contract for the sotrain” continued in 2015. As part of the called phase 2 of the works (“phase 1”, already awarded Hispano-Saudi consortium responsible to another consortium, includes the construction of for the project, Ineco for another year the stations and the track infrastructure works). The contract covers the assembly of track superstructure, provided technical assistance and quality including signalling, telecommunications, energy, etc, assurance for the works. the supply of trains and the commissioning of the line, as well as maintenance for the twelve years following its The Haramain High Speed Rail Project, launched in 2009, entry into service. will connect the two holy cities with a high speed line equipped with the most modern technology and rolling Throughout 2015, Ineco continued to provide technical stock manufactured in Spain. Measuring 450 km in assistance, project management and quality assurance, length, the line will have five stations, two depots and document management and general services for 170 junctions. the works. 450_km 5 stations _ 170 junctions 47 United Arab Emirates Operational readiness and transfer (ORAT) of the new terminal at Abu Dhabi airport Abu Dhabi international airport is the While construction made steady progress in 2015, Ineco second most important in the UAE. The developed the Concept of Operations for the different processes, the airport’s organisational model and the sustained growth in passenger traffic gave strategy for the provision of the different services; it was rise to the need to build the new Midfield also responsible for designing the trials plan and identifying Terminal Complex (MTC), to be completed the needs of different stakeholders. in 2017, for which Ineco is responsible for ORAT services include developing programmes and operational readiness and transfer (ORAT). performing the Concept of Operations (CONOPS). They also include defining the new model of operation, exploitation In 2015, passenger traffic at Abu Dhabi international airport and maintenance, and advising about adaptation of grew by 17.2%. To address this accelerated growth, the operating procedures. The company carried out the airport’s operator, Abu Dhabi Airports, has since 2012 been description and initial assessment of the new airport’s promoting the construction of a new terminal, the Midfield main processes and the implementation of an Airport Terminal Complex (MTC). When this is completed in 2017, it Management Centre (CGA, for its Spanish initials). will have the capacity for more than 40 million passengers. Furthermore, human and material resources requirements The building will occupy 700,000 m² and have 65 aircraft are identified, , spaces are assigned and different types parking areas, 3,000 new parking spaces and a baggage of trials are designed. The transition process also covers system with a capacity for handling 19,000 bags per hour. familiarising staff and planning the transfer to the new facilities. In 2014, Ineco and Aena won the international tender for the operational readiness and transfer (ORAT) services for this infrastructure, thanks to their over 10 years of experience with more than 20 Spanish airports. This work aims to ensure the optimal functioning of the facilities and guarantee that the level of service meets the required standards. Timeframe: 3 and a half years _ Terminal area of 700,000 m2 _ Capacity for 30 million passengers per year 48 Brazil Supervision of rolling stock for São Paulo metro and commuter trains and other works Ineco for another year continued working between the bus, train and metro networks. In 2015, Ineco on the improvement of transport and its local partners carried out two projects, supervising the manufacturing and the commissioning of new rolling infrastructure in São Paulo, one of stock. The objective in both cases is to ensure that the the largest urban areas in the world. client receives the final product according to schedule and Particularly important aspects of this, with the required quality standards. among others, were Ineco’s expert For commuter trains, the company completed its work advisory services throughout the process supervising the purchase of nine railcars of eight cars of acquisition, manufacturing, testing, each, for Line 11, –Coral, which measures 50.8 Km and and commissioning of new metro and has 16 stations, and which is being enlarged with financing from the International Bank for Reconstruction and commuter trains. Development (IBRD). The new trains, which have already been delivered, have a capacity of 2,600 passengers and The Metropolitan Region of São Paulo (RMSP for its are compatible with the rest of the CPTM fleet. Portuguese initials) is one of the world’s largest urban areas, with a population of more than 18 million unevenly Working for Metrô SP, Ineco also supervised the distributed across 8,000 square kilometres. Eleven million manufacturing and commissioning of 26 new trains for of those inhabitants live in the city of São Paulo, and the line 5 – Lilas, which is to be extended by 11.4 Km with rest in 39 other municipalities. However, its urban and 11 new stations. The new trains have five cars each, with interurban transport network, comprising buses, metro a capacity for up to 1,500 passengers. The works, with and commuter trains, is limited relative to the size of the financing from the World Bank, started in 2013 and are territory and the population: six railway lines with a total expected to be completed in 2016. The services provided length of 261 km, managed by the CPTM (Companhia include analysing the construction documents, providing Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos), and five suburban assistance during type testing and inspecting and lines totalling 68.4 km, operated by the São Paulo Metro monitoring the manufacturing process. company (Metrô SP). In addition to these works, last year Ineco also drew up For that reason, the government of São Paulo State construction projects for the manufacture and installation has in recent years been implementing enlargement of the electricity supply systems for the city’s first and improvement plans, with both the construction and monorail, line 15-Prata. Once completed, it will measure extension of existing lines and the renovation of equipment approximately 25 kilometres in length and will and rolling stock, as well as intermodal connections have 17 stations. 18 million inhabitants in the Metropolitan Region of São Paulo _ 9 trains for CPTM line 11 (Commuter trains network) _ 26 new trains for line 5 of the Metro 49 Mexico Administration and supervision of the Guadalajara–Colima highway In 2015, more than 10 million vehicles toll payment, user care and emergencies, and a maintainer/restorer, responsible for the general everyday travelled this 148 km road section, which maintenance of the road. A system of performance Ineco has supervised and managed for indicators is also applicable under the concession model. Banobras since 2011, Mexico’s National Ineco, heading up a Hispano-Mexican consortium, was in 2011 awarded the AAS contract, which has a term of 14 Bank Mexico’s National Works and Public years. Services Bank. In 2015 enlargement works for this toll road continued, which For the fourth consecutive year, Ineco has continued have almost been completed, except for a its supervisory work, in addition to its responsibility for managing the construction works for the new highway mountainous section measuring slightly part between kilometres 103.5 and 120. Since this more than 18 km near the Colima volcano. section is located in a mountainous area near the Colima Several Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) volcano, the road will follow the original alignment in one direction, with a separate highway part being constructed were also installed; all of this works were for the other direction; there will therefore be two lanes supervised by Ineco. in each direction. In 2015, Ineco continued its supervision, planning and The works, of vast complexity and which require the advisory work for the 148 km Guadalajara–Colima construction of 22 bridges and viaducts (some more than toll highway, which runs through the Mexican states 100 metres high), are expected to be finished in 2016. of Jalisco and Colima, forming part of the important That will mark the completion of the enlargement of Manzanillo–Tampico axis. The highway, which entered the entire road, which was used by 10.1 million vehicles into operation in 1989, has toll booths at three positions, in 2015, according to data from Banobras. Several which in recent years have been modernised and Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) were also installed enlarged: Acatlán II, Sayula and San Marcos II. There is this year. also a remote toll point, Sayula Remota. The new concession scheme, which the Mexican government put in place for the first time in 2011 for this toll road, is based around three roles, assigned to different companies: an assessor and supervisor 14 year contract (Administration Agent and Supervisor or AAS), which _ manages the concession and act as the sole intermediary with Banobras; an operator, which is in charge of 10,1 million vehicles in 2015 _ 148 kilometres long _ 3 toll booth locations and 1 remote toll 50 Ecuador National Strategic Mobility and Transport Plan The plan, produced by Ineco, contains a railway from an intermodal view and an efficient, highquality bus network. It also includes actions to boost and comprehensive analysis of all modes of improve urban transport. transport (roads, urban transport, ports and airports) and proposes solutions In 2015, Ineco completed the delivery of the final which aim to benefit the country as a project tasks: in the airport sector, it produced slot whole and to foster the ordered growth management criteria and provided consultancy services for the creation of Empresa Pública de Aeropuertos, and development of all infrastructures. In the public airports company. In the railway sector, the 2015, Ineco delivered the final tasks for company analysed the pre-feasibility study for electric the project, which began in 2012. trains in Ecuador. It developed concession models for the high capacity road network for the Santo DomingoEcuador’s Ministry of Transport and Public Works Quevedo–Juján and the Rio Siete–Huaquillas sections, contracted Ineco in 2012 to create a National Strategic and designed plans for the Anillo Vial de Quevedo Mobility Plan (PEM, for its Spanish acronym) for the interchanges in Quito. period 2013–2037. Last year, the company finalised its advisory and support roles for the Ministry; these had This final group of deliverables also included sea lasted two years, during which more than 200 studies and and river transport, for example tasks related to project supervisions took place. the enlargement and improvement of the ports in Manta (providing support in the public tender for the The aim of the PEM is to develop an efficient transport concession), Bolívar (reviewing a proposed private system, analysing the overall requirements of initiative, diagnostic report on the present situation, and infrastructures, costs and implementation timeframes. The PEM analyses more than 800 kilometres of road other possible modernisation actions) and Esmeraldas. and 20 airports, proposes improvements for land and The company also carried out an analysis of the present air connectivity, lays the basis for a new maritime, port situation of private ports and produced plans for actions and inland waterway system for four international ports to develop the artisan fishing sector. and another 20 fishing ports, and plans the future of the Plan horizon: 2037 _ 4 international traffic ports and 20 fishing_ ports More than 800 km of road _analysed More than 200 studies carried _ out 2 years of assesment 51 Peru Supervision of the enlargement works at Lima's Jorge Chávez airport The airport in the Peruvian capital is employing the services of Ineco and its partner until 2021 in the supervision of enlargement works, including the construction of a second runway and new passenger and cargo terminals, among 17.1 million other things. passengers in 2015, a 9.2% increase _ In 2015, 17.1 million passengers passed through Jorge Chávez airport in Lima, 9.2 per cent more than the preceding year; this figure is expected to rise above 23 Current area: 3 million million by 2023. This rate of growth, which has been square_metres sustained in recent years, determined the need to enlarge the airport, managed since 2001 by a private company, Lima Airport Partners (LAP) for a term of 30 Enlargement to 7 million years. According to the concession contract, the operator square metres is responsible for investment, while the Peruvian _ government expropriates the land necessary for the enlargement. Supervision of works until 2021 Although the airport underwent several improvements in 2004, 2013 and 2014, this will be its greatest enlargement to date: it will span 7 million m², versus the present 3 million. Among others, the actions planned include the construction of a second runway measuring 3,500 metres and nine taxiways, expected to be operational in 2021. An enlargement is also planned for the apron. On land side, new passenger and cargo terminals are to be built and road access to the airport is to be expanded. In 2014, a consortium comprising Ineco and a Peruvian partner company was awarded the contract to supervise the works until 2021. Last year, the consortium’s technical team continued to control investments and has extended its monitoring of external companies established at the airport and the revision of files remaining from recent years. Works on the second runway and the new terminal are expected to commence once the expropriation process is completed in 2016. 52 Brazil Coordination of works on the final section of the São Paulo ring road The consortium led by Ineco, along with The section known as the Trecho Norte of the São Paulo ring road will include seven double tunnels, 3 or 4 lanes a Brazilian engineering firm, for another running in each direction, with a maximum speed of 100 year continued to coordinate the works km/h, 111 bridges and viaducts and a 3.6 km access to complete the Rodoanel Mário Covas road to Guarulhos international airport. In 2015, there were already 65,000 vehicles per day circulating on the ring road for the city of São Paulo. The sections already in service; many of these were long-haul company has been working since 2012 heavy vehicles. on the northern section, which Of the benefits of the new section, one that can be measures 44 km. emphasised is the reduction of vehicle CO² emissions in the São Paulo metropolitan area by 6 to 8%. It will also The new São Paulo ring road is an ambitious large-scale reduce the daily number of trucks on the Marginal Tietê project with the highest level of IDB (Inter-American highway by 17,000, a 23% reduction in heavy traffic. Development Bank) financing in South America and constitutes the most complex road project in Brazil. More Ineco’s Special Works Information System (SIOS, for than thirty companies are participating in the project, its Spanish acronym), along with other companies’ which crosses the municipalities of Guarulhos and IT systems, is being used to support information Arujá. Works on the final section, coordinated by Ineco analysis and works supervision in BIM 4D, a system for since 2012, will enable traffic jam to be reduced in one representing and modeling of information for all the of the largest metropolitan areas on the planet, with a disciplines involved in a building project. population of 19 million. 44 km, with another 3.6 for the airport access road _ 7 tunnels _ 111 bridges and viaducts 53 Ecuador Consulting for compliance with the transitional provisions of the Organic Law on Water In 2015, Ineco collaborated with Ecuador’s public irrigation and drainage systems to increase their efficiency. single water authority, SENAGUA, on the implementation of the new Law approved In 2015, Ineco collaborated with the sole authority in in 2014. The law declares water to be a the sector, SENAGUA (National Secretariat for Water) to public ownership resource, and includes implement the Law’s first, second, third, seventh, eighth and eleventh transitional provisions. The consulting a range of measures to optimise the services provided, to continue until mid-2016, include different uses of the valuable resource and the analysis and purification of 83,000 water concessions to improve water infrastructures. from the National Bank of Authorisations, among which are the 3,000 informal users and 1,500 cases of hoarding The Republic of Ecuador in 2014 passed the Organic Law detected. The services also cover the quantification on Water Resources, Uses and Exploitation, renewing of 35,000 irrigation allowances and the revision of legislation dating from 1972. The law considers water to concessions for the use of hot springs, of which 150 have be public property and establishes that, save for some been cancelled. exceptions, its management must also be carried out at the public or community level, giving rise to the need to The company also took an inventory of 4,000 drinking review the existing concessions. The Law regulates the water and irrigation councils and planned necessary exploitation of water resources in productive, agricultural actions for 29 public irrigation systems, spanning an or industrial uses that require water: agriculture, mining, area of more than 95,000 hectares (10% of the country’s aquaculture, the exploitation of hot springs, etc., and total irrigated area) and which serve more than 60,000 provides for the strengthening and improvement of families. 83,000 water concessions analysed _ 35,000 irrigation allowances quantified _ 3,000 informal users identified _ 1,500 concessions in conflict due to hoarding _ 150 concessions cancelled for the exploitation of hot springs _ 4,000 drinking water and irrigation councils inventoried _ 29 irrigation systems evaluated 54 Spain Air navigation projects: renovation of airspace communication infrastructure and improvement of safety Among Ineco’s works in 2015 for ENAIRE, On the other hand, in the framework of services provided to the Safety Division of ENAIRE, Ineco has carried out the Spanish air navigation manager, the monthly audit database SAMSA (Automated Air Safety two projects are particularly important: Monitoring System), as well as various incident analysis the development of safety improvement reports and the annual report on the state of safety. It methods and techniques, and engineering has also collaborated in the investigation of around 170 incidents of air navigation safety. services related to the renovation and improvement of land-air communications The company has also developed 80 safety studies due to equipment. changes in the air navigation system, notable examples include: analysis of Communications and Surveillance ENAIRE, the organisation responsible for controlling functions, analysis as a result of airspace changes, Air the more than two million square kilometres of Spanish Control Centres contingency plan analysis; as well as of airspace, began renovating in 2013 the equipment at ENAIRE’s main control towers. It has also undertaken several land-air communications centres in order to a safety study concerning the Aeronautical Information improve its services and airspace organisation. Ineco has Service (AIS), and has developed a methodology to since then provided specialised engineering services to incorporate the human factor in safety studies. that end, including carrying out feasibility studies and creating a list of current and new communication sites. In terms of promoting safety culture among ATM The works carried out in 2015 included the design, personnel, Ineco participated in preparing audiovisual project monitoring and commissioning of the Linares material for the “At the other end of the signal” campaign Communications Centre, which is being renovated and for Team Resource Management (TRM) training and will serve in 2016 the Area Control Centre (ACC) in courses. Seville; the new centre at Valdespina and the renovation of the Alcolea, Valladolid and Paracuellos centres, which serve the Madrid just like As Pontes ACC. Besides, Ineco has designed specifications and has carried out the validation for VoIP gateways, for the adaptation between the new IP technology systems and hardware and the existing analogue equipment, and the reduction of connections leased with air traffic control facilities. Renovation of equipment at 6 land-air communication centres _ Participation in 80 safety studies _ Investigation into 170 incidents 55 Integrity and transparency “Our strength is based on the knowledge we have acquired over more than 45 years of existence and through various professional practices which allow us to demonstrate day in day out the values of integrity, transparency and commitment” Ignacio Fernández-Cuenca, Corporate Managing Director 56 57 Transparency with all publics and integrity as a principle in all actions are the pillars upon which Ineco bases its activities. Faithful to its commitment to the environment, the company has since 2008 adhered to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, based on the respect and defence of human, labour, and environmental rights and the fight against corruption. These ten rules are fully integrated into Ineco’s corporate culture and applied in all the company’s activities. Regulatory framework Integrity Standards Committed to sustainability, Ineco works around three fundamental axes: the society, the economy and the environment. These are determining factors in the company’s interactions with its environment and lead the company to maintain rigorous control over its management model. In addition to complying with the legislation in force in all countries where it has a presence, Ineco works to promote, prevent, enable, correct and supervise its actions in accordance with the main international standards, the legal framework, its corporate values and the demands of society at any given time. Ineco’s action model has Integrity, Transparency and Commitment Standards that include all the policies and standards that govern the company’s ethical behaviour with its stakeholders: • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy • Code of Conduct • Environmental and quality policy • Information truthfulness and transparency policy • Harassment policy • Comprehensive safety policy 58 These standards include all the operating methods and procedures whose application serves to ensure the coherency of the company’s activities. The Ethics Committee is the body responsible for safeguarding compliance with the Standards. In parallel to this, the organisation also makes the Standards known through its corporate intranet and other channels such as Welcome Sessions for new employees. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Ineco contributes to the development and wellbeing of the society in which it operates, integrating social, labour, and environmental concerns into its strategy and management. Integrity, transparency, and commitment are the principles that govern the company’s activity and are the pillars upon which the relationship between Ineco and all of its stakeholders is based. Commitments Suppliers: trust and transparency Advertising, concurrence, non-discrimination Clients: outstanding service Confidentiality Quality and service excellence Mutual benefits and trust Committed to long term success Objectivity Ongoing dialogue and trust relationship Promotion of Corporate Responsibility principles Confidentiality and objectivity Clear bet on innovation Society: cultural, social and economic development Shareholders: sustainable results Inclusion of people with disabilities Creation of sustained and sustainable value Increase in welfare and progress Efficient management Cultural, social and economic development Profitability and transparency Innovation, research and dissemination of knowledge Employees: attractive corporate Cooperation with other sector companies project Relations with the third sector (non-profit Increase in welfare and progress organisations) Clear bet on innovation, research and Promotion of corporate responsibility among dissemination of knowledge employees Quality employment: Environment: preventive approach • Merit and skill Priority given to environmental aspects upon drafting projects and rendering services • Professional development and training Responsible use of resources • Equal opportunities, reconciliation • Safe and Health in all the positions Adequate management of our waste • Team work, communication and participation Demanding practices for our employees and suppliers 59 Code of Conduct Ineco has behaviour standards which define the company’s corporate culture. Embracing and applying these standards contribute to responsible and ethical management in developing the services and products it offers, and the relations it establishes with the different stakeholders. This set of rules is based on compliance with the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, focused on respect for human, labour, and environmental rights and on the rejection of corruption. They apply to all employees when exercising their responsibilities in all the professional spheres in which they represent the company. Principles Relationship with the international environment: respect for legislation, culture and customs Loyalty to the organisation Strict compliance with legality Reputation and loyalty to the company Transparency and truthfulness of information: clarity, accuracy, and verifiability Respect for confidentiality Rejection of gifts, compensation and bribes Efficient and responsible involvement Structure personnel, managers, Non-concurrence with other companies and administrators Appropriate use of the company’s resources Knowledge and communication: responsible and ethical professional performance Compliance with environmental, health and safety measures Respect for and promotion of workers’ fundamental rights Relationship between professionals Professionalism and subordination of one’s own Respect for people interests to the company’s interests Non-discrimination Truthfulness, accuracy, and honesty in economic and financial management Cooperation and collaboration Application of merit and skills principles in hiring new employees Relationship of professionals with the stakeholders Fostering the professional promotion and training of personnel objectively Relationship with clients: excellence, confidentiality, objectivity and trust Enablement and promotion of labour integration and reconciliation Relationship with suppliers and collaborating companies: trust and mutual benefit, transparency, and impartiality 60 61 62 Information Compliance truthfulness and programme transparency As a global leader in transport engineering and consultancy, Corporate Compliance is an essential part of Ineco’s corporate culture. The current trend in penal Ineco is committed to being transparent about its legislation establishes the need for Ineco to integrate management for all stakeholders. To that end, it works new security measures through a Penal Prevention continuously to offer them clear, accurate information. Programme or “Compliance Programme”. In 2014, the organisation implemented Law 19/2013, of 9 These goals can be reached through establishing proper December, on Transparency, Access to Public Information procedures and steadfast action policies in certain areas; and Good Governance, whose objective is to extend and for this reason, it is necessary to implement a series of reinforce the transparency of public activity, to regulate internal standards and controls in the company. and guarantee the right of access to information relating to that activity, and to establish the obligations of good The programme also requires independence, which governance with which public officials must comply. signifies neutrality in the area of responsibility. Therefore, the body responsible for the compliance function must be To that end, it adapted its corporate website in order to independent and autonomous in relation to management accommodate the contents required by that Law and to of the company. possess the mechanisms necessary to put into place public information access, through an e-mail account as In order to carry out this role, it is necessary to create a well as a specific communications channel for enquiries surveillance and monitoring body within Ineco, which is relating to issues of information transparency. responsible only for the roles and duties strictly related As a result, Ineco has an inbox and a specific procedure to supervising and monitoring compliance with the Crime for exercising the right to information, both physical Prevention Programme. (at the corporate headquarters) and online through the corporate website https://www.ineco.com/webineco/en/ Ineco’s Compliance programme is applied through transparency. three tools in order to ensure that the company acts in accordance with all of the laws and regulations in force, Internally, Ineco has standards for contracting and as well as internal principles and standards. internal monitoring, guaranteeing the principles of advertising, concurrence, transparency, confidentiality, • Prevention tools: such as a risk map, a catalogue of equality and non-discrimination. prohibited conduct or the company’s code of conduct. Regarding financial control, Ineco applies policies which • Control tools: in order to verify the existence of are documented, implemented and are accessible both appropriate internal and/or external control tools, which to professionals and partners. The aim is to guarantee continuously monitor compliance with the internal the effective and reasonable management of risks regulations established to prevent criminal acts or associated to projects, as well as preserving integrity irregular conduct being committed, and to guarantee and transparency in the presentation of the figures of protection from them. the financial statements, according to national and internationally established accounting principles. The • Disciplinary tools: in order to ensure the proper company ensures, with this strict control, the compliance control of compliance with the behavioural standards with the applicable laws. established by the company, Ineco is reviewing the catalogue of internal sanctions affecting all its employees and managers, in order to adapt it to the surveillance and control program. 63 Governance model Ineco has the necessary governing bodies to ensure that its values and management model reach all areas and disciplines of the company. In this way, the governance model depends on the strategy and the organisational structure, in accordance with the company’s needs. The chairman of Ineco is the chief officer of the Board of Directors, the Management Committee, and the Ethics Committee. Board of Directors Ineco’s Board of Directors is the body responsible for making decisions and agreements on strategic issues, preparing financial statements and approving budgets and other proposals raised by the chairman. It also monitors the company’s activity. The Board meets on at least four occasions over the financial year. It must be composed of a minimum of five and a maximum of fifteen directors. It also has a non-board member secretary, appointed by the Board of Directors. 64 Composition of the Board as of December 2015 Chairman Mr. Jesús Silva Fernández Chairman of Ineco Directors Mr. Pablo Vázquez Vega Chairman of Renfe Mr. Gonzalo Jorge Ferré Moltó Chairman of Adif Mr. Ignacio González Sánchez Air Navigation Director of ENAIRE Mr. Javier Marín San Andrés Chief Executive Officer of Aena Mr. Mariano Navas Gutiérrez Chief Executive Officer of Cedex Mr. Ángel Luis Arias Serrano Chief Executive Officer of ENAIRE Director of Communication of the Cabinet of the Ministry of Mr. Luis Izquierdo Labella Public Works Mr. Manuel Martínez Cepeda Treasury Manager of Adif Ms. Violeta González Aleñar Director of Cabinet and Administrative Management of Adif Mr. Ignacio Garay Zabala Director of Communication and External Relations of Adif Deputy Director of Services and Works Inspection. Ministry of Mr. Miguel Ángel de Lera Losada Public Works Advisor to the Technical Department. Economic Affairs DepartMs. Alejandra Sánchez Yánquez ment of the President’s Office Ms. Belén Bada de Cominges Deputy Director of Leglislation. Ministry of Public Works Deputy Director of Commercial Policy with Europe, Asia and Ms. María Aparici González Oceania. Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness Non-board member Secretary Ms. Almudena de la Peña Robles Director of Legal Affairs of Ineco 65 Dismissals and appointments of Directors during 2015 Shareholders’ Meeting Dismissal Appointment 26/3/2015 Mr. Carlos Díez Arroyo Ms. Violeta González Aleñar 13/5/2015 Mr. Alberto Sanz Serrano Mr. José Antonio Zamora Rodríguez 24/6/2015 Ms. Carmen Sánchez Sanz Mr. Miguel Ángel de Lera Losada Mr. Rodrigo Marabini Ruiz Mr. Ángel Luis Arias Serrano 28/10/2015 Mr. José Antonio Zamora Rodríguez Ms. María Aparici González Shareholders’ Meeting The Company’s deliberative body is the Shareholders’ Meeting. Its agreements, legitimately adopted, are binding upon the Company and all of its shareholders. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting must be held once a year, in the first six months of the financial year to assess the management of the company, approve the financial statements for the previous financial year, and decide on the year’s budget. Likewise, the Board of Directors may call Special Shareholders’ Meetings when it is necessary to approve matters pertaining to the interests of the Company. Audit and Control Commission The main role of the Audit and Control Commission is to support the Board of Directors in its supervisory tasks. It consists of four directors, three of which are executives who are chosen out of the existing directors and appointed by the board by simple majority. The secretary of this Board of Directors acts as the secretary of this commission. Management Committee The Management Committee is the highest internal decision body of the company. It meets weekly and it is responsible for the implementation and development of the strategic guidelines approved in the Board of Directors meeting. Member Position Jesús Silva Chairman Ignacio Fernández-Cuenca Corporate Managing Director Ana Rojo Engineering and Services Managing Director José Manuel Tejera Infraestructures and Transport Managing Director 66 Ethics Committee The Ethics Committee is responsible for the supervision of compliance with the standards of corporate integrity, the proposal of preventive or corrective actions in relation to a breach of these standards, investigation into the case when applicable, and the updating and internal dissemination of the code of conduct, as well as its interpretation in cases of doubt. Any collective body or employee of the company who believes that there has been a breach of the Code of Conduct or of any of the Standards of Integrity, Transparency, and Commitment, may report it to this Committee, who will be in charge of resolving it. Other bodies Ineco also works with other company communication and management bodies: the Operations Committee, the Commercial Committee, the Innovation and Product Committee, the Quality Committee and the Knowledge Committee, amongst others. The objective of the company is to create working groups based on subjects of special interest and comprehensively monitor the approved plans and initiatives. Profile of the organisation Ineco is a state-owned trading company under the Ministry of Public Works through its shareholders. Adif Alta Velocidad 20.68% Adif 13,648 shares 20.69% 13,655 shares Renfe 12.78% 8,434 shares ENAIRE 45.85% 30,263 shares 67 Commitments “The main vocations and commitments of the company are the people: the clients, who choose us trusting that we offer them the most effective solutions; our professionals our most valuable resource; the providers, who are essential in undertaking our projects, and finally, society, the ultimate recipient of our work. Work that is always guided by our commitment to respecting the environment, key for sustainable development” Jesús Silva, Chairman 68 69 Committed to our clients Ineco meets its clients' needs through excellence and quality in management. The company’s success is based on its ability to innovate and its leadership in the services it offers. This commitment takes the form of a client relations model that generates mutual trust. It is based on actively listening to their needs and offering specific, innovative solutions with high added value and the highest quality standards. 70 Innovation and sustainability for the future of transport Continuous innovation is the only possible way to respond to the challenges set by our clients to stay on top of a market in continuing evolution. Our commitment to innovation allows us to adapt, improve and expand our portfolio of products and services, meeting our responsibility with more efficient, more sustainable transport. The associated investment represents a long-term commitment to the future of transport and society as a whole. In 2015, Ineco dedicated almost 2% of its turnover to R&D+i: almost 3 and a half million euros. With the added value of human effort, this improves productivity and strengthens socio-economic development. R&D+i effort: Innovation intensity: 3.24 M€ 1.66%* 38 innovation projects during 2015 14 collaborative 1 national 13 European 24 internal projects program programmes projects *Innovation Intensity understood as the relation between the innovation effort and the annual turnover. 7.89% Intermodal 28.95% Aeronautical 18.42% Sector No. projects ICT ICT 7 Environment 2 5.26% Railways 13 5.26% Environment Roads 2 Roads Aeronautical 11 Intermodal 3 34.21% TOTAL 38 Railways 71 Innovation applied Ineco maintains a continuing commitment to innovation. 2015 saw the continuation of innovation projects that to projects in 2015 launched in previous years: SIMA: control tool for railway infrastructure Particularly important examples of Ineco’s main maintenance with mobile devices for use in the field. achievements in innovation in 2015 are: IMPULSE: studies to predict the effect of new • Management Model obstacles on the quality of pulsed signals. Ineco continues to consolidate its Innovation CoverGNSS: analysis of the geometry, signal Management Model, the intention of which is to adapt sources and coverage of conventional navigation aids innovation to settings where there is ever-increasing and GNSS (GPS and GPS + EGNOS). change and competition. This model is based on three main axes: alignment with the company’s strategy, ELARA: a tool for planning the distribution and close collaboration between all parties involved, and verification of the content of fixed and controlled ETCS return on investment. (European Train Control System) balises. • Innovation awards 2015 -Microdrones: structural inspection service using The company recognises the efforts and talent of its drones in difficult-to-access areas. innovative staff by holding the Innovation Awards 2015. MADDIT: protected access to financial • Fostering the culture of innovation simulation models for clients of our investment The aim of the culture of innovation plan is to make consulting services. the company as a whole committed to and aware of the importance of innovation and its leading role in PROTAV: a tool for the study of aerodynamic effects the process when generating value for the company. in high speed tunnels. All the organisation’s members are responsible for CATMASTER: overhead contact line design contributing to its growth. software. An aspect worth highlighting in the context of Ineco’s innovation projects is its participation in different research centres, platforms and working groups, EFFICIENCY which allow the company to create an interdisciplinary collaborative framework. LEADERSHIP INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY The challenges for 2016 involve the effort to foster a culture of innovation in order to generate an awareness of innovation that can make an impact. In this way, the company will continue to promote the development of COMPETITIVENESS DIFFERENTIATION innovation that is environmentally sustainable. 72 Collaborative In addition to its participation in these programmes, Ineco is making preparations to participate in the future SESAR 2020 programme (the continuation of SESAR) projects and the STARS project (H2020 programme), which was awarded in the final quarter of 2015. As part of its commitment to open innovation models, Ineco cooperates with external professionals in research and development projects, both at the national and at the international levels. A project worth highlighting within Spain is the INNTERCONECTA programme, which aims to strengthen the generation of innovative capacity in the least developed regions through experimental development projects. One example of this is the AridLap project, carried out through a business consortium. At the international level, Ineco has consolidated its participation in the following programmes for European projects: • The Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technology Development (FP7) This is a subsidy programme for research actors throughout Europe, with a timeframe of seven years. Its purpose is to co-finance research, technological development and demonstration projects. Some of the most significant projects in which Ineco participates within this programme are: INTERACTION, a project aiming to increase the efficiency of aircraft layovers at airports; NGTC, whose objective is to attain new methods of monitoring rail traffic, such as the ERTMS; and CAPACITY4RAIL, which aims to increase the capacity of the European rail network from different perspectives. • SESAR Programme The aim of this programme is to modernise the Air Traffic Management (ATM) in Europe and to complement the regulatory framework of the Single European Sky initiative. • Horizon 2020 (H2020) Within this programme for the financing of research and innovation projects in diverse areas within the European context, Ineco participates in: IN2Rail (Innovative Intelligent Rail) and BEYOND, which aim to extend GNSS use for different applications in Mediterranean and Eastern European countries. • LIFE+ Programme This is a European Union financial instrument dedicated exclusively to the environment. Its general goal for 2004–2020 is to contribute to sustainable development, to achieving Europe 2020 strategy objectives and targets and to achieving relevant European Union climate and environment strategies and plans. In 2015, Ineco participated in MINOxSTREET, a project to study the effectiveness of commercial NOx removal materials (reducing pollutants) through tests in the laboratory and in real locations. • TEN-T Programme This programme’s main objective is to help to complete the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T) using high-performance, sustainable, efficient technology. 73 Internal projects Quality as a sign of In 2015, Ineco continued to invest in internal projects for the development of high added value products and identity services, such as: Ineco’s main commitment to its clients is to offer the highest quality products and services. Its management • Remote Tower system is therefore based on this aim, which involves the The development of a prototype to provide AFIS/ATC entire company. In its everyday activities, the company services from a remote control position away from the strives to achieve technical excellence through improving aerodrome for airports with low volumes of air traffic. cohesion in teams and focusing on processes and • Flight procedures procedures and the sustainability of the system. The development of a proprietary flight procedure Certifications design tool, complying with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 73/2010 of 26 January. • Smart cities The development of a proprietary smart city platform, The company has a comprehensive quality and “Citineco”, for the management of sustainable environmental management system, certified by SGS. cities. This is a model where simulations can be run; This is based on Standards UNE-EN ISO 9001 and UNEpredicting a city’s behaviour given defined changes. It EN ISO 14001, respectively, and covers all the company’s focuses mainly on mobility, although it also allows for activities. the integration of other aspects, such as government, the environment, etc. Moreover, 2015 saw the Quality Management System Certificate extended to cover the activities • Risk management Comprehensive consulting services, management of the In this case, a tool is used to analyse and manage the monitoring, supervision and administration of transport specific risks involved during the planning, design, infrastructure operation, maintenance and restoration. construction, operation and deconstruction of a road, This was audited in Ineco’s Mexico offices and thereby through developing the company’s own methodology meets the clear objective of localising the management and procedures. system. • BIM tool application This consists in analysing the feasibility of a visual Ineco also has an environmental health and safety application. The application automatically reads the management system, in accordance with OHSAS BIM format and allows the user to interact with design Standard 18001:2007, certified since 2012 and renewed changes from the application itself. It also offers in 2015. the possibility of exporting the model again with the modified statuses for the processing of the design. • Mobile device survey systems This is an application that allows the user to carry out In the rail area, Ineco is certified by ENAC (Entidad surveys using mobile devices, independently of their Nacional de Acreditación – National Accreditation operating system. Entity) as a Rail Rolling Stock Inspection Organisation (Type C) and as an Independent Rail Applications Safety Effective Evaluation Organisation (Type C), in accordance with the criteria of standard UNE¬EN ISO/IEC 17020:2004. communication In 2015, Ineco extended its certification for control, command and signalling, energy, traffic management and exploitation, infrastructure, maintenance and rolling Through its corporate webpage, www.ineco.com, Ineco stock under standard UNE-EN ISO/IEC 17020 (extended makes information about the organisation and its scope with regulation 402/2013). activities available to its clients and other audiences. In 2015, the company also began participating in social media (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube) to bring Ineco was the first and is currently the only its work to the online community. Since 2007, Ineco has organisation to have these accreditations in Spain. also been publishing its corporate magazine itransporte, www.revistaitransporte.com. The magazine is published every four months in Spanish and English, and provides subscribers from more than 90 countries with information on all Ineco’s activities around the world. 74 Furthermore, Ineco is certified as an qualified supplier Ineco also has other accreditations and certifications in Achilles RISQS (qualified via audit), No. 095054 for the associated to projects: following products: • Software development Track circuits (including level crossings); colour light signals; banner signals; draw ahead signals; ground → Management of Consultancy and Management position light signals; signal lamps (including LEDs) & Systems: CMMI-Maturity Level 2. In 2015, Ineco lamp holders; signal lenses; points indicators; point developed and implemented a new version of the machines; SSI; Ansaldo; signal control panel NX; VDU methodology for software development at maturity based systems; Train describers (electronic); plain line; level 3 in the CMMI-DEV v1.3 model. Pending plain line (absolute geometry); gauge measurement (discreet restrictions); gauge measurement (tunnels); certification in 2016. track on longitudinal timbers; direct fastening track • Air navigation services systems (e.g. slab track/viper); conventional; absolute geometry; modular systems; track drainage; foundations → Certified as an Organisation that provides Air (piled); foundations (conventional); steel frame; concrete Navigation Services (PSNA-0002), granted by the frame; timber frame; stairs; telephone exchanges State Air Safety Agency – Ministry of Public Works, in (including switching equipment); transmission systems; accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) telecomm cabling (multiple pair copper); telecomm cabling (fibre); radio systems; wireless services; masts No. 2096/2005 of the Commission. (including earthing & lightening protection); CCTV → Certified as provider of air traffic control training DOO systems; Wiring; earthing & bonding; switching; (PF-ATC-0001), granted by the State Air Safety substations/switching stations; HV cabling; trackside equipment; substations/switching stations/track Agency – Ministry of Public Works, in accordance with paralleling huts; DC cabling; trackside equipment; Royal Decree 1516/2009. main steelwork; small part steelwork; support system; → Certified as provider of air navigation services for hot axle box detectors; batteries; transformers & transformer rectifiers; UPS; traction SCADA and nonthe design of flight procedures (ANSD-006), granted traction SCADA. by the Sultanate of Oman. 75 Our clients’ opinions Ineco uses a specific survey to listen to its clients’ evaluations and concerns. In 2015, the most appropriate communication channel with each client was sought, allowing almost double the response rate. This shows a high level of satisfaction among clients, who evaluated the services provided with a score of 8.6 out of 10. Of the 532 surveys distributed, clients responded to 410, representing a participation rate of 77%, far higher than the target of 44%. Key details: Dedication Qualification Attention and interest and received professionalism 8.7 8.7 8.8 Fulfilment Communication of technical Documentation level requirements 8.6 8.6 8.4 Compliance Resolution of Ineco’s with abnormalities capacity deadlines detected 8.6 8.5 8.6 76 Overall comparative rating 2008 2015 Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 4 6 8 10 Received surveys 204 279 374 402 326 128 254 410 Ineco’s staff dedication and 8.5 8.6 8.6 8.6 8.8 8.9 8.7 8.7 interest Staff’s qualification and 8.4 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.7 8.8 8.7 8.7 professionalism Attention received 8.9 8.9 8.9 8.8 9.1 9 8.8 8.8 Ineco’s communication 8.4 8.4 8.4 8.5 8.7 8.7 8.5 8.6 level Fulfilment of technical 8.3 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.7 8.8 8.7 8.6 requirements Delivered 8.2 8.3 8.4 8.3 8.6 8.6 8.5 8.4 documentation Ineco’s capacity 8.3 8.4 8.4 8.7 8.7 8.7 8.6 8.6 Ineco’s compliance 8 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.6 8.8 8.5 8.5 with deadlines Resolution of abnormalities 8.2 8.3 8.4 8.3 8.6 8.7 8.5 8.6 detected Services overall 8.2 8.3 8.5 8.4 8.7 8.7 8.6 8.6 rating 77 Committed to our team Ineco is strongly committed to the management of the talent as the key to the company’s success. For that reason, it is developing a model to allow it to show the excellence and to demonstrate the value of its staff. Identifying and developing talent and managing commitment are the three pillars that form the basis of the company’s talent management model. The objective is to strengthen the capacities of teams and to create environments with highperformance, highly committed people. In this regard, noting the launch of the Concilia Plan, approved in 2015, that representing a significant advance in the achievement of the objectives linked to the Global Compact. 78 Identifying Developing talent talent For Ineco, the professional development of its employees is linked to the process of evolution that they undergo throughout their professional careers. The best way to successfully tackle the challenges and new scenarios facing the company is to have the best The company offers a response to its employees’ professionals of the market. For that reason, Ineco expectations of personal and professional growth in 2015 launched its Integrated Talent Detection and through flexible professional itineraries, transversal to Development Programme. This is a strategic programme the career models existing in the organisation: technical, that allows the company to have professionals available management, commercial and corporate. who have the capacities, commitment and motivation required to maintain its competitiveness, contributing It also has two strategic processes for talent to the organisation’s present and future success. The management: Management by Objectives, which links Talent Pool was launched to execute this Programme. variable remuneration to the fulfilment of strategic In addition to recruiting talent, ensuring that critical company and individual objectives; and Evaluation of positions are covered, the Talent Pool functions to Development, implemented in 2015, the aim of which is strengthen the company’s brand as an employer. to identify skills and capacities, potential for development and employees’ interests, motivation and attitudes. The This brand is kept alive among young talent thanks to the process also makes it possible to meet training needs partnerships Ineco maintains with leading national and and planning individual training itineraries. international universities, with more than 50 agreements signed with educational centers. Throughout the year, the company promoted participation in the main jobs fairs and forums, meeting points for people seeking to access the labour market for the first time. In line with this, Training and aware of the importance of capturing talent at an At Ineco, training is the lever that generates value for the early stage, Ineco created and developed its 2015 Grant company and positions it as a leader in its sector. Scheme. In 2015, the company took on 115 national and international interns, with 30.1% of interns becoming The 2015 Training Plan focused on strengthening company employees. technical specialisation, disseminating working models and processes, sharing knowledge and increasing These grants also reach university students with training in the organisation through developing skills and disabilities thanks to Ineco’s collaboration with the ONCE improving and specialising in languages. foundation, which was translated into five grants during the 2014–2015 academic year. The programme serves To that end, the following training programmes have to support their higher training and contribute to their been created: future professional development. • Language Programme: to develop employees’ In addition, Ineco carried out assistance actions for young linguistic skills and to improve the overall level of people at risk of social exclusion in order to contribute English in the company, this is key for the process of to their greater success in company selection processes. internationalisation. This project offered them the opportunity to attend a series of practical events with the selection team. A total • Certifications and Technical Methodologies of 15 young people took part in the events. Programme: courses are offered with a view to the certification and training of employees in internationally Ineco also continues to collaborate with the main prestigious organisations and the management of national foundations and organisations for the reference methodologies in the sector. recruitment of people with disabilities, such as the • Technical Specialisation Programme: covers Prevent Foundation, PRODIS Foundation, ONCE or training to provide the organisation with the experience FAMMA. necessary to achieve and update its technical knowledge. • Work Processes and Models Programme: includes courses focused on disseminating organisational models and the company’s key processes. 79 • Skills Programme: aims to develop the skills and • Campus Ineco. International Transport Engineering competences necessary to meet the challenges facing Programme (PIIT) the organisation. In 2015, the company developed Campus Ineco, an integrated programme to attract and develop local In addition, to address employees’ individual training and international talent in order to share know-how development concerns, the company has an Up Grading and to contribute to the sustainable development of Programme, which provides help and support for carrying engineering in the world. out training not covered in the Training Plan. Within the Campus framework, the objective of the During 2015, different initiatives aimed at sharing the International Transport Engineering Programme (PIIT) knowledge and experience of the company’s professionals were implemented, as well as training in processes and is to enable industry-leading training throughout the procedures. Noteworthy examples are: programme itinerary, allowing technical knowledge to be shared from a fundamentally practical • The Internal Training School perspective. The Programme also aims to support This project was conceived in 2014, with the main professional development through specialisation in objective being to have a team of trainers who are transport engineering in a multicultural setting, with a accredited and highly qualified in their professional determination to continue in the long term. performance, to be tasked with transmitting their knowledge, know-how and experience to the rest of the • Client Management Programme organisation. Good management has already helped This programme’s aim is to generate a sales model to certify a total of 52 internal trainers, who in recent for Ineco, developing its commercial behaviour, the months developed and carried out a range of training capacities of communication and negotiation and the actions. sales style of the company’s commercial team. The programme is implemented through two training programmes: The Advanced Commercial Leadership Programme (PSLC, for its Spanish initials) and the Advanced Commercial Behaviour Programme (PSCC). Average hours of training per year per employee and gender, broken down by employee category Group by level Total no. of Total no. of Total no. Average no. of Average no. of Average hours men hours women of hours hours men hours women no. of hours Directors 1,396 739 2,135 87.26 147.84 101.68 Management 15,746 4,315 20,061 96.60 95.90 96.45 Technical 68,197 43,365 111,562 61.77 64.63 62.85 Support 4,814 4,647 9,462 26.17 20.38 22.96 Total 90,153 53,067 143,220 61.45 147,84 59.28 80 Managing commitment Commitment to the organisation is key to the company’s competitiveness. Issues such as equal opportunities, work– personal life balance, opportunities for growth, employee development, social benefits and compensation systems are essential in promoting a positive, stimulating workplace where Ineco’s professionals can enjoy the greatest possible participation. Every two years, Ineco runs a Climate and Commitment Survey in order to expand its understanding of its employees’ needs and concerns. The survey takes the organisation's pulse on issues such as reconciliation, mobility, equality, quality of relationships and training, among others. The 2015 survey placed average satisfaction at 6.5, exceeding the average level of similar companies. This analysis gave rise to a series of professional workshops on the aspects of greatest interest; the company can use these for analysis, generating ideas and defining specific action plans, highlighting the balance workshop. One of the most important initiatives to have arisen as a result of the Survey, and that implies significant progress in meeting one of the principles of the Global Compact -equality and non-discrimination in the employmenthas been the design and implementation of the Plan Concilia (“Balance Plan”). With the aim of promoting the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, it is structured around four areas: • Organisation of time at work: creating flexibility both in terms of the place of work (telecommuting) and scheduling. • Social benefits: standardising measures related to the employees social benefits package. • Leave, absence and rest periods: bringing flexibility to holiday time and days off and granting employees’ time to attend family members’ medical appointments or educational events. • Personal and professional development: enabling employees to benefit from unpaid leave and leaves of absence for training activities not included in the Training Plan. 81 Throughout 2015, Ineco continued to work on plans paternity leave, leaves of absence and flexibility with implemented in previous years, focused on supporting holidays, among other measures. Balance de situación its employees: In its bid for transparency in communication with emplo• Más Programme yees, Ineco has several channels of internal communicaFor another year, Ineco offers its employees a social tion to promote its corporate culture. One of these tools benefits package that can be received in different forms is the digital journal “Sobre la Marcha” (“On the Go”), depending on their preferences: food vouchers, nursery which each month reviews the main organisational news allowance, health insurance, or a combination of these and offers important information on project development benefits. These benefits have increased in line with and important milestones, as well as information about the measures mentioned above under Plan Concilia. different teams within the organisation. Ineco is also deEmployees also receive life insurance covering the event veloping and improving tools such as the suggestion box, of death or permanent disability and a Social Security blogs and forums, ensuring the flow of communication is benefits supplement in the event of temporary disability. participative and bi-directional. • Integra Plan In line with this corporate culture, Ineco works to mainIn 2015, Ineco continued with its plan for the integratain organisational and remunerative coherence, as well tion of people with disabilities or who belong to groups as matching employees to suitable positions in order to at risk of social exclusion. The plan sets out specific guarantee equal treatment. measures for access to employment. Applications can be made for these benefits through organisations for The company also has an action protocol to address posthe recruitment and improvement in employability. The sible cases of workplace harassment through a mediator, measures are aimed at employees who are disabled or who would provide information and handle these cases if have been victims of gender violence, and include finanthey were to arise, guaranteeing the necessary levels of cial aid, adaptation of the workplace, care services, etc. confidentiality. The plan also targets employees with dependent family members under their care with extensions to maternity/ Composition of corporate governance and staff bodies, broken down by gender and age group Gender Age 2015 Data Total no. Men Women < 30 years 30 50 > 50 years Director structure 18 77.8% 22.2% 0.0% 72.2% 27.8% Management structure 211 78.2% 21.8% 0.0% 77.7% 22.3% Structure staff 229 78.2% 21.8% 0.0% 77.3% 22.7% Technical structure 1,775 62.2% 37.8% 9.4% 84.3% 6.3% Support structure 412 44.7% 55.3% 3.2% 74.3% 23.8% Contract staff 2,187 58.9% 41.1% 8.2% 82.4% 9.4% Total staff 2,416 60.7% 39.3% 7.5% 81.9% 10.6% 82 We are international Ineco is continuing with the strategy to reaffirm its status as a company with an international projection. This challenge demands of the organisation not only that it adapt to the new contexts that arise, but also to stay ahead of future client and market needs, not losing sight of the company’s overall competitiveness. In response to this challenge, the company has adapted its structure and actions, aiming to enable them to manage employees abroad: • International Assignment Policy This initiative includes new schemes of travel in accordance with our current project needs. • Global Mobility Center A specific team was created for the centralised, coordinated, closed, in advance management of incidents and services related to mobility and local staff. • Actions to raise awareness of international activities: Events were held for 481 employees to raise awareness about the programmes, processes and support structures in place at Ineco to offer effective support to the company’s international expansion process. • Corporate Repatriation Programme This programme will channel all returning international Prevention and safety employees. The company intends in this way to guarantee that all those Ineco employees spending periods working abroad will have a smooth return to their countries of origin. Protecting workers’ health and safety is a priority axis of Ineco is also working to devise solutions to respond to Ineco’s actions. the international challenges facing the company. Ultimately, this is a way of offering valuable preventative support For that reason, the company has an Occupational in the international management of people. In this area, Hazards Prevention Policy which serves as the foundation designs are being drawn up for international risk manafor the continuing improvement of working conditions gement maps, among other actions. at Ineco. In 2015, the company successfully passed a statutory audit under the Occupational Risks Prevention Management System and renewed its OHSAS 18001 certification. It also launched the “Ineco Previene, por tu Individuals by geographic region salud” (“Ineco Prevention, for your health ) programme, which promotes healthy habits for the entire staff. Under the framework of this Programme, Ineco adhered to the Total Men Women Heart Healthy Companies Programme of the Spanish Heart Foundation and obtained recognition as a heart Europe 2,332 1,393 939 healthy company. Spain 2,317 1,383 934 The previous year also represented a qualitative leap for the company in terms of security. On the one hand, a new system was implemented to control access to company America 20 16 4 buildings using biometric readers and increased control in sensitive areas. On the other hand, an action protocol Africa 2 2 0 was drawn up, which establishes guidelines to be followed in situations that may endanger the security of Asia 62 56 6 the company or an employee. 83 Committed to society Infrastructure is essential to regions’ social and economic development. Ineco has for more than 45 years contributed to that development in all the communities where it operates, and is committed to improving the lives of the people who are part of it. This commitment takes the form of professional volunteer projects, contributing to improved living conditions for families with limited resources. 84 Social work in 2015 Ineco encourages its employees’ participation and involvement in different solidarity activities in the interest of achieving a fairer, more equal society. For that reason, the company has a social work platform, iSolidaria, which focuses on managing corporate volunteering. There, visitors can consult the company’s initiatives in this field, share experiences, and learn Ineco’s latest social action projects. This kind of voluntary activities are evaluated both by the Non-Governmental Organisation and by participating employees through satisfaction surveys, the results of which are continuously monitored. • In 2015, the overall degree of satisfaction of volunteers who participated in volunteering activities was 4.87 out of 5 • 500 Ineco volunteers collaborated Within the framework of its Corporate Responsibility Plan, Ineco produced its Social Work Plan for another year, bringing together all the actions to carry out in collaboration with independent not-for-profit organisations. En Ruta: Ineco’s professional corporate volunteer programme in Ecuador In collaboration with the Codespa Foundation, Ineco once again set into motion the professional volunteering project Ineco en Ruta, in which 6 Ineco volunteers participated. This time, the project was developed in the province of Imbabura (Ecuador), a depressed region of the country where the Codespa Foundation is carrying out work to improve the living conditions of families tied to the area surrounding the Ibarra–Salinas–Otavalo railway line through fostering rural tourism. Ineco’s volunteers collaborated with the project by carrying out a range of studies into improving the safety of the line. To that end, special emphasis was put on training the staff of the Empresa Pública de Ferrocarriles, the national railway company which manages the line. This project continues with the one developed in 2013, when a group of volunteers collaborated for a month with the public company Ferrocarriles de Ecuador (Ecuador Railways). 7th Euro Solidario Campaign This is a solidarity campaign in which employees donate a percentage of their monthly pay check to funding a specific project. The company is committed to doubling its employees’ contributions, up to a determined maximum level. The employees were asked which project they would like the funds raised from the campaign to be donated to and the option chosen was a project led by Médecins Sans Frontières, “Fight against child malnutrition in the district of Darbhanga, India”. The campaign raised 10,000 euros, which were used for the treatment of 470 children aged under five years old with severe acute malnutrition. Challenge 2015 Challenge is a charity race organised by Acción contra el Hambre, (Action against Hunger) to fight against child malnutrition, an event that combines sport and solidarity. It also gives employees an opportunity to enjoy a pleasant day of camaraderie with their colleagues, to exercise, and to offer a better future to thousands of boys and girls. The company participated in the Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia and Seville events. With the 1,392 km run by the Ineco team as a whole, Acción contra el Hambre was able to provide 12,000 days of treatment for boys and girls with nutritional problems. 85 Hacia el Empleo Programme (Towards Employment). Training for young people at risk of social exclusion Ineco is committed to improving the training and employability of young people at risk of social exclusion, making easier their entrance into the labour market. To that end, it makes available the knowledge and skills of its professionals for this kind of educational projects. In 2015, the company collaborated with the Norte Joven Foundation by carrying out mock interviews for young people alongside dynamic group sessions from Ineco’s Human Resources experts, aiming to help them to perform more successfully in their first job interview. The Economic and Finance Department also taught a module on the basics of finance, which will be useful for their professional careers. The Economic and Finance Department also taught a module on the basics of finance, which is useful for their professional careers. Tú Eliges Campaign In 2015, Ineco launched the Tú eliges (You Choose) Campaign for the first time. The purpose of the project was to give employees the opportunity to suggest and choose the NGO they wanted the company to make a collaboration to. Of a total of 30 candidates, the Asociación por la Integración e Igualdad del Minusválido Psíquico, ASPIMIP, (Association for the Integration and Equality of People with Intellectual Disabilities) received the highest share of votes from employees in the competition. Tú sumas. Navidades Solidarias Campaign In December, Ineco launched the Tú Sumas. Navidades Solidarias (You Add. Christmas Solidarity) Campaign, which aimed to collect baby food, toys and clothing to help families in need. Thanks to its employees’ solidarity, Ineco was able to collect: • With Operation Kilo: 284 kg of food, which were donated to the Banco de Alimentos de Madrid (Madrid Food Bank), to social, children’s and teenagers’ soup kitchens, to homes for elderly and disabled people, etc. • Toys: donated to the Asociación Ningún Niño sin Sonrisa (No Child without a Smile Association) and distributed as Christmas presents to children from a range of social institutions. 86 • Baby clothes collection: donated to the Asociación Red Madre (Mothers’ Network Association) and distributed to women at risk of social exclusion. The Three Wise Men Campaign As they do every year, their Majesties the Three Wise Men of the Orient visited the Ineco offices to collect letters from employees’ children and grandchildren and to give them a gift. On this occasion, this was to the benefit of the Centro Especial de Empleo Motiva (Motiva Special Work Centre). The children had the opportunity to participate in the charity project by donating stories, which were given to a public children’s hospital in Madrid. Lids for a new life In 2015, Ineco signed a Collaboration Agreement with the Seur Foundation to run a campaign to collect plastic lids to be recycled and sold. The purpose of the initiative is to raise funds to help needy children with illnesses that are not covered by ordinary health services. Ineco employees managed to collect 230 kg of lids over the year, which went towards providing rehabilitative treatment to two boys, Daniel and Pedro. Emergency assistance fund Ineco has since 2009 been collaborating with the Red Cross by disseminating among its employees the organisation's emergency appeals, for example for the devastating Haiti earthquake in 2010, the 2011 Horn of Africa food crisis and the 2015 Nepal earthquake. Commitment to people with disabilities and/or at risk of exclusion Ineco’s Social Work Plan includes the improvement of disabled people’s employability and labour conditions. To that end, the company takes on the challenge of promoting actions aimed at those people: • In line with Ineco’s commitment to diversity, a corporate family volunteering event was held on 13 June: Aula de Educación Medioambiental (Environmental Education Workshop), held in collaboration with the Adecco Foundation. At the event, Ineco volunteers and people with disabilities came together to run a range of participative environment classes. 87 • Ineco took part in an adapted hiking day in • At its 2015 Annual Convention, Ineco also hosted collaboration with the Fundación Deporte y Raquel Domínguez, a great athlete who has a Desafío (Sport and Challenge Foundation) to degenerative disease. This was without a doubt promote the integration of disabled people a very emotive way of transmitting the values of through sport. self-improvement and commitment to the entire management team. • To contribute to improving the employability and working conditions of people with disabilities, • Aiming to support the integration of people with in 2015 a Christmas greeting card design disabilities and to promote healthy living habits contest was organized in collaboration with the among its employees, Ineco launched a campaign Randstad Foundation, intended for the children or to distribute fruit from the Juan XXIII Foundation’s grandchildren of employees. organic vegetable garden. 88 Collaboration in the sector In line with Ineco’s charitable values, 2015 saw the company’s renewal of its collaboration agreement with the Lealtad Foundation as a Friend Entity. Under this agreement, the Lealtad Foundation shares knowledge and advises the company in assigning and selecting organisations with which to establish agreements. In addition, as a global leader in transport engineering and consultancy, Ineco promotes cooperation between national engineering companies and is a member of various national and international associations and organisations. The aim of this is to contribute to enriching and strengthening synergy between all actors in the sector and to keep its technical and management know-how up to date, exchanging cutting-edge knowledge with other companies and institutions. In this respect, during 2015, Ineco was a member of the following organisations: No. Name No. Name 1 Tecniberia Asince (Spanish Association of Engineering, 16 Asociación Nacional de Auscultación y Sistemas Consultancy and Technological Services Company) de Gestión Técnica de Infraestructuras, AUSIGETI 2 Asociación de Usuarios de SAP, AUSAPE (SAP (National Association of Auscultation and Technical Users’ Association of Spain) Infrastructure Management Systems) 3 Plataforma Tecnológica Ferroviaria Española, PTFE 17 Asociación Española de Túneles y Obras, AETOS (Spanish Technological Railway Platform) (Spanish Association of Tunnels and Works) 4 European ATM Research and Development 18 Asociación Científico-Química del Hormigón Association (EATRADA) Estructural, ACHE (Scientific and Chemical 5 Plataforma Tecnológica de la Carretera, PTC Structural Concrete Association) (Spanish Technological Road Platform) 19 Galileo Services 6 Club de la Innovación y el Conocimiento (Innovation 20 Asociación de Acción Ferroviaria, CETREN (Railway and Knowledge Club) Action Association) 7 Fundación Lealtad (Lealtad Foundation) 21 Asociación Española de la Calidad, AEC (Spanish 8 Asociación Latinoamericana de Metros y Association for Quality) Subterráneos, ALAMYS (Latin American Train and 22 Foro Español de Expatriados, FEEX (Spanish Underground Association). Expatriate Forum) 9 Asociación Española de Fabricantes Exportadores 23 Asociación de Reparación, Refuerzo y Protección de Material, Equipos y Servicios Ferroviarios, MAFEX del Hormigón, ARPHO (Spanish Association for the (Spanish Association of Railway Services, Equipment Repair, Reinforcement, and Protection of Concrete) and Material Manufacturers and Exporters) 24 European Green Growth Group (GGG) 10 Airports Council International (ACI) 25 European Innovation Partnership (EIP) 26 Club de Benchmarking de RRHH del Instituto de 11 International Association of Public Transport (UITP) Empresa (IE HR Benchmarking Club) 12 Civil Air Navigation Services Organization (CANSO) 27 Building Smart 13 Cámara de Madrid (Madrid Chamber of Commerce) 28 Asis Seguridad (Asis Security) 14 Asociación Española de la Carretera (Spanish Road 29 Cámara Oficial Española de Comercio e Industria de Association) Quito (Official Chamber of Commerce of Spain in Quito) 15 Asociación Técnica Carreteras, ATC (Technical Road 30 Asociación Mexicana de Ferrocarriles, AMF Association) (Association of Mexican Railroads) 89 Committed to the environment The care and conservation of the environment are one of Ineco’s corporate values. Aware of the importance of this, the company has incorporated respect for the environment, the fight against climate change and sustainable development into its defining concepts. In accordance with the principles governing the United Nations Global Compact, Ineco complies with the commitment to promote actions and attitudes to achieve balance in between infrastructure development, care for the environment and social responsibility. 90 Environmental Responsible use of management resources system Ineco is committed to improving its competitiveness and sustainability through proposals aimed at reducing negative impact on the environment. To that end, the Ineco has a certificate to carry out effective company has energy efficiency and resource optimisation environmental management, in accordance with devices and runs awareness-raising campaigns about Standard UNE-EN ISO 14001; this is based on three basic making good use of the resources employed in its aspects: the prevention of pollution, compliance with activities. environmental legal requirements, and the continuous improvement of the company’s environmental behaviour. Ineco has implemented the following initiatives aimed at using resources more efficiently: In addition to carrying out the control, monitoring and measurement of its environmental performance, the company also works to share with the whole organisation • Dissemination of environmental management the measures to improve the use of resources, results through disseminating the “environmental minimising waste and emissions. thermometer” on the corporate intranet. Environmental thermometer Consumption Total electrical energy Total consumption of Total white paper consumption (KWh) vehicle fuel (litres) consumption (kg) 3,500,000 1,600,000 70,000 3,000,000 1,400,000 60,000 2,500,000 1.200,000 50,000 1,000,000 2,000,000 40,000 800,000 1,500,000 600,000 30,000 1,000,000 400,000 20,000 500,000 200,000 10,000 Total consumption of Energy efficiency of Comparative consumption (with the measure of cars of the heating fuel (litres) vehicle (%) same size for sale in Spain) 8,000 120.00 7,000 100.00 < -25% A 6,000 -15 -25% B 80.00 5,000 -5 -15% C 60.00 4,000 medium D 3,000 40.00 +5 +15% E 2,000 20.00 +15 +25% F 1,000 A+B+C D E+F+G > +25% G low Medium higt consumption consumption Waste and pollution emissions No data 2011 Total waste of toner Total waste of electrical Total emissions of CO2 (kg) cartridge and ink (kg) appliances (kg) 1,400 5,000 9,000,000 1,200 4,500 8,000,000 4,000 1,000 3,500 7,000,000 3,000 6,000,000 800 5,000,000 2,500 600 2,000 4,000,000 1,500 3,000,000 400 2,000,000 1,000 200 500 1,000,000 No comparable data 2011/2012 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2015 91 • Biannual dissemination of data on the • Limitation of the temperature to the level environmental behaviour of Ineco’s temporary established in the implementing regulations (do offices (national and international). not exceed 21º C in winter when use of heating is necessary). • Launch of awareness-raising campaigns in the second half of the year, using pop-ups with • Displaying of informative signs on all floors of awareness-raising videos, signage and internal the central headquarters, indicating the legal communication (corporate intranet, internal temperature limits in air-conditioned areas. digital newsletter, etc.). The campaign can be divided into three areas: waste, saving resources • Placement of temperature and ambient humidity and energy efficiency. measurement and direct reading devices in the Egeo building. • Participation in the “Un millón de compromisos por el clima” (“A million commitments for the • Publication of a vehicles policy that, among other climate”) campaign, aiming to disseminate this conditions: among the company’s employees and clients Encourages the use of public transport and and to invite them to adhere to it, in order to vehicle sharing. bring together the greatest possible number of participants. Establishes criteria for purchasing vehicles in which consumption and environmental impact takes precedence, in addition to cost. • Photovoltaic electrical production in the installation in the roof at Ineco’s central Promotes the progressive incorporation of headquarters at Paseo de la Habana in 2015 green vehicles into the fleet. and the maintenance of solar panels for the production of domestic hot water. • Progressive replacement of the fleet of vehicles with others of lower fuel consumption (all vehicles • Installation of water, energy, and heating oil must have an energy label and, wherever possible, consumption meters in the heating facility at they should be class A or B). Paseo de la Habana in order to evaluate its energy efficiency. • Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions achieved with these initiatives. • Supervision of the use of the building’s air conditioning system, with the aim of optimising its • Photovoltaic installation: maintenance and resource consumption. installation of automatic reset devices. 92 Achievements: 34.70% 2.13% 6.56% 4.20% decrease reduction in gas reduction in paper reduction in in electricity consumption at consumption heating fuel consumption Ineco’s temporary per employee consumption facilities 33.3% 3.51% reduction in 6.45% reduction reduction in (hazardous) per capita of 1.6% reduction waste paper cleaning electrical and in flight distances and cardboard product electronics packaging waste 1.06% reduction Compensation in CO2 equivalent for 12 tonnes of emissions and CO2 through the 14% reduction in photovoltaic indirect plant emissions Regarding principles 7 and 8 of the Global Compact, Ineco's main challenges for 2016 include: Implementation and certification of the company’s energy efficiency system according to ISO 50001; ensuring environmental management at the international offices, motivated by the need to have methodologies guaranteeing the organisation’s compliance with local environmental legislation; calculating Ineco’s Level 3 carbon footprint, including the present calculation (Levels 1 and 2) and the implementation of an Environmental Commitments Plan with evidence of the environmental actions already adopted in the organisation. Ineco’s commitment to the environment also translates into the constant improvement of its own environmental management. This responsibility obliges Ineco to continue to adopt measures to improve the use of resources such as electricity, water and paper and to include electrical energy vehicles in the fleet. 93 Consumption data Water Electrical energy Electricity consumption in all national offices in Spain Total water consumption in Paseo de la Habana and Egeo building ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (gigajoules) WATER CONSUMPTION (m³) 2013 11,301.8** YEAR P HABANA EGEO 2014 9,320.7** 2013 2,956 4,113 2015 8,906.4 2014 2,796 5,028 2015 2,881 5,286 Heating fuel Total consumption of heating fuel ( only in Paseo de WATER CONSUMPTION (m³) /EMPLOYEE la Habana) HEATING FUEL CONSUMPTION (litres) YEAR P HABANA EGEO 2013 7,403 2013 7.49 5.1 2014 6,086 2014 7.14 6.0 2015 5,687 2015 8.29 5.3 Paper Vehicle fuel Total paper consumption in all national offices in Spain Comsumption of vehicle fuel PAPER CONSUMPTION (kg) VEHICLE FUEL COMSUMPTION (litres) YEAR TOTAL Kg/employee 2013 791,000 2013 36,193 14* 2014 641,000 2014 30,980 13.4* 2015 734,000 2015 31,084 13.1 * Correction of paper consumption figures from previous years: the figures were indicated in kilos when it was kilos per employee, and the data was national. ** Rectification figures on electricity consumption from previous years: it was national data, not only of the headquarters of Madrid. 94 Total direct and indirect emissions Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases DIRECT EMISSIONS INDIRECT EMISSIONS TOTAL EMISSIONS YEAR Tons of equivalent CO2 Tons of equivalent CO2 Tons of equivalent CO2 2013 2,103 5,644 7,747 2014 1,702 4,989 6,691 2015 2,280 4,339 6,620 95 Waste Indirect energy consumption Amount of hazardous waste generated in Paseo de Flights and train journeys la Habana and the Egeo building (fluorescent tubes, batteries, electronics devices and hazardous waste TOTAL KM TRAVELLED BY PLANE packaging) AMOUNT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE 2013 24,383,483 MANAGED (kg) 2013 2,637* 2014 21,828,449 2014 4,755* 2015 21,472,103 2015 4,871 TOTAL KM TRAVELLED BY PLANE /EMPLOYEE 2013 9,642 Amount of non-hazardous waste generated in Paseo de la Habana and the Egeo building. Paper and cardboard data include all Madrid offices 2014 9,422 DOMESTIC (kg) 2015 9,041 2013 25,250 TOTAL KM TRAVELLED BY TRAIN 2014 19,703** 2013 3,149,540 2015 20,140 2014 2,643,596 CONTAINERS (kg) 2015 3,004,083 2013 7,720 2014 6,765 TOTAL KM TRAVELLED BY TRAIN / EMPLOYEE 2015 10,728 2013 1,245 2014 1,141 PAPER AND CARDBOARD (kg) 2015 1,263 2013 36,900 2014 34,380 2015 33,480 * Correction of data from previous years: the figures for the previous Report actually corresponded to the fuel consumption of vehicles. ** Correction of the figure provided in the previous Report. 96 Environmental responsibility and commitment in our innovation solutions Ineco promotes the development of innovation solutions that balance improving our competitiveness with respect for the environment. Aware of the collateral effects of transport on the climate change, the company continues its commitment to the search for sustainable solutions year after year. Testament to this is Ineco’s participation in the following R&D+I projects, which aim to reduce the company’s environmental impact and to use resources efficiently. Internal Projects: • Smart cities: the development of a proprietary Smart City platform, Citineco, for the management of sustainable cities. This tool allows simulations to be run in order to predict the city’s behaviour in response to particular changes. It focuses mainly on mobility, although it also allows for the integration of other aspects, such as government, the environment, etc. • Climate change: studies analysing the effects of climate change on the design and operation of transport infrastructure. • HEDIPRO: the development of a tool to optimise flight procedure design, making it possible to reduce the environmental impact of the routes followed by aircraft by saving fuel and reducing emissions. Collaborative projects: • SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research): the implementation of a high-performance European ATM network, one of the main objectives of which is to reduce flight CO² emissions. • MINOXSTREET: in the framework of the Life+ programme with the European Commission. The project’s aim is to assess the efficiency of catalytic technologies in reducing nitrogen oxide levels in urban environments. • ARID-LAP: the development of technological solutions to minimise or prevent the impact of arid climates on highperformance rail infrastructure. • SMART (Shared Monitoring Alert and Reaction Tracking – Oceanic): evaluation of the reduction of CO² emissions as the result of optimising the use of weather information, and the position and integration of flight plans. Ineco guarantees environmental sustainability in its technical solutions As a matter of course, Ineco includes sustainability and environmental solutions in all stages of the life cycle of the infrastructures it plans, designs and operates. This includes actions from environmental assessment at the strategic and project levels to specialised analyses of each environmental factor that could potentially be affected, including noise and atmospheric pollution. Tools based on Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and modelling systems are habitually used to support this work. Ineco’s experience in transport planning and consultancy has assisted in expanding the company’s environmental services to include water planning and waste management. All this contributes to strengthen Ineco’s commitment to mitigating and adapting to the effects of climate change. The company’s capacity in terms of environmental solutions is completed with extensive experience in the implementation, maintenance and auditing of environmental management systems. 97 Committed to our suppliers Suppliers play an important role in business management. It is therefore essential to have partners who can provide Ineco the services required, while maintaining the highest quality standards. It is essential to obtain the commitment of suppliers to achieve the objectives of each project. As such, communication and alignment of the provider strategy with the company is increasingly important. Ineco, in order to adapt their contracting processes to the international scene, has drafted the General Conditions of Contracting for Mexico and Brazil, ensuring that they are in line with the regulations of each country. 98 Communication, equality and transparency The principles that govern Ineco’s internal contracting standards are the following: Principle of advertising Principle of transparency The company upholds this principle by making the Ineco meets the requirements of this principle by General Contracting Terms available on the website; publishing the Internal Contracting Standards which and by publishing procurement processes in the State’s specify the contracting process used and the award Contracting Platform, (www.contrataciondelestado. bodies established. It has also published the General es), and, where appropriate, also on the Ineco’s web, Contracting Terms and Conditions applicable to regardless of other additional media for contracting contracts; and sets objective assessment criteria for arising from management request. each specification, in order to always award the most economically advantageous proposal, in accordance with those criteria. Principles of competition, equality and non-discrimination Principle of confidentiality Ineco guarantees free access to it’s procurement process to any company, starting with the non-discriminatory The guarantee of compliance with this principle is description of the subject matter of its agreements. embodied in the confidentiality clause included in It also guarantees equal access for all economic the General Contracting Conditions, which, in certain operators in all European Union member states, with the processes, are complemented by specific statements. recognition of degrees, certificates and other diplomas from different EU countries. It is also a fundamental company policy to avoid providing information in a discriminatory manner which could give certain bidders an advantage over others. Contracting of works, supplies and services in 2015: The value of subcontracts in 2015 amounted to €78,280,283.08. Internationally, the volume of subcontracts with local suppliers was €13,244,391.06, or 17% of total subcontracts. 99 Annex I Balance sheet 100 101 Balance sheet Assets 2015 2014 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 17,009,414 € 17,539,017 € Intangible fixed assets 2,149,735 € 680,951 € IT applications 2,149,735 € 680,951 € Tangible fixed assets 9,092,397 € 9,124,918 € Land and buildings 6,629,590 € 7,019,404 € Technical installations, machinery, tools, furniture and other tangible assets 2,462,807 € 2,105,514 € Long term investments in group and other related companies 1,508,925 € 1,508,925 € Equity instruments 1,508,925 € 1,508,925 € Long term financial investments 861,700 € 841,441 € Other financial assets 861,700 € 841,441 € Deferred tax assets 3,396,657 € 5,382,782 € CURRENT ASSETS 161.558.167 € 151.278.510 € Non current assets held for sale Inventories 73,831 € 73.831 € Advances payments to suppliers 73,831 € 73.831 € Trade debtors and other accounts receivable 104,645,137 € 101,857,699 € Clients for sales and services rendered 52,843,765 € 70,625,360 € Clients, group and other related companies 44,643,017 € 27,137,223 € Sundry receivables 555,355 € 611,765 € Payroll 621,361 € 104.182 € Current tax assets 5,981,639 € 3,379,169 € Short term investments in group and other related companies 73,447 € 32,491 € Other financial assets 73,447 € 32,491 € Short-term financial investments 831,293 € 546.401 € Credits to companies 378,305 € 378,305 € Debt securities 8,069 € 22,667 € Derivatives 423,774 € 124,752 € Other financial assets 21,145 € 20,677 € Short term accruals and deferrals income 514,836 € Cash and cash equivalents 55,419,623 € 48,768,088 € Cash 40,419,623 € 38,768,088 € Cash equivalents 15,000,000 € 10,000,000 € TOTAL ASSETS 178,567,581 € 168,817,527 € 102 As of December, 31st 2015 Net equity and liabilities 2015 2014 TOTAL EQUITY 85,879,117 € 83,586,583 € Own capital 85,824,559 € 83,521,735 € Capital 8,250,660 € 8,250,660€ Subscribed capital 8,250,660 € 8,250,660 € Share Premium 12,857,007 € 12,857,007 € Reserves 58,045,121 € 58,045,121 € Legal and statutory 1,650,132 € 1,650,132 € Other reserves 56,394,989 € 56,394,989 € Profit for the year 6,671,771 € 4,368,947 € Grants, donations and bequests received 54,558 € 64,848 € TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,894,386 € 2,080,230 € Long term provisions 1,418,954 € 1,553,455 € Other provisions 1,418,954 € 1,553,455 € Long term payables 338,968 € 372,543 € Other financial liabilities 338,968 € 372,543 € Deferred tax liabilities 136,464 € 154,232 € TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 90,794,078 € 83,150,714 € Short term provisions 4,863,875 € 10,881,039 € Short term payables 512,867 € 461,798 € Derivatives 423,774 € 292,729 € Other financial liabilities 89,093 € 169,069 € Short term payables to group companies and associates 36,018 € Trade creditors and other payables 85,417,336 € 71,771,859 € Suppliers 16,483,767 € 13,417,562 € Supplier, group and other related companies 75,050 € 62,064 € Sundry payables 137,145 € 19,006 € Payroll (Accrued wages and salaries) 6,065,527 € 4,657,023 € Other taxes payable 10,170,029 € 7.610.472 € Advance payments from clients 52,485,818 € 46,005,732 € Short-term accruals and deferred income TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 178,567,581 € 168,817,527 € 103 Annex II Profit and loss account 104 105 Profit and loss account Continuing operations 2015 2014 Net revenue: 195,390,772 € 182,460,787 € Sales 195,390,772 € 182,357,000 € Services rendered 103,787 € Supplies: (39,565,747 €) (34,984,582 €) Subcontracted works (39,565,747 €) (34,984,582 €) Other operating revenue: 965,129 € 1,483,569 € Non-core and other current operating revenues 184,560 € 562,557 € Operating grants released to income for the year 780,569 € 921,012 € Payroll expenses: (126,400,147 €) (119,690,102 €) Salaries, wages and other similar items (90,276,932 €) (84,742,913 €) Social charges (35,594,650 €) (33,278,739 €) Provisions (528,565 €) (1,668,450 €) Other operating expenses (23,675,518 €) (20,993,946 €) External Services (18,566,956 €) (18,558,835 €) Taxes (2,037,348 €) (1,752,857 €) Losses, impairment and changes in trade provisions (3,071,214 €) (682,254 €) Fixed assets depreciation and amortization (1,810,612 €) (1,597,598 €) Impairment losses and gains/losses on disponsal of non current assets Impairment and losses Other profits 3,225,887 € 208,444 € OPERATING INCOME 8,129,764 € 6,886,572 € Financial Income: 233,377 € 717,206 € From interest in equity instruments In group and other related companies 2,961 € 3,119 € From negotiable instruments and loans on fixed assets From third parties 230,416 € 714,087 € Financial expenses: (14,700 €) (116,551 €) From payables to third parties (14,700 €) (116,551 €) Changes in the fair value of financial instruments 161,788 € (249,340 €) Trading book and others 161,788 € (249,340 €) Exchange differences (240,681 €) 973,357 € FINANCIAL (EXPENSE) INCOME 139,784 € 1,324,672 € PROFIT BEFORE TAXES 8,269,548 € 8,211,244 € Corporate income tax (1,597,777 €) (3,842,297 €) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 6,671,771 € 4,368,947 € PROFIT 6,671,771 € 4,368,947 € 106 As of December, 31st 2015 107 www.ineco.com
