Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Contents 1 PostNord in brief Reporting according to GRI G4 2 President and Group CEO statement PostNord is reporting on its sustainability work for 2015 according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s 4 Market (GRI) G4 Guidelines. The GRI Index on pages 90–91 8 Strategy contains an overview of the aspects and indicators 14 Our offering that form part of PostNord’s sustainability reporting. It also contains information on the scope and boundaOur operations ries of the reporting. The sustainability report for the 2014 financial year was published in March 2015. It was 16 PostNord Sweden also drawn up according to the GRI Guidelines, G4. 18 PostNord Denmark 20 PostNord Norway Auditing of the report 21 PostNord Finland The Board of Directors and the President & Group 22 PostNord Strålfors CEO of PostNord AB (publ.), corporate identity 24 Financial development number 556771-2640, hereby present their Annual and Sustainability Report for the 2015 financial year. 26 PostNord’s sustainability work The Board of Directors’ report comprises pages 4–13, pages 16–25, the section on environmentally licensed 30 Employees operations on page 34, and pages 38–49, and has 33 Environment been audited as stated in the Auditor’s Report on 36 Suppliers page 85. The Sustainability Report comprises pages 37 Compliance 26–37 and pages 86–91 and has been reviewed ­according to the Assurance Report on page 92. 38 Risk 40 Corporate Governance Report Contact details for PostNord’s Group office 46 Board of Directors PostNord AB 48 Group Executive Team SE-105 00 Stockholm Visiting address: Terminalvägen 24, Solna Financial statements Tel +46 10 436 00 00 51 Consolidated financial statements www.postnord.com 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79 Parent Company financial statements Contacts 81 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements Per Mossberg, Chief Communications Officer Tel +46 10 436 39 15 84 The Board of Directors’ and President & Group CEO’s certification 85 Auditor’s Report Gunilla Berg, CFO 86 Measurement and calculation methods Tel +46 10 436 28 10 88 GRI Index 92 Assurance Report 93 Five-year review Many PostNord employees have demonstrated a strong In 2015, PostNord issued the first joint charity stamp commitment to helping displaced people. In early in Sweden and Denmark. The fact that the money September, PostNord decided to support individual raised will go to the World Wildlife Fund WWF is initiatives via a collaboration with UNHCR. In addition consistent with PostNord’s view on sustainability and to making a direct donation of SEK 300,000 to UNHCR, the Company’s work to minimize the environmental PostNord also assisted with the transportation of impact of its operations. Sales of the stamp, launched various kinds of essential items. These actions were in May 2015, had generated some SEK 1 million for carried out jointly with individual customers. PostNord’s WWF by December 31, 2015. employees also made their own donations in the form of money, clothing or other essential items. Every care has been taken in the translation of this Annual and Sustainability Report. In the event of discrepancies, the Swedish original will supersede the English translation. PostNord in brief Revenue per Operating margin, We deliver! country EBIT SEKm % 50,000 10 40,000 8 30,000 6 PostNord is the leading supplier of communication 20,000 4 and logistics solutions to, from and within the 10,000 2 ­Nordic region. We ensure postal service to house0 0 11 12 13 14 15 holds and businesses in Sweden and Denmark. Sweden Finland With our expertise and strong distribution Denmark Rest of the world Norway Operating margin, EBIT ­network, we develop new solutions for the ­communication, e-commerce, distribution and logistics of tomorrow in the Nordic region. Average number of employees per country In 2015, the Group had around 35,000 50,000 ­employees and sales of approximately SEK 40 40,000 ­billion. PostNord is 40% owned by the Danish State 30,000 and 60% by the Swedish State. Votes are a­ llocated 20,000 50/50 between the shareholders. The parent 10,000 ­company, PostNord AB, is a Swedish public limited 0 company headquartered in Solna, Sweden. 11 12 13 14 15 Sweden Finland Denmark Rest of the world Norway Total mail and parcel volumes Millions of mail items Millions of parcels1) 3,000 150 2,000 100 5.2 billion 1,000 50 letters and other mail items were delivered 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 by PostNord in 2015. Total mail volumes, Sweden Total mail volumes, Denmark Total parcel volumes approximately 130 Carbon dioxide emissions Thousands of metric tonnes million 500 parcels reached their intended 400 recipients on time.1) 300 200 approximately 6,000 100 distribution points in the Nordic countries offer 0 11 12 13 14 15 reliable service and convenient opening hours. 1) Eliminated for intra-Group volumes between countries. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 1 President and Group CEO statement Right priorities strengthening PostNord’s position The pace of digitalization is accelerating. To PostNord, this means rising parcel volumes thanks to robust growth in e-commerce in all Nordic markets, but also lower letter volumes, above all in Denmark. Therefore, we are working on two fronts. We are adapting our steadily shrinking letter operation in order to align the organization not only with the prevailing market situation but also with the one in which we will be operating in going forward. At the same time, we are creating ­the right conditions and a sustainable business model to be a long-term winner on the Nordic logistics market. Yet another exciting year has come to a close. We are in Meanwhile, our operating environment is becoming the midst of a paradigm shift as the entire industry is increasingly challenging. This means we have to maintain adapting to lower mail volumes and growing e-coma high tempo in everything we do. We are constantly drivmerce. This transition is essential for PostNord to be a ing the development of new and improved Nordic end-tomodern and competitive logistics and communications end offerings of mail and logistics services to corporate company for the future. We are proud of our ability to perand private customers. One important stage in this proform our service obligations by delivering a high quality cess is the launch of a joint brand, which was implemail service throughout Sweden and Denmark. We are mented rapidly during the year, above all in Sweden, now offering certain mail services in Norway as well, ­Norway and Finland. The roll-out of PostNord’s brand is where the former postal monopoly is now being disnow being accelerated in Denmark in 2016. mantled. Further adaptation of capacity, product developAt the end of the year, the decision was taken to intement and cost efficiency measures, along with changes grate Strålfors more closely with the rest of the Group to the system of postal regulations are necessary to with regard to service development and product ownerensure long-term profitability and competitiveness. ship of physical and digital communication services. Our focus is on implementing our strategic priorities. Together, these operations make up the new business And I can say that we’re on the right track. area Communication Services. We are also moving eCommerce to the Logistics business area now called ­e-Commerce & Logistics. Strong e-commerce growth boosting logistics volumes E-commerce is continuing to grow robustly and increased by 14% to just over SEK 160 billion in the Nordic region in 2015. The most popular online purchases are clothes, books, toys and home electronics. Deliveries tailored to customer requirements make it convenient for consumers to shop online. From an already leading position, our logistics business is continuing to grow steadily, despite tough competition. About a third of the new agree­ments that we sign are in the e-commerce segment. Parcel volumes grew by 10% in 2015, of which e-commerce-related B2C volumes rose 15%. During the year, we expanded our strategic cooperation with the international network DPDgroup, which is the second largest service provider in the European parcel market. This gives PostNord access to service points at over 20,000 locations in Europe, as well as a solid international foothold. 2015 also saw the acquisition of the Finnish company Uudenmaan Pikakuljetus Oy (UPK). The deal reinforces PostNord Finland’s position in logistics solutions on the Finnish market. Accelerating digitization demands regulatory changes Mail volumes decreased by 8% of which 6% in Sweden and 16% in Denmark. Since the turn of the millennium, 53% of priority mail volumes in Sweden have moved over to digital communication. In Denmark, the volume of 2 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 President and Group CEO statement f­ irst-class mail has fallen 82%. We see this trend acceleratFocus on right priorities producing results ing. It is therefore vital that changes to the regulations that Our strategy, which aims to lay the groundwork for impact our business are implemented as quickly as posachieving our goals, is based on a number of priorities. sible. Regulations must be adapted to customers’ conThese aim to enforce PostNord’s position on the market stantly changing needs and expectations. This is vital if we and respond to customers’ rising demands for service. are to maintain a universal postal service in the long term Our ambition is that our customers want, and are able, to under reasonable economic conditions. We therefore welgrow with us by utilizing our complete portfolio of comcome the Swedish government’s decision in 2015 to munications and logistics products and services. In a appoint a special inquiry official to review Sweden’s postal close co-operation we are developing new, simple and regulations. sustainable solutions that will strengthen competitiveIn April, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ness and generate lasting profitability for our customers announced its ruling against the Swedish State that postal and for us. PostNord’s target is a return of 10.5% on capital services not covered by individually negotiated agreeemployed and a net debt/equity ratio of 10–50%. Outments should be VAT-exempt. PostNord is now awaiting comes for 2015 were 5.4% and –2% respectively, an ongoing amendments to Swedish VAT legislation. This improvement on the previous year. Our ambitious envimay entail a slight increase in costs for PostNord through ronmental target is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions a reduced right to deductions for input VAT. by 40% from the level in 2009 by 2020. We have cut emissions by 23% to date. This has been achieved by iniThis years’ performance tiatives in a number of areas, including purchasing of PostNord’s net sales declined by 3% in 2015, to SEK green electricity, a higher content of biofuel in diesel and 39,351m. Reported operating income amounted to the introduction of the integrated production model. SEK 564m. The operating margin was 1.4%. Adjusted for The Board of Directors and management are focusing items affecting comparability, operating income totaled closely on further strengthening PostNord’s sustainability SEK 927m and the operating margin was recorded at work. Indeed, this is one of the priority areas in the 2.4%. To realign the business to declining mail volumes Group's strategy. We support and run our business in and ensure long-term competitiveness and improved accordance with the principles of corporate responsibility earnings, essential restructuring programs were initiated stated in the UN Global Compact and the OECD guideduring the year. Within the framework of our capital effilines for multinational enterprises. ciency program, our property in central Copenhagen was divested during the year, and our Danish headquarters PostNord delivers relocated to rented premises. In the past year, we worked on building a stronger and more integrated PostNord. All employees will be working The PostNord Group1) 2015 2014 under a joint brand, towards same goals and in the same direction. Considerable emphasis has been placed on Net sales, SEKm 39,351 39,950 establishing a harmonized and customer-oriented Nordic Operating income (EBITDA), SEKm 2,436 2,198 product portfolio. We are creating greater clarity for our Operating margin (EBITDA), % 6.2 5.5 customers, while meeting their need for easily accessible Operating income (EBIT), SEKm 564 351 and more cost-effective deliveries. Operating margin (EBIT), % 1.4 0.9 I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all Adjusted operating income (EBIT), SEKm 927 861 employees for the professional and determined way in Adjusted operating margin, % 2.4 2.2 which they have contributed towards modernizing and Net income, SEKm 278 176 streamlining the Group. I would also like to thank all our Cash flows from operating customers and partners for fruitful collaboration and I activities, SEKm 1,670 670 look forward to further developing our business together, Net debt, SEKm –171 3,672 to create added value for our owners and other Net debt ratio (net debt/equity), % –2 46 ­stakeholders as well. Return on capital employed, % 5.4 3.1 We are on the right track and are continually consolidating our position as a leading logistics and communica1) For definitions of financial key ratios, see Note 31 on page 78. For measurement and calculation methods for non-financial key ratios, tion services company. We focus on the customer. We’re see pages 86–87. now going to continue on the path we’ve started out on, to deliver on our customer promise and our values Continued efficiency enhancements, ­without compromising on quality. responsible restructuring The restructuring work to establish a more efficient, clearer and more customer-oriented PostNord is progressing rapidly. Extensive efficiency improvements were made in 2015, resulting in the reduction of staff numbers. Solna, February 2016 The Employee Index and Leadership Index failed to show satisfactory results over the year. Naturally this is disappointing. And as a result, we have brought in further actions to raise commitment and improve leadership during the extensive change process that we are undergoing. One such action is the launch of the extensive “Move – change for diversity” program to strengthen diversity in Håkan Ericsson all areas of the Group. Another is the leadership training President and Group CEO program “Leading Change at PostNord”. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 3 Market An integrated Nordic marketplace Commerce between the Nordic countries comprises a significant and growing portion of total commerce in the Nordic region. This market will become increasingly integrated, which in turn will require comprehensive, cross-border customer offerings. Nordic end-to-end solutions increase by more than 10% per year over the next few PostNord’s corporate customers are increasingly requestyears. Given that e-commerce currently only accounts for ing Nordic end-to-end solutions. The Group’s logistics and roughly 6% of total trade in the Nordics, the potential is communications offerings are being adapted in response huge. About a third of the new agreements that PostNord to changes in demand. signs are in the fast growing e-commerce segment. In order to strengthen PostNord’s Nordic profile, offerThe basic driving forces of e-commerce are simplicity ings are being marketed within logistics, e-commerce and and accessibility for consumers. One strong trend is the communications under the joint PostNord brand. The significance of omnichannel concepts. These are based new brand structure is gradually being implemented in all on integrated underlying system solutions that give the the Nordic countries. The joint brand is a signal that the same customer experience irrespective of channel. This Group is taking the next step in its evolution from a tradiallows physical stores and digital channels to be intetional postal company towards a modern Nordic logistics grated, which responds to growing consumer demands and communications company. for being able to shop when and where it suits them best. This may be at home, at the computer, requesting home The Nordic region as an international hub delivery of a purchase, but next time the consumer might The Nordic region is regarded as a marketplace in a purchase a similar product directly in a shop. broader international perspective. Foreign distributors are The major share of e-commerce purchases are still choosing business partners based on this premise. Durmade from domestic companies, but it is increasingly ing the year, PostNord expanded its strategic cooperation ­common for consumers to look for products beyond their with the international network DPDgroup, the second country’s borders. Above all, sites in the United Kingdom, largest service provider in the European parcel market. Germany, the United States and China attract Nordic conThe core of the expanded cooperation is a powerful B2C sumers. PostNord has launched a partnership with Alibaba strategy, which will link PostNord to DPDgroup’s extensive Group, which gives PostNord the right to establish a Nordic In 2015, PostNord networks. These cover 500 cross-border line-hauls (fixed platform on the shopping portal Tmall global. This will make extended its internalong-distance routes between two cities) daily and a distriit easier for Nordic e-commerce companies that have not tional partnership with bution network of 20,000 local partner outlets in Europe. yet established themselves in China to reach the roughly DPDgroup of Germany, 350 million Chinese consumers who shop online. PostNord to include their entire distribution network, Continued robust growth in e-commerce will also be responsible for the logistics from the Nordics to which covers the whole The Nordic e-commerce grew by 14% in 2015, amounting China. One of the most important competitive factors is the of Europe. to about SEK 160 billion1). It is expected to continue to logistics underpinning e-commerce. The method, location, time and price of goods delivery have become increasingly important for consumers at the time of purchase. Today, PostNord already has a unique structure and reach in the region, and a leading position as the partner of the majority of e-retailers in the Nordic countries. P ­ ostNord’s offer to corporate customers is based on in-depth understanding of customers, broad logistics expertise in the retail trade and in omnichannel concepts. This is combined with a high level of accessibility, with the largest network of distribution points in the Nordics and daily deliveries E-commerce in the Nordics 1) SEK bn 200 150 100 50 20,000 local partner outlets 0 Sweden 14 15 Norway 500 daily cross-border line-hauls 1) Denmark Finland Source: E-commerce int the Nordics 2016, PostNord. (E-commerce estimated by consumers) 4 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 “PostNord makes life easier for our customers” Zalando is one of Europe’s leading fashion e-comkeep up a continual dialogue about how we can merce platforms. And as with all online retailers, it is develop it. This means we can quickly grasp oppordelivery that is the key to success. Customers must tunities to improve the customer experience.” experience a seamless process. This is why Zalando Zalando uses a logistics service that is secure, quick, works with PostNord throughout the Nordic region. and that features a simple returns system. “I’m very satisfied with how PostNord delivers,” “PostNord makes life easier for our customers,” says Marc Mahler, who is responsible for logistics at adds Marc Mahler. “And when customers are satisfied Zalando. “Our partnership runs smoothly and we with the delivery, it generates more business for us.” Market PostNord is the leading supplier of communication and logistics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region. ­PostNord delivered 5.2 billion letters and other mail items in 2015. PostNord Finland Net sales PostNord Norway SEK 787m Net sales Number of distribution points SEK 4,112m approximately 1,100 Number of distribution points PostNord Sweden approximately 1,400 Net sales SEK 23,080m Number of letters 1,872 million Number of distribution points approximately 1,900 PostNord Denmark PostNord Strålfors Net sales Information logistics, omnichannel SEK 9,987m ­communication Net sales: SEK 2,335m Number of letters Operations in Sweden, Denmark, 460 million Finland, Norway, Poland, the Number of distribution points United Kingdom and France. approximately 1,600 Direct Link Global distribution of marketing communications and lightweight goods, mainly for e-retailers. Operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia. to all mailboxes in Sweden and Denmark. PostNord helps ­rising demand for logistics solutions. The development of companies grow their e-commerce business by providing the logistics market in the Nordic region has been relaknowledge on how to improve customer profitability and tively stable with a moderate increase. The logistics playsecure e-commerce growth by combining solutions for ers are focusing on optimization and improving the effilogistics and customer communication. ciency of their business. Demand for Nordic end-to-end solutions is growing. Increasing numbers of companies A growing logistics market are also opting to outsource all or parts of their warehousGlobalization, population growth and technological ing and logistics, known as third-party logistics (TPL). This advances are fueling global trade. In turn this creates means that market players must constantly review and adapt their offer to meet customers’ rising demands. The Nordic logistics market that is relevant to ­PostNord equates to about SEK 160–190 billion, which includes everything from home deliveries of parcels, road freight, to advanced logistics services such as TPL. PostNord operates in all the Nordic countries. Via its subsidiary Direct Link, PostNord also runs international operations in the form of distribution solutions for lightweight goods, and it offers global logistics solutions in cooperation with the global logistics network DPD. The Nordic logistics market is characterized by consolidation, intense competition and a focus on costs. Its largest logistics operators are Bring, DB Schenker, DHL, DSV, GLS, Posti and PostNord. Service logistics that make family life easier Service logistics is the common name for services providing home deliveries of items such as food and medication. Demand for all these services is expected to rise in the years ahead. For example, the market for home ­deliveries of food and groceries today currently accounts 6 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Market for about 1–2% of the total groceries market in Sweden and Denmark, but their share of the total market is expected to grow over the next few years. Service logistics also includes areas such as welfare distribution, which includes equipment for telemedicine. The market for welfare distribution is expected to grow robustly in the Nordic countries over the next few years, driven by demographic change with a rising elderly population, needs for savings in the public sector and new technological opportunities. An additional area consists of the market for returning old and used products. This market is predicted to grow under increased regulation and more stringent legislation on product liability and sustainability requirements. This presents PostNord with opportunities for new types of services. Digital gaining ground on advertising market The total advertising market saw a slight rise in Sweden and Denmark, almost exclusively within digital channels. However, the decline in the traditional advertising market is continuing, mainly within print and addressed and unaddressed direct mail. Reduced mail volumes present a challenge The European mail market is liberalized. However, there is no joint market yet, and instead a number of national markets for postal services operate. PostNord provides this universal postal service in Denmark and Sweden. The regulations for running a postal service differ between countries, and thus also between Denmark and Sweden. The differences include which postal services are encompassed by the universal postal service and are thus subMail ­volumes in Sweden in 2015 declined by 6% comject to regulation and monitoring, and which requirepared to 2014. ments are placed on delivery times and quality levels. The decline in mail volumes is expected to both conFewer and fewer letters are being sent. Total mail tinue and increase going forward. Nevertheless, a basic ­volumes declined by about 39% in Sweden and by 68% in need for physical communications will prevail. This marDenmark between 2000 and 2015. This is nearly entirely ket change is a challenge to all postal corporations. In a result of the switch to digital alternatives. The dramatic some countries, political decisions have been taken to reduction in Denmark is a consequence of several coordimodernize the regulatory conditions for postal corporanated initiatives, such as legislation about digital commutions to run competitive and financially sustainable operanications to and from the public sector from both the tions while meeting the changed needs of consumers business sector and consumers. In 2015, mail volumes and businesses for postal services. in Denmark were 16% lower than in the preceding year. PostNord is engaged in ongoing dialogue with the Mail volumes have also fallen considerably in Sweden Swedish and Danish States about the market situation in recent years. Sweden has not yet taken initiatives and the challenges that substantial falls in volume mean that are as far-reaching as the legislation introduced in to the business and the need for regulatory adaptations Denmark to encourage increased digital communication. to changes in demand. Total mail volumes, aggregated 2011–2014 % 0 –5 –10 –15 –20 –25 –30 –35 –40 Österreichische Post POST Luxembourg United States Postal Service An Post Canada Post Iceland Post PostNord Sweden Royal Mail bpost CTT – Correios de Portugal Posten Norge Australia Post New Zealand Post Posti Group (Finland) Le Groupe La Poste Correos (Spanien) Hellenic Post – ELTA Poste Italiane Cyprus Post PostNL PostNord Denmark Source: IPC. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 7 Strategy Right direction through responsiveness and insight PostNord makes it possible for companies and consumers to do business and communicate with each other every day, thus fulfilling an important function in the business community and society of the Nordic countries. This brings with it a great responsibility. It is crucial to predict, understand and act on the issues that our stakeholders perceive as important if the Group is to develop in the right direction. Customers Owners Employees PostNord is the leading communications PostNord is 40% owned by the Danish With around 35,000 employees, P ­ ostNord and logistics company in the N ­ ordic State and 60% by the Swedish State. is one of the largest employers in the region. Our corporate and private The overall mission from the owners ­Nordic region and bears a ­con­­­­­siderable ­customers should be able to reach their is to ensure the universal service measure of social responsibility. PostNord recipients reliably, efficiently and on time, ­obligations while creating value. is to offer an attractive, s­ timulating whether a global logistics solution, an ­workplace. advertising campaign or a birthday greeting is concerned. Capital market Business partners Society PostNord finances its business partly Business partners summarizes PostNord’s PostNord plays a key role in the business through bonds. Capital market relationships with partners outside the community and society. Operating a sta­confidence is therefore important to Group, for example suppliers and partner ble and profitable business in the long the Group. outlets. Every year PostNord purchases term, with a focus on the environment goods and services valued at billions of and social responsibility, strengthens ­kronor, and the company has around competitiveness and satisfies expecta6,000 distribution points. tions regarding accountability. 8 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Strategy PostNord is the leading communications and logistics player in the Nordic countries, and aims to be the first choice for both customers and recipients throughout the Nordics. PostNord’s vision is to deliver world-class communications and logistics solutions to satisfied customers. Our motivation, using the knowledge of our 35,000 employees and a unique distribution network, is to contribute towards reinforcing our customers’ business and customer relationships. Together with our customers, we also develop new solutions for the communication, e-commerce, distribution and logistics of tomorrow. With a combined population of 25 million and nearly two million businesses within a large geographic area, the Nordic market poses major logistics challenges. PostNord knows its domestic market. PostNord is proud to take responsibility for the postal service in Denmark and Sweden. Through that, the Group helps provide a key service for citizens and institutions. Our long experience as a postal company has given us unique logistics expertise, enabling senders and recipients to trust that PostNord will deliver as promised. Our ambition is to always be accessible and give both corporate customers and consumers the best service possible. Our mission Our vision PostNord connects people and businesses reliably, PostNord delivers world-class communication and efficiently and on time. logistics solutions to satisfied customers. Our values Reliable Accessible PostNord keeps its promises and delivers PostNord is always close to its customeverywhere, securely, at the right time and ers, listens to them and takes an active to the right place. interest in the challenges they face. Business partner Sustainable PostNord is a professional business partner PostNord creates value for its customers to its customers and helps them solve their and owners, is a socially responsible ­communication and logistics challenges. company and works actively to reduce the environmental impact of its activities. Code of Conduct PostNord’s Code of Conduct, which was adopted by Ultimate responsibility for compliance lies with the Board in 2014, specifies requirements for the ways ­ ostNord management, but all employees are responP that the Group must act in the areas that are most sible for following applicable rules, both legislation important to PostNord in ensuring sustainable busiand other mandatory external and internal rules. ness practices. The Code supplements applicable law ­PostNord’s managers are responsible for acting as role and external regulations and is the starting point for all models and ensuring that their employees are aware relevant intra-Group rules. The Code applies to all of and understand the rules that apply to the business. Group employees and relevant parts of the Code are The Code has been supplemented by discussion also to be incorporated into agreements with business material for workplace meetings. partners. The Code of Conduct is available in eight languages and can be accessed via the Group’s intranet at www.postnord.com. The Code is discussed at the annual employee performance meetings and at ­recruitment. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 9 Strategy Focus on implementation a basis for enhanced competitiveness PostNord’s strategy aims to consolidate the Company’s position as the leading Nordic logistics and communications business. The process of change is based on the Group’s key priorities. Origins of the Group’s strategy priority areas. The ten priorities will enable us to build, Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S merged in 2009, aimreposition and develop the business into the leading Noring to secure a position as the leading player in the Nordic dic logistics and communications company. The strategy communications and logistics market, and to boost the is visualized internally using the image of a tree. The treeconditions for efficient postal services in Sweden and top symbolizes selected initiatives and priorities. They are Denmark. about how customers should perceive PostNord and To achieve our vision of delivering world-class logiswhat the company needs to develop to achieve the tics and communications solutions to satisfied customers, desired strategic position on the Nordic market. PostNord needs to manage the transition to lower mail volumes and create a balanced logistics operation with Key milestones in 2015 a high focus on e-commerce on the Nordic domestic Significant progress was made during the year in all market. p ­ riority areas. • Cost-cutting program established and implemented, One Group, one strategy which has created a more cost-effective administration. The strategy is at the heart of achieving long-term finan• Significant IT infrastructure and software upgrades cial and non-financial targets (see page 13). The strategy is ­carried out, which have improved IT stability. common to all units within the Group and is based on ten • PostNord’s service offering creates a better and more seamless experience for e-commerce recipients and senders. • Logistics growth strategy drawn up, with strong focus on gaining a position within road freight, third-party logistics (TPL) and business parcels. • Value offerings and concept for communications ­business developed and preparations for entry to N ­ orwegian market. • Group-wide organization for service logistics initiated and majority of suppliers of online-bought foodstuffs in Denmark are now PostNord’s customers. • Strategic objectives for harmonized and customer-­ oriented product portfolio adopted and implementation plan developed for 2016. • Review and updating of strategic sustainability targets, with clear activities to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, increase gender equality and diversity and ensure a sustainable supply chain. • Implementation of team-based approach and diversity program initiated for the Group. We visualize our strategy as a tree. The root system is about creating the right conditions to allow us to achieve our ­initiatives and priorities, which are symbolized by the treetop. 10 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Strategy STRATEGY TARGET Establish a harmonized To speed up the way in which we meet customer needs for easily accessible and and customer-oriented more cost-effective deliveries, PostNord will harmonize and simplify its product Nordic product portfolio portfolio of Nordic logistics and communications solutions. DEVELOP PostNord is investing broadly in strengthening its corporate culture based on the Create a goal-oriented Group’s values. This includes focusing more on the Company’s own responsibility performance culture and attaining the joint goals within the specified time. PostNord will integrate sustainability aspects into everything that is done to posiSustainability tion the Group as one that runs sustainable operations, i.e. is a responsible business in everything we do that benefits customers, employees, owners and society. PostNord will consolidate its position as the leading Nordic e-commerce player. Consolidate the position E-commerce is creating further opportunities for growth, and PostNord is focusing as the leading Nordic on creating Nordic-wide concepts. PostNord’s strength lies in understanding and e-commerce player meeting the needs and requests of both recipients and senders. Secure profitable PostNord will continue to establish itself as the leading logistics player in the Nordic growth within prioritized region with a Nordic-wide offering and stronger services within prioritized segREPOSITION logistics segments ments, including cross-border trade. Gain the position of firstPostNord will develop a competitive omnichannel communications offering based choice Nordic partner in on digital and physical communications solutions, and seek pan-Nordic expansion omnichannel communication of communications services based on a light asset approach. PostNord will develop a common business model for service logistics and develop Develop a common business Group-wide offerings that harness the existing distribution network for delivering model within service logistics items such as food and medication. The cost base must be adapted to declining mail volumes and the new business Reduce and adapt model with its growth areas of e-commerce and logistics. Additional savings are the cost base required, such as cutting external costs and reducing administration in order to improve earning capacity and increase financial value. A stable and efficient IT platform is a prerequisite for customers being able to BUILD receive their items on time with high delivery quality. It is also a prerequisite for Secure stable and efficient rapidly getting new products to the market. The Group’s challenge consists of IT operations ­securing the stable operation of established systems while also introducing new, Group-wide IT solutions. Irrespective of whether handling mail or logistics, PostNord must be able to use the Implement an integrated same terminals and vehicles for both mail and parcels in the future. Find out more production model on page 12. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 11 Strategy Integrated production model offers greater customer benefit and flexibility In 2015, PostNord continued to develop a production model that aims to increase flexibility in the distribution chain for both customers and PostNord. In brief, this means integrating the distribution chain for the mail and logistics operations. One company, one distribution concept Transportation with improved efficiency in the last mile Work started in 2014, with changes mainly to the operations in Mail and parcels will to an ever-greater extent be collected on the ­Denmark and Sweden, as these are the markets in which PostNord same route. This means, for example, that a van collects parcels and runs both mail and logistics businesses. The whole project, scheduled large mail items from the partner outlet and empties mailboxes on the to be completed in 2020 for the entire Group, comprises major same round. It is the same for customers – one van collects pallets, changes to, above all, the infrastructure and distribution chain in the parcels and mail. When parcels, pallets and mail are processed at the Nordic countries. The integrated production model will create synersame distribution hubs, it will also be simpler to transport them in the gies such as making more efficient use of vehicles and premises at same goods flow, by both road and rail. lower cost and with less environmental impact. Additional synergies in the form of a single vehicle fleet, coordination and increased efficiency Single vehicle fleet cuts costs and generates economies of scale in IT systems, materials and machinery for large parts of the Group will PostNord will have a single, standardized vehicle fleet in the Nordics to also cut costs. create cost benefits and economies of scale. The Group will also have Terminal networks are being developed to adapt to growing logisstandard processes for purchasing, operating and retiring vehicles, tics volumes and declining mail volumes, with coordinated processing as well as a single IT system for vehicle management. of mail, parcels and pallets. Synergies arise here by coordinating the operations and thereby obtaining more efficient use of production Standardization of machinery and materials simplifying equipment, in turn making more efficient coordinated transportation and streamlining between terminals possible. Instead of the former national networks, Today, PostNord uses different machinery and equipment in different a cohesive Nordic distribution network is being established with fewer countries. In the future, requirements will be specified and procureprocessing and transportation stages and improved service times for ment conducted centrally. This will also apply to materials handling customers. and load carriers – everything from boxes to containers will be stanDistribution hubs will be established in the major urban areas. dardized. This will make handling goods across national borders The hubs will coordinate the processing of all product categories, and ­easier and more efficient. flows will be coordinated and consolidated. This will then allow us to distribute and collect several product categories simultaneously to and from the same customer. The hubs will be supplemented by distribution depots so that mail carriers can operate closer to recipients. No sorting will take place at the depots, just loading. Mailbox emptying and partner outlets Distribution Distribution for consumers and Multiterminal hub depot business customers Business customer Household Multiterminal Partner outlets and self-service parcel machines for consumers and business customers Mail © Tomas Öhrling 2016 Parcels Pallets and mixed cargo groupage Companies Part & full-loads 12 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Strategy PostNord’s business is operated within a framework of financial and non-financial targets. Financial targets for profitability, capital structure and dividends were established at the 2014 AGM. These are long-term targets and will be evaluated over a period of 3–5 years. Outcome Financial targets 2015 (2014) Comment History Profitability Return on capital 5.4% (3.1) The improvement results from cost-cutting measures employed: 10.5% implemented. PostNord is continuing with its restructuring work in accordance with the Group strategy, in Net debt ratio, % Return, % 50 10 order to create conditions for achieving agreed tar40 8 gets. Find out more on page 24. 30 6 20 4 10 2 Capital structure 0 0 Net debt ratio 10–50% –2% (46) The net debt ratio (net debt/equity) was –2% on –10 –2 13 14 15 13 14 15 December 31, 2015 due to a positive net. Find out more Net debt ratio on page 24. Return on capital employed Dividend 40–60% of net income for 0 (0) Considering the Company’s results and continued the year restructuring requirements the Board of Directors pro(standard value 50%) poses that no dividend be paid. Outcome Non-financial targets 2015 (2014) Comment History Customer Improve the Customer Value 67 (68)* A weak trend in Denmark was offset primarily by a con80 Index (CVI) tinuingly stable level among corporate customers in 60 Sweden, as well as by a positive trend in Finland and 40 41 (38) Strålfors. 20 Improve the Corporate The improvement in TRIM for three units is the 0 111) 121) 131) 141) 15 Image Index (TRIM) * Outcome 2014 result of an overall positive trend both in Sweden and CVI index restated, see in Denmark. TRIM index page 87. 1) Values for 2011–2014 have been restated, see page 87. Delivery quality % Group, Mail: 93.4% 90.7% (93.7) Mail quality was negatively affected by changes to distri100 bution procedures. Furthermore, extreme weather con75 Group, Parcels: 98.0% 96.8% (97.1) ditions and a strike in Denmark impacted on the result. 50 PostNord has a Group target for parcel quality, adopted 25 in 2015. The target was not achieved, mainly owing to 0 11 12 13 14 15 lower quality in both Sweden and Denmark, but also in Overnight delivery, 1st class mail, Sweden Norway. Find out more on pages 17, 19, 20 and 21. Overnight delivery, 1st class mail, Denmark Environment Reduce carbon dioxide emis2009–2015: The reduction has been achieved as a result of initiaThousands of metric tonnes 500 sions by 40% by 2020 from –23% tives within a number of areas, including purchasing 400 the level in 2009 green electricity in more parts of the business, a higher 300 content of biofuel in diesel and centralization of opera200 100 tions. The introduction of the integrated production 0 model has already begun to contribute to the reduc09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Carbon dioxide emissions tion. Find out more on pages 33–35. Employees Improve the Employee Index MIX 63 (65)* The result for MIX was affected by the fact that the 80 (MIX) and Leadership Index LIX 68 (68)* ongoing intensive restrucuring work being pursued in 60 (LIX) response to declining mail volumes is affecting how 40 * Outcome 2014 employees are perceiving their ability to influence their 20 restated, see workload, working atmosphere and opportunities for 0 14 15 page 87. professional development, as well as their confidence in MIX the future. The outcome for LIX is mainly explained by LIX the fact that confidence in line managers remains high. Find out more on page 30–32. 40% female managers by 28% (29) Despite various actions, the result is roughly the same % 30 2015 as in the preceding year. The target that 40% of manager will be female by 2015 was therefore not achieved, 20 but remains in place as a long-term goal. Efforts to 10 improve diversity are now being stepped up via the 0 “Move – change for diversity” program. 11 12 13 14 15 Women in managerial positions Find out more on page 32. % Reduce sick leave levels 5.8% (5.2) The increase is mainly explained by sickness levels in 6 Sweden rising as a result of the major organizational 4 changes that have been implemented and that place new demands on employees, mainly within distribu2 tion. Find out more on page 31. 0 11 12 13 14 15 Sick leave PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 13 Our offering A partner that powers the customer’s business Deliveries these days involve so much more than just moving items from A to B. PostNord’s business spans the entire commercial chain – from business generation via logistics, warehousing, processing, distribution and delivery, to following up advertising campaigns. We have a clear customer promise: whether it is a consumer or corporate customer, PostNord ensures that customers reach their recipients reliably, efficiently and on time. The first choice for consumers as ­recipients of items ­purchased online. One partner all the way 2. Improve customer’s goods flows PostNord’s focus and area of expertise is logistics and comPostNord offers complete logistics solutions for all custommunication. It is about making everyday life easier for cusers’ delivery requirements within the Nordic region and tomers, so that they can focus 100% on their core business. internationally. The customer needs just one supplier for PostNord offers logistics solutions throughout the inbound deliveries and deliveries to the end-customer, irrechain, from warehousing, including inward deliveries, to spective of the quantity or weight of the items to be prodelivery. To, from and within the Nordic region. This crecessed. PostNord provides solutions to enable the comates the right conditions for being the natural partner for pany and recipient to track the status of the item in the disNordic e-retailers, but also the first choice for consumers tribution chain. as recipients of items purchased online. With about 6,000 PostNord can also take over warehousing via the distribution points, a comprehensive network of terminals Group’s third-party logistics solutions (TPL). The solutions and a network of international partners, PostNord caters allow PostNord to keep the items in storage and repackfor customers’ logistics needs, whatever the destination. age them as required or configure them in some other PostNord also offers customized solutions for all parts way to suit the company’s end-customer prior to distribuof the customer’s ordering and delivery chains. With Posttion to the addressee. Nord, you can send everything from small parcels to conMail is distributed by PostNord’s mail carriers – direct tainer loads – to your neighbor or to the other side of the to the end-customer. Parcels are delivered direct to the world. PostNord reaches recipients at the right time, in the recipient or via one of PostNord’s distribution points right channel, in the right place and at the right price. across the Nordic region, for convenient collection when PostNord helps companies find new customers and it suits the recipient. PostNord also enables the efficient retain their existing ones. processing of any returns. 1. Improve customer’s offering 3. Improve customer’s business communication With a broad service portfolio, PostNord can streamline A successful business transaction does not end on delivcustomers’ communication and boost its impact. Based ery. Business communication on the recipient’s terms on customer insight, PostNord helps companies produce builds on a successful transaction, reassures the cusresults in both physical and digital channels. PostNord tomer and helps ensure that end-customers stay loyal. also maintains and develops information d ­ atabases. PostNord has the capacity to produce and distribute PostNord’s offering is based on helping the customer all forms of business communication, both in physical identify the right target group, whether it is a case of findand digital format, or in a combination of both these ing new end-customers or retaining and developing busimodes of delivery. Sometimes it is a case of handling cusness with existing customers. This is regardless of tomers’ invoicing, whether it be a physical invoice, an whether the communication channel is digital or physical. e-invoice or a complete EDI file. Sometimes it may also With PostNord’s Direct Marketing services, the customer involved follow-up communication, such as security is able to monitor the impact of a campaign and continucodes, SIM cards, user instructions or suchlike. ally hone their offers. The customer may wish to enrol the end-customer in a loyalty program, or send them advertising. PostNord offers all these services. 14 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Our offering OUR OFFERING TO CORPORATE CUSTOMERS 1. Improve customer’s offering Target group analysis Campaign Physical follow-up direct mail Customer communication drives business... Logistics solutions enable... Invoice Digital mailings marketing Outbound Warehousing/ logistics pick & pack 3. Improve customer’s ­business communication 2. Improve customer’s goods flows PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 15 Our operations PostNord Sweden PostNord’s Swedish business offers a broad palette of communications and logistics services and is responsible for the universal postal service. With about 1,900 distribution points in Sweden, PostNord is a strong business partner for the growing e-commerce sector. In 2015, net sales for PostNord Sweden totaled SEK 23,080m. The adjusted operating income was SEK 847m. Market conditions and competition is evidenced by rising demand for more, and increasingly In 2015, the Swedish communications market continued advanced, services. The outsourcing of logistics solutions to feel the effects of ongoing digitization. PostNord’s offeris on the rise as more and more companies are opting to ing in business communications faces competition outsource all or parts of their supply chains. Customers mainly from digital options. The biggest competitor in are demanding professional, cost-effective end-to-end terms of mail services is Bring Citymail. Various initiatives solutions. In recent years PostNord Sweden has broadhave been undertaken in Sweden in recent years to ened its focus on consignment goods, mixed cargo increase the digitization of communication by companies groupage and third-party logistics solutions (TPL). Postand public authorities. As a result, mail volumes in the Nord’s competitors in Sweden are, mainly, other major Swedish market fell by 6% – equating to 111 million letters – logistics companies such as DB Schenker and DHL. in 2015. However, the initiatives have so far not been as E-commerce in Sweden continues to grow – in 2015 coordinated and far-reaching as those in Denmark. by 12%, to just over SEK 61 billion1) – and it is becoming The advertising market is also being affected by ongomore integrated with the traditional retail trade. Customing digitization, and traditional advertising channels such ers’ new patterns of purchasing behavior are demanding as TV and newspapers are being heavily impacted by the more of the retail trade in terms of seamless transitions new media habits of consumers. Direct mail is holding up between physical and digital methods, such as allowing well against the competition from digital channels, prithe customer to view the item in one channel and buy it marily because it is perceived as more personal, and not in another, combined with fast, customized deliveries. as intrusive. PostNord’s offering within direct marketing PostNord is the retailers’ partner in everything from delivcomprises market and customer analyses, direct mail and eries, warehousing and pick and pack, to market analyses digital advertising services via partnerships. In Sweden and direct marketing. PostNord is competing with Bring Citymail and Svensk Direktreklam on the direct mail market. Events during the year The Swedish logistics market is characterized by • Late April saw the verdict of the European Court of Jus­consolidation, intense competition and cost focus. This tice on the case brought by the European Commission against the Swedish State for non-implementation of EU rules regarding value added tax on postal services. The post-specific regulations The verdict went in the Commission’s favor, with the must be adapted to altered result that postal services not covered by individually market conditions as negotiated agreements are to be VAT-exempt. For soon as possible. ­PostNord, this will entail higher costs because VAT paid for business-related costs, concerning VAT-exempt operations, will not be VAT deductible. Agreements that are not individually negotiated and that are to be VATexempt relate primarily to the sale of stamps, which comprise a small part of PostNord’s sales. • PostNord’s integrated production model is being gradually introduced in a number of areas. • At Svensk Franchise’s annual Frannygala, PostNord Sweden’s network of partner outlets was named ­Franchise Chain of the Year. • PostNord Sweden’s new rail hub outside Stockholm, Rosersberg, was opened. Regulatory changes In August 2015 the Swedish government aestablished an investigation of the Swedish postal legislation and appointed a special inquiry official to review the system of postal regulation. The aim is for the official to submit the final report in August 2016. PostNord welcomes this inquiry. The post-specific regulations must be adapted to altered market conditions as soon as possible to secure 1) Source: E-commerce in the Nordics 2016, PostNord. (E-commerce estimated by consumers) 16 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Our operations e ­ fficient postal services in the long term on reasonable ecoMail volumes, Sweden nomic terms, despite the decline in mail volumes, and also Millions of mail items to enable the Group to attain its environmental targets. 1,500 Delivery quality Delivery quality at PostNord Sweden was 90.3% (93.5) for 1,000 1st class mail and 96.8% (96.9) for parcels, as against PostNord’s own target of 93.0% for 1st class mail and 98.0% for parcels. The Swedish State’s requirement is that at least 500 85% of 1st class mail be delivered on the following working day and 97% within three days. 2015 saw the launch of Koncept Utdelning (“Concept Distribution”), which involves 0 11 12 13 14 15 changes to mail delivery procedures. The changes, which Mail volumes, priority mail aim to achieve greater flexibility and improved cost effiMail volumes, non-priority mail ciency, mean that letters will to a greater extent be sorted by machine into delivery order, which will involve changes to mail carriers’ delivery rounds. The changes were graduExternal Operating margin, ally implemented across Sweden during the year and net sales EBIT were in part implemented alongside other more significant changes, such as the relocation of volumes to the SEKm % new mail terminal in Rosersberg. Delivery quality was neg25,000 10 atively affected during the running-in periods. 20,000 8 Performance over the year 15,000 6 Net sales were unchanged. Mail & Communication reported a 4% drop in sales as a result of a 6% decline in 10,000 4 mail volumes. In 2014 extra mailings were carried out 5,000 2 relating to the EU Parliament election and the Swedish general election. Sales for Logistics increased 3% as a 0 0 result of higher parcel volumes and new customer con14 15 tracts, mainly within third-party logistics (TPL). Mail & Communication Adjusted operating income totaled SEK 847m (869). Logistics Cost reductions and growth within Logistics yielded Operating margin, EBIT results, but declining mail volumes, higher social insurance costs for young people and increased sickness absence had a negative impact on earnings. PostNord Sweden1), 2) 2015 2014 Change Change3) Net sales, SEKm 23,080 23,154 0% 0% of which Mail & Communication (external) 12,995 13,513 –4% –4% of which Logistics (external) 9,012 8,756 3% 3% Operating income (EBIT), SEKm 750 748 Operating margin, %4) 3.2 3.2 Adjusted operating income (EBIT), SEKm5) 847 869 Adjusted operating margin, %4), 5) 3.7 3.8 Priority mail, millions of items 811 880 –8% n/a Non-priority mail, millions of items 1,061 1,103 –4% n/a 1) Division into geographic areas is principally based on registered corporate domicile. 2) Figures for 2014 have been adjusted in line with the new organization. 3) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. 4) New definition of operating margin (operating income as % of net sales). See Note 31, Definitions. 5) Adjusted for items affecting comparability. See Note 31, Definitions. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 17 Our operations PostNord Denmark PostNord is the market leader in mail services and is responsible for the universal postal service in Denmark. In addition, PostNord provides a full-range logistics offering, including welfare distribution and service logistics. PostNord has a distribution network consisting of about 1,200 post offices (called posthus) and approximately 500 self-service parcel boxes. In 2015, net sales in PostNord Denmark totaled SEK 9,987m, with adjusted operating income amounting to SEK –371m. Market conditions and competition Denmark is one of the world’s most digitized countries and the first country in the world to have passed legislation on mandatory digital communications between the public sector and the business sector and citizens. The digitization process has had a substantial impact on mail volumes, which declined by 16% in 2015. Rapid communication is now handled via text message, e-mail and other social media, which is particularly clear from the declining amount of priority mail sent in Denmark. Competitors in the Danish market for mail distribution and market communications include Bladkompagniet and FK Distribution. The Danish logistics market is continuing to grow, driven by both the expanding volume of e-commerce and rising optimism in the Danish business sector. In 2015, e-commerce grew by 16% to approximately SEK 34 billion1). There are many players competing for a share in the growing logistics market. This is creating intense competition for increased parcel volumes, but at a lower price per item. PostNord’s main competitors in the Danish logistics market are major international players such as DHL, GLS, DB Schenker and UPS. In 2015, PostNord strengthened its position as the leading distributor in the expanding service logistics market, particularly in the groceries distribution segment. Regulatory changes and challenges Events during the year The changes to Danish postal legislation that were • In June 2015, a property in central Copenhagen that adopted in 2014 have been implemented. No further housed the country office for Denmark was divested changes to Danish postal legislation occurred in 2015. for DKK 925 million, resulting in a capital gain of SEK The dramatic fall in mail volumes in Denmark mean 500 million. that further changes to postal regulations are required to • During the year, PostNord signed a significant contract make them sufficiently flexible to make essential future with the Coop cooperative supermarket chain in Denadaptations possible, in response to the continually mark regarding the distribution of direct marketing. changing needs of customers. This is a prerequisite for The contract came into force at year-end 2015/2016. maintaining a universal postal service under reasonable • In 2015, PostNord Denmark established new post economic conditions in the long term. offices at external partners. • Presentation of new business model. Customer Delivery quality demand has driven a shift of volumes from priority to Delivery quality at PostNord Denmark was 92.8% (94.8) non-priority mail. As a result, priority mail has essenfor 1st class mail and 97.1% (98.0) for parcels, compared to tially become an express service. A substantial increase PostNord’s own target of 95.0% for 1st class mail and in the price of priority mail has been announced to 98.0% for parcels. The Danish State’s requirement is 93% apply from January 1, 2016, in order to attain reasonable for both mail and parcels. The focus during the year was economic conditions for this faster form of delivery. on improving the delivery quality for 1st class mail, while • PostNord Denmark has streamlined its collection procertain changes were implemented. Quality was negacess for letters and parcels. Previously, a large number tively affected by extreme weather conditions in the last of mailboxes and post offices had separate routes for few months of the year, the establishment of new hubs in emptying and pick-up at fixed times. These have now Helsinge and Gladsaxe and an unlawful strike. been coordinated with the daily delivery. Performance over the year Net sales fell by 2%. Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, net sales declined by 4%. Excluding exchange 1) Source: E-Commerce in the Nordics 2016, PostNord. rate effects, Mail & Communication declined by 10% as a (E-commerce estimated by consumers) result of a 16% fall in mail volumes. Logistics increased by 7%, 18 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Our operations Mail volumes, Denmark Millions of mail items 500 400 300 200 100 0 11 12 13 14 15 Mail volumes, priority mail Mail volumes, non-priority mail External Operating margin, net sales EBIT SEKm % 10,000 9 7,500 6 5,000 3 excluding exchange rate effects, as a result of higher ­volumes in parcel logistics and new customer contracts in 2,500 0 service logistics. Adjusted operating income totaled SEK –371m (–150). The result was substantially affected by lower 0 –3 mail income that has not yet been possible to fully offset 14 15 through cost adjustments. An extensive restructuring proMail & Communication gram is under way for the Danish business. In the fourth Logistics quarter, agreements were entered into with the Danish trade Operating margin, EBIT unions regarding adaptations to current employment terms, which will allow annual cost savings of just over SEK 200m. In order to continually adapt the organization to declining mail volumes, provisions related to restructuring totaling SEK 384m (434) were recognized in the fourth quarter. PostNord Denmark1), 2) 2015 2014 Change Change3) Net sales, SEKm 9,987 10,164 –2% –4% of which Mail & Communication (external) 6,109 6,600 –7% –10% of which Logistics (external)6) 3,400 3,079 10% 7% Operating income (EBIT), SEKm –287 –218 Operating margin, %4) –2.9 –2.1 Adjusted operating income (EBIT), SEKm5) –371 –150 Adjusted operating margin, %4), 5) –3.7 –1.5 Priority mail, millions of items 201 237 –15% n/a Non-priority mail and C-mail, millions of items 259 308 –16% n/a 1) Division into geographic areas is principally based on registered corporate domicile. 2) Figures for 2014 have been adjusted in line with the new organization. 3) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. 4) New definition of operating margin (operating income as % of net sales). See Note 31, Definitions. 5) Adjusted for items affecting comparability. See Note 31, Definitions. 6) Including Logistics’ operations in Germany. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 19 Our operations PostNord Norway In Norway, PostNord is one of the country’s largest logistics company, with a strong position in mixed cargo groupage, consignment goods, thermal transportation and parcel goods. ­PostNord has about 1,400 distribution points. In 2015, net sales totaled SEK 4,112m and adjusted operating income SEK –25m. Regulatory changes EEA member Norway had not previously implemented the same liberalization measures in the postal market as the EU Member States, so the Norwegian postal market remained regulated up until the end of 2015/beginning of 2016. In September 2015, the Norwegian government announced that a new postal law will come into force as of January 1, 2016. As a result, the mail monopoly in the country is being phased out. An opening up of the Norwegian mail market could bring opportunities for PostNord and other postal operators to expand their mail operations to Norway. Market conditions and competition Market growth within e-commerce remains strong, and in Delivery quality 2015 e-commerce grew by 18% to just over SEK 41 billion1). Delivery quality for parcels reached 96.2% (96.4). The aim The intense competition and accompanying price presis to achieve delivery quality of 98% and improvement sure in the Norwegian logistics market remains. The Noractivities are continually under way to achieve this target. wegian market was impacted negatively by the low oil price during the year, which has put considerable presPerformance over the year sure on the Norwegian business sector. PostNord Norway Year-on-year net sales fell 5%. Excluding acquisitions and is tackling the market situation by continuing to focus on exchange rate effects, net sales decreased by 3%. Growth increasing cost-effectiveness and flexibility in the busiin the e-commerce market remains strong, but the tough ness and by providing a competitive end-to-end offering. price competition in logistics is holding back both sales The main competitors are Bring and DB Schenker, but and profitability. The latter half of 2015 was also affected DHL and smaller players also compete. by the slowdown in the Norwegian economy. The adjusted full-year operating income improved, to Events during the year SEK –25m (–35). • On May 1, the transport and logistics company Jetpak Borg AS was acquired. Jetpak Borg is a well-respected External Operating margin, transport and logistics company offering tailored solunet sales EBIT tions for long-distance deliveries in Norway. Jetpak SEKm % Borg’s unique distribution system provides nightly 5,000 8 long-distance shipments from centralized warehouses in Scandinavia to more than 500 recipients in Norway. 4,000 6 • September saw the commissioning of the new sorting machines in Alfaset, which coupled with the new 3,000 4 depots will ensure improved operational stability and 2,000 2 cost-effective delivery quality. • Extended contract with Coop Norge SA, which has 1,000 0 become an even bigger player since the acquisition of 0 –2 ICA’s operations in Norway. 14 15 Mail & Communication 1) Source: E-commerce in the Nordics 2016, PostNord. Logistics (E-commerce estimated by consumers) Operating margin, EBIT PostNord Norway1), 2) 2015 2014 Change Change3) Net sales, SEKm 4,112 4,313 –5% –3% of which Mail & Communication (external) 47 37 27% 32% of which Logistics (external) 3,660 3,933 –7% –5% Operating income (EBIT), SEKm –34 –46 Operating margin, %4) –0.8 –1.1 Adjusted operating income (EBIT), SEKm5) –25 –35 Adjusted operating margin, %4), 5) –0.6 –0.8 1) Division into geographic areas is principally based on registered corporate domicile. 2) Figures for 2014 have been adjusted in line with the new organization. 3) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. 4) New definition of operating margin (operating income as % of net sales). See Note 31, Definitions. 5) Adjusted for items affecting comparability. See Note 31, Definitions. 20 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Our operations PostNord Finland In Finland, PostNord mainly operates logistics services but also offers the distribution of parcels to consumers. PostNord has about 1,100 distribution points in Finland. In 2015, net sales totaled SEK 787m. Adjusted operating income was SEK –1m. Market conditions and competition The logistics market in Finland is relatively fragmented, with many local players. The economic situation in ­Finland is challenging and competition is tough. Against that background, PostNord Finland constantly focuses on increasing cost effectiveness in business operations and on offering competitive end-to-end solutions. Meanwhile, e-commerce continues to grow, increasing by 12% to approximately SEK 25 billion1) in 2015. PostNord Finland is among the leading operators in overnight distribution, especially of car spares, and in B2C distribution, via its extensive network of distribution points. The main competitors are Posti Group and DB Schenker. Delivery quality Delivery quality for parcels showed a positive trend and Events during the year significantly improved to 95.7% (92.2). The improvement • In September, Uudenmaan Pikakuljetus Oy (UPK) was is a result of a long-term focus on quality, better measureacquired from DSV Road Oy. The deal strengthens ment methods and follow-up, as well as a proactive diaPostNord’s position in Finland within domestic parcel logue with subcontractors. transportation, scheduled deliveries, logistics solutions for healthcare and e-commerce and temperature-­ Performance over the year controlled transport services. Net sales grew by 18%. Excluding acquisitions and • Major contracts were signed during the year with exchange rate effects, net sales increased 4%, primarily in the following customers: parcels and pallets. –B auhaus byggmarknad. Deliveries within e-comAdjusted operating income totaled SEK –1m (–5). The merce and warehousing arranged by PostNord. improvement is attributable to higher sales and previously –L ejos, importer of fast-moving consumer goods implemented cost-cutting measures. Transaction and inte(FMCG). Warehousing arranged by PostNord. gration expenses in connection with acquisitions had a neg–M usti ja Mirri, the leading Nordic supplier of pet ative impact on earnings during the latter half of the year. goods. Export deliveries arranged by PostNord. External Operating net sales margin, EBIT Regulatory changes SEKm % In line with the government program, the Ministry of 800 6 Transport and Communications in Finland has initiated a process to improve the legal conditions and as part of this 600 4 work a project to reform postal regulations was lauched. The aim is to draw up postal legislation that is more flexi400 2 ble and better adapted to the changing demands of the market. The reform is intended to reduce any barriers ­preventing potential operators from entering the Finnish 200 0 market, and to simplify the administrative requirements imposed on postal operations. 0 –2 14 15 Mail & Communication 1) Source: E-commerce in the Nordics 2016, PostNord. Logistics (E-commerce estimated by consumers) Operating margin, EBIT PostNord Finland1), 2) 2015 2014 Change Change3) Net sales, SEKm 787 665 18% 4% of which Mail & Communication (external) 15 15 0% –3% of which Logistics (external) 538 441 22% 1% Operating income (EBIT), SEKm –1 –5 Operating margin, %4) –0.1 –0.8 Adjusted operating income (EBIT), SEKm5) –1 –5 Adjusted operating margin, %4), 5) –0.1 –0.8 1) Division into geographic areas is principally based on registered corporate domicile. 2) Figures for 2014 have been adjusted in line with the new organization. 3) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. 4) New definition of operating margin (operating income as % of net sales). See Note 31, Definitions. 5) Adjusted for items affecting comparability. See Note 31, Definitions. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 21 Our operations PostNord Strålfors PostNord Strålfors offers physical and digital communications solutions that give companies with a large customer base unique opportunities to build stronger and more personal customer ­relationships. In 2015, net sales totaled SEK 2,335m and adjusted operating income SEK 86m. c­ ompanies are moving over to digital communication with their customers, physical volumes and print are declining. At the same time, however, this loss is being ­offset by higher digital volumes and new customer c­ ontracts. Events during the year • At the beginning of the year the Swedish fulfillment business, a TPL solution, was transferred to PostNord Sweden. • After evaluating possible divestment of Strålfors, ­PostNord has decided to retain Strålfors in the Group. • Annemarie Gardshol, who has been the acting CEO of Strålfors since May 2015, took on the permanent Market conditions and competition position of CEO of Strålfors in October. The market for customer communication is changing, • As of 2016, PostNord Strålfors’ service development and it is becoming increasingly important for companies business will be part of the Group’s new joint business to communicate on the recipient’s terms, both physically area Communication Services. and digitally. PostNord Strålfors enables its customers (whoever the sender may be in the customer organizaPerformance over the year tion) via simple means to ensure consistent messages taiNet sales fell by 2%. Excluding acquisitions and exchange lored to the language and needs of the recipient/end-cusrate effects, net sales decreased by 3%. tomer. Over the years, PostNord Strålfors’ communicaAdjusted operating income totaled SEK 86m (15). tions solutions have helped companies strengthen their The improvement is mainly attributable to implemented brands, generating new business by optimizing customcost-cutting programs. ers’ results. Smarter communication produces strong customer loyalty, increased sales and greater efficiency. ComExternal Operating margin, petitors with a coordinated Nordic offering for physical net sales EBIT and digital services on the Nordic market include Opus SEKm % Capita and Logica. In Sweden, companies Parajett, KMD, 2,500 12 Logica, Evry and Xerox are included. The strength of PostNord Strålfors’ offering is built on 2,000 9 the database that has a unique ability to intelligently process large volumes of information and, in so doing, man1,500 6 age the company’s relationships with its end-customers. 1,000 3 The customer offering covers everything from analysis of the delivery preferences of the company’s customers, 500 0 graphic design of communication material such as 0 –3 invoices, print solutions for physical communication, 14 15 ­handling of digital or physical communication, to final Net sales analysis and follow-up. Given that a rising number of Operating margin, EBIT PostNord Strålfors1), 2) 2015 2014 Change Change3) Net sales, SEKm 2,335 2,380 –2% –3% Operating income (EBIT), SEKm –36 –49 Operating margin, %4) –1.5 –2.1 Adjusted operating income (EBIT), SEKm5) 86 15 Adjusted operating margin, %4), 5) 3.7 0.6 1) Division into geographic areas is principally based on registered corporate domicile. 2) Figures for 2014 have been adjusted in line with the new organization. 3) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. 4) New definition of operating margin (operating income as % of net sales). See Note 31, Definitions. 5) Adjusted for items affecting comparability. See Note 31, Definitions. 22 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 “With PostNord, we reach the right people at the right time” It is particularly important in the consumer elecat the right time,” explains Marina Davarinou, tronics industry to communicate with the right SIBA’s marketing director. ­customers about the right offerings, and at the right “PostNord’s delivery reliability and distribution time. SIBA has therefore chosen to invest in direct opportunities are two of the­r­ easons why we work mail, as a complement to its digital media mix. with them,” adds Marina Davarinou. “But the people “Unaddressed direct mail gives us a greater physical we work with are equally important. Our team at reach, while offering good opportunities to target PostNord is skilled and highly committed.” our marketing so that we get to the right people Financial development Financial overview 2015 Net sales and income Equity and net debt SEKm 2015 20141) %2) For full-year 2015, equity increased to SEK 9,150m from SEK 7,991m on December 31, 2014. The increase mainly Net sales stems from revaluation of pension obligations and penPostNord Sweden 23,080 23,154 0 sion assets under management totaling SEK 1,388m, net, of which Mail & Communication (ext) 12,995 13,513 –4 which was mainly affected by higher interest rates and a of which Logistics (ext) 9,012 8,756 3 positive return on the pension assets, as well as improved PostNord Denmark 9,987 10,164 –4 net income. However, translation differences of SEK of which Mail & Communication (ext) 6,109 6,600 –10 –342m and a change in deferred tax of SEK –166m of which Logistics (ext) 3,400 3,079 7 reduced equity. PostNord Norway 4,112 4,313 –3 of which Mail & Communication (ext) 47 37 32 SEKm Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 of which Logistics (ext 3,660 3,933 –5 Financial receivables 2,117 1,092 PostNord Finland 787 665 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1,894 1,843 of which Mail & Communication (ext) 15 15 –3 Interest-bearing liabilities –3,840 –5,384 of which Logistics (ext) 538 441 1 Pensions1) 0 –1,223 PostNord Strålfors 2,335 2,380 –3 Net debt 171 –3,672 Other countries 1,327 1,303 2 1) Including plan assets. When the plan assets exceed the estimated ­present value of the pension obligations, they are recognized under Group total 39,351 39,950 –3 the heading of Financial receivables. Adjusted operating income (EBIT) 927 861 Operating income, EBIT 564 351 The Group’s net debt fell by SEK 3,843m during the year to SEK –171m, i.e. a positive net. The decrease is largely a Net income for the period 278 176 result of the above-mentioned revaluation of pension obli1) Comparative figures have been restated to reflect organizational changes. gations and pension assets under management, as well 2) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. as the divestment of property. Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, P­ostNord’s net sales decreased by 3%. Mail volumes Cash flows declined by a total of 8%; 16% in Denmark and 6% in Cash flow from operating activities totaled SEK 1,670m ­Sweden. Parcel volumes increased by 10%, of which (670). The improvement on last year was mainly due to e-commerce-related B2C parcel volumes rose 15%. 2014 was negatively affected by payment deferrals at the The Group’s adjusted operating income amounted to turn of 2013/2014 as well as improvements in working SEK 927m (861). The result has been adjusted for items capital and operating income during 2015. affecting comparability totaling SEK 363m, net, (510). Cost Cash flow from investing activities totaled SEK –646m reductions in both production and administration had a (–1,386). During the second quarter 2015, a property was positive impact on earnings, while lower mail income divested in Copenhagen for SEK 1,164m. In conjunction mainly in Denmark has had a negative effect. with the divestment, the buyer took over a property loan The Group’s reported operating income totaled SEK of SEK 665m, and SEK 495m was paid. During the fourth 564m (351). The operating margin was 1.4% (0.9). Net quarter 2014, a property was divested in Copenhagen for financial items totaled SEK –113m (–106) and tax was SEK DKK 400m. Investments in property, plant and equip–173m (–69). Net income totaled SEK 278m (176). For furment decreased as new terminals were completed and ther information on developments in PostNord’s country investment activities were more strictly governed. organization, see pages 16–22. Cash flow from financing activities totaled SEK –967m (566). In the course of 2015, bond loans under the MTN Business areas program and commercial paper totaling SEK 740m were External repaid. Loans of SEK 750m, net, were raised in 2014. net sales, SEKm1), 2) 2015 2014 % Parent Company Mail & Communication 20,490 21,438 –6 The Parent Company has conducted very limited operaLogistics 16,610 16,207 2 tions in the form of intra-Group service, and at December PostNord Strålfors 2,251 2,305 –4 31 the Company had three employees. No net sales were Group total 39,351 39,350 –3 recognized during the year. Operating expenses totaled 1) Comparative figures have been restated to reflect organizational changes. SEK 39m (40). Financial items totaled SEK –28m (31). Of 2) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. financial items, dividend from subsidiaries accounted for SEK 0m (200). Income for the year totaled SEK –7m (192). Year-on-year net sales for Business area Mail & Communication was down 6% excluding acquisitions and exchange Proposed distribution of earnings rate effects. The fall in net sales is mainly attributable to The Board of Directors proposes that unappropriated continued digitization and declining mail volumes. earnings be distributed as follows: Year-on-year net sales for Business area Logistics rose 2%. E-commerce is showing consistently strong growth SEK and parcel volumes increased by 10%, of which e-comCarried forward 3,623,747,627 merce-related B2C volumes rose 15%. Volumes increased Total 3,623,747,627 on all markets. However, the tough price competition in logistics is subduing sales growth. Considering the Company’s results and continued restructuring requirements the Board of Directors ­proposes that no dividend be paid. 24 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Financial development Key events 2015 Q1 Evaluation of conditions for possible divestment Cost-saving program of the Strålfors business completed The restructuring program to phase out just under 800 After evaluating possible divestment of Strålfors, PostNord positions in administration and other support functions has decided to retain Strålfors in the Group. PostNord will was concluded. The majority of the positions were elimiintegrate its digital and physical communication business nated by mid-year. It is estimated that the program will more strongly to build more customer benefit and combring annual savings of around SEK 500m. petitiveness. The Group’s service development in physical and digital communication will be pooled in one new, joint Q2 business area – Communication Services – based on the Verdict of the European Court of Justice Mail & Communication business area and Strålfors’ service on charging VAT development business. Late April saw the verdict of the European Court of JusAnnemarie Gardshol, acting CEO of Strålfors since tice on the case brought by the European Commission May, took on the permanent position of CEO of Strålfors. against the Swedish State for non-compliance with EU rules regarding value added tax on postal services. The Q4 verdict went in the Commission’s favor, with the result Focus on digital Communications that universal postal services not covered by individually Details surrounding the new organization that came into negotiated agreements are to be VAT-exempted. force on January 1, 2016, were announced: • The Communication Services business area was estabAnnual General Meeting 2015 lished, based on Business area Mail & Communication PostNord’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) took place on and Strålfors’ service development business. Andreas April 23, 2015, at the Group’s headquarters in Solna. The Falkenmark was appointed Head of Communication Chairman and all Board members were re-elected and Services. the accounting firm KPMG AB was re-appointed to serve • Business area e-Commerce & Logistics business area in the period until the end of the next AGM. The AGM was established by merging Business area Logistics resolved that no dividend would be paid. and the Group unit eCommerce. Peter Kjaer Jensen remains head of the business area. New managing director for Postens Pensionsstiftelse • The Group function Strategy & Commercial Excellence (the Posten Pension Fund) was established, with Jan Starrsjö as head and member On June 1, 2015, John Vivstam took up his position as of the Group Executive Team. the new Managing Director of Postens Pensionsstiftelse. The foundation manages and secures pension obligaImportant events after the reporting period tions for the PostNord Group AB and PostNord Sverige Björn Ekstedt appointed CIO AB companies. Björn Ekstedt took over from Joss Delissen, who decided to leave PostNord. Björn Ekstedt joined the Group on Divestment of property in Denmark ­February 1, 2016, and takes over CIO responsibility A property in central Copenhagen was divested for a from March 1, when he will also become a member ­purchase consideration of DKK 925m, which resulted in of PostNord’s Group Executive Team. a capital gain of SEK 500m. In conjunction with the transaction, a property loan of SEK 665m was taken over by the buyer. Cash and cash equivalents of SEK 499m were settled in July 2015. Q3 Acquisition of the company Uudenmaan Pikakuljetus Oy (UPK) in Finland Following approval by the Finnish Competition and ­Consumer Authority, PostNord Oy acquired the company Uudenmaan Pikakuljetus Oy (UPK) on September 1. UPK reported sales of about EUR 24 million in 2014 and has around 60 employees. The deal considerably strengthens PostNord’s position in Finland within domestic parcel transportation, scheduled deliveries, logistics solutions for healthcare and e-commerce and temperature-controlled transport services. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 25 PostNord’s sustainability work Sustainability in everything we do PostNord will integrate sustainability aspects into everything we do in order to be able to ­conduct sustainable operations – in other words, be a responsible business that benefits ­customers, employees, owners and society. Integrating sustainability into everything that PostNord chain being given higher priority. As of 2016, the Group does is a priority area in the Group’s strategy. This means has adopted a new target for sustainable supply chain and taking social, economic and environmental parameters has sharpened its focus on follow-up (see page 36). into account, in day-to-day work, on a more strategic level and during decision-making. Constant improvements with management system The Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines Certification is a competitive advantage that many cusfor State-owned enterprises require PostNord to act in an tomers request. This involves regular internal evaluations exemplary fashion in the area of sustainable enterprise. and external audits, which form an important element of State-owned companies must have a carefully considthe work on internal improvement. ered and well-established policy and strategy, together The Swedish and Danish parts of the organization with strategic targets for sustainable enterprise. Like other have already been certified to the standards for occupaState-owned companies, PostNord’s performance is meational health and safety (OHSAS 18001), quality (ISO 9001) sured against both financial and non-financial targets. and the environment (ISO 14001). PostNord Norway and The Group Executive Team, in which the HR Director PostNord Strålfors have their own quality and environalso bears main responsibility for sustainability issues, is mental certificates. charged with overall responsibility for PostNord's work on sustainability. This work is managed functionally via a strategic, tactical and operational working group, whose princiFocus on material aspects pal task is to ensure that the Group’s strategic agenda for If the Group is to move forward in the right way, the abilsustainability is integrated into the areas of responsibility of ity to predict, understand and act on the issues that our the country organizations. The working group is made up stakeholders perceive as important will be essential. The of representatives of the country organizations and of the issues that are most material to PostNord are as follows: Group’s sustainability and communication departments. • We are striving for long-term, sustainable development During the year, analysis and validation continued to • We enable companies and consumers to do business ensure that PostNord is focusing on the most material and communicate sustainability issues (for more on the Materiality Assess• We take responsibility for our environmental impact. ment, see pages 88–89). • We care about our employees The demands of PostNord’s stakeholders regarding • We take responsibility for our impact on society the supply chain have grown. At the same time, the • We make demands when purchasing goods Group’s need for greater flexibility has made it increasingly and services necessary for PostNord to engage subcontractors in, for • We comply with legislation and regulations example, transportation. Overall, this has resulted in the setting of requirements for and screening in the suppliy With the customer in focus, we integrate sustainability into everything we do TY • Profitability • MIX SO • Capital • LIX NCIAL RESPON CIA structure • Female FINA • Dividend managers L RE SIB SPONSIBILIT Y CUSTOMER TARGETS ILI • Customer value index CUSTOMER • Company’s reputation • Delivery quality WE DELIVER • Sustainable • Reduce carbon supply chain ­dioxide emissions EN VIR IT Y ON M IBIL ENTAL RESPONS 26 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 PostNord’s sustainability work By understanding and acting on the issues that PosNord’s prerequisite of functioning as a competitive enterprise. stakeholders perceive as important, the Group can move The groups that are most impacted by or are most forward in the right way. In addition, understanding which dependent on PostNord’s operations are described issues are most important to PostNord’s stakeholders is a below. Target Dialogue and follow-up Issues in focus CUSTOMERS Improve ratings in Corporate Image Customer meetings, customer Delivery quality, accessibility, high PostNord is a leading Index and Customer Value Index, s­ ervice, drivers and mail carriers, level of expertise among sales repreplayer in communiimprove performance vis-à-vis qualPostNord's service network, cussentatives, good customer service, cation and logistics in ity targets for delivery of mail and tomer ombudsman/appeals body, security, environment, focus on the Nordic region parcels (see page 13). customer and reputation surveys. ­customer solutions, sustainability and aims to be the in supply chain. first choice for customers and recipients throughout the region OWNERS Return on capital employed 10.5%, Annual General Meeting (AGM), Value creation and financial stability, The overall mission net debt/equity ratio 10–50%, diviannual report and sustainability responsible and attractive employer, from PostNord’s owndend, reduce carbon dioxide emisreport, interim financial statements, sustainable logistics, sustainable ers is to ensure provisions, improve gender equality ongoing dialogue via discussions products and services, sustainability sion of a universal (see page 13). and meetings. in supply chain, performance of unipostal service and at versal service obligation stipulated the same time create by law, and license conditions. value SOCIETY Improve rating in Corporate Image Dialogues with public authorities, polDelivery quality, environment, secuPostNord plays a key Index, reduce carbon dioxide iticians and opinion leaders. Dialogue rity, reliability, accessibility, considerrole in the Nordic ­emissions (see page 13). and collaboration with trade associaation of customer needs, degree of business community tions, stakeholder groups (e.g., rural), value for money of products and and society organizations for sustainable devel­services. opment and social responsibility. ­Dialogues with students. EMPLOYEES Improve ratings in employee index Performance appraisals, workplace Customer, information on the develWith around 35,000 (MIX) and leadership index (LIX), meetings, employee dialogues, opment and direction of the Group, employees, PostNord increase gender equality employee surveys, communication responsible restructuring, working is one of the biggest (see page 13). via in-house channels, dialogue with conditions, health and safety, develemployers in the trade unions. opment opportunities, gender Nordic region ­equality. BUSINESS 80% of annual volume of purchasing Supplier meetings, tenders and Partnership, delivery reliability, infor­PARTNERS from suppliers who have signed up ­ urchasing negotiations, dialogue p mation from PostNord in support of Business partners to and comply with the PostNord with partner outlets. customer service. Transparency in summarizes PostCode for Suppliers. procurement processes, capacity Nord's relationships for payment, quality of delivery. with partners outside ­Sustainability in the supply chain. the Group, for example suppliers and partner outlets. Every year, PostNord purchases goods and services to a value of billions of kronor. The Group has around 6,000 distribution points CAPITAL MARKET Ambition to be an “investment grade Interim financial statements, annual Value creation and financial stability, PostNord finances company”. report and sustainability report, net debt/equity ratio, cash flow, its business partly meetings and discussions with ana­business model, ownership structure. through bonds. lysts and investors. ­Capital market ­confidence is therefore important to PostNord PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 27 PostNord’s sustainability work An enabler in the business community and society PostNord plays a key role in the Nordic business community and society. Every day, PostNord makes it ­possible for companies, public authorities and private individuals to do business and communicate with each other. PostNord’s universal service obligation is vital in enabling all Sweden to function. Postal service for all quality is assured by adding equally high demands to delivery at the PostNord is commissioned to provide the universal postal service right time and perfect condition. throughout Sweden and Denmark. The Group's wide-ranging presPostNord works in close dialogue with public authorities and trade ence enables trade between companies and consumers, regardless of organizations on continuously reviewing and adapting its capacity to geographical distance. This benefits parties such as e-retailers and their maintain deliveries in the event of disruptions and downtime of varicustomers in rural areas. In Sweden around 700,000 households in ous types. PostNord's program for business continuity management rural areas are covered by the rural mail delivery service, an extended complies with the ISO 22301 standard. service that in addition to regular mail delivery gives consumers the Rising levels of fraud in society, in particular the use of forged identity option of having parcels delivered to the door at no extra cost. cards for the collection of mail and parcels, demand a great deal from PostNord’s valued partner outlets in Sweden and post offices in PostNord's processes and procedures in terms of security. As fraud is Denmark offer the most in-demand services, such as collection and already a fact before, for example, collection, PostNord is driving issues dispatch of large items. The Group makes considerable demands of its such as more effective customer and order checking at companies and network of partner outlets in terms, for example, of distance, business a review at national level and action programs. The total number of crimihours, parking facilities and disabled access, to ensure high accessibilnal acts against the Group, including theft and fraud, has been reduced ity and standards of service for its customers. and the number of criminal acts discovered and prevented has risen since 2014. Work on establishing a statistical and predictive capacity for Distributor of community information security analysis was initiated during the year. The universal postal obligation means that PostNord is the only player The number of high-value products in the logistics flow continues that reaches all households with physical community information. This to increase, which is placing pressure on security in facilities and information also reaches households who have opted out of receiving ­vehicles. PostNord's overall program for security guarantees uniform advertising by post. With its unique distribution capacity and special role, and customized security and quality in all of the Group's deliveries. PostNord bears a major responsibility. The Group does not discriminate The program is reviewed annually. against senders or types of mail items, provided that the content is legal. In some cases, recipients may object to the delivery of certain Information security and privacy protection political information, for example, which may affect the work environAs a major player in communication services, the Group also has a ment of mail carriers. The safety of mail carriers always comes first responsibility regarding information security, for example in the form and PostNord has highly developed work environment and safety of handling personal data, card information and other sensitive private procedures. To facilitate the work of mail carriers, briefings are held information, as well as in terms of counteracting threats and risks to in the workplaces prior to delivery of sensitive material. information security. Managing personal data constitutes a major part of PostNord's Cooperation on security issues services and PostNord bears a major responsibility as personal data PostNord's stringent requirements for delivery reliability focus on processor. For example, personal data is used for sorting and deliverdelivery of intact mail and parcels to the right place, and high delivery ing mail items or when sending out invoices on behalf of customers. PostNord also manages the personal data of its employees as ­personal data controller. Great values to many During the year, the information security framework was impleA long-term, stable and profitable business creates opportunities mented and fine-tuned, comprising policies and the instructions on for meeting and exceeding demands for environmental adaptawhich they are based, which comply with the ISO 27000 standard. tion and social responsibility. It is not only PostNord's owners, the Along with a forthcoming EU regulation, which aims to protect sensiDanish and Swedish States, that benefit from the Group's financial tive private information, this policy constitutes a key component of results; employees also benefit in the form of salaries and other the Group's management of information. remuneration, as do suppliers, lenders and citizens in the countries In 2015, no complaints were received from public authorities or in which PostNord operates, who benefit via tax payments. The other bodies regarding how personal data was handled, and no known total value distributed in 2015 was SEK 37,987m, as shown below: cases of identified leaks, thefts or losses of personal data occurred. Distribution of total value, 2015 Many forums for meeting with customers Many of PostNord's employees, such as mail carriers, drivers and Suppliers, 51.0% ­customer service staff, have day-to-day contact with consumers and corporate customers. If a customer is not completely satisfied with a Employees, 48.3% meeting or decision, they have the option of contacting a customer Creditors, 0.3% ombudsman in Sweden and an appeal body in Denmark. Feedback Society, 0.4% from all of these channels serves as an aid to PostNord's development. In order to predict, understand and meet various customer needs, work on sharing information/experience is prioritized within the Group. Placing the customer service function in contact with the sales force means that PostNord can develop offers to customers and create new business opportunities. 28 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 “In PostNord, we have a partner for all our needs” “We make sure we have good products and prices. Since 2014, PostNord has been taking care of all But that isn’t enough,” says Ole Vinje, CEO at of Komplett’s deliveries in Norway, Denmark Komplett. “The delivery itself is just as important. and Sweden. If the transport process doesn’t work – if our cus“The partnership’s working very well. In tomers don’t get their goods at the right time and in ­PostNord, we have a partner for all our needs. ­perfect condition – we’re the ones who take the hit. In addition, their services make a perfect fit for us We’ve been doing this for a while and know just how as an e-retailer, partly because of their seamless vulnerable we can be.” handling of returns.” Employees Continued competence renewal and responsible restructuring The structural transformation under way – adaptation to lower letter volumes and expansion of e-commerce – is a reality affecting the entire industry, every part of the Group and, ultimately, every single employee. For this change to be managed successfully and in a responsible way, the process of competence renewal and adjustment will have to be managed carefully, with greater insight in the market situation and clear leadership. A Nordic employer c­ utbacks in Sweden and Denmark are being facilitated by At year-end 2015, PostNord had 42,111 (44,859) employees, the Group's various restructuring programs. These differ of whom 7,292 (8,793) were temporary staff. The average according to country but in some cases cover extended number of employees (FTEs) over the year was 35,256 periods of notice, coaching, education and similar support. (37,407). The majority are employed in the Nordic region and work as mail carriers, drivers or employees at mail or Closer focus on leadership during change logistics terminals. Since PostNord is a staff-intensive busiAs a way of supporting managers in the challenging work of ness with seasonal variations, many employees are on leading an organization in transformation, a training program temporary contracts. All employees at PostNord are entientitled “Leading Change at PostNord” was launched in 2015. tled to join associations and other organizations, as well The program was conducted within all management teams as to organize trade unions. Within the Group over 99 perin 2015 and is continuing in 2016. The aim is to take ownercent of the workforce is covered by collective agreeship of the work of transformation and to raise the level of ments, which are signed in each respective country. commitment among employees via better insight into how changes in the world outside and new aspects of customer behavior impact on their day-to-day work. Number of employees per category at the end of the period – basic staff 2015 2014 Employees sounded out in survey Administrative personnel 4,412 5,148 PostNord carries out an annual Group-wide employee surof whom, women ​1,963 ​2,405 vey in which employees answer questions on topics such of whom, men 2,449 2,743 as commitment, cooperation, well-being and health, and the Production personnel 30,407 ​30,918 leadership of their immediate manager. The response freof whom, women 9,490 9,573 quency in 2015 was 81% (84). The result for the Employee Index in 2015 was 63 (651)). The result is dominated by the of whom, men 20,917 21,345 way in which the continued intensive process of transforTotal, Group 34,819 ​36,066 mation aimed at dealing with the constant decline in letter volumes is affecting how employees perceive their ability to Responsible restructuring influence their work load, climate at work, opportunities for The restructuring of the Group to adapt the business to development and confidence in the future. The result for the lower mail volumes has been in progress for several the Leadership Index was 68 (681). The main factor explainyears and has led to several savings programs. HR work in ing the result is that trust in employees’ immediate manager 2015 focused mainly on the staff cutbacks initiated 2014, and his/her leadership qualities remains high. By providing as well as on organizational changes. In total 4,768 (3,785) additional tools for leading change to all managers, employees left the Group during the year. PostNord's ­PostNord is set to improve both results during 2016. ambition is to act responsibly during staff reductions, working closely with the unions. To a major extent, the 1) Results for 2014 adjusted. See page 87. Number of employees at end of period 40,000 12,599 12,002 11,453 30,000 24,888 24,064 23,366 20,000 10,000 3,706 3,020 2,633 6,474 5,773 4,659 0 13 14 15 Basic staff, men Basic staff, women Temporary staff, men Temporary staff, women 30 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Employees Team-based work approach to lighten each other’s load, which will have a positive effect In order to create better opportunity for both influence on the mental and p ­ hysical health of employees. and participation, PostNord has introduced a team-based Total, for for Total, work approach. At year-end 2015, 98% of all PostNord Sick leave, % 2015 men women 2014 units had started to implement the team-based model. Sweden 6.3 5.6 7.9 5.4 The objective for 2016–2017 is to develop this approach Denmark 4.9 4.5 5.8 4.9 and ensure that the desired effect is achieved, with the Norway1) 6.1 n/a n/a 5.8 focus on collaboration across team, national and functional boundaries. Finland 2.8 2.6 3.0 3.5 Other countries 2.6 2.2 3.3 4.9 Dialogue as a tool Total, Group 5.8 5.1 7.0 5.2 PostNord is holding structured employee dialogues to 1) A gender breakdown for sick leave is not available for Norway. As a result, improve communication between managers and employsick leave for Norway is presented only on an aggregated level. ees. In the course of 2015, 71% of the Group’s employees took part in the annual manager-led employee dialogue. Structured reporting for occupational injuries The point of the structured annual employee dialogue is Most occupational injuries in the Group are sustained in firstly to offer all employees the same information on the production and distribution and consist mostly of various Group’s goals and future, and secondly to promote the types of fall accidents. PostNord operates a structured adoption of the discussion format as an integral element system of reporting for accidents and near-accidents in of every workplace. The dialogue held in 2015 focused on order to create a framework for preventing occupational the Group’s strategic objectives for 2020, and everyone injuries. Absence due to accidents, measured in the numwas given the opportunity to talk about and establish conber of hours, has been on the decline since 2010, which sensus on the Group’s priorities. indicates fewer severe occupational injuries. Focus on health and the work environment Occupational injuries PostNord’s focus on health and the work environment is per 1 million challenging and important in times of great change and hours worked Total, 2015 Total, 2014 restructuring. Sick leave is a substantial cost to the Group. Sweden 43.5 45.0 PostNord works in a structured way on leading, managing Denmark 32.6 28.0 and improving the work environment. These activities are Norway 18.4 31.0 governed by the Group policy certified at PostNord Sweden Finland 11.9 21.0 and PostNord Denmark in accordance with OHSAS 18001. Other countries 4.4 9.0 The total sick leave in the Group was 5.8% (5.2). A Total, Group 38.0 38.0 change of one percentage point in sick leave translates in an increase/decrease of around SEK 102m in costs. Sick No occupational fatalities occurred during 2015 and 2014. leave is increasing the most in Sweden, mainly due to the effects of the major organizational changes carried out in Annual planning for competence requirements recent years which are making new demands of employAn analysis of critical competences at PostNord led to an ees. Work on process optimization is playing a crucial role in overall workforce supply plan for 2015–2020. The plan the improvement program. The team-based approach that was adopted in October 2014. An assessment of compehas been implemented will make it easier for employees tence requirements based on the Group’s strategy and business plan is in progress as part of the annual business planning process. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 31 Employees gender distribution. For the period up to 2018, the equality target has been sub-divided into two categories. The target for management levels 1–3 are that 38% should be women, while the target for management levels 4+ is 31%. The manager concerned is responsible for the equality issue in the recruitment process and for equality and diversity activities in general, with support from the HR function. Every managerial and project manager position is to be advertised, at least in-house. Every effort is to be made to have both genders represented among the final candidates. Gender distribution, basic staffing 2015 2014 2013 Managers 1,702 1,861 2,201 of whom, % women ​28 ​29 2 ​ 9 Number of employees 34,819 ​36,066 37,487 of whom, % women 33 33 34 An organization with great diversity “Move – Change for Diversity” PostNord bases its work on equality and diversity on the To comply with the Company’s Code of Conduct and view that differences among people make a workplace work actively on diversity and equality at all levels, more dynamic and attractive. In production, above all, ­PostNord has established a three-year program: “Move – ­PostNord’s workforce is characterized by a high degree of Change for Diversity”. Through the program PostNord diversity. PostNord's manager must serve as role models in aims to bring the various equality-related issues into this work and must actively promote equality and diversity. focus. Another aim is to develop internal mobility. The PostNord's owners also set requirements in terms of drivobjective of an active diversity and equality program is ing development towards a balanced gender distribution that the composition of the management groups should in senior executive positions. In 2015, PostNord produced better reflect the world outside and the organization. A guidelines and templates for equality and equal opportumanagement team showing diversity creates a better nity in the Nordic region. The objective is to underpin a ­balance, providing the conditions for a wider perspective common strategic direction, level of ambition and longin the work of management, and consequently higher term structured program to promote equality and diversity. quality. The target since 2010 has been to maintain a balanced gender distribution among managers by the end Age analysis, of 2015. The target of having women in 40% of managebasic staffing, 2015 Total % ment roles was not achieved in 2015 but remains as a –29 ​4,856 14 long-term target. In the case of senior managers, 30–50 15,873 ​46 where recruitment often takes place both in-house 51– 14,090 40 and externally, the success rate is higher. Managers at other levels are mostly recruited in-house and in that area Total, Group 34,819 100 long-term measures are needed to establish a more equal How is the initiative helping to develop Move – Change for Diversity 2015 to 2016 diversity and equality at PostNord? Dialogues in management groups on equality Provides ownership and prioritization and educates about and diversity. the area, and where the organization is. Mentorship program. Better networks and visibility for more leadership talents. Initiatives to educate about prejudices and standards. Seminars on workplace equality and diversity. Increase knowledge about facts and in-house work on diversity. Focus on broader selection for Ensures that there is a plentiful supply of applicants with management candidate and talent programs. good potential for senior positions. Diversity and equality part of training courses Educates in how to make the most of differences and programs. and the value of diversity. Follow-up gender distribution among applicants and Provides framework for ensuring that agreed guidelines ­employees for management, leadership and project are observed. ­manager positions. Highlight what we can offer our employees and the diversity Attract greater numbers of and a wider diversity in we have in our organization, in-house and externally. competent applicants. 32 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Environment Initiatives to reduce climate impact are delivering results Being one of the Nordic region’s foremost suppliers of communications and logistics solutions, PostNord is associated with environmental impact, mainly in the form of carbon dioxide emissions from road transport. Through its focus on reducing its energy consumption and cutting its emissions, PostNord is clearing the way to becoming a more environmentally sound ­company. As a transportation company, emissions of carbon dioxide How PostNord is continuing to from PostNord’s own vehicles and outsourced transportacut its carbon dioxide emissions tion services represent the largest environmental impact. In 2015, an in-depth analysis was carried out to identify The Group uses all types of transportation in its business – what further measures would be required to achieve the from airplanes and trucks to mopeds and bicycles. Reductarget of lower carbon dioxide emissions. The analysis ing the Group's carbon dioxide emissions is one of the key took accounts of external factors, developments and conareas in sustainability. The Group's long-term environmenditions in the market and PostNord’s strategic direction. tal targets require a reduction of 40% in carbon dioxide The conclusion was that the target will be achieved via iniemissions by 2020, compared to the level in 2009. tiatives in seven principal areas: capacity utilization, use of fuels, biofuels, electric vehicles, increased use of rail and We have made good progress on the way less use of air transport, building-related and other. Since 2009, PostNord has cut its carbon dioxide emissions by around 23%. During 2015, the reduction was nearly 8%. This was achieved through actions in several Carbon dioxide emissions per item, 2015 areas, including purchasing green electricity in more parts of the organization, raising the biofuel content of diesel and merging operations. The introduction of the integrated production model (see page 11), in which letter Emissions per letter and logistics operations are merged and vehicle manage419g increased slightly in ment is coordinated, has already helped to reduce carbon CO 36.9g CO2 2015, while emissions dioxide emissions. In Sweden, the launch of Koncept 36.9g CO2 2 per parcel declined. Utdelning (Concept Distribution), which introduced changes in delivery routines, also contributed to the reduction in 2015 (see page 17). Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions, 2009–20151) (tonnes unless otherwise stated) 2015 20141) 20131) Thousands of metric tonnes 500 Fossil carbon dioxide emissions, total 375,810 407,138 405,377 400 Direct carbon dioxide emissions (EN15, Scope 1) ​129,084 141,960 165,774 300 Own transportation Fossil fuels 127,853 ​140,237 ​163,937 200 Renewable fuels 24,290 15,636 11,458 Direct heat consumption 100 (gas and oil) 1,230 1,722 1,837 Indirect carbon dioxide 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 ­emissions (EN16, Scope 2) 24,521 46,606 37,469 Total CO2 emissions Heat and electricity 81,386 ​112,346 82,563 Purchase of eco-labeled 1) Emissions data includes completed acquisitions. e ­ lectricity (EN19) –56,865 –65,741 –45,094 Previously reported emissions have been adjusted. Other indirect carbon dioxide emissions (EN17, Scope 3) 222,206 218,573 202,134 Distribution of total carbon dioxide emissions Subcontractors, transportation per category (road, rail, air and sea) Fossil fuels 217,255 212,853 ​195,415 Renewable fuels 22,514 9,883 10,889 Transportation by road, 88% Business travel, EN17 4,951 5,720 6,720 Air, 4% Other emissions to air through transportation Sea, 0% (EN21) Business travel, 1% Carbon monoxide 362 607 596 Electricity, 3% Nitrogen oxides 1,674 ​2,854 1,767 Heating, 4% Hydrocarbons (VOC) 300 287 216 Particulates 63 122 57 1) Emissions data includes completed acquisitions. Previously reported emissions have been adjusted. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 33 Environment For the environmental target to be met, certain investments During the year, the environment working group met and project development will be necessary. Since 2009, six times. ­PostNord has had an internal environmental fund that aims The environmental policy is incorporated into the Code to increase the pace of environmental efforts. The Group earof Conduct (see page 9). The Group's environmental aspects marks substantial funds for environment improvement meaare regularly reviewed and assessed. Instructions on practical sures and gives employees the opportunity to make suggesaction in handling PostNord’s environmental impact are tions about how the money should be used. During the years, included in the management system, for example actions to funds were granted for energy optimization measures in buildbe taken in incidents that may affect the environment, chemiings, installation of LED lighting and automatic external doors. cals management and waste management. The instructions take the precautionary principle into account. When busiConditions for target fulfillment nesses are established or relocated, or when new products The Group is influenced by politics and instruments of govand services are developed, environmental impact assessernance at national, regional and local level in different transments are performed, for example with a view to minimizing portation segments. PostNord and other players in the environmental risks. The Group’s environmental work is evalindustry see a major need for stable and predictable energy uated internally through internal controls and evaluations for and transportation policies that take a long-term approach. example. The Group's management system is revised annuThe Swedish and Norwegian railway network is under-mainally by an external party. PostNord's operations in Sweden, tained and its capacity is limited. This naturally affects PostNorway and Denmark, as well as in Strålfors, are environNord's operations, which make high demands in terms of mentally certified according to ISO 14001. delivery quality. Opportunities for a greater number of more rapid and efficient switches between rail and road vehicles, Environmentally licensed operations for example, are also of crucial importance. Alternative fuels PostNord conducts operations in Sweden, Denmark, France and more electric vehicles are required if PostNord is to and Poland that are subject to licensing in accordance with achieve its target. In Sweden, several fuel suppliers provide national legislation. In Sweden, France and Poland, this diesel with a high proportion of biofuel, a diesel standard affects Strålfors’ facilities for graphic production. In Sweden, that is not available to the same extent in the other countries a number of vehicle-washing facilities are also subject to where PostNord operates. environmental licensing. PostNord strives to conduct all functions with the ­minimum possible impact on the environment. Both the We train employees in environmental issues Swedish and the Danish postal regulations stipulate requireIn 2012, a new Group-wide web-based environmental trainments for overnight delivery. To meet such requirements, ing program was introduced, with the aim of improving some mail items must be transported by air in S ­ weden, employee knowledge of PostNord's environmental impact. which means higher carbon dioxide emissions compared to In Sweden and Denmark, the training is compulsory for road or rail transportation. Further, overnight delivery administrative staff. Other parts of the organization also requirements mean that mail must be distributed every have the opportunity to take part in the program, which is weekday, regardless of whether or not the mail carrier's vehiavailable in Swedish, Danish and English. cle is filled to capacity. This means that carbon dioxide emissions per shipment are not decreasing at the same pace as Environmentally sustainable product solutions the overall decrease in mail volumes. In recent years mail PostNord customers set the environmental bar high, giving volumes have fallen sharply in Denmark. The transfer of priPostNord even more reason to reduce its emissions and ority mail to non-priority mail and C-mail is creating extra environmental impact. One of the most important cusflexibility and will also, in the long term, affect emissions per tomer demands is that the business must be environmenletter in Denmark (see pages 18–19). tally certified. Many corporate customers have their own ambitious enviOrganization for a more ronmental targets and, as a transportation supplier, PostNord environment-friendly PostNord can help them achieve these targets. The services offered by PostNord’s environmental targets and its strategic environPostNord include environmentally sound services such as mental work are also included within the HR Director’s areas maximized use of rail transport wherever possible, consolidaof responsibility. Outcomes are followed up on a quarterly tion of loads for optimized capacity utilization and climate basis through reporting to the Group Executive Team and ­efficient direct mail. PostNord also contributes to customers’ Board. The Group’s environment working group consists of reports and communication. This may be done in the form representatives of the sustainability section and the Group’s of customer-specific environmental reports. Customers use country organizations. The function of the group is to enthese reports to monitor and streamline their logistics process, sure that the strategic environmental work is carried out as well as for documentation in their own environmental and and to share experiences and best practice in the Group. sustainability reporting. PRINCIPAL CORRECTIVE MEASURES, 2016–2020 Capacity utilization Building-related Integrated production model (see page 12), load factor and Energy efficiency measures, energy conservation other logistical optimization. ­competitions, optimize area, green electricity. Biofuel More by rail, less by air Optimizing use of biofuel in own and subcontractors’ vehicles, Use of rail transport as much as possible. cooperation with fuel suppliers, purchasing requirements. Electric vehicles Increase the proportion of electric vehicles used, Fuel efficiency above all for deliveries. Eco-driving, competitions for employees, requirements for subcontractors. 34 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Environment More rail transport, less air PostNord transports approximately 65% of mail volumes in Sweden by rail between sorting terminals. In Norway, the majority of parcel and pallet Building-related volumes are transported by rail. In 2013 and 2014, The mail terminal in Rosersberg was certified as a PostNord placed two new terminals in service, one Green Building in 2015. At this terminal, 2,000 m2 of in Hallsberg and one in Rosersberg. The terminals Capacity utilization solar panels have been installed, delivering around are located near the main Swedish rail network, PostNord is filling up vehicles and optimizing 200,000 kWh over a year and meeting roughly 4% with tracks that go right into the buildings, which routes. Constantly striving to ensure that vehicles of the terminal's need for electricity. simplifies the flows transported by rail. are filled to capacity and taking the most intelligent During the year, PostNord Sweden ran an To meet the requirements for overnight delivery, routes possible to cut the costs and reduce energy savings competition in a number of units. letters and parcels must be flown within Sweden. the environmental impact of each shipment. On average, participating units reduced their Transportation by air accounts for 4% (4) of the ­PostNord’s Integrated Production Model increases energy consumption by 19%. Experience from earGroup's total carbon dioxide emissions. In 2012, the possibilities for improving the capacity utilizalier energy saving campaigns in PostNord’s Danish PostNord entered into a partnership with the tion of its vehicles (see page 12). operations shows a similar outcome and that the Group's air services partner, as a result of which outcome can be maintained at around 10% after new radio equipment and training in eco-flying are the campaign has ended. reducing carbon dioxide emissions from Swedish LED lighting and movement sensor control were inland transportation. During 2015, a reduction of installed at the terminal in Vanta, Finland. This has approximately 750 tonnes of carbon dioxide was led to energy savings of around 30% over 2015, made through these initiatives. Nearly 2,400 even though the system was not fully operational tonnes of carbon dioxide have been saved until mid-year. since start-up. © Tomas Öhrling 2014 Biofuel In Sweden, several fuel suppliers supply diesel with a high proportion of biofuel. Operations also employ two trucks that run on a combination of ­liquid methane and diesel, as well as a number of Electric vehicles gas-powered vans. In 2015, approximately 13% of PostNord operates a large electric vehicle fleet. Of the fuel used in the Group’s road transportation Fuel efficiency PostNord's vehicle fleet, electric vehicles account was from biogenic sources, including HVO, low-­ In the course of 2015, PostNord Denmark focused for roughly 27%. Electric vehicles are less expensive admixture FAME and ethanol. In Sweden, where actively on eco-driving; in the program, some of to operate and maintain, with a lower noise levels several fuel suppliers offer a high admixture in PostNord Denmark’s best eco-drivers provided than conventional vehicles. Since 2013, 50 such their diesel, the biogenic component amounts training to their colleagues. To date, approximately vehicles have been in operation in the Group's to around 18%. 1,400 out of a total of 2,100 drivers received train­Danish business. In 2014, two electrically powered ing. Customers have also been offered the chance vans entered service in the Swedish business. For to take part in events focusing on eco-driving. With some time, two electric hybrid trucks have been training in eco-driving, fuel consumption can be used in Sweden. The rest of the electric fleet reduced by up to 20%. Provided that focus and ­consists of small electric vehicles such as club ­follow-up is maintained, a long-term effect of 10% cars, electric mopeds and electric bicycles. is anticipated. During the autumn, PostNord PostNord has signed up to a consortium ­Denmark held a competition in eco-driving. The ­developing an electrified road system at Arlanda competition winners will represent the Danish part Airport. The planned electrified road will enable of the organization in the Group’s 2016 competi­fossil-fuel-free road transport of goods between tion, which all country organizations will enter. Stockholm’s Arlanda Airport and PostNord’s Green Building certified terminal in the Rosersberg logistics zone. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 35 Suppliers Focus on sustainable supply chain Every year, PostNord procures goods and services for substantial amounts. This means that the Group’s supply chain is an important part of our sustainability work. Nordic supplier base until 2020. The adjustment is intended to create a more Every year, PostNord’s Nordic operations procure goods clearly defined basis for continuous follow-up. The target and services for substantial amounts. The largest prountil 2020 is formulated as, based on the annual risk analycurements are made in the category of transportation. sis, no less than 80% of PostNord’s annual procurement In many cases, PostNord's Nordic-based suppliers volumes shall be made from suppliers who have signed have subcontractors in countries outside the Nordic up to and comply with the PostNord Code for Suppliers. In region. For example, promotional clothing and certain addition, as of 2016, PostNord has introduced a non-negoservices are purchased through PostNord’s suppliers and tiable requirement that all suppliers sign up to the Code for subcontractors in Asia. Suppliers. During the year, the Group-wide action plan for control activities, training and follow-up for compliance Control and structure with the Code for Suppliers was updated on the basis of Group Sourcing, part of Group function Finance, is the new risk analysis. The plan will continue to be updated responsible for strategic control of how the Group is to annually or as needed, under the supervision of Group manage sustainability in the supply chain. This includes Sourcing. The plan for monitoring of suppliers is prioriupdating and following up on the Group-wide plan for tized. To date, it has been based on close dialogue and managing sustainability in the supply chain. Operational self-assessment. responsibility for management and follow-up of risks relating to procured transport services lies with the respective Influence through supplier requirements country organization, but is also followed up and aggreBy making demands on its business partners, PostNord can gated on an ongoing basis at Group level. influence various industries in a direction towards sustainability. The basic requirements made of suppliers are sumRisk assessment of suppliers marized in PostNord's Code for Suppliers. Also, where necesIn autumn 2015, a Group-wide risk analysis of PostNord’s sary, PostNord makes productor service-specific demands total procurement volumes was carried out. The analysis, in addition to the Code for Suppliers. In December 2015, which clearly describes and classifies environmental and ­PostNord presented an updated Code for Suppliers, which social risk issues such as working conditions, human is also based on the requirements described in the Group’s rights and anti-corruption, indicated that the category of Code of Conduct. The primary aim of the update was to road transportation is the biggest risk. As a result of the ­simplify and clarify PostNord’s requirements for suppliers risk analysis, PostNord formulated and adjusted its longand thus make them more readily understood. The updated term sustainability target for its supply chain for the period Code for S­ uppliers is available at www.postnord.com. 36 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Compliance Governance to ensure responsibility and compliance Acting responsibly is a requirement in order to continue creating value for owners and maintain trust in the Group. Naturally, PostNord must as a minimum requirement comply with applicable legislation, regulations and general rules in the industry. In addition, PostNord applies several external regulatory frameworks that are not statutory, for example the UN Global Compact. Thus, the Group supports and pledges to conduct its activities in accordance with the ten principles in human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Anti-corruption PostNord shall be a good player in the community why it is especially important that the business should be characterized by good business ethics. PostNord has a zero tolerance approach to corruption. The Code of Conduct includes rules, for example, on handling of conflicts of interest, sponsorship and partners, and suppliers. All forms of market activities and business entertainment must comply with generally accepted principles and applicable industry practice, provided that these involve more stringent requirements than those set out in law. Within the scope of PostNord’s compliance program regarding anti-corruption, a new Group-wide instruction, supplementary to the Code of Conduct, was agreed in 2015. The instruction specifies the circumstances in which third-party business entertainment may be offered and accepted by PostNord. The new rules apply to all employees and in part implement the provisions of the Swedish Code of Business Conduct, administered by the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute (IMM). The instruction has been supplemented by background information and a new set of in-house training material. Typically, purchasers and salesmen run a greater risk of becoming involved in corruption. PostNord has for some time offered training in topics such as anti-corruption legislation, aimed at employees in these categories. During the year, the Group Executive Team, large sections of our sales force and many middle-managers underwent training in the new instruction and associated legislation. Competition on equal terms Follow-up of compliance Effective competition on equal terms is a key component Compliance at PostNord is followed up via PostNord's of a properly functioning economy. On that basis, the special reporting procedure (whistleblower), among other Code of Conduct emphasizes how important it is to routines, which allows anonymous reports to be made in respect PostNord's separate compliance program regardthe event of suspicions of certain types of violations. The ing competition law. During the past year, large numbers system is accessed via the intranet and postnord.com. of PostNord sales personnel, along with employees with During the year, no case arose in which a subsequent special duties within the compliance program relating to investigation indicated any violation of the law or serious competition law, received training in competition law. This breach of PostNord’s Code of Conduct. Further, PostNord training is given on a regular basis. was not in 2015 subject to any judgments with binding effect in cases where PostNord has been found to have General compliance work committed serious breaches of the law. PostNord was PostNord is in the process of drafting a new instruction, also not ordered to pay any fines in connection with violawhich is to form part of the implementation of PostNord’s tions of environmental legislation or other external envigeneral compliance program. The instruction aims to ronmental regulations The same applied to anti-corrupestablish a more standard structure, and enable systemtion and competition law. atic follow-up, of internal rules intended to bring about not only compliance with legislation and other external rules but also effective risk management in sensitive areas. It supplements an earlier adopted in-house document ­hierarchy. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 37 Risk Proactive and target-oriented risk management Proactive, structured risk management creates the conditions to enable PostNord to reach its targets and create value. Risk management is essential to the governance and control of PostNord’s activities. PostNord operates in an international market characterized by Risks related to changes in market conditions changes taking place in several different areas. Structured preparedPostNord operates in a competitive market where market changes ness is necessary to best adapt and optimize the business and to take and position shifts may pose challenges to PostNord's competitive advantage of various opportunities, while at the same time minimizadvantages and profitability. ing risks and losses. The overarching objective of risk management is PostNord must respond to and adapt its business to changes in to ensure that the risks affecting the Group's strategy and targets are customer behavior, changes in market demand, technological develidentified and managed in an effective, systematic and value-creating opment and increased levels of digitization. These are factors that way. Risk management is a continuous process that is integrated into feed through into declining mail volumes. Coordinated public initiathe Group's business planning and in all operations. tives to increase the level of digitization have already impacted the Danish business, and PostNord sees a similar trend in Sweden. The risk management process Changing and adapting PostNord's business model are creating The Group works continuously on identifying, evaluating, managing several risks on a more strategic level, relating to issues such as cost and following up risks in the world outside and within the business. adjustments, governance and planning, and development of various PostNord's risk management process ensures the uniformity and customer offerings. PostNord manages these risks by analysis of the comparability of risks, in order to prioritize decisions in line with market, customers and competitors on a ongoing basis, c­ ontinuous ­strategic objectives, business-related decisions and external factors. restructuring measures, and strategy and business d ­ evelopment. PostNord strives to establish an optimal balance between preventive and risk-limiting measures and the transfer of risks for example via Operational risks insurance and contractual procedures. PostNord is exposed to several operational risks. The most critical of these relate to goal fulfillment in restructuring programs and cost-­ Organization of and responsibility for risk management saving objectives, together with delivery quality and continuity in IT. PostNord's Board of Directors and Group Executive Team bear overall IT risks include internal and external delivery problems and disrupresponsibility for the Group's risk management. Responsibility for risk tions that may affect the Group's production, customer deliveries management within the country organizations, business areas, Group and PostNord's financial reporting. Management of risks concerning functions and subsidiaries lies with the manager concerned. The information security and data storage were focused on more closely Group's risk management function is responsible for developing and during the year. establishing Group-wide procedures, methods and instructions for PostNord is also exposed to operational risks relating to non-­ risk management. The risk management function is also responsible current assets, infrastructure and vehicles. PostNord's goal is for high for consolidating risks and reporting to PostNord's management, quality, efficiency, security and continuity to be characteristic of the Audit Committee and Board of Directors. Group's services, deliveries and internal activities. Ensuring that good continuity and efficiency is maintained in production is a key part of Risk areas and risk-limiting measures the work to restructure the business. This aims to maintain and The most important risk areas for the Group are described below, improve customer satisfaction, minimize damage and loss to the along with information on how PostNord works on managing, assets of PostNord and its customers, and ensure the health and ­controlling and limiting these risks. safety of employees. PostNord's business is based on transportation and an extensive infrastructure of terminals, production facilities and Strategic risks other buildings. The business itself is energy-intensive and its carbon Strategic risks include regulatory risks and risks due to changes in dioxide emissions have an impact on the environment. PostNord market conditions. engages in risk analysis and continuity planning on an ongoing basis to ensure the Group's ability to manage consequences of any critical Regulatory risks events, downtime or quality issues. PostNord is tasked with providing universal postal services in Sweden and Denmark, and changes to terms and/or licenses on the European Financial risks or national level can have a significant impact on the Group's strategy Financial risks mainly consist of credit risks, refinancing risks, investconcerning, for example, the business model, service range and ment risks and risks associated with pension commitments. PostNord ­pricing. secures financing of the business partly through its operating cash Among the most-highly prioritized regulatory risks are those that flow and partly by maintaining an effective capital structure that relate to the writing of licensing conditions and that may impact both includes the continued use external financing. Financial risks over and the Group's ability to compete and its ability to fulfill its universal above managing payment readiness are limited. Financial risks are ­service obligation efficiently under reasonable financial conditions. managed on the basis of the finance policy adopted by the Board. PostNord manages these regulatory risks via external and scenario Read more about the management of financial risks in Note 26, on analyses, a compliance program, advocacy work, and by adapting the Group's material assessments and estimates including intangible the business. assets in Note 2 and on the management of pensions in Note 21. 38 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Risk Sensitivity analysis Area Variable Change Impact on income, SEKm Personnel risks Change in personnel expenses +/– 1 percentage point 176 Change in sick leave levels +/– 1 percentage point 102 Volume risks Volume change in physical mail +/– 1 percentage point 110 Volume change in logistics business +/– 1 percentage point 111 Interest rate risk Change in market interest rate +/– 1 percentage point 1 Currency risk1) Translation exposure +/– 1 percentage point 50 Pensions See also Note 21, Pensions, page 69. 1) Excluding derivatives. Overview of risk areas and risk-limiting measures Risk exposure by risk category Examples of risk areas Examples of risk-limiting measures Strategic risks Regulatory risks Business intelligence, compliance program and dialogue with politicians and public authorities. Changes in market conditions. Restructuring program, measures to increase efficiency, customer and competitor analysis, strategy and business development. Operational risks Risks concerning target fulfillment of Continuous adaptation and follow-up. ­restructuring program and cost savings. Risks concerning IT delivery and IT stability Downtime analysis, incident reporting, requirements for and information security. suppliers, security analysis concerning data storage. Risks concerning adapting personnel Continuity planning, including security of workforce and organization. ­planning. Risks concerning facilities and infrastructure. Review of insurance protection. Financial risks Credit risks, refinancing risks, The financial policy governs financial risk exposure. investment risks, currency risks. ­Systematic credit evaluation and risk limits. Risk of insufficient payment readiness. Cost-savings program, capital efficiency program and securing of liquidity reserves. Pension-related risks. Analysis and review of pension commitments and pension programs. Diversification of pension assets, derivative ­solutions and scenario planning. Intangible assets. Impairment testing of significant intangible assets is ­performed annually. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 39 Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance for long-term value creation Properly functioning corporate governance is one of the requirements for creating long-term value for owners and other stakeholders, and to ensure the fulfillment of universal postal service obligation on a commercial basis. This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Shareholder structure PostNord's President and Group CEO is responsible for PostNord AB (publ), corporate identity number 556771and oversees the day-to-day management of the Group 2640, is a Swedish corporation owned 40% by the Danish based on the Board's guidelines and instructions. The State and 60% by the Swedish State. Votes are divided President and Group CEO is assisted by the Group 50/50 between the States. PostNord AB is the Parent ­ xecutive Team. E Company of the PostNord Group. The Company's external auditor is elected by the AGM and examines the Annual Report and Consolidated FinanControl and organizational structure cial Statements, the administration by the Board and PresThe main decision-making bodies at PostNord are the ident and Group CEO, and produces an auditor's report. Annual General Meeting (AGM), the Board of the Directors PostNord's internal audit function evaluates the Compaand the President and Group CEO assisted by the Group ny's internal governance and control. Executive Team. The Group's operational structure differs from its legal The shareholders nominate the Chair of the Board structure. As a main principle, organization and goverand other Board members, propose directors' fees and nance are based on the operational structure, in which nominate the AGM chair and an external auditor. The the country organizations are responsible for optimizing AGM is PostNord's highest decision-making body. marketing and sales activities, production structure and The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility organization across all business areas. The second level is for the organization and administration of the Company made up of the business areas. The business areas are through continuous monitoring and control of operaresponsible for marketing and service development in tions. The Chair of the Board oversees the work of the their particular field throughout the Nordic region, across Board. The Audit and Remuneration Committees assist the boundaries of the country organizations. Postal the Board in its work. licenses, however, are tied to the legal structure; this means that formal responsibility for compliance with the conditions of the licenses follows the legal structure. Corporate governance at PostNord in 2015 Danish State Swedish State Annual General Meeting Board of Directors Audit Committee External audit Compensation Comm. Internal audit President & Group CEO Finance Communication Legal affairs HR IT/BIS Strategy Technology & Infrastructure PostNord PostNord PostNord Sweden Denmark Norway & Finland Business area Mail & Communication Business area Logistics e-commerce & Corporate Clients PostNord Strålfors 40 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Corporate Governance Report Annual General Meeting Under the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act, the Internal and external regulations AGM is the company's highest decision-making body. The PostNord is affected by a number of internal and external regulations, Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation and the including: Danish Ministry of Transport vote on behalf of the SwedExternal regulations: ish and Danish States, respectively, at PostNord's Annual • The Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and General Meeting. Each State nominates four Board memthe Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. bers. The AGM appoints Board and auditor, and resolves • The Swedish State's ownership policy and guidelines for State-owned on how to distribute the Company’s earnings, discharging companies and the Danish State's ownership principles (the State as the Board and CEO from liability, and making decisions on shareholder). other matters as set out in legislation and the Company's • NASDAQ Stockholm's regulations for issuers. Articles Of Association. • International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS. The AGM must be held no later than April 30 in accor• The UN Global Compact. dance with the ownership policy of the Swedish State. Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent by mail to Postal regulations: shareholders and is advertised in the daily press, through • The UPU Convention, the EU's Postal Directive and national legislation and information in the Annual Report and on the Group webdirectives in Sweden (e.g. the Postal Services Act and the Postal Ordinance) site. Members of the Swedish and Danish Parliaments and and Denmark (e.g. Order on conveyance by post and postal services). the general public are invited to attend and ask questions Internal rules and regulations at the AGM. • The Articles of Association, the Board’s rules of procedure (including Instruction to the President and Group CEO) and the Audit and RemuAnnual General Meeting 2015 neration Committees' rules of procedure The 2015 AGM was held on April 23, 2015. The AGM adopted • Delegated authorities for PostNord AB. the Group's and Parent Company's income statement and • Code of Conduct and Group policies. balance sheet and voted to discharge the Board of Direc• Operational governance. tors and President and Group CEO from liability for the 2014 • Framework for internal governance and control of financial reporting. financial year. The AGM also adopted guidelines for remu• Guidelines for determining terms of employment for senior executives. neration to senior executives and remuneration to Board members and the auditor. Jens Moberg was re-elected Chairman of the Board. The AGM re-elected Mats AbrahaResponsible enterprise msson, Gunnel Duveblad, Christian Ellegaard, Sisse Fjelsted In addition to the law, PostNord must comply with Swedish State ownerRasmussen, Torben Janholt, Magnus Skåninger and Anitra ship policy and guidelines for State-owned businesses. This means, for Steen as Board members. Accounting firm KPMG AB was example, that PostNord must be a role model in terms of responsible re-elected as auditor through the close of next year's AGM, enterprise, including ensuring compliance with the Swedish Code of Corwith authorized public accountant Helene Willberg as porate Governance, the OECD's Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises senior auditor. The complete minutes of the Annual General (oecd.org), the UN's Guiding Principles on Businesses and Human Rights Meeting are posted on www.postnord.com. (ohchr.org) and the UN's Global Compact (unglobalcompact.org). PostNord signed up to the Global Compact in 2010. The Global ComAnnual General Meeting 2016 pact is based on ten principles, which in turn are based on the UN UniverPostNord's 2016 AGM will take place on April 28, 2016 at sal Declaration of Human Rights (un.org), the ILO PostNord's Group headquarters at Terminalvägen 24, Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights Solna, Sweden. at Work (ilo.org), the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development (unep.org), and the UN Proposed guidelines for Convention against Corruption (unodc.org). These remuneration to senior executives regulations are reflected in PostNord's Code of ConThe Board proposes that the AGM adopt guidelines for duct. Because PostNord has issued bonds on the remuneration to senior executives. The main amendment NASDAQ Stockholm Exchange, it must also comply in the proposals compared to the guidelines that the AGM with that organization’s regulations for issuers. WE SUPPORT voted on in 2015 is contained in the following paragraph: • The pensionable age for employees in Sweden is 65 years. Senior executives in Norway who are employed Deviations from the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance under Norwegian labor law are subject to the pension PostNord applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, with the arrangements collectively agreed within the Norweexception of the following Code provisions: gian company. The pensionable age is 65 years. In the • Chapter 2 requirement for a nominating committee. PostNord does not case of senior executives employed in Denmark, penhave a nominating committee, as the nomination and appointment of sions are included in an amount corresponding to 10% Board members is performed in accordance with the principles agreed of the agreed monthly salary. The pensionable age is upon by the owners. Nominations are made through consultation that laid down in Danish legislation. between the owners. • Section 4.5, requirement for Board members' independence from owners. The guidelines adopted at the 2015 AGM are summarized The purpose of the rule is to protect minority owners (with a non-controlling in Note 5. The Board’s proposals to the 2016 AGM will be interest). However, protection for minority owners is not relevant to the govposted in their entirety at www.postnord.com. ernance of PostNord. PostNord only has two owners and an account of the independence of the Board members is thus of no relevance. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 41 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors The CEO presented the business and market situation The Board of Directors exercises overall responsibility for at each meeting. The CFO reported on the Group’s ecothe organization and management of the Company via nomic and financial position and performance. The Board regularly monitoring the business and ensuring approprialso discussed the Group's strategy, acquisitions, employate organization, management, guidelines and internal ment issues and business plan, and on an ongoing basis controls. The Board adopts strategies and targets and addressed reports from the Audit and Remuneration takes decisions on major investments, acquisitions and Committees, as well as reports on internal control and divestments of operations. financial activities. The Company's auditor delivered an account of the year's auditing activities and these issues Composition of the Board were discussed. The Board of Directors is appointed by the AGM, which has determined that the Board shall be composed of The Audit Committee eight AGM-elected Board members and no deputies. The The Audit Committee is tasked with preparing the Board to Board also includes three members elected by employee perform its duties of supervising and assuring the quality organizations and their three deputies. The Swedish of the Group's financial reporting. The Committee superState's ownership policy prescribes that the representavises the effectiveness of the Company's internal govertion of each gender on the Board shall be at least 40%. nance and control, as well as risk management systems The female/male distribution of PostNord's Board of and processes with regard to financial reporting. The ComDirectors was 38%/62% in 2015 (ordinary members). mittee's rules of procedure are established by the Board. The Audit Committee has no decision-making power. The Board’s work The Committee also assists the owners in selecting an Work procedures auditor. The Audit Committee, in addition to reporting to The Board of Directors adopts rules of procedure annuthe Board on its work, regularly reviews the auditor's ally. These govern matters such as the Chair's duties, inforreports and determines whether the auditors are performmation to the Board of Directors and the roles and ing their task independently, objectively and cost-effiresponsibilities of the President and Group CEO and ciently. The Audit Committee, in consultation with the Board members. There is no division of the work of the Group Executive Team, is the instructing body for the Board between Board members, other than that perinternal audit and its monitoring of internal governance formed by the Audit and Remuneration Committees. and control, and remains apprised of internal audit reports. The Chair of the Board is elected by the AGM, overThe Committee is made up of at least three Board memsees the Board's work and is responsible for ensuring that bers and meets at least four times per year. The Company's such work is well-organized and carried out effectively. external auditor participates in meetings at which the annual This includes regular monitoring of the Company's operaaccounts, annual report and auditor's report are presented, tions in dialogue with the CEO and ensuring that other as well as when needed for assessment of the Group's finanBoard members receive the information and documentacial position. The Committee Chair is responsible for regution necessary to ensure high quality discussions and larly apprising the Board of the Committee's activities. Board decisions. The Chair oversees evaluation of the In 2015, the Committee met on a total of six occasions. Board's and the CEO's work. The Chair also represents the The topics discussed include the following: Company in issues of ownership. • Reporting by the Group's auditors regarding the yearend and interim reports and the audits of the financial Board meetings and issues in 2015 statements. In 2015, the Board met on nine occasions, including the • Supervision of financial reporting and the effectiveness statutory first meeting and two per capsulam meetings. of PostNord's internal governance and control. Board meeting attendance 2015 Director Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Jens Moberg 8/10 – 2/2 Mats Abrahamsson 10/10 – 2/2 Gunnel Duveblad 10/10 6/6 – Christian Ellegaard 10/10 6/6 – Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen 5/10 5/6 – Torben Janholt 6/10 – 2/2 Magnus Skåninger 10/10 6/6 – Anitra Steen 8/10 – 2/2 Lars Chemnitz 9/10 – – Ann-Christin Fällén 10/10 – – Johan Lindholm1) 8/10 – – Alf Mellström2) 2/10 – – 1) Elected at the AGM in April 2015. 2) Resigned at the AGM in April 2015. 42 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Corporate Governance Report • Supervision of risk management systems and processes. appoints, and is assisted by, the Group Executive Team. • Assessment of the of external auditors. The CEO is responsible for day-to-day administration of the Company and the Group in accordance with the Board’s The Remuneration Committee guidelines and directions. The relationship between the The Remuneration Committee is tasked with preparing Board of Directors and the CEO is governed by the Board's and presenting proposals to the Board regarding remurules of procedure and the instructions to the CEO. neration and other terms of employment for the CompaThe CEO is accountable to the Board for the day-tony’s management, as well as determining principles for day running of the business and is responsible for impleremuneration to external directors serving on the Boards menting the strategic direction determined by the Board. of Group subsidiaries. The Remuneration Committee has Alongside the Board, the Group Executive Team is the no power of decision-making. Group's decision-making body and is jointly responsible The Remuneration Committee is made up of at least for ensuring that the Group's business develops in line three members. The Chair of the Board of Directors chairs with the strategic direction established by the Board of the Committee. The Committee shall meet when warDirectors. The CEO oversees the work of the Group ranted. The Committee’s Chair is responsible for regularly ­Executive Team. apprising the Board of the Committee's activities. In 2015, the Committee met on a total of two occaRemuneration at PostNord sions. The topics discussed include the following: Decisions on terms of employment and remuneration for • Remuneration and other provisions for senior the President and Group CEO are taken by the Board of ­executives. Directors. The Board addresses remuneration issues via • Pension provisions for senior executives. the Remuneration Committee. Salaries and wages for • Remuneration to members of the Group Executive PostNord employees shall be in line with the market. For Team. further details on remuneration for senior executives, see • Evaluation of goal attainment and potential, together Note 5, Employees, personnel expenses and remunerawith succession planning for senior managers. tion to senior executives, in the consolidated financial statements. Guidelines on remuneration to senior execuPresident and Group CEO and Group Executive Team tives adopted by the 2015 AGM are available in their The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing and entirety at www.postnord.com under Corporate dismissing the President and Group CEO. The CEO ­Governance. PostNord – organization from the start of 2016 President & Group CEO Finance Communication Legal affairs HR IT Strategy & Commercial Excellence Technology & Infrastructure PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Strålfors Business area Communication Services Business area e-Commerce & Logistics Adjusted organization effective January 1, 2016 • Business area Communication Services has been created • Business area e-Commerce & Logistics has been created from Business area Mail & Communication business area from Business areas Logistics and the Group eCommerce and Strålfors’ service development business. Andreas unit. Peter Kjaer Jensen remains head of the business area. ­Falkenmark appointed Head of Business area • Group function Strategy & Commercial Excellence is being ­Communication Services. established, headed by Jan Starrsjö, a member of the Group Executive Team. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 43 Corporate Governance Report Evaluation of the work of the Board members have thus had the opportunity to ask the audiof Directors and the President and Group CEO tor questions. See also Note 7, Fees and reimbursement The Board of Directors is required to ensure, in accorof expenses to auditors. dance with the Board’s Rules of Procedure, that the work of the Board is reviewed once a year via a systematic and Board’s report on internal governance structured process in order to develop the work proceand control of financial reporting dures and efficiency of the Board and its members. Governance model The areas to be further evaluated include, for example, PostNord's operational governance consists of seven whether the right issues are addressed by the Board, the main elements. Core Group governance includes Formal integrity of supporting documentation and how accuGovernance, Functional Governance, which together with rately decisions and discussions are recorded in the PostNord's Strategy and Plans, set the frameworks, condiBoard minutes. In 2015, external consultants were tions and direction for the Group's operations. The other engaged in connection with the Board’s review. The three elements consist of management by objectives, review took place in the form of surveys and interviews managing and operating Group projects and business with the Board and some members of the Group Execumanagement systems with associated certificates for tive Team. The findings of the review were presented by quality, environment and work environment. The manthe external consultant at the Board meeting in Decemagement system is followed up and evaluated on the ber and were discussed by the Board. In addition, the basis of the EFQM (European Foundation of Quality ManChair of the Board communicated the findings to the agement) Excellence Model, and by external parties. The Company’s owners at a meeting. Group Executive Team is responsible for translating proThe Board continuously evaluates the CEO's work by posed potential improvements into practice. monitoring the business's progress toward set targets. A formal evaluation is performed once per year and is Framework ­discussed with the CEO. PostNord's framework for internal governance and control is based on the framework developed by the CommitRemuneration to the members of the Board of Directors tee of Sponsoring Organisations (COSO) of the Treadway Remuneration for Board members was determined by the Commission. The Group utilizes a “three lines of defense” 2015 AGM. Remuneration for each elected Board member model to illustrate the way in which responsibility for for the period through the next AGM is SEK 250,000, while internal governance and control has been organized. The the Chair's remuneration is SEK 600,000. The fee for the first line of defense clarifies the organization's responsibilwork of the Audit Committee is SEK 50,000 for members ity for internal governance and control and risk manageand SEK 62,500 for the Chair. The fee for the work of the ment. Management and managers in the country strucRemuneration Committee is SEK 25,000 for members ture, the business areas and for Group functions are and SEK 37,500 for the Chair. Board and Committee memresponsible for identifying and managing risks within ber remuneration is not paid to members employed by their respective areas of responsibility. The second line of the Government Offices of Sweden. defense is made up of a number of management and control functions, which are responsible for setting Auditors requirements and supporting the first line of defense. This PostNord's 2015 AGM appointed KPMG AB as the Compais done, for example, by producing governance docuny's auditor, with authorized public accountant Helene ments and processes, supporting documents and via Willberg as senior auditor. The auditors meet with the training programs. This line of defense must also ensure Board at least once per year and also participate in a compliance and may also implement its own controls number of Audit Committee meetings. In 2015, the Board and create conditions for the detection and management met with the auditor at one Board meeting. The Board of any risks or errors that may pass through the first line Internal governance and control at PostNord Control environment Follow-up Risk assessment 3rd line of defense 2nd line of defense 1st line of defense Internal auditing Group functions Country organizations Targets for Business areas the financial reporting Information and Control activities communication 44 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Corporate Governance Report of defense. The second line of defense includes Enterfinancial reporting are identified and evaluated along with prise Risk Management (ERM) and the Security Function. other types of risks within the framework of the Group's The third line of defense is the Group Internal Audit funcorganization-wide risk management process and through tion, the Board's independent audit and control function an annual self-assessment and analyses of the Group's varithat is tasked with evaluating PostNord's processes for ous companies and units. Financial reporting risks are also governance, risk identification and risk control. addressed by the Audit Committee and the Board, which evaluate and monitor the management of these risks on a Control environment regular basis. See also Risks and Risk Management, page 38. In addition to the organizational model with the three lines of defense and their responsibility for internal governance Control activities and control, factors such as organization, decision-making These activities include rules covering decision-making paths and authorities have been defined and communiand authorization, verification, compliance, manual and cated within the Group. The Board has adopted PostNord's programmed controls, and the division of duties and Code of Conduct, which clarifies how PostNord must comresponsibilities in processes and routines. Governing docply with and implement certain fundamental legal requireuments and processes concerning accounting and finanments for the Group, as well as governing principles and cial reporting are updated by the Group's Finance function guidelines for operations. The Code clarifies what may be in the event of amendments to legislation, accounting expected of PostNord, such as the kind of conduct that is rules, reporting requirements, etc. In Sweden, finance and expected of all Group employees. The Code is also linked to payroll administration services are outsourced. Quality is PostNord’s whistleblower system, the special reporting proensured through the monitoring of internal control activicedure that may be used on an anonymous basis. Where ties and reporting on the degree to which agreed service necessary, detailed internal documents in the form of spelevels and quality criteria are achieved. The Group's cific policies, instructions, guidelines and recommendaFinance function is responsible for consolidated accounts tions are linked to the Code of Conduct. Operational Goverand consolidated financial statements and for the Group's nance for the PostNord Group is an overarching document common business system, SAP. This responsibility that describes the business and governs issues such as includes regular analyses of the financial results of country general internal division of roles and responsibilities. The organizations, the business areas and Group functions. governance document for subsidiaries, together with deleThe financial statement and reporting process includes gated authorities, are linked to the document. controls for reporting, valuation, disclosure requirements The work and responsibilities of the Board are govand application of set accounting principles. erned by the Board's rules of procedure. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for ensuring the ComInformation pany has an effective system of internal governance and The Swedish State's ownership policy specifies guidelines control. The Board's rules of procedure define internal govfor external reporting applicable to State-owned compaernance and control of financial reporting as a process nies. The Group's Financial Accounting manual and supplethrough which the Board, the President and Group CEO mentary internal guidelines for accounting and closing and employees ensure beyond reasonable doubt that the ­procedures are continuously updated and communicated financial reporting is reliable. The Audit Committee is via the Group's intranet, among other channels. The Board tasked with preparing the Board to perform its duty of and Audit Committee receive and review all interim reports assuring the quality of the Company's financial reporting. and the Group's annual report before publication. InformaThe Committee oversees the effectiveness of the Compation to the Group's external stakeholders is communicated ny's internal governance and control, as well as risk manthrough press releases and PostNord's website. Financial agement systems and processes concerning financial reporting is also addressed directly to the Danish and reporting. The work is performed through measures such Swedish owners. as regular discussions with PostNord's management and external auditors and the examination of accounting prinFollow-up ciples applied and accounting issues that are brought to PostNord's business activities are reported and evaluated the Committee's attention. The duties and powers of the monthly based on business objectives. PostNord's finanPresident and Group CEO are governed by instructions cial situation is discussed at each Board meeting. Board adopted by the Board of Directors. Decision-making committees play important roles with regard to remunerauthority is governed by delegated authorities, which are ation, financial reporting and internal governance and based on the delegation of responsibilities established by control. The Audit Committee receives regular reports the Board in its rules of procedure. The delegated authorifrom the Group's external and internal auditors and folties set forth the decision-making authority delegated by lows up to ensure that measures are taken on the basis the President and Group CEO to the managers who report of the auditors' observations and recommendations. to him. These managers may then further delegate their The Group's companies and Group functions conduct an decision-making authority within their respective areas of annual self-assessment of the internal governance and responsibility. Documents of importance are jointly signed control of financial reporting. Results are compiled by the by two authorized signatories designated by the Board. Group's Finance function and presented to the Audit Committee, the Board, PostNord country organizations Risk assessment and Group functions. In 2015, portions of the self-assessIn 2015, PostNord's operations were guided by the goverment responses from the Group's companies and units nance model presented on page 44. Risks associated with were subject to a limited review. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 45 Board of Directors Board of Directors Jens Moberg Gunnel Duveblad Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen Born 1962. Born 1955. Born 1967. Graduate Diploma in Business Administration. Systems Engineer. BA in Business Administration and Authorized Chair of the Board since April 2013. Board member since August 2009. Public Accountant. Chair of the Remuneration Committee since Chair of Audit Committee since 2009. Board member since April 2013. April 2013. Previous positions include CEO of EDS Member of Audit Committee since April 2013. Previous experience includes positions at IBM ­Northern Europe and managerial posts at IBM. CFO/group executive of Scandinavian Denmark and subsequently at Microsoft Chair of the board of Team Olivia AB, Global Tobacco Group. ­Corporation, most recently as Corporate Vice Scanning A/S and Stiftelsen Ruter Dam. Previously Nordic Financial Controller for President. Board member of HIQ International AB Grey Global Group. Background as auditor Chair of the boards of Grundfos Holding, LE34, and Sweco AB. at Deloitte and Arthur Andersen. Herlufsholm Skole og Gods and VisioLink. Board member and member of Audit Board member of Axcel and Poul Due Jensens ­Committee at Inwido AB. Fond. Mats Abrahamsson Christian Ellegaard Torben Janholt Born 1960. Born 1969. Born 1946. PhD (Tech). MBA. Bachelor of Commerce. Board member since August 2009. Board member since April 2013. Board member since August 2009. Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Audit Committee since April 2013. Member of Remuneration Committee since 2009. Member of corporate management at since 2009. Professor at Linköping University. ­B erendsen Plc and CEO of Facility. Previous positions include CEO of Board member of Dixma Consultant AB. Previously held various positions within the J Lauritzen A/S. Berendsen Group, including CEO in Denmark. Chair of the board of Otto Suenson A/S. ­Director of A/S United Shipping & Trading Company, Bunker Holding A/S, Uni Tankers A/S and Torm A/S. 46 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Board of Directors Magnus Skåninger Anitra Steen Born 1971. Born 1949. Masters degree in Political Science and Bachelor of Arts. ­Business Economics. Certified European Board member since April 2013. ­Financial Analyst (CEFA). Member of Remuneration Committee Board member since April 2014. since April 2013. Member of Audit Committee since April 2014. Previous positions include CEO of System­ Director and head of the Division for Statebolaget, Director-General of the National Owned Enterprises at the Ministry Tax Board, State Secretary at the Swedish of Enterprise and Innovation, Sweden ­Ministries of Education and Finance. Previous posts include Executive Director EY, Chair of the boards of AB Svenska Spel, AFA Director PwC and budget department Försäkring and Oral Care Holding SWE AB. at the Ministry of Finance. Board member of Stockholms Sjukhem. Ordinary member of the Swedish Press Council. Employee representatives Lars Chemnitz Johan Lindholm Ann-Christin Fällén Born 1957. Born 1979. Born 1955. Union representative appointed by Union representative appointed by Union representative appointed by the Union of Service and Communication the Union of Service and Communication the Union of Civil Servants (ST). Employees (SEKO). Employees (Seko). Board member since May 2012. Chair of the Danish postal workers union, Board member since April 2015. Employed by Posten since 1977. 3F Post. Deputy employee representative Member of the Board since January 2010. since April 2012. Employed by Posten since 1999. Employee representatives, deputies Peter Madsen Ulf Sjödin Sandra Svensk Born 1953. Born 1956. Born 1977. Union representative appointed by Union representative appointed by Union representative appointed by the Union of the Union of Service and Communication the Union of Civil Servants (ST). Service and Communication Employees (SEKO). Employees (SEKO). Deputy employee representative Deputy employee representative As a union representative, he represents 3F. since April 2015. since April 2015. Deputy employee representative Employed by PostNord since 1997. Employed by PostNord since 1995. since January 2010. Employed by Post Denmark since 1990. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 47 Group Executive Team Group Executive Team Håkan Ericsson Johanna Allert Gunilla Berg Born 1962. Born 1975. Born 1960. BSc Economics. Master of Engineering. BSc Economics. President and Group CEO since October 1, Chief Technical Officer since 2014. Chief Financial Officer (CFO). 2013. Member of Group Executive Team since 2011. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. Member of Group Executive Team since 2013. Previous positions: Head of Group Operations Previous positions: Vice President and CFO Previous positions: President of Carlson WagDevelopment function, including Group of the Teracom, SAS and KF Groups. onlit Travels, CEO of Loomis Cash Handling, ­Support & Shared Services. Board member at Alfa Laval and Vattenfall. Executive Vice President at SAS, Managing Director of DHL European freight operation, and senior positions in the Danzas, ASG and Fraktarna logistics groups. Henning Christensen Joss Delissen Andreas Falkenmark Born 1962. Born 1963. Born 1955. Engineer. BSc Economics. Master of Laws. Head of PostNord Denmark since 2014. Chief Information Officer (CIO) since 2009. Head of Business area Communication Services Member of Group Executive Team since 2012. Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. since 2016. Previous positions: Head of Business Area Mail Previous positions: A variety of positions at Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Denmark; Head of Production & Transport ­Unilever, most recently Director of Solutions Previous positions: Head of Business area (PRT) at Breve Danmark A/S; Deputy Director Architecture. ­PostNord Mail & Communication, Head of of Mail Production & Transport at Post ­Business area Meddelande Sverige; CEO of ­D enmark; and Mail Center Director at the NK Förvaltnings AB; CEO of Duka AB; CEO Copenhagen Post Office. of Coop Sverige AB; and CEO of Observer ­Northern Europe. Annemarie Gardshol Finn Hansen Anders Holm Born 1967. Born 1956. Born 1957. Master of Engineering. Master of Science. Market economist. CEO of Strålfors since 2015. Chief HR Officer since 2013. Head of PostNord Sweden since 2014. Member of Group Executive Team since 2012. Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. Previous positions: Head of Group Strategy, Previous positions: Head of Business area Previous positions: Head of Posten Logistik AB Head of e-Commerce & Corporate Clients. PreBreve Danmark, Deputy Director of Distribuin Sweden, Sales and Marketing Director at vious positions: Executive roles at Gambro and tion, Deputy Director of Mail Production and Posten Logistik AB in Sweden, and various as a management consultant at McKinsey & Transport and various management positions positions at UPS, most recently as Nordic CEO. Company. at Post Danmark A/S. Board member of Etac AB and SCA AB. 48 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Group Executive Team Peter Kjaer Jensen Kristina Lilja Born 1969. Born 1967. MBA. Master of Laws. Head of Business area e-Commerce & Logistics General Counsel and Board Secretary. since 2016. Member of Group Executive Team since 2015. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. Previous positions: VP and legal counsel at Previous positions: Head of Business area Husqvarna and positions as corporate lawyer ­PostNord Logistics, various managerial posior general counsel at companies including tions at Maersk Line, Maersk Logistics and Hi3G Access (3), IFS and Cybercom. Damco International A/S, most recently as COO/CTO at Damco International. Per Mossberg Robin Olsen Born 1953. Born 1970. B.Sc. Economics. Master of Engineering; Master of Management. Chief Communications Officer since 2009. Head of PostNord Norway & Finland since 2014. Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. Previous positions: Head of Corporate CommuPrevious positions: Head of PostNord Logistics nications at Posten AB; partner at JKL AB; Execin Norway and CEO of Tollpost Globe AS. utive VP (Communications) at Telia AB; Senior VP (Communications) at Trygg-Hansa SPP AB, Nobel Industrier and AB Bofors; and CEO of Näringslivets EU-fakta and Näringslivets Ekonomifakta. Chair of the Board, Sveriges Kommunikatörer Adjusted organization effective January 1, 2016 • Business area Communication Services has been created from Business area Mail & Communication business area and Strålfors’ service development business. Andreas Falkenmark appointed Head of Business area Communication Services. • Business area e-Commerce & Logistics has been created from Business areas Logistics and the Group eCommerce unit. Peter Kjaer Jensen remains head of the business area. • Group function Strategy & Commercial Excellence is being established, headed by Jan Starrsjö, a member of the Group Executive Team. • Björn Ekstedt took over from Joss Delissen, who has decided to depart from PostNord. Björn Ekstedt joined the Group on Jan Starrsjö ­February 1, 2016, taking over as CIO from March 1, 2016, at which Born 1960. point he also joins PostNord’s Group Executive Team. BSc of Economics. Head of Strategy & Commercial Excellence since 2016. Member of Group Executive Team since 2016. Previous positions; VP Sales PostNord Mail Sweden and other executive positions within Posten AB. CEO for a venture capital firm and a IT services firm and management consultant at McKinsey & Co. Member of the board at Södersjukhuset AB. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 49 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 Note 19 – Cash and cash equivalents 51 Income statement 68 Note 20 – Interest-bearing liabilities 51 Statement of comprehensive income 69 Note 21 – Pensions 52 Statement of financial position 72 Note 22 – Other provisions 53 Statement of cash flows 73 Note 23 – Accrued expenses 54 Statement of changes in equity and deferred income 73 Note 24 – Pledged assets Notes to the consolidated and contingent liabilities financial statements 73 Note 25 – Investment commitments 55 Note 1 – Accounting principles 74 Note 26 – Financial risk management and 60 Note 2 – Significant assessments financial instruments and estimates 77 Note 27 – Related party transactions 60 Note 3 – Analysis of revenue sources 77 Note 28 – Supplementary disclosures, 60 Note 4 – Segment reporting Statement of cash flows 62 Note 5 – Employees, personnel expenses and 77 Note 29 – Acquisitions and divestments remuneration to senior executives 78 Note 30 – Events after the reporting period 64 Note 6 – Other expenses 78 Note 31 – Definitions 64 Note 7 – Fees and reimbursement of expenses to auditors PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 Note 8 – Net financial items 79 Income statement 64 Note 9 – Tax 79 Statement of comprehensive income 65 Note 10 – Non-current intangible assets 79 Balance sheet 66 Note 11 – Property, plant and equipment 80 Statement of cash flows 67 Note 12 – Leased machinery, equipment 80 Statement of changes in equity and property leases 67 Note 13 – Participations in associated Notes to Parent Company ­companies and joint ventures financial statements 67 Note 14 – Financial investments 81 Note 1 – Accounting principles 67 Note 15 – Non-current receivables 81 Note 2 – Significant assessments and 68 Note 16 – Deferred tax estimates 68 Note 17 – Inventories 81 Note 3 – Employees and personnel expenses 68 Note 18 – Prepaid expenses 81 Note 4 – Fees and reimbursement of expenses and accrued income to auditors 81 Note 5 – Interest income, income expenses and similar expenses 82 Note 6 – Holdings of shares and participations in Group companies, joint ventures and associated companies Consolidated financial statements PostNord Group Income statement SEKm Note 2015 2014 1, 2, 4 Net sales 39,351 39,950 Other income 3 765 648 Income 40,116 40,598 Personnel expenses 5 –17,624 –18,212 Transportation expenses –10,051 –9,832 Other expenses 6, 7, 23 –10,005 –10,356 Depreciation, amortization and impairments –1,872 –1,847 Operating expenses –39,552 –40,247 OPERATING INCOME 564 351 Financial income 8 ​21 89 Financial expenses 8 –134 –195 Net financial items –113 –106 Income before tax 451 245 Tax 9 –173 –69 NET INCOME 278 176 Attributable to Parent Company shareholders 276 173 Non-controlling interests 2 3 Earnings per share, SEK 0.14 0.09 Statement of comprehensive income SEKm 2015 2014 NET INCOME 278 176 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that cannot be transferred to net income Revaluation of pension liabilities 1,388 –1,682 Change in deferred tax –166 370 Total 1,222 –1,312 Items that have been or may be transferred to net income Cash flow hedges after tax 4 –12 Translation differences –342 237 Total –338 225 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 884 –1,087 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1,162 –911 Attributable to Parent Company shareholders 1,160 –914 Non-controlling interests 2 3 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 51 Consolidated financial statements Statement of financial position SEKm Note Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 1, 2 ASSETS Goodwill 10 3,236 3,372 Other intangible assets 10 955 1,319 Property, plant and equipment 11, 12 8,664 9,923 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures ​13 ​7 1 83 Financial investments 14, 26 250 257 Non-current receivables 15 ​1,945 887 Deferred tax assets 16 484 566 Total non-current assets 15,605 16,407 Inventories 17 150 177 Tax assets 527 367 Trade receivables ​26 4,524 4,620 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 1,251 1,289 Other receivables 563 389 Cash and cash equivalents 19, 26 1,894 1,843 Assets held for sale 209 372 Total current assets 9,118 9,057 TOTAL ASSETS 24,723 25,464 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Capital stock 2,000 2,000 Other contributed equity 9,954 9,954 Reserves –2,030 –1,692 Retained earnings –777 –2,275 Total equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 9,147 7,987 Non-controlling interests 3 4 TOTAL EQUITY 9,150 7,991 LIABILITIES Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 20, 26 3,705 4,577 Other non-current liabilities 40 59 Pensions ​21 1,223 Other provisions ​22 1,712 1,730 Deferred tax liabilities 16 861 650 Total non-current liabilities 6,318 8,239 Current interest-bearing liabilities 20, 26 134 807 Trade payables 2,294 2,010 Tax liabilities ​47 65 Other current liabilities 1,727 1,742 Accrued expenses and deferred income ​23 4,404 3,929 Other provisions ​22 ​649 681 Total current liabilities 9,255 9,234 TOTAL LIABILITIES 15,573 17,473 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 24,723 25,464 For more information on the Group's pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 24. 52 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Statement of cash flows SEKm Note 2015 2014 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income before tax 451 245 Adjustments for non-cash items 2 ​ 8 554 1,295 Taxes –79 –116 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 9 ​ 26 1,424 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in inventories ​28 ​4 8 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in other current receivables 76 138 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in current liabilities ​629 –947 Other changes in working capital 11 7 Changes in working capital ​744 –754 Cash flows from operating activities 1,670 670 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment –1,027 –1,478 Sale of property, plant and equipment 525 582 Purchase of other intangible assets –82 –212 Divestment of intangible assets 5 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net ​29 –81 –85 Change in financial assets 19 –198 Cash flows from investing activities –646 –1,386 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Amortized debts –843 –600 New debts raised 1,350 Dividend paid –3 –132 Net pension transactions –85 –85 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in other interest-bearing liabilities –36 33 Cash flows from financing activities –967 566 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD 57 –150 Cash and cash equivalents, opening balance 1,843 1,981 Translation difference in cash and cash equivalents –6 12 Cash and cash equivalents, closing balance 19 1,894 1,843 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 53 Consolidated financial statements Statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Other NonSharecontributed Translation Hedging Retained controlling Total 2014, SEKm capital1) equity reserve reserve earnings interests equity Equity, opening balance 2,000 9,954 –1,917 –1,007 4 9,034 Total comprehensive income Net income for the period 173 3 176 Other comprehensive income for the period 237 –12 –1,312 –1,087 Total comprehensive income for the period 237 –12 –1,139 3 –911 Dividend –129 –3 –132 Equity, closing balance 2,000 9,954 –1,680 –12 –2,275 4 7,991 Equity attributable to Parent Company's shareholders Other NonSharecontributed Translation Hedging Retained controlling Total 2015, SEKm capital1) equity reserve reserve earnings interests equity Equity, opening balance 2,000 9,954 –1,680 –12 –2,275 4 7,991 Total comprehensive income Net income for the period 276 2 278 Other comprehensive income for the period –342 4 1,222 884 Total comprehensive income for the period –342 4 1,498 2 1,162 Dividend –3 –3 Equity, closing balance 2,000 9,954 –2,022 –8 –777 3 9,150 1) Number of shares 2,000,000,001; 1,524,905,971 ordinary shares and 475,094,030 series B shares. 54 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated 01 02 financial statements 03 04 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 05 06 Contents IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new 07 1. Introduction standard on revenue recognition. The standard describes an 08 2. Basis of preparation of the annual accounts integrated model for revenue recognition irrespective of indus3. Changes in accounting principles arising try and type of transaction. The model is applied via a five-step 09 from new or amended IFRS process that, in brief, requires an entity to recognize income as 10 4. Classification the performance obligations of the contract are completed. 5. Principles of consolidation and business combinations For every contract with a customer, the entity has to identify 11 6. Associated companies and joint ventures the performance obligations for every product or service and 12 7. Foreign currency then set a transaction price that is apportioned over the perfor8. Revenue mance obligations. IFRS 15 is not expected to have any material ​13 9. Operating expenses and financial income and expenses impact on the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s 14 10. Financial instruments is to apply the new standard no later than in the financial year 11. Property, plant and equipment that commences on January 1, 2018. IFRS 15 has not yet been 15 12. Leased assets approved by the EU for implementation. 16 13. Non-current intangible assets IFRS 16 Leases New standard on accounting for leasing. As 14. Inventories far as lessees are concerned, the classification into operating 17 15. Dividend paid and financial leases under IAS 17 is abolished and replaced by a 18 16. Employee benefits model in which assets and liabilities relating to lease agree17. Provisions ment are to be reported. In the income statement, depreciation 19 18. Taxes items are to be recognized separately from interest expense 19. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities attributable to the lease liability. No major changes are antici​20 20. Related party transactions pated for lessors. The rules stated in IAS 17 are largely ​21 21. Statement of cash flows unchanged, other than for additional disclosure requirements. IFRS 16 is to be implemented from January 1, 2019 Earlier adop​22 1. Introduction tion is permitted provided that IFRS 15 is also applied from the ​23 The consolidated accounts comprise PostNord AB and its same point in time. The EU has not yet announced any date ­subsidiaries, together with holdings in joint ventures and assoregarding approval of the new standard. ​24 ciated companies. The Parent Company is a Swedish public ​25 limited company with its registered office in Solna, Sweden. 4. Classification Non-current assets and long-term liabilities consist in essence ​26 2. Basis of preparation of the annual accounts of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more ​27 The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accorthan 12 months after the end of the reporting period. Current dance with the EU-approved International Financial Reporting assets and current liabilities consist in essence of amounts that ​28 Standards (IFRS), issued by the International Accounting Stanare expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months of the ​29 dards Board (IASB), as applying to the financial year beginning end of the reporting period. on January 1, 2015. In addition, the Swedish Financial Reporting Assets are classified as being held for sale when their recog​30 Board's RFR 1, Supplemental Financial Statements for Groups, nized value will be recovered from sale rather than via contin31 were also applied. ued use. This condition is regarded as being met when the The accounting principles described below have been management and board of directors have approved a decision applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolito dispose of the assets, an active selling process has been dated financial statements. Assets and liabilities are recognized started, the assets are available for immediate sale in their curat acquisition cost, except in the case of revaluation of financial rent condition, and that it is very likely that the sale will take assets and derivatives. place within a year. Non-current assets and related long-term The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles liabilities classified as being held for sale are transferred to curas the Group except in the cases indicated in the section Notes rent assets or current liabilities, as appropriate. Assets held for to Parent Company's financial statements, Note 1 Accounting sale are measured at recognized the carrying amount or fair principles. The differences between the Parent Company's and value, whichever is the lower. the Group's accounting principles result from limits on the Parent Company's ability to apply IFRS under the Annual Accounts 5. Principles of consolidation Act, the Act on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments (Trygand business combinations gandelagen) and, to some extent, tax considerations. The consolidated financial statements comprises the Parent The reporting currency of the Parent Company and the Company and the subsidiaries over which the Parent Company, Group is Swedish kronor, SEK. The financial statements are directly or indirectly, exercises a controlling interest. A controlling therefore presented in SEK. Unless otherwise stated, all interest is defined as exercising control over the entity or having amounts are rounded off to millions of SEK. rights to variable returns from the entity and having the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. 3. Changes in accounting principles arising Acquisitions of subsidiaries are reported using the acquisifrom new or amended IFRS tion method. In this method, the Group indirectly acquires the Amendments to IFRSs applicable as of January 1, 2015 have not subsidiary's assets and assumes its liabilities. The acquisition had any material effect on the consolidated financial statements. method establishes the fair value on the acquisition date of A number of new or amended IFRSs will not come into force identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and any until future financial years and have not been adopted early in holding without a controlling interest. In the case of a business the preparation of financial statements. combination where the consideration transferred exceeds the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, the difference is recInstruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard ognized as goodwill. Transaction costs attributable to the deals with classification, measurement, impairments and recacquisition are recognized as an expense. ognition of financial instruments. It also sets out rules on hedge Income from subsidiaries acquired during the year is accounting. The Group’s intention is to apply the new standard included in the Group’s income as of the date on which the subno later than in the financial year that commences on January sidiary came under the Group’s control. Income from subsidiar1, 2018. IFRS 9 is not expected to have any material impact on ies disposed of during the financial year is included in the the consolidated financial statements. IFRS 9 has not yet been Group’s income up until the point when the Group no longer approved by the EU for implementation. exercises a controlling influence over the subsidiary. All intraGroup transactions, items in the statement of financial position, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 55 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 02 03 In the case of acquisition of subsidiaries where other share9. Operating expenses and financial income holders with non-controlling interests are involved (minority and expenses 04 interests), the Group recognizes net assets attributable to shareOperating expenses 05 holders with non-controlling interests net at the fair value of all Other operating expenses are recognized in the period in net assets, including goodwill. which the item or service is delivered or used (for example, in 06 A conditional purchase consideration is calculated as fair the case of rental costs). 07 value at the date of acquisition. Any adjustment to the related liability for the conditional purchase consideration made in the Costs of operating leases 08 period up to the date of settlement is recognized in income. Costs arising from operating leases are recognized in the 09 When acquisition of a subsidiary entails acquisition of net income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease period. assets that do not constitute a business (asset deal), the acquisiBenefits received in connection with the signing of a lease are 10 tion cost is apportioned over the individual identifiable assets and recognized as part of the total leasing cost, on a straight-line 11 liabilities on the basis of their fair value on the day of acquisition. basis over the period of the lease, in the income statement. Variable charges are recognized in the periods in which they arise. 12 6. Associated companies and joint ventures ​13 Holdings in both associated companies and joint ventures are Costs of financial leases recognized in the consolidated financial statements using the The minimum lease payments are divided between interest 14 equity method. In this, the carrying amount of shares in the expenses and repayment of the outstanding liability. Interest 15 associated company or joint venture corresponds to the expenses are distributed over the period of the lease so that each Group’s participation in the company’s equity, goodwill and accounting period includes an amount corresponding to a fixed 16 any other remaining fair value adjustments. The Group's owninterest rate for the liability recognized in that particular period. ership share in the earnings from the holding after tax and after Variable charges are recognized in the periods when they arise. 17 adjustment for any depreciation, impairment losses and rever18 sals of goodwill or negative goodwill, is recognized in income. Financial income and expenses Financial income and expenses consist of interest income on 19 7. Foreign currency bank deposits, receivables, and fixed-income securities, inter​20 Transactions in foreign currency in the Group’s Swedish compaest expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange rate differnies are translated into SEK at the exchange rate prevailing on the ences, unrealized and realized gains on financial investments ​21 transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign curand derivative instruments used within the Group’s financing ​22 rency are translated into SEK using the exchange rate prevailing at activities. Interest on pension liabilities and return on assets the end of the reporting period. Exchange rate differences arising under management for pensions, calculated in accordance ​23 in translation are recognized in income for the year. Non-monewith IAS 19, are recognized under the heading Net financial ​24 tary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated items. Interest income on receivables and interest expense on at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the transaction. liabilities are calculated using the effective interest method. ​25 Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodThe effective interest rate method is the rate at which the pres​26 will and other fair value adjustments, are translated to Swedish ent value of all future incoming and outgoing payments in the kronor, SEK, using the exchange rate prevailing at the end of fixed-interest period equals the carrying amount for the receiv​27 the reporting period. able or liability. The interest component of financial lease pay​28 Revenue and expenses of foreign operations are translated ments is recognized in the income statement by application of to SEK using an average rate approximating to the rates on the effective interest method. Interest income and interest ​29 each transaction date. Translation differences arising when the expense includes accrued amounts for transaction costs and ​30 financial statements of foreign operations are translated are any discounts, premiums and other differences between the recognized in other comprehensive income and aggregated original recognized amount for the receivable or liability, and 31 as a separate item in the translation reserve in equity, desigthe amount settled when due. nated translation reserve. Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is confirmed. 8. Income Income is recognized in the income statement when the 10. Financial instruments amount can be reliably calculated and when material risks and Financial instruments recognized in the statement of financial benefits associated with the goods have passed to the purposition include, on the assets side, cash and cash equivalents, chaser. Income from services is recognized in the income accounts receivable, shares, loan receivables and derivatives. statement as a proportion of completion at the end of the Liabilities include accounts payable, debt and equity instrureporting period. Income is recognized at fair value, excluding ments issued, loan liabilities and derivatives. value added tax and price and volume discounts. Income in Mail & Communication is generated from serRecognition in and derecognition from vices in business and market communications, newspaper disStatement of financial position tribution and postal service for individual customers. In the A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the statemail and communication businesses, income is recognized ment of financial position when the company becomes party to when the physical item is received for physical transportation. the contractual provisions of the instrument. A receivable is recIncome in Logistics is generated from logistics services for ognized when the company has performed and there is a condeliveries to, from and inside the Nordic region, with the focus tractual liability for the counterparty to pay, even if the invoice on distribution of parcels, consignment goods, pallet goods has not yet been sent. Trade receivables are recognized in the and bulk logistics (mixed-cargo groupage), as well as thirdstatement of financial position when an invoice has been sent. A party logistics. In the logistics business, income is recognized financial asset is removed from the statement of financial posiwhen the physical item is received for physical transportation. tion when the rights in the agreement are realized or expire or Income in Strålfors is generated by communication services the company loses control over them. for businesses, in the form of digital business and market comLiabilities are recognized when the counterparty has permunications, printing and enveloping. Income related to serformed and there is a contractual liability to pay, even if the vices including an electronic component (hybrid service) is recinvoice has not been received. Trade payables are recognized ognized once the object has been converted into a physical when the invoice is received. A financial liability is removed from format and has been received for physical transportation in the the statement of financial position when the obligation in the form of a mail item. agreement is discharged or otherwise expires. Acquisitions and All revenue from services is recognized in the income statedisposals of financial assets are recognized at the trade date, that ment on the degree-of-completion principle at the end of the is, the date on which the transaction is completed. Receivables reporting period. or liabilities are recognized gross under the heading Other liabilities or Other receivables, between the trade date and the settlement date. 56 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 02 Cash and cash equivalents therefore recognized undiscounted at its nominal amount. 03 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and deposits immediImpairment of receivables is recognized under the heading ately available at banks and similar institutions, together with curOther operating expenses. 04 rent investments that have terms of less than three months at the 05 acquisition date and that are exposed to an insignificant risk for Held-to-maturity investments changes in value. Funds held on behalf of others within treasury Held-to-maturity investments are financial assets, with fixed or 06 operations are not treated as cash and cash equivalents. Such determinable payments and a fixed maturity, that the company 07 funds consist of escrow funds held on behalf of external customhas an expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity. ers for the sole purpose of onward transmission and as such are Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost. 08 not available for payments relating to PostNord's own operations. Fixed-income securities acquired with the intention of being 09 held until maturity are classified as financial assets held until Classification and measurement maturity and measured at amortized cost. 10 Financial instruments are classified into categories at first rec11 ognition on the basis of the purpose for which the instrument Available-for-sale financial assets was acquired. The classification determines how the financial Available-for-sale financial assets include financial assets not 12 instrument is measured after the first occasion of recognition. included in any other category or financial assets that the ​13 Financial instruments are initially recognized at acquisition Company initially chooses to put in this category. Assets in this cost, corresponding to the instrument's fair value, including category are measured on an ongoing basis at fair value, with 14 direct transaction costs for all financial instruments, except changes in value being recognized in other comprehensive 15 those falling within the category of financial assets measured income, except for changes in value relating to impairments. at fair value via the income statement, which are recognized At the time the investments are derecognized from the 16 exclusive of transaction costs. statement of financial position, any accumulated gain or loss 17 If the term or anticipated period of holding for the investpreviously recognized in equity is transferred to the income ment is longer than a year, the asset is regarded as a non-curstatement. 18 rent financial asset; if it is shorter than a year but longer than 19 three months, the asset is a short-term investment. Non-curFinancial liabilities measured at fair value rent liabilities have an anticipated term of more than one year, via income ​20 while current liabilities have a term of less than one year. This category consists of two sub-categories: financial liabilities held for trading and other financial liabilities that the Company ​21 Methods for determination of fair value initially chooses to put in this category; see “Financial assets ​22 The note Financial risk management and financial instruments reported at fair value via income”. The first category includes describes which financial instruments are measured at fair value derivatives measured at negative fair value, except for deriva​23 and indicates the level in the measurement hierarchy into which tives used for hedge accounting. Changes in value recognized ​24 the input data used to calculate the fair value is classified. At the via the income statement. end of each accounting period, the Company assesses whether ​25 there are any objective indications that a financial asset or group Other financial liabilities ​26 of assets is in need of impairment. The criteria for determining Financial liabilities includes loans and accounts payable. These whether there is any need for impairment consist primarily of liabilities are measured at amortized cost. The amortized cost ​27 the counterparty's officially notified incapacity to fulfil his obligais determined on the basis of the effective rate of interest calcu​28 tions, or that party's incapacity for maintaining payments in the lated when the liability was booked. As a result, fair value financial markets, as proven by experience. adjustments and direct issue costs are recognized on an accru​29 als basis over the term of the liability. ​30 The categories are as follows: Accounts payable have a short anticipated maturity and so Financial assets reported at fair value via income are measured undiscounted at their nominal amount. 31 This category consists of two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and other financial assets that the Company Derivatives and hedge accounting initially chooses to put in this category. A financial asset is clasIn the Group, derivatives consist of currency forward contracts sified as held for trading if it is acquired with the aim of being and interest rate swaps used to cover risks of changes in exchange sold in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held for tradrates and market interest rates. Changes in the value of derivatives ing other than when they are used for hedge accounting. are recognized in the income statement or in other comprehenAssets in this category are measured on an ongoing basis at sive income, depending on the purpose of the holding. fair value, with changes in value being recognized as net financial items in the income statement. Fixed-income securities not Cash flow hedging intended to be held until maturity are classified either as finanForward contracts are used to hedge assets and liabilities cial assets measured at fair value via the income statement or against foreign exchange risk. Any changes in value are recogas available-for-sale financial assets. nized via the income statement. To achieve matching, hedge accounting is not necessary since the hedged item is transLoans receivables and trade receivables lated at the exchange rate at the end of the period and the Loans receivables and trade receivables are non-derivative hedging instrument is measured at fair value, with any changes financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments, and in value being recognized via the income statement. that are not listed on an active market. In order to secure interest flows related to certain borrowing Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost. The at variable interest, interest rate swaps, in which the Company amortized cost is determined on the basis of the effective rate of receives variable interest and pays fixed interest, are used. The interest calculated at the time of acquisition. Non-current receivswaps are measured at fair value. The interest coupon compoables, accounts receivable and other current receivables are clasnent is recognized as part of interest expense on an ongoing sified into the category Loan receivables and trade receivable. basis in income for the year. Unrealized changes in fair value of the interest swaps are Doubtful account receivable recognized in other comprehensive income and form part of Trade receivables are recognized at the amounts expected to the hedging reserve until the hedged item affects the income be received after deductions for doubtful receivables, which for the year and as long as the criteria for hedge accounting are determined on a case-by-case basis. An impairment loss is and efficiency are fulfilled. applied to an account receivable if it may be regarded as doubtful, that is, it is older than 90 days after falling due or it 11. Property, plant and equipment relates to a customer with historical problems with payment. Owned assets Trade receivables that relate to customers with an acknowlProperty, plant and equipment at PostNord consists of properedged good capacity for payment and a good payment histies, machinery, equipment, construction in progress and tory are not regarded as doubtful, even if older than 90 days advance payments. The Group recognizes these assets at acquiand adequate interest compensation is expected to be paid. sition cost less deductions for accumulated depreciation and The anticipated term of the receivable is short and the value is any impairment losses. Acquisition cost includes the purchase PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 57 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 02 03 price and costs directly attributable to the asset in order to bring 13. Non-current intangible assets the asset into place in the right condition to be used as intended. Non-current intangible assets at PostNord consist of goodwill, 04 The result from sale or disposal of property, plant and equipcapitalized development expenditures and other intangible 05 ment is calculated as the difference between the value at sale non-current assets. The Group recognizes these at acquisition and the carrying amount. Any profit or loss arising is recognized cost less deductions for any accumulated depreciation and 06 via income. Subsequent costs are added to the acquisition cost impairment losses. 07 of an asset only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue to the company and Intangible assets are recognized in the statement of financial 08 the historical cost can be measured reliably. position when: 09 All other subsequent costs are recognized as an expense in • An identifiable non-monetary asset exists the period when they occur. • It is probable that the future economic benefits that may be 10 attributed to the asset will flow to the Group 11 Depreciation principles • The historical cost of the asset may be measured reliably Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the esti12 mated useful life of the asset. Land is not depreciated. Goodwill ​13 The Group applies component depreciation, which means Goodwill represents the difference between the acquisition cost that the estimated useful life of the separate component is the of the business combination and the fair value of identifiable 14 basis for depreciation. assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities. 15 Goodwill is measured at acquisition cost less any accumulated impairment. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, The following rates of depreciation are applied: 16 which are tested annually for impairment. Goodwill arising upon Buildings, land improvements and the acquisition of associated companies is included in the carry17 improvements to leased properties 10–50 years ing amount for participations in associated companies. 18 Interiors and installations in leased premises 5–10 years Capitalized development expenditures 19 Sorting equipment 5–10 years Internally generated non-current intangible assets are recog​20 Vehicles 3–8 years nized as Capitalized development expenditure and refer in the Computer equipment 3–7 years main to system development. ​21 The carrying amount includes directly attributable expendiOther machinery and equipment 5 years ​22 ture in connection with, for example, services and equipment. Owner-occupied properties comprise a number of compoOther development costs are expensed in the income state​23 nents with differing useful lives. The main category consists of ment as they arise. Capitalized development expenditure is ​24 buildings and land. The buildings comprise several comporecognized in the statement of financial position at acquisition nents with various useful lives. cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. ​25 ​26 The following main categories of components have been Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprise acquired brands, customer ​27 identified and serve as a basis for depreciation of buildings: relationships, licences and similar assets. Other intangible ​28 Structure/roof 50 years assets are recognized at acquisition cost less accumulated External cladding 30–40 years depreciation and impairments. ​29 Internal cladding 10 years ​30 Amortization principles Electrical installations 40 years Amortization is recognized in the income statement on a 31 Ventilation/cooling 15-20 years straight-line basis through the estimated useful life of an intanSewerage/water 40 years gible asset, unless this period is indeterminable. Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeterminable useful life, as Depreciation periods, residual values and useful lives are well as capitalized development processes that have not been reviewed at every year-end. completed, are tested for impairment annually or as soon as there is an indication that the value of the asset has decreased. Impairments An intangible asset is amortized from the date when it The carrying amounts for the Group's property, plant and becomes available for use. equipment are tested at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of need for impairment. Impairments are recognized as an expense in income for The estimated useful lives are as follows: the year. Capitalized development processes completed 3–10 years An impairment of assets is reversed if there is both an indiBrands, customer relationships, cation that a need for impairment no longer exists and that a licenses and other rights 3–10 years change has taken place in the assumptions on that served as a basis for calculation of the impairment. Impairments 12. Leased assets The Group’s reported assets are assessed at the end of each PostNord has entered into financial and operational lease reporting period to determine whether there is any indication agreements on machinery, equipment and business premises. of need for impairment. If any such indication is found, the Lease agreements under which risks and benefits associrecoverable amount for the asset is calculated. ated with ownership are in all essential respects transferred to For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeterminthe Group are classified as financial leases. Assets leased under able useful life and intangible assets not yet ready for use, the financial leases are recognized as non-current assets in the balrecoverable amount is assessed annually. An impairment loss is ance sheet. When the leased asset is recognized for the first recognized when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-genertime, it is measured at fair value or the present value, whichating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are ever is the lower, of the minimum lease charges when the charged to the income statement. An impairment loss on an asset agreement is entered into. The obligation to pay future lease attributable to a cash-generating unit is charged first to goodwill. charges is recognized under Current and non-current liabilities. The recoverable amount is calculated as either fair value less The leased assets are depreciated according to plan over the selling costs or value in use, whichever is the higher. Calculation useful life of the particular asset, while the lease payments are of the value in use is based on PostNord's estimates of future recognized as interest and amortization of liabilities. cash flows. When calculating the value in use, future cash flows All other lease charges are classified as operating leases. are discounted using a discount factor that takes into account, Charges to be paid under operating leases are charged to for example, risk-free interest and the risk associated with the income on a straight-line basis over the period covered by the specific asset. Such estimates are based on the Group's busilease agreement concerned. ness plan, supplemented by other relevant information. 58 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 02 Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Impairment and estimated number of employees affected, as well as type of 03 of other assets is reversed if there is both an indication that benefits and amounts for each personnel category or position impairment no longer exists and also there has been a change and the time at which the plan is intended to be carried out. 04 in the assumptions on which the calculation of recoverable 05 value was based. 17. Provisions A provision differs from other liabilities in that it is subject to 06 14. Inventories uncertainty as to the time of payment or the size of the amount 07 Good in inventories are stated at either cost or net realizable required to effect the provision. A provision is recognized in the value, whichever is the lower. The acquisition cost is calculated statement of financial position when there is a present legal or 08 using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) principle. constructive obligation as a result of an event that has occurred, 09 it is likely that an outflow of funds will be required to settle the 15. Dividend paid commitment and the amount can be reliably calculated. 10 Dividends are recognized as a liability after they have been A provision for restructuring is recognized when there is an 11 approved by the AGM. agreed detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either already begin or has been officially 12 16. Employee benefits announced. No provision is made for future operating costs. ​13 Short-term benefits A provision for an onerous contract is recognized when the Personnel expenses are recognized in the period in which the anticipated economic benefits that the Group is expected to 14 work is performed. Changes in holiday and salary liabilities are receive from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs 15 recognized on an ongoing basis in pace with the employee’s of fulfilling the obligations under the contract. earning of right to remuneration. 16 During periods of high holiday-taking, personnel expenses 18. Taxes 17 will on those occasions generally be lower than the average Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income cost per period. taxes are recognized in the income statement except when the 18 underlying transaction is recognized in Other comprehensive 19 Post-termination benefits income or directly in equity, whereupon the associated tax effect The Group's pension commitments consist partly of is also recognized in Other comprehensive income or in equity. ​20 defined-benefit plans with an agreed promise of a future penCurrent tax is tax that is calculated on the basis of the current sion level based primarily on the person's final salary, and partly year's taxable income and that it is to be paid or received for the ​21 of defined-contribution plans in which insurance premiums are current year, on the basis of the tax rates enacted or in practice ​22 paid and the employee bears the risk regarding the future penenacted at the end of the reporting period. This includes adjustsion level. The Group's commitments as to defined-contribution ments to current tax for previous periods. ​23 pension plans are recognized as a personnel expense in the Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method on ​24 income statement, as they are earned through the employee the basis of temporary differences between the recognized and performing his or her duties on behalf of the Company. The taxable values of assets and liabilities. The amounts are calcu​25 defined contribution plans consist for the most part of an ITP lated on the basis of how the temporary differences are expected ​26 (occupational pension) plan adapted for PostNord in Sweden, to be evened out using the tax rates and regulations enacted or and a number of smaller plans in Norway and France. Calculaannounced at the end of the reporting period. Temporary differ​27 tions are performed for all defined-benefit plans using the proences are not included in goodwill on consolidation. In legal enti​28 jected unit credit method, in order to establish the present value ties, untaxed reserves are recognized including deferred tax liabilof commitments regarding benefits for present and previous ities. In the consolidated accounts, untaxed reserves are divided ​29 employees. Actuarial calculations are conducted annually on the into deferred tax liability and equity. Deferred tax assets relating ​30 basis of actuarial assumptions, which are determined annually at to deductible temporary differences and loss carry-forwards are the closing of the year-end accounts. Assumptions are made for recognized only to the extent it is probable that these will result 31 inflation, changes in income base amounts, personnel turnover, in lower tax payments in the future. discount rate, return on investments and life expectancy. Such probability is judged on the basis of PostNord's The Group’s net commitment consists of the present value ­business plan and operational plans. of the estimated pension commitments, less the fair value of the assets under management. Changes in the present value 19. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities of the net commitments arising from changes in actuarial A contingent liability is recognized whenever there is a possible assumptions are treated as revaluation effects and recognized obligation arising from past events and the existence of which in other comprehensive income. The carrying amount of penis confirmed only by one or more uncertain future events. sions and similar commitments represents the present value of Contingent liabilities are also recognized whenever there is the commitments at the end of the period, less the fair value of an obligation not reported as a liability or provision because it assets under management, including special payroll tax. is not probable that resources will have to be used to settle the If the value of the commitment exceeds the value of the obligation. assets under management, a liability is recognized. If the assets Pledged assets are recognized for guarantees provided and under management exceed the commitments, an asset is recassets pledged. ognized on the Group’s statement of financial position. If the pension expense and pension provision established for 20. Related party transactions Swedish plans deviate from the amounts calculated in accordance Information from the Company on transactions with Swedish with IFRS, compared to what is recognized in accordance with State and the Danish State has been restricted to relationships RedR 1 (FAR SRS standard “Annual Reports in Limited Liability Comthat are not of a commercial nature, as a result of which related panies”), special payroll tax in accordance with UFR (Statements party transactions consist of special assignments from the from the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council) is also State and licenses from public authorities. recognized for the difference. As regard pensions and similar benefits financed via defined-contribution plans, expenses equal to Post21. Statement of cash flows Nord’s annual contributions in respect of the plans are recognized. The Statement of cash flows is prepared in accordance with the indirect method and allocated to operating activities, Termination benefits investing activities and financing activities. Acquisitions and A provision is recognized in connection with notice of terminasales of subsidiaries are included, net of cash and cash equivation of employment, where the Company is obliged to termilents, under the heading of Investing activities. Cash flows arisnate an employment without any realistic prospect of withing in transactions in foreign currency are recognized in the drawing an offer of termination benefit. When termination beneGroup’s functional currency by translation of the amount in the fits are offered to encourage voluntary redundancy, a provision foreign currency into SEK using the exchange rate prevailing at is recognized when the offer has been accepted at least by the the time of the cash flow. representative of those affected and the number of employees Cash and cash equivalents are made up of cash, bank who will accept the offer can be reliably estimated. In cases deposits and short-term investments. See also Note 19 where PostNord gives notice of termination of employment, a Cash and cash equivalents. detailed plan is drawn up specifying at least workplace, positions PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 59 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 2 S  IGNIFICANT ASSESSMENTS AND ESTIMATES NOTE 3 ANALYSIS OF REVENUE SOURCES 01 02 When preparing the Group’s financial statements, the CompaNet sales ny’s management has made assessments and estimates that Services provided account for the major share of net sales. 03 affect the Group’s reporting. These assessments and estimates 04 are based on what was known at the time of presentation of Other income the accounts, and on historical experience and the assumpSEKm 2015 2014 05 tions that management considers reasonable in the given circumstances. The amounts stated are based on the conclusions Rental income 18 ​20 06 that management has reached. Actual outcomes, assessments Insurance claim payments 2 12 07 and estimates in future financial statements over the year Commission income 9 11 08 ahead may deviate from those contained in this report as a Capital gains, buildings 521 384 result of changes in external circumstances and new experi09 ence. The assessments and estimates that are most material to Capital gains, machinery and equipment ​13 11 10 PostNord have been made in the following areas: Capital gains, current receivables/ liabilities 2 11 Prepaid postage stamp liability, SEK 411m (433) Exchange rate gains 105 59 12 PostNord's prepaid postage stamp liability is calculated for Other 97 149 stamps sold but not used. The extent of the prepaid postage ​13 stamp liability is determined on the basis of a number of Total 765 648 14 assumptions. Assumptions are based on the number of stamps sold but not used in Sweden and Denmark. To ensure 15 that the assumptions are reasonable, studies are carried out in 16 both Denmark and Sweden. NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING 17 Intangible assets, SEK 4,191m (4,691) PostNord's organization into segments is based on the manner Assumptions are made about future conditions in order to in which PostNord is governed and activities are reported to 18 ­c alculate future cash flows that will determine the recoverable management. Market pricing applies to internal transactions 19 value of goodwill, brands and customer relations. between PostNord’s segments. No latitude is allowed for purchasing externally where the service is available internally. In ​20 Pension commitments, SEK 1,867m assets PostNord's operational structure, though not in its legal struc​21 (388 liabilities) ture, cost distribution for corporate shared service functions is In the actuarial calculation for PostNord's pension commitat cost price. As of 2015, financial reporting for the segments is ​22 ments, a number of assessments are made in order to arrive at applied per country organization. Comparative periods have ​23 reasonable assumptions. The most material of these are been restated. assumptions about discount rate, expected rate of return on Markets are divided into the following segments: PostNord ​24 assets under management, future pay trends and inflation. Sweden, PostNord Denmark (incl. Germany), PostNord Norway, ​25 Changes in pension commitments due to altered external facPostNord Finland, PostNord Strålfors and Other. The segments tors affect PostNord's income, net financial items and other market and sell the total offerings of the business areas in the ​26 comprehensive operating income, as well as financial receivNordic region. ​27 ables and pension liability recognized in the statement of financial position. Changes in assumptions also affect the forecast PostNord Sweden operates in letters, logistics and e-com​28 cost for the year ahead. merce in the Swedish market and is responsible for all aspects ​29 of PostNord’s fulfillment operations. Provisions for transition regulations, SEK 712m (785) ​30 As a consequence of the Company's corporatization in Sweden PostNord Denmark operates in letters, logistics and e-com31 in 1994, PostNord assumed a contingent liability (special transimerce in the Danish market and is responsible for the e-comtion regulations) such that certain categories of the workforce merce and logistics part of PostNord’s operations in Germany. may choose to retire early, at the age of 60 or 63 years. Provision in the statement of financial position is calculated on the basis PostNord Norway and PostNord Finland operate in letters, of previous experience of the proportion of persons who have logistics and e-commerce in the Norwegian and Finnish marelected to exercise their right to early retirement under these kets, respectively. provisions. A change of 5 percentage points in the take-up rate impacts operating income by +/–SEK 4m. PostNord Strålfors operates in information logistics. The company develops and offers communications solutions for Deferred tax assets, SEK 484m (566) companies with large customer bases. Tax assets consisting of tax loss carry-forwards have been measured on the basis of business plans and estimates of Other includes business operations outside the scope of the future taxable profits for which tax loss carry-forwards may be above segments, shared services and corporate functions used. Estimates have been made of non-deductible costs and including the Parent Company, Group adjustments and items non-taxable income in accordance with current tax regulaaffecting comparability. The Group adjustments comprise IFRS tions. Account has also been taken of future income in the adjustments for pensions under IAS 19, Employee Benefits, and ­foreseeable future in order to evaluate the recognized tax finance leasing under IAS 17, Lease Agreements. Service costs claim at the tax rates currently in force. for shared services and corporate functions are allocated from Other to the segments. In Other, cost allocations are taken up as Other operating income, internal. Within the countries, cost allocations are recognized in Other Expenses. Other also includes items affecting comparability as of 2015; the period of comparison has been adjusted. Eliminations consists of the elimination of internal transactions. 60 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Note 4 (cont.) 01 02 2015 PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord EliminaPostNord Jan–Dec, SEKm Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Strålfors Other tions Group 03 Net sales, external 22,008 9,509 3,707 553 2,251 1,323 39,351 04 Net sales, internal 1,072 478 405 234 84 4 –2,277 05 Total net sales 23,080 9,987 4,112 787 2,335 1,327 –2,277 39,351 06 Other operating income, external 151 25 7 1 14 567 765 07 Other operating income, internal 281 2 ​ 4 0 0 2 ​ 7 3,414 –3,746 08 Income 23,513 10,035 4,119 788 2,377 5,308 –6,022 40,116 09 Personnel expenses –9,720 –5,524 –951 –101 –625 –711 8 –17,624 10 Transportation expenses –5,086 –1,383 –2,704 –475 –458 –258 313 –10,051 11 Other operating expenses –7,170 –3,112 –347 –206 –1,095 –3,776 5,701 –10,005 Depreciation and impairments –690 –387 –142 –7 –114 –534 –1,872 12 Expenses –22,666 –10,406 –4,144 –789 –2,291 –5,279 6,022 –39,552 ​13 OPERATING INCOME 847 –371 –25 –1 86 ​28 564 14 Net financial items –113 15 Income before tax 451 16 Tax –173 17 Net income 278 18 19 2014 PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord EliminaPostNord ​20 Jan–Dec, SEKm Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Strålfors Other tions Group ​21 Net sales, external 22,269 9,684 3,937 456 2,305 1,299 39,950 ​22 Net sales, internal 885 481 375 210 75 4 –2,030 Total net sales 23,154 10,165 4,312 666 2,380 1,303 –2,030 39,950 ​23 ​24 Other operating income, external 142 57 8 1 1 439 648 ​25 Other operating income, internal 294 58 0 0 3 3,148 –3,503 Income 23,590 10,280 4,320 667 2,384 4,890 –5,533 40,598 ​26 ​27 Personnel expenses –9,918 –5,748 –987 –89 –685 –830 ​45 –18,212 Transportation expenses –4,900 –1,325 –2,819 –389 –389 –300 ​290 –9,832 ​28 Other operating expenses –7,231 –2,950 –418 –186 –1,170 –3,599 ​5,198 –10,356 ​29 Depreciation and impairments –672 –407 –131 –8 –125 –504 –1,847 ​30 Expenses –22,721 –10,430 –4,355 –672 –2,369 –5,233 ​5,533 –40,247 31 OPERATING INCOME ​869 –150 –35 –5 15 –343 351 Net financial items –106 Income before tax 245 Tax –69 Net income for the period 176 Restated due to organizational changes implemented. Organization into geographical areas 2015 2014 based on domicile of companies, SEKm Revenue Assets Investments Revenue Assets Investments Sweden ​23,457 12,500 708 23,634 13,118 1,245 Denmark 9,665 ​5,935 189 9,907 8,147 231 Norway 4,211 ​5,081 179 4,490 3,297 187 Finland 830 415 ​22 662 262 6 Other countries 1,953 792 11 1,905 639 ​21 Total 40,116 24,723 ​1,109 40,598 25,464 1,690 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 61 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 03 NOTE 5 EMPLOYEES, PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION 04 2015 2014 05 Average number of employees per country Women Men Total % Men Women Men Total % Men 06 Sweden 7,272 ​14,190 ​21,462 66 7,749 15,041 22,790 66 07 Denmark 3,703 7,661 11,364 67 4,453 7,583 12,036 63 08 Norway 251 ​1,262 ​1,513 83 283 1,371 1,654 64 09 Finland 88 178 266 67 84 148 232 83 Other countries 268 383 651 59 264 431 695 62 10 Total 11,582 23,674 35,256 67 12,833 24,574 37,407 66 11 12 Personnel expenses, SEKm 2015 2014 ​13 Salaries and other remuneration 13,621 14,104 14 Statutory social insurance costs ​2,577 2,567 15 Pension expenses1) ​1,351 1,421 16 Other personnel expenses 75 120 17 Total ​17,624 18,212 18 1) Of the Group’s pension expenses, SEK 5m (5) relates to current and former Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. Commitments outstanding on 19 behalf of these executives total SEK 158m (158). ​20 2015 2014 ​21 Salaries and PresiOf which, Other PresiOf which, Other other remuneration per country, SEKm dents1) bonus2) employees Total dents1) bonus2) employees Total ​22 Sweden ​20 1 ​7,348 ​ ,368 7 19 0 7,629 7,648 ​23 Denmark 9 ​5,098 5 ​ ,107 9 5,208 5,217 ​24 Finland 5 840 845 2 100 102 ​25 Norway 4 109 113 4 950 954 Other countries 3 184 187 2 181 183 ​26 Total 41 1 1​ 3,579 13,620 36 0 14,068 14,104 ​27 1) Current and former Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. ​28 2) Acquisitions of subsidiaries included agreements on bonuses to presidents provided that targets for EBIT were achieved or surpassed, which occurred in two subsidiaries. These agreements were limited in time until the 2014 financial year-end, and the last payment was made in 2015. ​29 ​30 2015 2014 31 Salaries and other remuneration Pension Other Pension Other to Group Executive Team, SEKm Salary expenses benefits Total Salary expenses benefits Total Håkan Ericsson, President & CEO 9.1 2.7 0.1 11.9 9.1 2.7 0.1 11.9 K.B. Pedersen, Executive Vice President (acting CEO May 16, 2013 – to Sept. 2013) 4.7 4.7 Total, President and Group CEOs and Executive Vice President 9.1 2.7 0.1 11.9 13.8 2.7 0.1 16.6 Johanna Allert 2.2 0.6 0.1 2.9 2.1 0.6 0.1 2.8 Gunilla Berg (from September 29, 2014) 4.3 1.3 0.0 5.6 1.1 0.3 0.0 1.4 Henning Christensen 3.6 0.1 3.7 3.4 0.1 3.5 Joss Delissen 3.1 0.9 0.0 4.0 3.0 0.9 0.0 3.9 Andreas Falkenmark 4.0 1.2 0.1 5.3 4.5 1.3 0.1 5.9 Annemarie Gardshol 3.5 1.1 0.0 4.6 3.4 1.1 0.1 4.6 Finn Hansen 3.8 3.8 3.7 3.7 Anders Holm (from April 2014) 3.3 0.9 0.1 4.3 2.2 0.6 0.0 2.8 Mats Johansson (from Jan. to March 31, 2014) 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.6 Peter Kjaer Jensen (from April 2014) 2.9 0.9 0.1 3.9 2.1 0.6 0.0 2.7 Lena Larsson (from May 12 to Sept. 28, 2014) 0.7 0.2 0.0 0.9 Kristina Lilja (from Jan. 2015) 2.0 0.6 0.0 2.6 Per Mossberg 3.1 0.9 0.1 4.1 3.0 0.9 0.1 4.0 Robin Olsen (from April 2014) 3.6 0.2 0.2 4.0 2.9 0.6 0.0 3.5 Henrik Rättzén (up to May 11, 2014) 5.6 1.2 0.0 6.8 Per Samuelson (up to end Oct. 2014) 3.2 0.9 0.0 4.1 Total, other Group Executive Team 39.4 8.6 0.8 48.8 41.4 9.3 0.5 51.2 Total, Group Executive Team 48.5 11.3 0.9 60.7 55.2 12.0 0.6 67.8 62 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Note 5 (cont.) 01 02 Benefits to senior executives a healthy corporate culture. The remuneration shall not be 03 On behalf of all senior executives in Sweden, a pension prepay-setting relative to comparable enterprises, but shall be mium of no more than 30% of the person's monthly salary is characterized by restraint. 04 applied. Under the relevant contracts, the pensionable age is Individual premium-based pension plans are contracted for 05 65 or 62 years. the President & Group CEO and other executives employed in In the case of senior executives employed in Denmark, the Sweden, with contributions not to exceed 30 percent of the 06 pension cost is included in the salary and the pensionable age fixed monthly salary. The required insurance policies are con07 adheres to Danish legislation. Senior executives in Norway are tracted within the scope of this charge. The pensionable age is subject to Norwegian labor law and the same pension condicurrently 62 or 65 years. In future recruitment, this will be 65 08 tions as for other employees. The pensionable age is 65 years. years. For executives employed in Denmark and Norway, pre09 The pension benefit for the current President is set at 30% mium-based pensions are provided to their full extent, and the of the executive's monthly salary. The period of notice is pensionable age must be in line with the guidelines and prac10 6 months for both President and employer. tice in each respective country. 11 The period of notice for other members of the Group ExecuIn new employment contracts, the period of notice where tive Team is 6–12 months by the Company and 6 months by the the employment is terminated by the employer shall not 12 individual. If the employment is terminated at the employer’s exceed six months. Employment contracts signed earlier, with ​13 ­initiative, severance compensation corresponding to the value a period of notice of 12 months where employment is termiof the person’s monthly salary will be paid for a maximum of nated by the employer, shall continue to apply. Where the 14 12 months. Whenever a new employment contract is signed, the employment contract is terminated by the senior executive, 15 value of company car benefit is not nowadays included in the the period of notice shall be six months. Where the employcalculation of the severance compensation. Older employment ment is terminated by the employer, severance compensation 16 contracts still exist, in which the value of company car benefit is may be paid in an amount corresponding to no more than 12 17 included in the basis of calculation for severance compensation. months’ salary. If the employee takes up new employment or For senior executives, the rule applied is that income from receives income from other business activities, the salary paid 18 new employment or own business is deducted from terminaduring the notice period and the severance pay will be reduced 19 tion salary and severance compensation. by an amount corresponding to the new income. Variable salary will not be paid to the senior executives. In ​20 Summary of guidelines on compensation the light of other principles in the government's guidelines on to senior management in the Group terms of employment for senior executives in State-owned ​21 (adopted at the AGM, held on April 28, 2015). companies, variable salary may be paid to other employees. ​22 The total remuneration paid to senior executives shall be well-balanced, competitive, capped, reasonable and fit-for-­ ​23 purpose, and should be in keeping with sound ethics and ​24 ​25 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 ​26 Gender representation among senior executives, % % Women % Men % Women % Men ​27 Group Board of Directors 38 62 38 62 ​28 Group Board of Directors Group Management 31 69 2 ​ 7 73 ​29 Board members and presidents of subsidiaries 39 61 34 66 ​30 31 Fees to Board of Directors of PostNord Group Audit Remuneration and PostNord AB, SEKt1) Committee Committee 2015 2014 Jens Moberg Chairman 638 638 Gunnel Duveblad Chairman 313 313 Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen Member 300 300 Christian Ellegaard Member 300 300 Jonas Iversen to end of February 2014 Member Magnus Skåninger from April 2014 Member Anitra Steen Member 275 275 Mats Abrahamsson Member 275 275 Torben Janholt Member 275 275 Total 2,376 2,376 1) Board members are entitled to invoice via a company or sole proprietorship, including associated social insurance costs. However this is done, it is cost-neutral to PostNord. Remuneration approved by Annual General Meeting, Board of Audit Remuneration held on April 28, 2015, SEKt Directors ­Committee Committee Chairman 600 63 38 Member 250 50 25 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 63 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 6 OTHER EXPENSES NOTE 8 NET FINANCIAL ITEMS 01 02 SEKm 2015 2014 SEKm 2015 2014 03 Costs of premises 2,104 2,143 Financial income 04 Provisions1) 671 1,013 Interest income 11 ​23 05 Terminal fees 1,198 1,249 Interest income, pensions 52 Cost of goods and materials 889 919 Other financial income 9 14 06 Procured IT resources 1,499 1,605 Total ​21 89 07 Capitalized development costs, IT –58 –199 08 Financial expenses Other 3,702 3,626 Interest expenses –83 –107 09 Total 10,005 10,356 Interest expenses, pensions –25 –64 10 Provisions and reversals Interest expenses, regarding restructuring measures finance leases –0 –0 11 PostNord Sweden 96 222 Other financial expenses –11 –15 12 PostNord Denmark 419 506 Net change in exchange rates –14 –9 ​13 PostNord Norway 9 37 Total –134 –195 14 PostNord Strålfors 17 73 Net financial items –113 –106 15 Other 130 175 Total 671 1,013 See also Note 29 Financial risk management and financial 16 instruments; for more on interest expense relating to pensions, 1) See also Note 22 Provisions. see also Note 21 Pensions. 17 18 NOTE 7 FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES NOTE 9 TAX 19 TO AUDITORS ​20 ​21 SEKm 2015 2014 SEKm 2015 2014 ​22 KPMG Current tax –55 –61 Auditing assignments 12 10 ​23 Deferred tax Other auditing services 2 2 ​24 Change in deferred tax in property, Tax consultancy 1 2 plant and equipment 224 –25 ​25 Other services 1 1 Other temporary difference ​26 Total 16 15 in balance sheet items –336 179 ​27 Audit services consist of statutory review of the annual and Change in deferred tax in consolidated accounts and accounting records and the admintax loss carry-forwards –6 –162 ​28 istration by the Board and the President, as well as review and Total –118 –8 ​29 other auditing procedures performed as per agreement or Total tax –173 –69 contract. ​30 This also includes other duties that fall to the Company's 31 ­auditor, and advice or other support occasioned by observa2015 2014 tions made during audits or the performance of such other duties. Reconciliation of effective tax rate % SEKm % SEKm Income before tax 22 451 22 245 Tax at current tax rate for Parent Company –99 –54 Non-deductible expenses –351) –11 Tax-exempt income 3 4 Effect of unused tax losses incurred during the year –20 –16 Tax attributable to previous year 1 Effect of changes in tax rates –8 2 Effect of other tax rates in foreign subsidiaries –5 –2 Other –9 8 Total –173 –69 1) Of which SEK –22m is attributable to impairment losses on goodwill ­participations in associated companies. Uncapitalized tax loss carry-forwards relate to operations ­outside Sweden, see Note 16. 64 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 10 NON-CURRENT INTANGIBLE ASSETS 01 02 Goodwill Other intangible assets Capitalized Total 03 Licenses and similar development Other non-current 04 Goodwill assets expenditures intangible assets 05 SEKm 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 06 Acquisition cost, opening balance 3,380 3,303 2,432 2,150 2,064 2,036 4,496 4,186 Acquisition of subsidiaries 58 15 8 15 8 07 Other investments ​27 34 55 178 82 212 08 Disposals/scrapping –156 –27 –12 –168 –27 09 Reclassifications –477 249 477 –209 401) 10 Translation differences –138 77 –63 18 –31 59 –94 77 11 Accumulated historical costs at year-end 3,300 3,380 1,778 2,432 2,553 2,064 4,331 4,496 12 Depreciation, opening balance –1,440 –1,195 –1,047 –855 –2,487 –2,050 ​13 Depreciation for the year –221 –247 –156 –146 –377 –393 14 Acquisition of subsidiaries –2 –2 15 Disposals/scrapping 155 18 ​22 177 18 Reclassifications 250 –250 1 11) 16 Translation differences ​46 –16 32 –47 78 –63 17 Accumulated depreciation 18 at year-end –1,212 –1,440 –1,399 –1,047 –2,611 –2,487 19 Impairments, opening balance –8 –8 –86 –10 –604 –521 –690 –531 ​20 Impairments for the year –58 –9 –76 –73 –74 –82 –150 Reclassifications 76 –76 ​21 Translation differences 2 7 –9 7 –9 ​22 Accumulated impairments ​23 at year-end –64 –8 –19 –86 –746 –604 –765 –690 ​24 Closing balance 3,236 3,372 547 906 408 413 955 1,319 ​25 1) Reclassifications from inventories. ​26 Other intangible assets Goodwill ​27 Internally generated intangible assets, consisting for the most Goodwill is recognized as a non-current intangible asset with ​28 part of system support, are recognized as Capitalized developan indeterminable useful life at acquisition cost less accumument expenditure. Capitalized development processes on lated impairment losses. Goodwill on December 31, 2015 was ​29 December 31, 2015 were valued at a carrying amount of valued at a carrying amount of SEK 3,236m (3,372). For more ​30 SEK 408m (413). on goodwill attributable business combinations, see Note 29 Other non-current intangible assets consisted primarily of Acquisitions and disposals. 31 licenses and similar assets. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested annually for impairLicenses and similar assets on December 31, 2015 were ment. In order to allow for testing of impairment, goodwill in ­valued at a carrying amount of SEK 547m (906). the Group has been allocated to cash-generating units in Tighter control has enabled investments to be brought to a accordance with PostNord’s organization into business areas. lower level. No general changes to amortization periods were In view of the fact that the production and sales of acquired applied in 2015. For more on amortization periods used, see businesses have been integrated with other PostNord operaNote 1 Accounting principles. For more on acquisitions of intantions, it is no longer possible to separate out the cash flow and gible assets through acquisition of subsidiaries, see Note 29 assets of the units as originally acquired. Goodwill values have Acquisitions and disposals. in certain cases been tested at a higher level, although no Other non-current intangible assets have been impairhigher than per segment. The allocation to cash-generating ment-tested. As a result impairments of SEK 82m (150) have units is shown in the table below. been applied in the segment Other, relating primarily to capitalized development expenditures relating to system support. Goodwill Rate of growth after Discount rate Dec. 31, SEKm forecast period (%) before tax (%) Cash-generating unit 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 PostNord Norway 861 921 2.6 3 ​12.1 12.4 PostNord Sweden 1,054 832 1 3–4 12.8 12.8 PostNord Denmark 739 854 1 1 12.3 12.6 Strålfors Nordic region1) 430 710 2 3 11.9 12.3 PostNord Finland 143 ​46 3 3 14.5 14.5 Other cash-generating units 9 9 –1–2.5 –1–2.5 11.9–12.6 12.3–12.7 Total goodwill 3,236 3,372 1) In 2014, countries outside the Nordic region were also included in this cash-generating unit. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 65 Consolidated financial statements Note 10 (cont.) 01 02 03 The recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units has rectified in 2015, with goodwill based on the recoverable amount been calculated from the value in use, based on the managebeing reallocated from PostNord Denmark to P ­ ostNord Finland 04 ment’s (3-year) business plan, obtained by using discounted in an amount corresponding to the p ­ roportion of the DPD 05 cash flow calculations. Management's assessments reflect his­business represented by Finland. torical experience, analysis of external trends and other availDuring impairment testing of goodwill in the fourth quarter 06 able external information. of 2015, a need for impairment totaling SEK 58m emerged in 07 The most important assumptions used in determining the the new cash-generating unit Strålfors outside the Nordic value in use are estimated volume growth and working capital region. The goodwill was amortized to zero. 08 requirement. All assumptions are applied per cash-generating The sensitivity in the calculations by the cash-generating 09 unit. In determining the discount rate, factors taken into units indicates that the goodwill value could be sustained in the account included type of business, location of the business event of reasonable changes to important assumptions other 10 and risk and volume premium. than those for the cash-generating units, as shown in the 11 During the evaluation of a possible divestment of Strålfors ­following. conducted during 2015, a review of the Group’s fulfillment The sensitivity in the calculations by the cash-generating 12 (third-party logistics) business was carried out. The result unit PostNord Norway indicates that the goodwill value could ​13 of the evaluation was that the Group’s fulfillment operations not be sustained if the discount rate rose by 1.5 percent or if the in Sweden, Norway and Poland were transferred from the long-term growth declined by 1 percent. The recoverable 14 ­Strålfors segment to the PostNord Sweden segment. Goodamount exceeds the carrying amount by 17 percent. The sensi15 will was reallocated from Strålfors to Sweden in an amount tivity in the calculations by the cash-generating unit PostNord ­corresponding to the proportion of the recoverable amount Finland indicates that the goodwill value could not be sus16 represented by the business. PostNord decided to retain tained if the discount rate rose by 1 percent or if the long-term ­Strålfors in the PostNord Group. growth declined by 0.5 percent. The recoverable amount 17 During the restructuring of the Group’s segments in 2014, exceeds the carrying amount by 11 percent. 18 no goodwill relating to DPD was reallocated to Finland. This was 19 ​20 ​21 NOTE 11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT ​22 Construction ​23 in progress ​24 Buildings Machinery and and advance and land equipment p ­ ayments Total ​25 SEKm 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 ​26 Acquistion cost, opening balance 7,272 5,780 15,922 15,182 448 1,390 23,642 22,352 ​27 Acquisition of subsidiaries 39 401 5 17 62 401 ​28 Other acquisitions ​45 306 604 773 378 399 1,027 1,478 ​29 Disposals/scrapping –33 –190 –790 –554 –217 –823 –961 Reclassifications –1,2081) 7561) 335 179 –294 –1,133 –1,167 –198 ​30 Translation differences –265 219 –307 342 –13 9 –585 570 31 Accumulated historical costs at year-end 5,850 7,272 15,769 15,922 536 448 22,155 23,642 Depreciation, opening balance –2,075 –1,943 –11,597 –10,941 – –1 –13,672 –12,885 Depreciation for the year –143 –116 –1,172 –1,188 –1,315 –1,304 Acquisition of subsidiaries –5 –5 Disposals/scrapping ​22 59 ​744 784 766 843 Reclassifications 4651) 171) 8 14 1 473 32 Translation differences 94 –92 227 –266 321 –358 Accumulated depreciation at year-end –1,637 –2,075 –11,795 –11,597 – – –13,432 –13,672 Impairments, opening balance –6 –10 –41 –46 – – –47 –56 Impairments for the year –10 –2 –12 Reclassification 4 6 10 Translation difference –1 –1 Accumulated impairments at year-end –16 –6 –43 –41 – – –59 –47 Closing balance 4,197 5,191 3,931 4,284 536 448 8,664 9,923 1) Reclassifications to Assets held for sale total SEK 639m (50). 66 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 NOTE 12 LEASED MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT NOTE 13 PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 03 AND PROPERTY LEASES AND JOINT VENTURES 04 Operating leases Participations in associated companies 05 During the year, the Group paid lease charges of SEK 1,308m At the financial year-end, Post Danmark A/S owned shares in (1,514). Outstanding lease charges at the end of the period, at equity in the associated company e-Boks A/S valued at SEK 06 the exchange and interest rates prevailing for the Group 68m (83). The company e-Boks A/S has its registered office in 07 totaled SEK 4,907m (5,302). The minimum lease charges for Ballerup, Denmark, and is owned 50%. operating leases fall due for payment as follows: At the financial year-end, Strålfors AB held 30% of the shares 08 in equity in the associated company DM-byrån Friends Tactics 09 Sweden AB, a Stockholm-based agency specializing in direct Machinery and 10 and relational marketing. The company's book value at year equipment Premises end was SEK 3m (3). 11 SEKm 2015 2014 2015 2014 Participations in joint ventures 12 Within 1 year 74 62 1,173 1,254 Strålfors Svenska AB owns 50% of the company Tand 2:103 ​13 Between one and five years 92 74 2,449 2,612 ­Fastigshets AB, in Östersund, Sweden. The value of the More than five years 1,119 1,300 ­participation on consolidation at year end was SEK 0m (0). 14 Total 166 136 4,741 5,166 15 NOTE 14 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS 16 Finance leases The lease charges for financial leases contracted fall due for 17 payment as follows: SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 18 Endowment insurance ​152 143 Minimum 19 Other non-current investments 98 114 lease ​20 ­payments Interest Present value Closing balance 250 257 ​21 SEKm 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 ​22 Within 1 year 9 12 1 1 8 11 NOTE 15 NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES Between one ​23 and five years 11 18 1 2 10 16 SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 ​24 Total ​20 ​30 2 3 18 ​27 Funded defined-benefit disability ​25 pension plans measured in ​26 Financial lease assets ­accordance with IAS 19 867 841 Financial lease assets recognized as property, plant, and Defined-benefit plans measured ​27 ­equipment consist of: in accordance with IAS 19 1,000 ​28 Payroll tax, SEKm 2015 2014 ​29 disability pension plans –5 Acquisition cost Deposits, property leases 41 50 ​30 Machinery and equipment 91 127 Other 37 1 31 Closing balance 91 127 Total 1​ ,945 887 Accumulated depreciation Machinery and equipment –76 –81 Closing balance –76 –81 Carrying amount 15 4 ​ 6 Lease charges under financial leases amounted to SEK 10m (30). Note 26, Financial risk management and financial instruments, shows the maturities of the non-current liabilities ­relating to financial leases. See also Note 24 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 67 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 16 DEFERRED TAX 01 02 2015 2014 03 Acquisition/ Acquisition/ disposal of disposal of 04 Recognized business, Recognized business, 05 via the recognized in via the ­recognized in Opening income Other compreClosing Opening income Other compreClosing 06 SEKm balance ­statement hensive income balance balance ­statement hensive income balance 07 Deferred tax assets 08 Other provisions 441 –65 376 325 116 441 09 Loss carry-forwards 212 –6 206 377 –162 –3 212 10 Finance leases 1 –1 3 –2 1 Current assets 2 2 11 Offset against liabilities –88 –11 –99 –168 80 –88 12 Total 566 –70 –11 484 537 –48 77 566 ​13 of which, outside Sweden 194 234 168 194 14 15 Deferred tax liability 16 Non-current intangible assets –21 5 –16 –156 58 77 –21 17 Property, 18 plant and equipment –498 224 –274 –433 –25 –40 –498 Current assets –14 14 –70 56 –14 19 Provision ​20 for pensions –205 –291 –173 –669 –526 –49 370 –205 ​21 Offset against ­receivables 88 11 99 168 –80 88 ​22 Total –650 –48 –162 –861 –1,017 40 327 –650 ​23 of which, ​24 outside Sweden –229 –76 –213 –229 ​25 Receivables and liabilities in Sweden have been recognized at Non-recognized receivables pertaining to deferred tax ​26 SEK 300m (247) net, while other receivables and liabilities have a­ ccruing to tax loss carry-forwards amount to SEK 108m (112), been recognized gross. Receivables outside Sweden have been consisting for the most part of SEK 102m (107) in France. ​27 recognized at SEK 234m (194) and liabilities at SEK 76m (229). ​28 ​29 NOTE 17 INVENTORIES NOTE 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ​30 31 SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 Goods for resale etc. 67 98 Cash and bank balances 1,894 1,502 Raw materials 83 79 Short-term investments treated as Closing balance 150 177 cash and cash equivalents 341 Closing balance 1,894 1,843 The major share of the raw materials and goods for resale held in inventories are at Strålfors. Short-term investments have been classified under Cash Impairment losses on inventories totaled SEK 1m (1). and cash equivalents if they are readily convertible into cash, have a maturity of no more than 3 months from the date of acquisition and present a negligible risk of value fluctuations. NOTE 18 P  REPAID EXPENSES AND NOTE 20 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES ACCRUED INCOME SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 Accrued postal charges 95 98 Non-current interest-bearing Accrued commission income 2 2 ­liabilities Prepaid rent 275 225 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,520 4,399 Prepaid insurance premiums 25 ​26 Finance leases 19 ​28 Prepaid wages/salaries 133 161 Other non-current liabilities 166 150 Terminal fees 461 472 Closing balance 3,705 4,577 Derivatives 1 12 Current interest-bearing liabilities Other items 259 293 Liabilities to credit institutions 100 557 Closing balance 1,251 1,289 Commercial paper 200 Utilized overdraft facility ​23 39 Finance leases 11 11 Closing balance 134 807 See also Note 26 Financial risk management and financial instruments 68 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 21 PENSIONS 01 Note 1 Accounting principles includes a description of ­ ensionsstiftelse is supervised by the Stockholm County P 02 ­PostNord's pension plans. The Group operates both Administrative Board and Finansinspektionen (the Swedish 03 defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans. Financial Supervisory Authority). PostNords FörsäkringsförenThere are also a small number of personnel categories that ing is regulated under Swedish Friendly Societies Act (1972:262) 04 are entitled to a retirement pension under special arrangeand is under the supervision of Finansinspektionen. As a result, ments made at corporatization. Postens Pensionsstiftelse PostNords Försäkringsförening must maintain a capital base 05 (the Posten Pension Fund) secures pension obligations for the that exceeds the required solvency margin. The pension plan in 06 PostNord Group AB and PostNord Sverige AB companies. For Norway is regulated under the Norwegian Company Pension more information on internal dealings between the Group and Scheme Act, while in France the pension plan is governed by 07 Postens Pensionsstiftelse, see the section Assets under mancollective agreement in the graphical sector. The Group’s pen08 agement and Note 27 Related party transactions. Postens sion commitment is attributable 99.98 percent to pension ben­Pensionsstiftelse is regulated under Tryggandelagen (1967:531) efits earned in its Swedish companies. The remaining amount is 09 (the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act). Postens accounted for by the French and Norwegian businesses. 10 11 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments, SEKm 2015 2014 12 Pension commitments, OB 20,916 18,083 ​13 Transfer to assets under management –8 14 Costs relating to service during current year1) 307 296 Interest expense2) 526 692 15 Occupational pensions 65 125 16 Payments of benefits –1,071 –1,114 17 Actuarial gains (–) and losses (+) – change in financial assumptions3) –1,115 2,498 18 Actuarial gains (–) and losses (+) – change in demographic assumptions3) 0 0 19 Actuarial gains (–) and losses (+) – experience-based3) 223 333 Exchange rate differences in foreign plans 0 3 ​20 Pension commitments, CB ​19,843 20,916 ​21 Assets under management, fair value, OB 19,649 17,571 ​22 Transfer from commitment 8 ​23 Interest income 501 672 ​24 Contributions from employer 85 854 ​25 Credit –881 ​26 Payments of benefits –76 –70 Actual return above (plus) and below (minus) interest income 240 1,503 ​27 Assets under management, fair value, CB ​20,407 19,649 ​28 Change in total assets or net debt ​29 Present value of defined-benefit commitments ​19,843 20,916 ​30 Assets under management, fair value –20,407 –19,649 31 Net (asset –, liability +) at year-end excluding special payroll tax4) –564 1,267 Occupational injuries 39 42 Special payroll tax –417 97 Net (asset –, liability +) liability in the statement of financial position, including effect of special payroll tax –942 1,406 1) Costs of earned entitlement consist of SEK 278m (271) for funded plans and the remainder for unfunded plans. 2) Of the interest expense, SEK 465m (597) is attributable to funded plans and the remainder to unfunded plans. 3) Of actuarial gains and losses, SEK –765m (2,042) is attributable to funded plans and the remainder to unfunded plans. 4) For more information on the allocation to funded pensions SEK –1,912m (–352), unfunded vested pensions SEK 1,503m (1,670) and unfunded non-vested pensions SEK 712m (785), see Other provisions and long-term receivables SEK –867m (–836). In the course of 2016, the Group anticipates paying benefits The special payroll tax is taken into account, and the amount totaling SEK 1,000m under defined-benefit plans. The recognized as a liability totals SEK 775m (976), including special weighted duration of the pension commitment is 14 (14) years. payroll tax. The obligation is included in the balance of When the value of the assets under management exceeds Unfunded pension plans, non-vested pensions the present value of the pension calculation, this results in an asset for the Group (see Non-current receivables). The Group Provision for ultimate liability judges that the value of assets exceeds the present value of PostNord bears liability for an obligation, known as the ultimate future repayments from the plan and has lowered future payliability, that PostNord Group AB assumed at its corporatization. ments into the plan. This obligation was previously recognized as a contingent liability. At the time of transition to IAS 19, a provision was made Provision for non-vested pensions for this obligation. On the basis of available information, this PostNord is liable for its Swedish subsidiaries' non-vested penobligation was calculated at SEK 97m (114) on December 31, sion commitments under “interim provisions”. These interim 2015. In addition, a provision was made for special payroll tax. provisions apply to certain personnel who, under the terms of The obligation is included in the balance of Unfunded pension their employment, are entitled to retire at 60 or 63 years of age. plans, non-vested pensions A condition is that the employee had reached the age of 28 years by no later than January 1, 1992 and remained in the Liability for maintaining value same function. The total obligation for pensions, calculated in In 2000, pension commitments previously guaranteed via accordance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act, under Postens Pensionsstiftelse were redeemed through the purthe interim provisions was SEK 2,495m (2,682) on December chase of insurance policies. The capital value of these commit31, 2015. Experience indicates that on average 25% of those eliments on December 31, 2015 was SEK 44m (34). PostNord gible exercise their right under the interim provisions, and so retains a liability for maintaining the value and coordinating the the provision is set at this proportion of the total obligation. gross value of these pension commitments. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 69 Consolidated financial statements Note 21 (cont.) 01 02 03 Expenses and income for defined-benefit The discount rate is determined in accordance with IAS 19, that and defined-contribution pension plans 2015 2014 is, with reference to high-quality corporate bonds traded on an 04 active market as defined by IFRS, by reference to the Swedish 05 Costs relating to service housing bond market. Against this background, management during current year 307 298 takes the view that the discount rate applied reflects the time 06 Costs relating to service value of money and offers a reasonable present value for the 07 during preceding year –2 Group’s pension obligations. Future annual pay increases Interest expense (plus) and interest reflect anticipated percentage pay rises, as a composite prod08 uct of inflation, period of service and rank. The income base income (minus)1) 25 ​20 09 amount is determined annually by the government and is Occupational pensions 65 58 used, for example, to establish the ceiling for pensionable pay 10 Defined-benefit pension plans 396 374 in the national pension system. The group has elected for an 11 assumed inflation rate of 1.5%. This reflects the view of the Defined-contribution pension plans 951 1,054 actors in the financial markets regarding inflation in the pricing 12 Other pension expenses ​28 1​ 3 of securities, that is, implicit inflation. A rate of 1.5% is assumed ​13 Recognized within net financial items –25 –20 to reflect expectations of future inflation and is more mutually compatible with the reference interest rate from the housing 14 Total pension expenses 1​ ,351 1,421 bond market. The personnel turnover is the composite expec15 1) Interest expenses and interest income are recognized within net financial tation for future business growth, real pay rises and the proitems. ductivity growth required to maintain profitability, and also 16 takes into account the personnel turnover experienced over Actuarial calculation assumptions recent years. The factor of average remaining service life is 17 The actuarial valuation of PostNord’s defined-benefit pension determined on the basis of the current age breakdown for the 18 commitments and pension expenses are based on the Group’s employees. The life expectancy assumption is based assumptions described below. These assumptions are stated on Finansinspektionen's directions, published as FFFS 2007:31. 19 as weighted mean values for the particular pension plan. A new analysis of mortality rates was conducted within the ​20 Changes in any of these fundamental assumptions may have DUS 14 study. PostNord is not a service enterprise in that sense, considerable impact on estimated pension commitments, and in fact the demography is very much in line with FFFS ​21 financing requirements and annual pension expenses. 2007:31. Against that background, no change is being made to ​22 mortality assumptions and PostNord will continue to apply FFFS 2007:31. ​23 Actuarial ­assumptions, % Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 ​24 Alecta Discount rate 3.00 2.60 4.00 Obligations for retirement and family pensions for salaried ​25 employees in Sweden may be secured through insurance with Future annual pay ​26 rises 2.40 2.40 2.60 Alecta. In the Group, only a few companies use insurance as a means of securing pension benefits, and the sums are not ​27 Change in income ­substantial. base amount 3.00 3.00 3.00 ​28 Inflation 1.50 1.50 2.00 Assets under management ​29 Employee turnover 4.50 4.50 4.50 Total assets under management amounted to SEK 20,407m ​30 Life expectation (19,649). The major share of the Group's assets under manageassumption FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 ment are administered by Postens Pensionsstiftelse, SEK 31 18,623m (18,018). Other assets under management consist of The costs for 2015 are based on the actuarial assumptions assets in Postens Försäkringsförening, SEK 1,729m (1,590), penestablished at the beginning of the year. At the end of 2015, sion insurance with Skandia, SEK 55m (42) and assets under PostNord established assumptions that were applied in the calmanagement relating to Norwegian pension plans. Real return culation of the outcome as per December 31, 2015. These actuon assets under management totalled SEK 741m (2,175), includarial assumptions are also used in the forecast for expenses in ing interest income of SEK 501m (672). 2016. In the process, it was also taken into account that all The activities of Postens Pensionsstiftelsen are governed by assumptions used in the valuation should in the long term be an investment policy subject to the approval of its Board of mutually compatible. Directors. The assets transferred by PostNord to Postens Pensionsstiftelse shall generate a reasonable return. To achieve this, a degree of risk-taking is necessary In order to prevent the level of risk becoming excessive, Pensionsstiftelsen diversifies its investments over various asset categories. Pensionsstiftelsen’s allocation strategy is based on an asset liability management (ALM) analysis. The forecast pension liability is measured against the anticipated return on the assets, together with risk and historical correlations, in order to determine an appropriate asset allocation and level of risk. 70 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Note 21 (cont.) 01 02 The asset allocation and Pensionsstiftelsen’s management The composition of and return on the assets shall adequately 03 shall ensure that the long-term target for return on investment ensure that the Group can meet the pension payments that is achieved, at a level of risk that is justifiable and reasonable. the Pension Fund assures. 04 The return achieved on asset management varies from year to 05 year, depending on a range of separate external factors. This Sensitivity analysis means that the return on investment target is to be regarded At year-end 2015, PostNord had funded pension commitments 06 as a target for return over a longer term. of SEK 17,164m (18,461) and assets under management of SEK 07 Pensionsstiftelsen strives for a well-balanced diversification 20,407m (19,649). In addition to funded commitments, a penbetween and within categories of asset, based on historic sion liability is provided for on the balance sheet, divided into 08 risk-adjusted return and correlations, as well as anticipated vested pension commitments of SEK 1,503m (1,670) and non09 risk-adjusted return. Diversification reduces the risk reprevested pension commitments of SEK 712m (785). The Group's sented by the assets. The allocation over various classes of pension commitments are measured on the basis of the 10 asset is determined across ranges of flexibility. above-mentioned actuarial assumptions and the assets under 11 37% of Pensionsstiftelsen's assets are traded in an active management are measured at fair value. With regard to the market. The asset allocation at Postens Pensionsstiftelse on “interim provisions”, an allocation of 25% of the total obligation 12 December 31, 2014, is as follows: fixed-income and high-yield is made under these interim provisions, since this is what expe​13 SEK 2,500m (2,978), cash and cash equivalents including forrience has shown is the take-up rate. Account is also taken of ward contracts SEK 2,114m (651), unlisted assets SEK 9,658m the special payroll tax. Any change in the obligation as required 14 (8,300) and shares SEK 4,401m (6,089). by the interim provisions by virtue of any change in the take-up 15 The overarching objective of the Pension Fund is to manage rate is recognized as income or expense. For more information its assets with regard to the Group's pension obligations for on the impact on income from changes in take-up rate in 16 which the Pension Fund has received the funds concerned. interim provisions, see table. 17 18 19 Impact on balance sheet items and Change Impact on income other comprehensive income ​20 %-point, Impact after ​21 unless Net Impact on Impact on tax on other ­otherwise Forecast cost financial ­pension ­market value comprehensive ​22 Sensitivity analysis, SEKm stated (service cost) items liability of assets income ​23 Actuarial assumptions ​24 Change in discount rate and ​25 ­anticipated return on assets under management +0.1/–0.1 5/–5 9/–8 –257/262 –200/205 ​26 Change in actual return ​27 on assets under management +0.1/–0.1 0/0 1/–1 20/–20 16/–16 Change in wages/salaries +0.5/–0.5 –13/14 –9/9 299/–290 234/–226 ​28 Change in income base amount +0.5/–0.5 4/–4 3/–3 –89/96 –69/75 ​29 Change in inflation +0.5/–0.5 –17/17 –34/32 1,154/–1,064 900/–830 ​30 Life expectancy, years +1/–1 years –8/8 –20/20 690/–654 539/–510 31 Take-up rate, rights under interim provisions Change in take-up rate, rights under interim provisions +5.0/–5.0 –4/4 –3/4 123/–123 96/–96 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 71 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 03 NOTE 22 OTHER PROVISIONS 04 Opening Impact of Closing 05 2015 Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations translation balance 06 Restructuring measures 07 Provision for personnel and other cutbacks 1,247 905 –234 –573 –35 1,310 08 09 Non-vested pension commitments Special payroll tax 191 10 –42 14 173 10 Non-vested pension commitments 11 in accordance with IAS 19 785 40 –172 59 712 12 Other ​13 Work-related injuries 42 1 –4 39 14 Pension settlement with Danish State3) –1 11 –10 0 15 Provision, commemorative awards 147 11 –7 –14 –10 127 Total 2,411 978 –251 –805 ​28 2,361 16 of which current 681 ​649 17 of which non-current 1,730 1,712 18 19 Anticipated payments, SEKm 1 year 2 years 3 years > 3 years ​20 Provision for restructuring measures 634 217 307 ​152 ​21 Provision for non-vested pensions ​22 in accordance with IAS 191), 2) 259 87 74 313 Other provisions2) ​20 17 15 124 ​23 Total 913 321 396 589 ​24 1) Anticipated payments for non-vested pensions (excl. special payroll tax) have been calculated in accordance with IAS 19. ​25 2) Anticipated payments are somewhat higher than the respective provision. This is because the provision is the estimated present value of the anticipated payments. ​26 3) Pension settlement with Danish State at the end of the reporting period was a net positive balance. ​27 ​28 Opening Impact of Closing ​29 2014 Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations translation balance ​30 Restructuring measures 31 Provision for personnel and other cutbacks 788 1,146 –93 –636 42 1,247 Non-vested pension commitments Special payroll tax 181 12 –27 ​25 191 Non-vested pension commitments in accordance with IAS 19 747 50 –115 103 785 Other Work-related injuries 42 3 –3 42 Pension settlement with Danish State 43 –​13 –11 –20 –1 Provision for anniversary bonus 140 5 –16 18 147 Total 1,941 1,216 –248 –666 168 2,411 of which current 555 681 of which non-current 1,386 1,730 72 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Note 22 (cont.) 01 02 Provisions for restructuring measures NOTE 23 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND 03 Provisions for restructuring consist of the expenses that have DEFERRED INCOME arisen as a result of the Group's efficiency programs in adminis04 tration and support functions. Work commenced in quarter 4 05 SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 and is expected to be completed during 2017. At PostNord ­D enmark, provision has also been made regarding changes Provision for stamps 06 to employment conditions and decisions on production effisold but not used 411 433 07 ciency measures. The amounts are calculated on the basis of Accrued payroll expenses 577 611 management’s best estimates. 08 Holiday pay liability 1,424 1,519 The provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting 09 period and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If Special payroll tax, it is no longer likely that an outflow of funds will be required to pension expenses 526 2 10 settle the commitment, the provision is reversed. In 2014, deciSocial insurance costs 344 378 11 sions were taken on cost cutbacks in administrative and supTerminal fees 335 320 port functions. During 2015, part of this provision was reversed. 12 Derivatives 17 35 This resulted from lower-than-anticipated costs for personnel, ​13 above all in Denmark. Other items 770 631 New provisions and reversals are recognized within the busiClosing balance 4,404 3,929 14 ness activity that decides upon closure. 15 In 2015, provisions and reversals relating to restructuring with an income impact in Other expenses amounted to SEK 16 671m (1,013). The effect of provisions for non-vested pension NOTE 24 P LEDGED ASSETS AND 17 commitments, pension settlement with the Danish State and CONTINGENT LIABILITIES provision for commemorative awards are recognized in per18 sonnel expenses. SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 19 Utilizations for costs in 2015 totaled SEK 573m (636). The effect of discounting is recognized among financial items in the Pledged assets for own liabilities ​20 income statement. Translation differences arising from foreign Real estate mortgages1) 476 1,275 exchange effects are recognized in Other comprehensive ​21 Pledged assets2) 202 200 income. ​22 Total 678 1,475 Provision for non-vested pensions ​23 PostNord is liable for non-vested pension commitments under Contingent liabilities ​24 “interim provisions”. The interim provisions apply to certain perGuarantees, PRI 98 93 sonnel who, under the terms of their employment, are entitled Guarantees, other ​46 44 ​25 to retire at 60 or 63 years of age. Special payroll tax has also Total 144 137 ​26 been taken into account. For further information see also Provision for non-vested 1) Collateral for part of Non-current interest-bearing liabilities. ​27 pensions and Provision for ultimate liability in Note 21 Pensions. 2) Collateral for part of Non-current receivables. ​28 Other provisions Disputes ​29 Provision for occupational injuries consists of payments in the PostNord performs national and international operations on a ​30 form of accident annuities as defined in the law on occupamajor scale and so becomes involved in disputes and legal protional injury insurance, and of occupational injury annuities. ceedings that from time to time arise in the business. Such dis31 Pension settlement with Danish State refers to future computes and legal proceedings are not expected to adversely mitments regarding a specific category of salaried employees affect PostNord's earnings, profitability or financial position, in the Post Danmark Group. either individually or in combination, to any material degree. Provisions for anniversary bonus consist of anticipated future anniversary bonuses in the form of extra pay and holidays awarded when the employee has completed 25 or 40 years of service in the Post Danmark Group. NOTE 25 INVESTMENT UNDERTAKINGS Present value As of December 31, 2015 the Group had contracted to acquire Provisions for which the payment period extends over several property, plant and equipment for a total of SEK 180m (490), years are normally discounted to present value. Effects of disrelating primarily to transport and sorting equipment and vehicounting included in the changes for the year are presented cles. It is expected that the major share of these commitments separately when they reach substantial amounts. Provisions will be settled in mid-2016. for non-vested pensions have payment periods extending over several years. In the case of this provision, a present value calculation is not presented separately, since it is covered by IAS 19. See also Note 21 Pensions. Anticipated payments for provisions The amounts stated correspond to the anticipated outcome that forms the basis for calculating the amount for the provisions, but cannot be considered entirely as real payment flows since certain costs are not matched by payments. Such costs include, for example, certain retirement-related expenses. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 73 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 03 NOTE 26 F INANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 04 The Group's management of financial risks is governed by the Credit risk in financial activities 05 financial policy adopted by PostNord's Board of Directors. The Credit risk in financial activities are managed by the central policy consists of guidelines on cash management, financing financial management function, with a credit limit based on rat06 and financial risk management. The Group’s management of ings from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or the equivalent. Trad07 financial risk is intended to aid the Group in achieving its goals ing is governed via decisions on a maximum credit risk per borand realizing its strategies by sustainably securing financing, rower. Every counterparty undergoes a credit check before 08 liquidity and a balanced financial position that at all times takes being accepted as a borrower. Derivative contracts have been 09 all financial risks into account. Financial risks are divided into entered into with three banks with which ISDA agreements are the categories of refinancing risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, in place. 10 currency risk and market risk in asset management. The Head 11 of Finance reports to the CFO on a monthly basis regarding financial risks, financing plan and any deviations from the Age breakdown for 12 Financial Policy. trade receivables SEKm Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 ​13 Trade receivables not due ​4,021 3,968 Liquidity management and financing 14 The Group’s policy is to centralize and coordinate manageDue but not impaired: 15 ment of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents for effective use 1–30 days 428 552 within predefined risk limits. The Group’s policy is to coordinate 16 financing in the main via the Group’s Parent Company. 31–90 days 64 90 >90 days 57 67 17 Risk definitions and policy Total ​4,570 ​4,677 18 Refinancing risk Refinancing risk is defined as the risk that cash and cash equivProvision for bad debts –46 –57 19 alents are not available and/or that financing either cannot be Total 4,524 4,620 ​20 obtained or can only be obtained at considerably higher cost. The Group's refinancing risk policy consists of maintaining, at Trade receivables are recognized after taking account of ​21 any one time, financial preparedness on a scale that is ­confirmed impairment losses totaling SEK 24m (20). ​22 designed to meet internal and external risks, as well as seasonal variations. The Group’s financial preparedness shall Currency risk ​23 amount to no less than SEK 1,000m. During the year, no new The Group operates business in several geographical markets ​24 loan financing was raised. At the same time, an MTN loan of and conducts transactions in several foreign currencies, meanSEK 540m was repaid and a property loan of around SEK ing that it is vulnerable to exchange rate fluctuations. This ​25 665m was transferred in connection with a property sale. Part affects both transaction exposure and translation exposure. ​26 of the Group’s financial preparedness is an unutilized overdraft facility of SEK 2,000m which runs until 2017, with an option to Transaction exposure ​27 extend the facility until 2018. Transaction exposure represents a risk that profitability will be ​28 adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. The major share of invoicing, purchases and wages/salaries are in the cur​29 Liquidity preparedness Dec. 31, Dec. 31, rency of the Group company concerned. Currency hedging is SEKm 2015 2014 ​30 used primarily in the case of cross-border communication and Cash and cash equivalents 1,894 1,593 logistics services. The Group limits its transaction exposure by 31 Short-term liquid investments 250 matching inward and outward payment flows in the particular Unutilized confirmed currency and enters into forward currency contracts. credit facilities 2,000 2,000 Contracted transaction exposure Short-term unconfirmed The table summarizes transaction exposure in the balance ­interest-bearing liabilities –123 –796 sheet and hedged investment flows. No hedging is used for Net liquidity preparedness 3,771 ​3,047 forecast currency flows. Transaction exposure Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a borrower may be unable to 2015 2014 meet his obligations. Credit risk also includes the risk that, Net Net where an inability to meet a payment obligation exists, collatCurrency, PosiPosiPosiPosieral or guarantee furnished may not cover the claim. A credit SEKm tion Hedged tion tion Hedged tion risk arises (i) in sales to customers, in granting advance payments to suppliers and in the acceptance of guarantees, and (ii) DKK 3 3 –429 427 –2 within the Group's cash management and the use of derivative EUR –112 102 –9 –115 89 –26 contracts. NOK –31 ​24 –8 900 –927 –27 The Group’s policy is that the granting of credit shall be Other based on commercial considerations and risk assessment in ­currencies –52 60 9 –77 62 –16 order to ensure that the credit risk is balanced. When cash and cash equivalents are invested, credit risk is managed by investTotal –192 187 –5 279 –349 –71 ing in low credit risk assets and spreading risk. The Group’s credit risk is to be limited via regular credit checks on major credit lines and by monitoring credit and payment information. Credit risk in accounts receivable Credit risk relating to credit sales is managed within the individual business areas and all customers are subject to a credit check, before the credit is granted for the first time, on the basis of information provided by a credit rating company. However, major lines of credit require central approval. 74 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements Note 26 (cont.) 01 02 03 Translation exposure The Group’s translation exposure 04 Translation exposure is defined as the value of equity in foreign 05 2015 2014 Group companies and arises within the Group during conversion to the functional currency of the Parent Company. The Currency SEKm % +/–1% SEKm % +/–1% 06 Group's policy is that translation exposure represents a strateDKK ​1,746 35% 17 3,149 56% 31 07 gic risk. Consequently, translation exposure is limited only through annual adjustment to the Group companies' capital EUR 301 6% 3 379 7% 4 08 structure and when the Parent Company is financed in currenNOK ​2,735 55% ​27 1,902 34% 19 09 cies other than the functional currency in order to obtain a Other curren­natural hedge. cies ​203 4% 2 200 4% 1 10 Total ​4,985 100% 50 5,630 100% 55 11 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is defined as the risk of the Group's earnings 12 being affected by changes in market interest rates. Interest rate ​13 risk is calculated on the basis of the Group's outstanding interest-bearing debt, including derivative instruments. Shorter 14 fixed-interest periods mean higher earnings sensitivity. Longer 15 fixed-interest periods mean higher earnings stability but may also be a disadvantage when market interest rates fall. The 16 Group's policy is to limit earnings sensitivity in the event of 17 changes in market interest rates and to strive for an attractive cost of cost of capital. Interest rate sensitivity is controlled via 18 a fixed-interest target for the Group’s outstanding interest-­ 19 bearing loan debt. ​20 ​21 Contractual maturities of Nominal within within within within within financial liabilities on Dec. 31, 2015 amount 0–1 years 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years Later ​22 Bond loans ​2,950 2,000 950 ​23 Liabilities to credit institutions 694 123 100 471 ​24 Finance lease liabilities 31 11 9 5 3 2 1 ​25 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,675 134 2,009 105 953 2 473 ​26 Interest payments 54 51 11 7 3 ​26 ​27 Interest/currency swaps – Liabilities 8 4 2 ​28 – Receivables 2 1 0 ​29 Total forecast interest payments 64 56 ​13 7 3 2 ​ 6 ​30 Total, net ​199 2,065 118 960 5 499 31 Contractual maturities of Nominal within within within within within financial liabilities on Dec. 31, 2014 amount 0–1 years 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years Later Bond loans 3,690 740 2,000 950 Liabilities to credit institutions ​1,513 38 100 100 1,275 Finance lease liabilities 39 11 11 7 5 2 3 Total interest-bearing liabilities 5,242 789 111 ​2,007 105 952 1,278 Interest payments 69 54 51 11 7 31 Interest/currency swaps – Liabilities 10 8 4 2 – Receivables 0 2 1 0 Total forecast interest payments 79 64 56 ​13 7 31 Total, net ​ 69 8 174 2,063 118 959 1,309 Market risk in assets under management Assets are managed by the Group’s related entities Postens Pensionsstiftelse and Postens Försäkringsförening. The Group shall strive to ensure that management of pension assets is conducted prudently. The allocation shall be based on regular ALM analysis to maintain a well-balanced level of risk at any one time. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 75 Consolidated financial statements Note 26 (cont.) 01 02 03 December 31, 2015 04 Financial assets Loan and trade Financial Financial 05 Carrying amount and fair reported at fair receivables liabilities at liabilities value of financial assets value via measured at fair value via m ­ easured at Carrying Fair 06 and liabilities, SEKm income1) amortized cost income1) amortized cost amount value 07 Financial investments 250 250 250 08 Derivatives 1 1 1 Trade receivables 4,524 4,524 4,524 09 Terminal fees 461 461 461 10 Cash and cash equivalents 1,894 1,894 1,894 11 Long-term interest-bearing 12 ­liabilities, credit institutions –3,520 –3,520 –3,581 Long-term interest-bearing ​13 ­liabilities, other –166 –166 –166 14 Long-term interest-bearing 15 l­ iabilities, leases –19 –19 –19 Current interest-bearing liabilities –134 –134 –134 16 Trade payables –2,294 –2,294 –2,294 17 Other current liabilities –1,727 –1,727 –1,727 18 Derivatives –17 –17 –17 19 Terminal fees –335 –335 –335 Total financial assets ​20 and liabilities, by category, SEKm 712 6,418 –518 –7,694 –1,082 –1,143 ​21 December 31, 2014 ​22 Financial assets Loan and trade Financial Financial ​23 Carrying amount and fair reported at fair receivables liabilities at liabilities value of financial assets value via measured at fair value via m ­ easured at Carrying Fair ​24 and liabilities, SEKm income1) amortized cost income1) amortized cost amount value ​25 Financial investments 257 257 257 ​26 Derivatives 12 12 12 ​27 Trade receivables 4,620 4,619 4,619 ​28 Terminal fees 472 472 472 Cash and cash equivalents 1,843 1,843 1,843 ​29 Long-term interest-bearing ​30 ­liabilities, credit institutions –4,399 –4,399 –4,515 31 Long-term interest-bearing ­liabilities, other –150 –150 –150 Long-term interest-bearing­ l­ iabilities, leases –28 –28 –28 Current interest-bearing liabilities –807 –807 –809 Trade payables –2,010 –2,010 –2,010 Other current liabilities –1,742 –1,742 –1,742 Derivatives –35 –35 –35 Terminal fees –320 –320 –320 Total financial assets and liabilities, by category, SEKm 741 6,463 –505 –8,986 –2,288 –2,406 1) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value via income using the Fair value option. Recognition and fair value measurement Level 2, Level 2, of financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, The fair value of loan liabilities is calculated as the discounted by level, SEKm 2015 2014 value of future cash flows relating to repayment of capital Financial assets amounts and interest. The value is discounted to the current loan interest rate. In view of the short terms for trade receivEndowment insurance 1​ 52 143 ables and trade payables, it is assumed that the carrying Currency derivatives 1 12 amount is the best approximation of the fair value. Certain Terminal settlements 461 472 of the Group’s financial instruments are recognized at fair Commercial paper 250 value, with measurement being determined in accordance with the three levels defined in IFRS 7. In the PostNord Group Total financial assets 614 877 only level 2 is used. Financial liabilities Level 2 Currency derivatives 2 15 The fair value of financial instruments is determined using valuInterest rate derivatives 15 ​20 ation models based on other observable market data. Examples of observable data at level 2 are market interest rates and Terminal settlements 335 320 yield curves. In cases where a listed price is not available, Total financial liabilities 352 355 straight interpolation is used. 76 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 NOTE 27 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS NOTE 29 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS 03 Group companies 04 2015 2014 For deliveries of services and products between Group compa05 nies, the principle of cost price plus a margin is used, except for Effect of acquisitions AcquisiAcquisiservices within the PostNord service offering, where market prices on assets and liabilities, SEKm tions tions 06 apply. For a detailed list of Parent Company and Group participaGoodwill 58 07 tions in Group companies, associated companies and joint venNon-current intangible assets ​13 8 08 tures, see Note 6 to the Parent Company’s financial statements. Property, plant and equipment 62 401 09 The Swedish State Other non-current assets 3 ​24 Under Sweden’s Postal Services Act, PostNord is mandated by 10 Total non-current assets 136 433 the Swedish State to provide a universal postal service. Like 11 other postal operators in Sweden, PostNord must obtain a Current assets ​71 25 license to operate postal services. For this license, PostNord 12 TOTAL ASSETS 207 458 paid SEK 15m (15) to the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority ​13 (PTS) during the period. In addition, PostNord paid PTS SEK 9m TOTAL LIABILITIES –118 –351 (10) for handling of undeliverable mail. NET ASSETS 89 107 14 PostNord received SEK 24m (24) from PTS in remuneration 15 under agreements on the procurement of postal services for Other items affecting cash flow 3 the disabled. Purchase consideration paid –89 –107 16 PostNord Group AB has undertaken to advance a proviCash and cash equivalents acquired 8 19 17 sional amount of SEK 130m to the Swedish Transport Administration in order to bring forward the construction of rail faciliNet effect on cash and cash equivalents –81 –85 18 ties for the Rosersberg Mail Terminal and on December 31, 19 2015 lent the sum of SEK 95m. Acquisition of subsidiaries On May 1, PostNord AS acquired the transport and logistics ​20 The Danish State company Jetpak Borg AS to supplement customized solutions During the period, Post Danmark A/S paid pension premiums ​21 for overnight long-distance deliveries to car dealers, workto the Danish State in the amount of SEK 157m (165) on behalf shops and similar segments in Norway. The company has ​22 of the group of salaried employees who were employed before annual sales of approximately NOK 120m. The purchase concorporatization. ​23 sideration amounted to SEK 28m. The acquisition analysis indicated surplus values on customer relationships and goodwill. ​24 Other organizations in Sweden Goodwill consists of synergy effects, result improvement PostNords Försäkringsförening operates autonomously from ​25 potential and acquired competence knowledge to develop the the PostNord Group and under the supervision of Finansinspekline business. Net sales during the period of PostNord's owner​26 tionen. The Association insures PostNord’s obligations in ship, May–December, amounted to SEK 84m. Income in the employee sickness and family pension under the ITP-P scheme. ​27 period in which the company was part of the PostNord Group During the period, the Group’s Swedish companies received amounted to SEK –2m. The surplus values on customer rela​28 benefits totaling SEK 11m (7). In view of its well consolidated positionships, created in the Group through the acquisition, have tion, the Association has not charged any premiums since 2011. ​29 been amortized according to plan in the amount of SEK –1m. Postens Pensionsstiftelse (the Posten Pension Fund) manThe acquisition resulted in SEK –3m being charged to Group ​30 ages pension undertakings for PostNord Group AB and Postincome. Nord Sverige AB. These companies capitalize new pension 31 On August 14, PostNord Group AB acquired PostNord Terminal obligations at the Fund and are credited with pensions paid Trondheim AS. The acquisition concerns land in Trondheim out. During 2015, no capitalization was effected (SEK 771m) where a new terminal is to be built. The purchase consideration and no credits were received (SEK 771m). was SEK 19m. On September 1, PostNord Oy acquired the company Senior executives Uudenmaan Pikakuljetus Oy. The purchase consideration was For more information on salaries and other remuneration to SEK 40m. In 2014, UPK reported sales of about EUR 24 million senior executives and Board members, see Note 5 Employees, in 2014 and had around 60 employees. The deal strengthens personnel expenses and executive remuneration. PostNord’s position in Finland within domestic parcel transporAll members of the Group Board of Directors and the Group tation, timed deliveries, logistics solutions for healthcare and Executive Team at PostNord have been requested to notify in e-commerce and temperature-controlled transport services. writing any business relationships they have with PostNord The acquisition analysis indicated surplus values on customer and whether such were established on a commercial basis. No relationships and goodwill. Goodwill consists of synergy such relations were reported in 2015. In 2014, it was disclosed effects, result improvement potential and acquired compethat Per Samuelson, a member of the Group Executive Team, tence knowledge to develop the line of business. Net sales held all shares outstanding in BTJ Holding Sverige AB, which in during the period of PostNord's ownership, September– turns holds 55% of the shares outstanding in BTJ Sverige AB. December, amounted to SEK 86m. Income in the period in BTJ Sverige AB procures logistics services from PostNord which the company was part of the PostNord Group totaled Logistics AB on a commercial basis. SEK 1m. The surplus values on customer relationships, created in the Group through the acquisition, have been amortized according to plan in the amount of SEK –1m. The acquisition NOTE 28 S UPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES, contributed SEK 0m to Group income. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS In 2015, an additional purchase consideration of SEK 2m 2015 2014 relating to the earlier acquisition of PostNord Terminal Langhus AS was paid. The acquisition concerned a building. Interest payments No divestments took place during 2014 or 2015. Interest received ​21 37 Interest paid 133 143 Adjustments for non-cash items Depreciation and impairments of assets ​1,872 1,847 Capital gain/loss on assets –482 –431 Change in pension liability –713 –468 Other provisions –117 341 Other non-cash items –6 6 Total 554 1,295 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 77 Consolidated financial statements Note 29 (cont.) 01 02 03 Property, Other 04 Intangible plant and non-current Current Net 2015 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill assets equipment assets assets Liabilities asset 05 Acquired 06 PostNord Terminal Langhus AS 2 2 07 Jetpak Borg AS 28 5 1 ​27 –33 28 08 PostNord Terminal Trondheim AS 59 5 –45 19 09 Uudenman Pikakuljetus OY 30 8 1 2 39 –40 40 Total acquired 58 ​13 62 3 ​7 1 –118 89 10 11 Property, Other 12 Intangible plant and non-current Current Net ​13 2014 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill assets equipment assets assets Liabilities asset 14 Acquired 15 PostNord Terminal Langhus AS 388 24 23 –341 94 Logsite ApS 8 2 –4 6 16 Fast AB Rosersberg 11:126 13 –6 7 17 Total acquired 8 401 24 ​2 5 –351 107 18 19 NOTE 30 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD ​20 ​21 No significant events occurred after the reporting date. ​22 ​23 NOTE 31 DEFINITIONS ​24 Priority mail Items affecting comparability. ​25 Mail processed in a production stream for delivery on the first Items that do not recur, that are not directly attributable to ​26 business day after mailing on a business day. operational activities and provisions for restructuring referring to the coming year. The items must be significant. Examples: ​27 Return on equity capital gains in the sale of assets, impairment of assets, provi​28 Net income divided by average equity. sions referring to the coming year. Running restructuring costs are not regarded as items affecting comparability. ​29 Return on capital employed (ROCE) ​30 Operating profit divided by average capital employed. Average number of employees (FTE) The total number of paid employee hours divided by the stan31 Non-priority mail dard number of hours for a full-time employee during the Mail processed in a production stream for distribution within cumulative period from the beginning of the year. three business days after mailing. Net debt C-mail Interest-bearing debt (including pension provisions) less cash In Denmark, mail with special posting conditions processed in and cash equivalents, financial receivables and current intera production stream for distribution within two to four days est-bearing receivables. after mailing. Net debt/EBITDA EBITDA Net debt divided by EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciations and amortizations/impairments. Net debt ratio Net debt divided by equity. Financial preparedness Cash and cash equivalents and unutilized committed credit Capital employed line. Non-interest-bearing assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. Adjusted operating income (EBIT) Earnings per share Total income less total costs, excluding items affecting compaShare of net earnings attributable to parent company sharerability. These items are mainly provisions for restructuring holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding. costs (that cannot be seen as part of on-going restructuring work), material write-downs and capital gains/losses. Operating margin, % Operating income as a percentage of net sales. Previously Adjusted operating margin operating income as % of income (net sales and other income). Adjusted operating income as % of net sales. Previously adjusted operating income as % of total income (net sales and other income). 78 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Income statement Balance sheet Dec. 31, Dec. 31, SEKm Note 2015 2014 SEKm Note 2015 2014 1, 2 1, 2 Other operating income ​26 ​ 0 2 ASSETS Income 2 ​ 6 ​20 Participations in Group companies 6 11,676 11,676 Personnel expenses 3 –33 –37 Interest-bearing receivables ​13 9 Other operating expenses 4 –6 –3 Total non-current assets 11,689 11,685 Operating expenses –39 –40 Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 8,207 8,856 OPERATING INCOME –​13 –20 Other receivables Dividends on shares from Group companies 38 183 in subsidiaries 200 Prepaid expenses and Interest income and accrued income 2 4 similar items 5 49 1​ 3 Total current assets 8,247 9,043 Interest expense and similar TOTAL ASSETS ​19,936 20,728 profit/loss items 5 –77 –183 Financial items –28 ​30 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Income after financial items –41 10 Restricted equity Capital stock 2,000 2,000 Group contributions received 34 182 Share premium reserve 10,141 10,141 Appropriations 34 182 Non-restricted equity Income before tax –7 192 Retained earnings 3,630 3,438 Tax Net income for the period –7 192 NET INCOME –7 192 TOTAL EQUITY 15,764 15,771 LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities 3,067 3,160 Interest-bearing liabilities to Group companies 979 1,023 Total non-current liabilities 4,046 4,183 Statement of comprehensive income Current interest-bearing ­liabilities 100 541 SEKm 2015 2014 Other current liabilities 1 201 Net income for the period –7 192 Accrued expenses Other comprehensive income and deferred income 25 32 for the period Total current liabilities 1​ 26 774 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –7 192 TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,172 4,957 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES ​19,936 20,728 PLEDGED ASSETS AND ­CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Pledged assets 1​ 3 9 Contingent liabilities Guarantees, PRI 1​ 35 136 Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries 726 550 Total 861 686 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 79 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company statement of cash flows SEKm 2015 2014 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income before tax –7 192 Appropriations –34 –182 Adjustments for non-cash items –37 68 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital –78 78 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables –1 3 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities –8 ​20 Changes in working capital –9 ​23 Cash flows from operating activities –87 101 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Changes in Group receivables 645 –814 Cash flows from investing activities 645 –814 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Borrowings 1,350 Amortization of loans –740 –600 Dividend paid to Parent Company shareholders –129 Group contributions received 182 92 Cash flows from financing activities –558 713 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 0 0 Parent Company changes in equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Retained earnings Share premium incl. net income for SEKm Capital stock1) reserve year Total Shareholders’ equity, opening balance 01/01/2014 2,000 10,141 3,567 15,708 Comprehensive income for the period 192 192 Dividends –129 –129 Shareholders’ equity, closing balance 12/31/2014 2,000 10,141 3,630 15,771 Shareholders’ equity, opening balance 01/01/2015 2,000 10,141 3,630 15,771 Total comprehensive income –7 –7 Shareholders’ equity, closing balance 12/31/2015 2,000 10,141 3,623 15,764 1) No. of shares 2,000,000,001, quotient value per share SEK 1; of which 1,524,905,971 ordinary shares and 475,094,030 series B shares. 80 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Parent Company financial statements Notes to Parent Company 01 02 financial statements 03 04 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The amounts stated are based on the conclusions that man05 agement has reached. Actual outcomes, assessments and esti06 The Parent Company applies in the main the same accounting mates in future financial statements over the year ahead may principles as the Group, and thus RFR 2, Accounting for Legal deviate from those contained in this report as a result of Entities. The differences between the Parent Company's and changes in external circumstances and new experience. the Group's accounting principles result from limits on the Parent Company's ability to apply IFRS under the Annual Accounts Shares in subsidiaries Act, the Act on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments (TrygAssumptions are made about future conditions in order to calgandelagen) and, to some extent, tax considerations. culate future cash flows that determine the recoverable value. The recoverable amount is compared with the carrying Participations in associated companies amount for these assets and represents the basis for possible and joint ventures impairment or reversals. The assumptions that most affect the Participations in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint recoverable amount are future changes in income, discount ventures are recognized in the Parent Company in accordance rate and useful life of the asset. If future environmental factors with the cost method. and circumstances change, these assumptions may be affected so that the carrying amounts of the Parent Company's Dividends assets change. Dividends from subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are recognized as income when the right to distribution has been determined. NOTE 3 EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL EXPENSES Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognized if the Parent Company has the sole right to determine the size of the dividend and has determined the size of the dividend Personnel expenses, SEKm 2015 2014 before publishing its financial statements. Salaries and other remuneration 2 ​ 0 ​23 If the carrying amount for the Parent Company's holding in Statutory social insurance costs 7 7 the subsidiary, associated company or joint venture company exceeds the carrying amount in the financial statements, this is Pension expenses 6 7 taken as an indication that an impairment loss has arisen and Total 33 37 an impairment test is to be performed. Group contributions are recognized as appropriations. The Parent Company has three employees, the President and Group CEO, the Group CFO and the Group Head of Strategy Employee benefits The President/Group CEO Håkan Ericsson is paid a salary of Pension obligations on behalf of salaried employees, which SEK 745,000 per month. On his behalf, the Parent Company obligations are secured via pension insurance policies, are recpays for a pension insurance in the amount of SEK 37,000 per ognized in the Parent Company under the heading month, and endowment insurance in the amount of SEK Defined-contribution plan. 185,667 to secure the pension obligation. Financial guarantees The Parent Company’s financial guarantees consist of guaranNOTE 4 F EES AND REIMBURSEMENT tees on behalf of subsidiaries and joint ventures. Under finanOF EXPENSES TO AUDITORS cial guarantees, the Company has an obligation to compensate holders of debt instruments in respect of losses that the latter incurs by reason of a specified debtor failing to make payment SEKm 2015 2014 when due in accordance with the terms of the contract. In Auditing assignments reporting financial guarantee agreements, the Parent Company applies RFR 2, a lighter regime than IAS 39 regarding KPMG 1 1 financial guarantee agreements issued on behalf of subsidiarTotal 1 1 ies, associated companies and joint ventures. The Parent Company recognizes financial guarantee agreements as an approAudit assignments refers to the audit of the annual report and priation on the balance sheet in cases where PostNord is under accounting records, as well as the Board of Directors' and the an obligation for which payment is likely to be required to settle President & Group CEO's administration of the Company, other the obligation. tasks incumbent on the Company's auditor and advice or other assistance resulting from observations made during such Financial instruments audits or the performance of such other tasks. The expense is Changes in value of derivatives are recognized in the Income recognized under the heading Other expenses. statement for the Parent Company. Taxes NOTE 5 I NTEREST INCOME, INCOME EXPENSES In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognized AND SIMILAR INCOME ITEMS including deferred tax liabilities. SEKm 2015 2014 Segment reporting The Parent Company’s business consist only of one activity, Interest income from Group companies 1 1​ 3 the management of Group functions. Currency earnings ​48 Total 49 1​ 3 NOTE 2 S IGNIFICANT ASSESSMENTS Interest expense from Group companies –6 –7 AND ESTIMATES Interest expenses –64 –85 Currency earnings –79 When preparing the financial statements, management has made assessments and estimates that affect the Group’s Other financial expenses –7 –12 reporting. These assessments and estimates are based on Total –77 –183 what was known at the time of presentation of the accounts, and on historical experience and the assumptions that manFor more information, see Note 26 Financial risk management agement considers reasonable in the given circumstances. and financial instruments. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 81 Parent Company financial statements 01 02 03 NOTE 6 H  OLDINGS OF SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES 04 SEKm 2015 2014 05 Acquisition cost 06 At start of year 11,676 12,476 Shareholder contributions paid 4,587 Disposals –5,387 At year-end 11,676 11,676 Accumulated impairment losses At start of year –800 Disposals 800 At year-end 0 Closing balance 11,676 11,676 Share of equity, % Carrying amount in Shares held directly and Corporate ­Parent indirectly by Parent Company registration Registered No. of Company ­PostNord AB, SEKm ­number office Country Direct Indirect shares Dec. 31, 2015 PostNord Group AB 556128-6559 Solna Sweden 100 600,000 11,676 PostNord Sverige AB 556711-5695 Solna Sweden 100 1,000 Nils Hansson Logistics AB 556147-4254 Ljungbyhed Sweden 100 2,500 Tidningstjänst AB 556039-7480 Stockholm Sweden 100 7,500 Posten Leasing AB 556341-0009 Stockholm Sweden 100 5,000 Fastighets AB Penelope 556517-0544 Stockholm Sweden 100 100 N  ässjöterminalen Kommanditbolag 916629-7458 Solna Sweden 100 Rosersberg Brevterminal AB 556819-9862 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 Hallsberg Brevterminal AB 556848-8133 Stockholm Sweden 100 500 KB Sveterm 916631-9492 Stockholm Sweden 100 Kardinalmärket 1 AB 556875-8899 Stockholm Sweden 100 50,000 Fastighets AB Skogskojan 1 556972-7547 Solna Sweden 100 500 Fast AB Rosersberg 11:126 556743-9574 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 Strålfors AB 556062-0618 Malmö Sweden 100 21,381,288 Strålfors Svenska AB 556102-9843 Ljungby Sweden 100 50,000 Tand 2:103 Fastighets AB 556594-3650 Östersund Sweden 50 2,000 Strålfors A/S 10068657 Brøndby Denmark 100 200,000 Strålfors Oy 0115061-7 Vantaa Finland 100 2,100 Stralfors SAS 775 727 761 Nanterre France 100 1,630,000 Strålfors AS 944997431 Oslo Norway 100 ​870 Stralfors Sp.zO.o 0000296330 Laskowice Poland 100 ​2,200 Friends Tactics Sweden AB 556888-3820 Stockholm Sweden ​30 1​ 80 Stralfors plc 01626027 Redruth United Kingdom 100 630,000 PostNordbolagen AB 556158-7006 Ljungby Sweden 100 1,000 Svensk Adressändring AB 556476-3562 Stockholm Sweden 85 850 Addresspoint AB 556587-5597 Stockholm Sweden 85 1,700 Direct Link Worldwide Ltd. 2911080 Middlesex Great Britain 100 110,000 D  irect Link Worldwide Distribution Pte. Ltd 199700772 Singapore Singapore 100 700,000 Direct Link Worldwide Pty. Ltd 95493459 Sydney Australia 100 1 Direct Link Worldwide Company Ltd. 199700772 Hong Kong China 100 1 Direct Link Worldwide Inc. 112-797-736/000 New Jersey USA 100 100 Direct Link Worldwide GmbH 217864281 Mörfelden-Walldorf Germany 100 150 PostNord Logistics GmbH HRB8888HL Lübeck Germany 100 1 82 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Parent Company financial statements Note 6 (cont.) 01 02 03 Share of equity, % Carrying 04 amount in 05 Shares held directly and Corporate ­Parent indirectly by Parent Company r­ egistration Registered No. of Company 06 ­PostNord AB, SEKm n ­ umber office Country Direct Indirect shares Dec. 31, 2015 PostNord AS 984054564 Oslo Norway 100 117,570 Jetpak Borg AS 910170759 Sarpsborg Norway 100 2,000 PostNord Terminal Trondheim AS 992 079 797 Oslo Norway 100 ​406,220 PostNord Terminal Langhus AS 990427321 Oslo Norway 100 200,000 PostNord Oy 1056251-7 Vanda Finland 100 5,817 PostNord OY Eesti filiaal 11472268 Harju Estonia 100 Uudenman Pikakuljetus OY 0896111-3 Vantaa Finland 100 3,000 PostNord Logistics A/S 20148586 Copenhagen Denmark 100 500,001 PostNord Scanning AB 556824-2852 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 PostNord Scanning Oy 2552507-3 Helsinki Finland 100 1,000 PostNord Logistics TPL AB 556161-7191 Haninge Sweden 100 50,000 PostNord Logistics TPL A/S 26115396 Brøndby Denmark 100 100 PostNord Fulfilment AB 556234-1353 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 PostNord Fulfilment AS 811873632 Oslo Norway 100 1,000 PostNord Fulfilment Sp.zO.o 5272719788 Warsaw Poland 100 100 PostNord Logistics Thermo AB 556454-1737 Östersund Sweden 100 8,000 Transbothnia AB 556278-8876 Umeå Sweden 100 3,000 Post Danmark A/S 26663903 Copenhagen Denmark 100 25,000,000 PostNord Scanning A/S 19803376 Copenhagen Denmark 100 10 Post Fleet Management A/S 79203114 Hvidovre Denmark 100 400 e-Boks A/S 25674154 Ballerup Denmark 50 6,000,000 Distribution Services A/S 56448810 Copenhagen Denmark 100 ​30 Logsite ApS 30733975 Copenhagen Denmark 100 126,000 Total holdings in Group companies 11,676 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 83 Board of Directors’ and CEO’s certification The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s certification The Board of Directors and the President and Group CEO hereby declare that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice in Sweden and that the consolidated accounts have been ­prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council dated July 19, 2002 on the application of international ­accounting standards. The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the financial ­position and results of the P ­ arent Company and the Group. Nothing of material importance has been omitted that might affect the view of the C ­ ompany ­created by the annual report. The administration report for the Parent Company and the Group provides a true and fair p­ icture of the development of the operations, financial position and performance of the Parent Company and the Group and also describes material risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the other companies in the Group are exposed. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved for publication by the Board and the President and Group CEO on February 25, 2016. Solna, February 25, 2016 Jens Moberg Chairman of the Board Mats Abrahamsson Director Gunnel Duveblad Christian Ellegaard Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen Director Director Director Torben Janholt Magnus Skåninger Anitra Steen Director Director Director Lars Chemnitz Ann-Christin Fällén Johan Lindholm Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Håkan Ericsson President and Group CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on March 3, 2016 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Authorized Public Accountant 84 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of PostNord AB, corp. id. 556771-2640 Report on the annual accounts formance and cash flows for the year then ended in accorand consolidated accounts dance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate accounts of PostNord AB for the year 2015. The annual governance statement has been prepared. The statutory accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are administration report and the corporate governance stateincluded in the printed version of this document on pages 4–13, ment are consistent with the other parts of the annual 16–25 the section on environmentally licensed operations on accounts and consolidated accounts. page 34 and pages 38–84. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of ­shareholders adopt the income statement and balance Responsibilities of the Board of Directors sheet for the parent company and the income statement and the Chief Executive Officer for the and statement of financial position for the group. annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are Report on other legal and regulatory requirements responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoliannual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act dated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriaand of the consolidated accounts in accordance with Internations of the company’s profit or loss and the administration tional Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control PostNord AB for the year 2015. as the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer ­determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual Responsibilities of the Board of Directors accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from and the Chief Executive Officer ­material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board Auditor's responsibility of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual administration under the Companies Act. accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International StanAuditor's responsibility dards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethiassurance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s cal requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reaprofit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We sonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. auditing standards in Sweden. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit eviAs basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed dence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment As basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoliand consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In dated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal taken and circumstances of the company in order to detercontrol relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presenmine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the tation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in Chief Executive Officer is liable to the company. We also examorder to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the cirined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the cumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion Chief Executive Officer has, in any other way, acted in contraon the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit vention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting Articles of Association. policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is made by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, ­sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Opinions We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiWe recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members Opinions of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer be In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in ­discharged from liability for the financial year. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent comStockholm, March 3, 2016 pany as of December 31, 2015 and of its financial performance KPMG AB and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position Helene Willberg of the group as of December 31, 2015 and of their financial perAuthorized Public Accountant PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 85 Measurement and ­calculation methods Measurement and calculation methods Sustainability reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) “G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines”, Core. Principles and delimitations mental Choice). Rail transportation in Norway uses The reporting covers all of PostNord's operations unless ­non-­fossil-fuel electricity. otherwise stated below. As of 2015, Uudenman Pikakuljetus OY (UPK) and Jetpak Borg AS are included in the environFerry mental data. Figures for earlier years have been adjusted. Only the Danish operation uses ferry transportation to UPK is included in the employee data. any great extent. Information on executed transportation is ­registered in the transportation administration system Environment and emissions are calculated in tonnes/km. PostNord follows the Greenhouse Gas Protocol when calculating emissions. Where environmental data is conEmissions factors: cerned, in addition to the Nordic operations (equivalent to Denmark Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 around 95% of the Group's net sales), the Strålfors business outside the Nordic region is also included. The business Premises within Direct Link is not included in the calculations. Svensk Electricity purchased in Sweden is mostly eco-labeled with Adressändring AB does not have a significant environmenBra Miljöval (Good Environmental Choice), in Denmark it is tal impact and is not included in the environmental data. largely wind generated and in Norway electricity is 100% hydropower-generated. This electricity is assumed to have Emissions no carbon dioxide emissions since only the use phase is The long-term environmental goal for PostNord is to included in the reporting. For other electricity, carbon dioxreduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2020, taking ide emissions are calculated based on emissions factors 2009 as the base year. The base year has been selected on from references given below. the basis that 2009 was the year of the merger between Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S. Emission factors Denmark Transportation Electricity Danish Energy Agency Road District heating Danish Energy Agency CO2 emissions are calculated on the basis of the volumes of fuel purchased, or distance driven and type of vehicle. Other Nordic Calculations based on subcontractor costs are used Electricity Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate, when required. supplier data Heating SCB (Statistics, Sweden), supplier data Emissions factors: Gas Swedish Environmental Protection Agency Denmark Poland, France GHG Protocol CO2 Danish Energy Agency Other gases Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 UK Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs Other Nordic SPBI Emissions intensity CO2 (Swedish Petroleum & Biofuel Institute) CO2/mail item refers to the handling of priority mail, Värde, Other gases NTM (Network for Transport Measures) Varubrev, Magasinpost, Posttidning A (newspaper/periodical, priority delivery) and daily newspapers in Sweden and Air Denmark. Emissions include own transportation and direct PostNord purchases air transportation externally for operaheat consumption (Scope 1), heat and electricity (Scope 2) tions in Sweden and Denmark. PostNord did not use air and transportation by subcontractors (Scope 3). transportation in Finland or Norway during the year. The CO2/parcel refers to handling in the Swedish and Danish Swedish operation receives data from suppliers on amount parcel networks. Emissions include own transportation and of fuel and distances. The Danish operation registers direct heat consumption (Scope 1), heat and electricity ­executed transportation in a transportation administration (Scope 2) and transportation by subcontractors (Scope 3). system and emissions are calculated based on tonnes/km. Foreign air transportation is not included in the calculations. Employees In addition to the Nordic businesses (representing around Emissions factors: 98% of the Group’s average number of employees), Denmark Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 employee data also comprises the non-Nordic operations Sweden Swedish Environmental Protection Agency of Strålfors. Rail Average number of employees Only the Swedish and Norwegian operations use rail The total number of paid employee hours divided by the ­transportation to any great extent. All rail transportation standard number of hours for a full-time employee. in Sweden is eco-labeled with Bra Miljöval (Good Environ86 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Measurement and ­calculation methods Number of employees Corporate image Basic staffing concerns all fulland part-time regular employees. Corporate image is a survey conducted by an external company, Basic staffing must meet the need for staff during “normal” producTNS SIFO. The survey is based on a measurement whereby tion flows. Temporary staff covers “peaks” in production; for examapproximately 400 consumers per week (200 in Sweden and ple at Christmas and during vacation periods. 200 in Denmark) reply to questions on how they perceive the (Swedish) Posten or Post Denmark brands. The survey comprises Sick leave five key questions that, together, form an index. The total result is Sick leave in relation to regular, contracted working time, reported as a weighting of results for Posten in Sweden and Post Denmark a percentage. The Group's total sick leave is weighted based on the (63% Posten in Sweden, 37% Post Denmark). number of employees in the various countries. Sick leave comprises absence due to illness when employees themselves are sick. Regular, Customer value contracted working hours cover the time of both employees paid by Since 2011, the customer value index (CVI) has been PostNord's the hour and temporary staff. Regular working hours cover hours monitoring tool for regularly following up customer satisfaction worked, sick leave, vacations, ­parental leave and care for sick children and the customer perceptions of the business. Starting in 2015, and other paid leave. measurements are carried out once a year (previously twice a year) and include all PostNord country organizations, with a focus Work-related injuries on the Nordic countries. PostNord Strålfors also includes operaRegistered occupational injuries in relation to hours worked (does tions outside the Nordic region. The key ratio is made up of three not include injuries sustained during work-related travel). Minor injuoverall satisfaction questions. The three questions were previries (first-aid level) are also included in the report. Calculations are ously found in both KTA (Post Denmark) and NKI (Posten Swebased on the total number of hours worked, irrespective of type of den) surveys, and are also used in several external indicators such employment. The injury ratio is calculated as the total number of injuas the Swedish Quality Index (SKI), Danish Quality Index (DKI) and ries per 1,000,000 hours worked. Occupational injuries are registhe European Performance Satisfaction Index (EPSI). In the 2015 tered in System C2 and handled in Sweden and Denmark by the persurvey, certain methodology adjustments were applied. The surson's immediate manager. In Norway they are handled in LIS vey of consumers was conducted online instead of by telephone. (Ledelsesoch informationssystemet – the management and inforThe methodology adjustments were tested carefully to ensure mation system). There is no special registration system in Finland comparability with earlier results. On that basis, PostNord takes and thus reporting is carried out on special forms and the data comthe view that the 2013 and 2014 figures provided for comparison, piled at a health and safety commission. Statistics on reported occuas presented in this report, are relevant and reliable. On the other pational injuries can be retrieved from the systems, compiled into hand, the results for 2013 and 2014 differ from the results statistics and classified into various categories such as falls, crushing reported in PostNord's Annual and Sustainability Report for 2014. and traffic injuries. The duty to record occupational injuries is made very clear. Quality Quality: 1st class mail Employee index (MIX) Swedish External Monitoring (SWEX) and Danish External MoniThe results of the Group's employee surveys are compiled into an toring (DEX) are two independent external quality measurements employee index (MIX). Surveys are conducted in cooperation that continuously gage the share of 1st class mail that is delivered with an anonymous external party and analyzed by a partner on time from customer to customer. Measurements are conindependent of the Group. In 2015, the survey was performed by ducted by means of a statistically assured test mail operation that a new supplier. In addition, PostNord has decided as of 2015 to meets the requirements set forth in EN standard 13850. The present and follow up the results using an average-based calcularesults of the two measurements are weighted together into a tion method, in which the average of all results on a scale of 1–5 is Group-wide outcome based on mail volume in each country. used instead of, as before, measuring the percentage of 4s and 5s (“top box” method). For the purposes of comparability, the results Quality: parcels for 2014 have been recalculated by the new supplier using comThe production systems in Sweden (LUPP) and Denmark (GTT) are prehensive survey data from 2014. On that basis, PostNord takes two independent systems that measure the proportion of parcels the view that the 2014 figures provided for comparison, as predelivered on time from first production scanning to the customer. sented in this report, are relevant and reliable. On the other hand, Test products are weighted according to MyPack, Postpaket and the results for 2014 stated in this report differ from the results DPD Företagspaket 16:00 for Sweden and Erhvervspakker, reported in PostNord's Annual and Sustainability Report for 2014. PrivatPakker and Postpakker for Denmark. Since the two measurements are not directly comparable, this is Leadership index (LIX) done in two separate measurements. PostNord is continuing work The results of the Group's employee surveys are also compiled in initiated in 2013 by gradually harmonizing measurements via a sysa leadership index (LIX). LIX measures levels of employee satisfactem known as CEM. Once the work is complete, PostNord will tion with their immediate manager, the degree to which employreceive a Nordic-wide report on the delivery quality for parcels ees believe their managers live up to PostNord's leadership critebased on the MyPack, PallEtt and DPD products. ria: deliver, involve, take responsibility and clarify Results for 2014 restated (for further information see above, Employee index Suppliers (MIX). Data covers PostNord's Nordic operations, with the exception of PostNord Strålfors. Gender distribution Data on gender affiliation are taken from the payroll system that the particular employee is registered on. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 87 GRI-index GRI Index PostNord operates in tune with its external environment and depends on its trust. In short, this means that what is important to PostNord's key stakeholders is also important to PostNord. Also PostNord, in its capacity as a State-owned enterprise, is expected to act in an exemplary manner. IDENTIFICATION PRIORITIES VERIFICATION With identification with the GRI aspects, ISO In 2014, these sustainability issues were Work continued on validation of the results of 26000, the UN Global Compact, regulations ranked according to their importance to the materiality analysis by selected represenand strategically important issues from stake­PostNord, and their importance in terms of tatives of selected stakeholder groups. Cusholder dialogues serving as a framework, an decision-making by PostNord’s stakeholders, tomers highlighted delivery quality, the envioutline list of sustainability issues relevant to by a group consisting of the Group Executive ronment and follow-up of the supply chain as PostNord was drawn up in 2014. Team and representatives of Group functions, important areas, while employee representacountry organizations and business areas. tives emphasized health and safety, responsiOver 2015, a number of in-depth interviews ble restructuring, environmental issues and were conducted with personnel in managesustainability in the supply chain. Suppliers ment and other strategic functions, in order regarded environmental issues and follow-up to inform about the initiative. of the supply chain as the most important issues. In the course of the year, PostNord’s Swedish owners conducted a sustainability analysis of PostNord, focusing on issues such as responsible and attractive employer, sustainable logistics, sustainable products and services, procured transport services/sustainability in the supply chain. 1 Delivery quality [OWN] VERY HIGH RELEVANCE 2 Product labeling/Customer satisfaction[GRI] 3 Customer privacy [GRI] Financial results [GRI] Important to stakeholders’ decisions 6 [OWN] Overnight delivery 7 5 Customer complaints [OWN] 4 Environmental impact of products and services [GRI] [OWN] Accessibility 8 9 Emissions [GRI] 11 Impact on local communities [OWN] 14 Assessing suppliers [GRI] 10 Delivery reliability/security[OWN] 12 Return on capital/Dividend to shareholders [GRI] HIGH RELEVANCE 15 Sustainable product solutions [EGEN] ​13 Compliance [GRI] 16 Indirect economic impact [GRI] 17 Anti-corruption [GRI] 18 Responsible restructuring [OWN] 19 Anti-competitive behavior [GRI] ​20 Health and safety [GRI] ​22 Diversity and gender equality [GRI] ​21 Employee confidence in management [OWN] HIGH RELEVANCE VERY HIGH RELEVANCE Important to PostNord from a financial, environmental or social perspective After an initial review of all GRI aspects (sustainability issues), around 40 aspects/ issues were evaluated in the final analysis. The overview above shows the 22 aspects/issues that were finally decided to lie within the interval “high to very high relevance to both external stakeholders and PostNord”. 88 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 GRI-index Compilation of results of the materiality assessment: Important Sustainability issues Why important to Why important Important area in matrix on page 88 Ext. Int. stakeholders’ decisions? to PostNord? We are striving for profitable Financial results 6 x x A well-managed, profitable company is Profitable, sustainable developlong-term development Return on capital/Dividend attractive in the eyes of the world outside ment is required if the company Dividend to owners 12 x x – the company finds it easier to attract is to exist and be successful. new customers, employees, suppliers and financiers. Dividends are paid to the owners and, by extension, all citizens in Denmark and Sweden. Taxes are paid to For more information, the State treasuries in the countries see pages 13 and 28. where business is conducted. We enable companies and Delivery quality 1 x x High delivery quality is crucial to cusAlong with customer satisfacconsumers to do business Delivery reliability/security 10 x x tomer decisions on their choice of suption, it is a requirement for conand communicate Product labeling/ x x plier of communications and logistics tinued business and profitable Customer satisfaction 2 x x services. development. Customer complaints 5 For more information, Overnight delivery 7 see pages 13 and 28. We take responsibility for Environmental impact of x x Many customers have ambitious enviEnvironmental efforts are our environmental impact products and services 4 ronmental targets that PostNord, as becoming an increasingly imporEmissions 9 x x ­supplier, can help to achieve. As a Statetant competitive factor and are Sustainable product solutions 15 x owned company, PostNord is expected crucial to PostNord's ability to to act in an exemplary manner in envirise to the challenge of competironmental matters. tion. Lower environmental impact often means lower For more information, resource consumption, and consee pages 33–35. sequently lower costs. We care about our Responsible restructuring 18 x Being a good employer is fundamental As one of the Nordic region's big­ mployees e Health and safety ​20 x x to attracting skilled personnel. Many gest employers, PostNord bears Employee confidence x ­customers also make demands in this major responsibility for its in management ​21 x x respect. employees. Good employee Diversity and gender equality ​22 ­relations are crucial to PostNord, particularly if it is to succeed in For more information, restructuring the business. see pages 30–32. We take responsibility for Accessibility 8 x Many consumers and organizations use PostNord has a key role to play in our impact on society Impact on local communities 11 x x and depend on PostNord's services – the business community and in Indirect economic impact 16 x they expect PostNord to always keep its society, both in the performance x promises. of its universal postal service obligations, and by being a communication and logistics supplier For more information, with extensive coverage and see page 28. capacity We make demands Screening of suppliers 14 x Good relations with suppliers have a Working with responsible when purchasing goods ­positive effect on cooperation. Custom­business partners reduces risks and services ers and other stakeholders expect and contributes to PostNord's ­PostNord to manage its supply chain in a own sense of responsibility For more information, responsible manner. and performance in terms of see page 36. sustainability. We comply with legislation Customer privacy 3 x x PostNord handles large volumes of mail PostNord has several external and regulations Compliance with regulations ​13 x x items and customer data, and all stakeand internal principles and Anti-corruption 17 x x holders expect PostNord to handle them ­regulations to navigate and For more information, Anti-competitive behavior 19 x x in the correct way. c­ omply with. see page 37. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 89 GRI-index Global Compact STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section, page Comment (principle number) Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker President & Group CEO statement, pages 2–3, 1–10 of the organization about the relevance of sustainability Strategy pages 8–11 to the organization and the organization's strategy for addressing sustainability Organizational profile G4-3 Name of organization Inside cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Pages 6, 9, 14–15 G4-5 Location of headquarters Inside cover G4-6 Number of countries and names of those in which Page 6 and Note 4, page 61 the organization has significant operations G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 1 and Corporate Governance Report, page 40 G4-8 Markets, (including geographic breakdown, Operations, pages 16–22 sectors served and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 The scale of the organization, including total number Page 1, Note 4 page 61, Note 5 page 62, of employees, operations, net sales and capitalization Statement of changes in financial position page 52 G4-10 Number of employees per contract, gender, region and Employees, pages 30–32 and Note 5, page 62 6 division into permanent and temporary employees G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered Employees, page 30 3 by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of the organization's supply chain Suppliers, page 36. G4-13 Changes during the reporting period regarding Corporate governance, page 43, Note 29, page 77 the organization's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Handling of the precautionary approach or principle Environment, page 34. 7 G4-15 External sustainability principles and initiatives President & Group CEO statement, page 3, that the organization supports Corporate Governance Report, page 41 G4-16 Memberships of associations, industry organizations PostNord is a member of relevant and advocacy organizations employer organizations, such as for example: Norway: Confederation of N ­ orwegian Enterprise (NHO) and the Norwegian Logistics and Freight Association Sweden: Almega and the Swedish Confederation of Transport Enterprises Denmark: The Confederation of Danish Industry Finland: The Confederation of Finnish Industries Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the report Measurement and calculation methods, pages 86–87 G4-18 Process for defining the report content Strategy page 8, PostNord’s Sustainability Work, 1–10 page 26, GRI Index pages 88–89 G4-19 Material aspects identified GRI Index, pages 88–89 G4-20 The aspect boundary for each material aspect GRI Index, page 89 within the organization G4-21 The aspect boundary for each material aspect GRI Index, page 89 outside the organization G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided Measurement and calculation methods, page 86 in previous reports G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods Measurement and calculation methods, page 86 in the scope and aspect boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Strategy page 8, PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 27 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection Strategy, page 8 of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 27, Measurement and calculation methods, page 87 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 27 through stakeholder engagement Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Inside cover G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Inside cover G4-30 Reporting cycle Inside cover G4-31 Contact points Inside cover G4-32 Reporting option and content Measurement and calculation methods, page 86 and pages 88–89 G4-33 Policy and current practice for external assurance Assurance Report, page 92 Governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 26, and Board responsibility for economic, Corporate Governance Report, pages 40–45 environmental and social performance Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior, Strategy, page 9, Compliance, page 37 1–10 e.g. Code of Conduct Global Compact SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section, page Comment (principle number) Economic – Economic performance G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Strategy pages 11 and 13, Corporate Governance pages 40 et seq., page 89 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 28 90 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 GRI-index Global Compact SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section, page Comment (principle number) Environmental – Emissions 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Strategy pages 11 and 13, Environment, No climate compensation has taken pages 33–34, page 89 place. PostNord is affected by local regulation in the area of emissions, e.g. ban on studded tires on certain streets and in certain environmental zones G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Environment, page 33, Measurement and calculation methods page 86 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Environment, page 33, Measurement and calculation methods page 86 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) Environment, page 33, Measurement and calculation methods page 86 G4-EN18 Emissions intensity Environment, page 33, Measurement and calculation methods page 86 G4-EN19 Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Strategy page 13, Environment, page 33, Measurement and calculation methods page 86 G4-EN21 Other significant air emissions Environment, page 33, Measurement and calculation methods page 86 Environmental – Compliance 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Environment, page 34, page 89 G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance, page 37 Environmental – Assessing suppliers 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Strategy, page 11, Suppliers, page 36, page 89 For more information, see PostNord's Code for Suppliers: www.postnord.com/ G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Suppliers, page 36. Figures are being reported with effect using environmental criteria from the start of 2016 Social – Human rights – Supplier screening 1–6 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Strategy, page 11, Suppliers, page 36, page 89 For more information, see P ­ ostNord's Code for Suppliers: www.postnord.com/ G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Suppliers, page 36. Figures are being reported with effect human rights criteria from the start of 2016 Social – Labor law – Health and safety 6 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Strategy, page 11, Suppliers, page 31, page 89 G4-LA6 Accidents, occupational injuries and sick leave Strategy, page 13, Employees, page 31, Note 21 and 22, A gender distribution for sick leave is page 69 et seq. not available for Norway. As a result, sick leave for Norway is presented only on an aggregated level Social – Labor law – Workplace equality and diversity 1–6 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Strategy, page 11, Employees, page 32, page 89 G4-LA12 Gender and age distribution for all employees Strategy, page 13, Employees, page 32 and managers Social – Labor law – Screening of suppliers 10 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Strategy, page 11, Suppliers, page 36, page 89 For more information, see PostNord's Code for Suppliers: www.postnord.com/ G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Suppliers, page 36 Figures are being reported with for working conditions effect from the start of 2016 Social – Society – Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Compliance, page 37, page 89 G4-SO5 Incidents of corruptions and action taken Compliance, page 37 Social – Society – Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Compliance, page 37, page 89 G4-SO7 Legal actions taken against anti-competitive activities Compliance, page 37 Social – Society – Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Compliance, page 37, page 89 G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Compliance, page 37 Social – Product liability – Labeling of products and services G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 26, page 89 G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Strategy, page 13, Measurement and calculation m ­ ethods page 87 Social – Product liability – Customer privacy G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 28, page 89 G4-PR8 Number of complaints regarding breaches PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 28 of customer privacy Global Compact Other material sustainability issues for PostNord Section, page Comment (principle number) Delivery quality Strategy, page 13, Operations, pages 17, 19, 20, 21 Customer complaints PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 28 Overnight delivery Strategy, page 13, Operations, pages 17 and 19 Sustainable product solutions Environment, page 34. Accessibility PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 28 Delivery reliability, security PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 28 Impact on local communities PostNord’s Sustainability Work, page 28 Responsible restructuring Strategy, page 13, Employees, page 30 Employee confidence in management Strategy, page 13, Employees, page 30 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 91 Assurance Report Assurance Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report To PostNord AB Introduction limited assurance procedures. The procedures perWe have been engaged by the Board of Directors of formed in a limited assurance engagement vary in PostNord to undertake a limited assurance engagenature from, and are less in scope than for, a reasonment of PostNord's Sustainability Report for the year able assurance engagement conducted in accor2015. PostNord has defined the scope of the Sustaindance with IAASB's Standards on Auditing and other ability Report on the inside cover. generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The auditor applies ISQC 1 (the International Standard Responsibilities of the Board of Directors on Quality Control) and therefore uses a comprehenand the Executive Management for the sive system of quality control including documented ­Sustainability Report guidelines and procedures regarding compliance The Board of Directors and the Executive Managewith the requirements of professional ethics, stanment are responsible for the preparation of the Susdards as to the exercise of professions and relevant tainability Report in accordance with the applicable requirements of laws and other statutes. Consecriteria, as explained on page 86 in the Sustainability quently the procedures performed do not enable us Report, that are the parts of the Sustainability Reportto obtain assurance that we would become aware of ing Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting all significant matters that might be identified in a rea­Initiative (GRI)) that are applicable to the Sustainability sonable assurance engagement. Accordingly we do Report, as well as the accounting and calculation prinnot express a reasonable assurance conclusion. ciples that the Company has developed. This responsiOur procedures are based on the criteria defined bility also includes the internal control relevant to the by the Board of Directors and the Executive Managepreparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from ment as described above. We consider these criteria material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Responsibilities of the auditor sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the conclusion below. Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. Conclusion We conducted our limited assurance engagement Based on the limited assurance procedures we have in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainabilperformed, nothing has come to our attention that ity Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance of persons responsible for the preparation of the Suswith the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and tainability Report, and applying analytical and other Executive Management. Stockholm, March 3, 2016 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Torbjörn Westman Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 92 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Five-year review Five-year review SEKm, unless otherwise specified 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 PostNord Group1) Net sales 39,466 38,920 39,533 39,950 39,351 Other operating income 274 253 233 632 761 Operating expenses –38,167 –38,669 –39,114 –40,247 –39,552 of which, personnel expenses –19,110 –18,338 –18,626 –18,212 –17,624 of which, transportation expenses –7,540 –8,084 –8,953 –9,832 –10,051 of which, other expenses –9,851 –10,348 –9,887 –10,356 –10,005 of which, depreciation and impairments –1,666 –1,899 –1,648 –1,847 –1,872 Operating income (EBITDA) 3,237 2,410 2,310 2,198 2,436 Operating margin (EBITDA), % 8.1 6.2 5.8 5.5 6.2 Operating income (EBIT) 1,571 511 662 351 564 Operating margin (EBIT), % 4.0 1.3 1.7 0.9 1.4 Net income for the period 1,225 247 306 176 278 Cash flows from operating activities 1,634 1,825 1,657 670 1,670 Net debt 578 4,299 1,624 3,672 –171 Net debt ratio (net debt/equity), % 18 ​46 –2 Return on capital employed, % 6.0 3.1 5.4 Average number of employees 41,714 39,713 39,305 37,407 35,256 Number of employees at end of period 48,568 49,297 47,667 44,859 42,111 of which, temporary employees 9,871 10,473 10,180 8,793 7,292 Volumes, millions Group total, parcels 98 105 111 120 132 Denmark, priority mail 411 320 278 237 201 Denmark, non-priority and C-mail 366 365 337 308 259 Sweden, priority mail 980 925 912 880 811 Sweden, non-priority mail 1,251 1,198 1,144 1,103 1,061 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. Swan marked printed matter. Photographers: Mads Armgaard, Hans Carlén, Christina Guardian, Kalle von Hausswolff, Magnus Liam, Claus Peuckert, Peter Phillips, Calle Stoltz, June Witzoe and others. Production: PostNord in partnership with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printed by: Strålfors 2016. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 93 PostNord is the leading supplier of communication and logistics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region. We ensure postal service to consumers and businesses in Sweden and Denmark. With our expertise and strong ­distribution network, we develop new solutions for the communication, e-commerce, distribution and logistics of tomorrow in the Nordic region. postnord.com
