Sustainable development report 2015 Supplement to the integrated annual report 30 June 2015 AT A GLANCE Summary performance data “Implats is one of the world’s foremost producers of platinum and associated platinum group metals (PGMs) Production data** 2015**** 2014**** 2013 Variance % UV Tonnes milled (000t) 16 024 13 916 17 209 15 U Refined platinum (000oz) 1 276 1 178 1 582 8 U PGMs (000oz) 2 618 2 370 3 233 11 U Revenue (Rm) 32 477 29 028 29 844 12 U Operating cost (Rm) 19 882 14 613 16 654*** 36 U Capital invested*** (Rm) 4 287 4 345 6 134 1 V Taxes (Rm) (217) 144 1 392 51 U Unit cost* per oz Pt (Rand) 22 222 19 430 16 526 14 U People 2015 2014 2013 Variance % Employees in service Own Number 40 019 40 238 40 237 1.000 V Contractors Number 14 729 15 602 17 130 3.000 V Turnover % 5 5 6 — — HDSA in management % 51 50 48 2 U Safety rates FIFR Pmmhw 0.058 0.043 0.065 35 U RIFR Pmmhw 2.63 2.68 3.06 2 V LTIFR*** Pmmhw 5.27 6.10 5.8 14 V RWCR Pmmhw 0.65 2.18 1.59 70 V TIFR Pmmhw 9.78 11.90 10.91 18 V Employees’ health People on wellness programmes Number 6 140 6 286 6 014 2 V Total people on ART Number 4 429 4 276 4 039 4 U TB cases Number 304 268 334 13 U Medical incapacitation Number 505 331 588 53 U The environment 2014 2013 Variance % Energy consumed (000GJ) 15 937 14 395 17 574 11 U Energy intensity (GJ/tonne milled) 0.995 1.034 0.955 V Total CO2 emissions (000t) 3 351 3 037 3 788 10 U Total direct SO2 emissions (t) 27 706 30 734 18 536 10 V Total water consumed (Mℓ) 39 701 34 774 40 711 14 U Water withdrawn (Mℓ) 25 376 21 365 25 440 19 U Water intensity (Mℓ/tonne milled) 0.0025 0.0025 0.0022 — Total water recycled (Mℓ) 14 325 13 409 15 271 7 U Social capital 2 014 2 013 Variance % SED expenditure (RSA) (Rm) 83 71 102 17 U SED expenditure (Zimbabwe) (Rm) 62 67 89 7 V Total SED spend (Rm) 145 138 191 5 U Housing and living conditions expenditure (RSA) (Rm) 228 261 445 13 V Housing and living conditions expenditure (Zimbabwe) (US$m) 6 15 24 60 V UV Improvement UV Deterioration * Excluding share-based payments — Unchanged ** Production costs exclude Mimosa and Two Rivers and hence impact intensity factors *** Restated numbers **** Ramp up and strike impacted Variance 2015 versus 2014 Implats sustainable development report 2015 AT A GLANCE Our approach to reporting AT A GLANCE Summary performance data IFC Our approach to reporting 1 Summary of the Group strategy 2 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Our vision, mission, purpose and values 3 Statement by chairman of SET committee 4 Who we are – what we do 6 This report reviews our approach to addressing How we create value Our products 8 11 those social, economic and environmental CEO's statement The challenging business context 12 18 Stakeholder review and mapping 22 issues that are seen as having a material impact Responding to stakeholder interests Identifying our material sustainability 24 on the long-term success of our business focus areas Our business strategy OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 26 31 APPROACH Boundary and scope Framework Agreement for a Our sustainable development management approach 34 This report provides information relating Sustainable Mining Industry, entered Promoting ethics and good governance 37 to our sustainable development policies, into by organised labour, organised SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE practices, performance and prospects business and government. Our strategic approach to safety 40 for the financial year 1 July 2014 to Safety 41 30 June 2015, for operations over which While the report is of interest to all our Our strategic approach to health 50 Health 51 we have direct management control and existing and prospective stakeholders, Attracting, retaining and developing talent 56 for which we set and implement policies it is focused primarily on addressing Investing in employee relations 61 and standards. Our last report was the interests of socially responsible Case study: Addressing the challenge of employee indebtedness 64 published in September 2014 covering investment (SRI) analysts and investors, Promoting diversity and transformation 65 the financial year: 1 July 2013 – 30 June as well as sustainability professionals. SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Our approach to identifying the issues Social investments 70 2014. These operations are Impala, Our strategic approach to social licence to Marula, Zimplats and Mimosa. No we regard as being most material to operate 73 Implats in 2015 is described on page 26. Investing in community development – changes to the boundary and scope South Africa 74 have been applied in the year under Social interventions 74 review. Restatements of financial Reporting standards Case study: Review and assessment of socio-economic impacts 76 information have been due to the Our sustainability reporting criteria has Accommodation and living conditions 79 exclusion of Mimosa from the been compiled in accordance with G4 Case study: Tswelopele housing development survey 81 consolidated figures informed by new Core Compliance and the Mining Sector Case study: National Research Foundation International Financial Reporting Supplement of the Global Reporting (NRF) study 83 Initiative (GRI), as well as Implats’ Enterprise development and procurement 84 Standards (IFRS). Safety statistics for the Promoting development through local lost-time injury frequency rate have been internally developed reporting guidelines. procurement 86 restated due to a change in the In addition to this report, we have Collaborative research case study: Social impact assessment study 87 calculation which now includes restricted provided a response to the core criteria Legal compliance 90 work cases. The five-month strike of the of the GRI G4 Compliance Guidelines in Mining Charter in South Africa 91 a detailed online GRI response table, Indigenisation in Zimbabwe 91 2014 financial year has had a material Our focus for 2016 and beyond 91 impact on some comparative data and available at www.implats.co.za/ Responding to the mining charter 92 performance indicators year-on-year. implats/Annual-reports.asp. As a Broad-based black economic empowerment 94 signatory to the United Nations Global Responding to the PFA and NDP 95 Materiality and target Compact (UNGC), we have also Case study: Socio-economic impacts of the strike 100 audience used the UNGC’s Advanced Level Investing in community development: The report reviews our approach to reporting criteria in our communication Zimbabwe 102 addressing those social, economic and on progress, and we consider that we Social investment – Zimplats 102 Accommodation and living conditions 103 environmental issues that are seen as meet the 24 advanced criteria. Enterprise development and procurement 104 having a material impact on the longSocial investment – Mimosa 104 term success of the business, the Independent assurance Our 2015 performance and achievements for social investment 104 sustainability of the economy, the Selected performance information has Local supplier development 105 environment and the communities in been independently assured by a Respecting human rights 106 Our 2015 human rights achievements which we operate, or that are important third-party assurance provider, KPMG. and performance 106 to key stakeholders. This year’s report The scope of the assurance, the CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS includes a review of our contribution in selected performance information and Our strategic approach to conserving natural terms of: the independent statement of assurance resources 110 O The Mining Charter which governs the are provided on page 143. Water stewardship 112 Climate change and energy management 114 mining sector in South Africa and Case study: Managing energy security Indigenisation Policy in Zimbabwe Contacts concerns 116 Air quality management 118 O National developmental priorities – as Please address any queries or Managing our waste 119 defined in the South African National comments on this report to the Land management and biodiversity 120 Development Plan corporate relations department. APPENDIX Our performance data 124 O Local sector-specific commitments in E-mail: investor@implats.co.za The GRI and UNGC 142 South Africa – as provided in the Tel: +27 11 731 9000 Independent assurance report 143 Glossary of terms and acronyms 147 Contact details and administration IBC Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 1 AT A GLANCE Summary of the influences to the Group strategy I N F L U E N C ES TO OU R STRA TEGY B E S T B E HAV IO U R E XC E L L E N C E S U S T A I N A BI L I T Y TOGETHER Ensuring safe and effective Delivering operational Maintaining our production Working together for the people who respect and excellence and continuous proﬁle at sustainable beneﬁt of all our care for each other improvement levels, conserving natural stakeholders to ensure our resources and mitigating social licence to operate the impacts of our Behaviour supported by: Operational excellence supported by: operations Safety strategy Social licence to operate Effective planning and mineral supported by: Cultural values resource management Sustainability supported by: Work environment Meaningful and sustainable social Intensive cost and Compliance with all relevant investment in our communities Leadership and supervision productivity focus legislation Respecting human rights and the Health strategy supported by: Operational delivery and interests of all stakeholders Continuous improvement in air Employee wellness performance management resource stewardship Abiding by the laws of the countries Prevention and education Innovation and new technology Optimisation of energy efficiencies in which we operate Treatment and support and reduction of carbon footprint Effective and transparent People strategy supported by: Preservation of natural water governance and reporting Effective employee resources and water quality management model Development of alternative energy Promoting diversity sources linked to our metals Attracting, retaining and developing talent Effective people OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER ON THESE FOUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES IS IMPACTED ON AN ONGOING BASIS BY THE RISK ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE FIND OURSELVES AS A BUSINESS Additional information regarding Implats is provided in the following reports, all of which are available at www.implats.co.za Integrated report Annual financial statements O Strategy, risks, resource allocation, business O Audited group and company annual financial Integrated Annual Report 2015 model and materiality Annual financial statements 2015 Supplement to the integrated annual report 30 June 2015 statements O Operational information O Summarised reserves and resources Mineral resource and mineral reserve statement Online O Conforms to the South African Code for O Direct access to all our reports Mineral resource and mineral reserve statement 2015 Supplement to the integrated annual report 30 June 2015 Reporting of Mineral Resources and Mineral O Our website has detailed Reserves (SAMREC) investor, sustainability and O Conforms to the Australasian Code for the business information Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore UP MOCK PICTURE Reserves (JORC) O Been signed off by the competent persons PAGE 2 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Our vision, mission, purpose and values Our values We respect O All our stakeholders, including: – Shareholders – Employees and their representative bodies – Communities within which we operate – Regulatory bodies – Suppliers and customers – Directors and management – All other interested and affected parties O The principles of the UN Global Our vision Compact O The laws of the countries within To be the world’s best platinum producing company, which we operate O Company policies and delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to procedures our peers. O Our place and way of work O Open and honest communication O Diversity of all our stakeholders Our mission O Risk management and continuous improvement To safely mine, process, refine, recycle and market our philosophies. products at the best possible cost ensuring sustainable We care O For the health and safety of all value creation for all our stakeholders. our stakeholders O For the preservation of natural resources Our purpose O For the natural environment in which we operate To safely and responsibly produce platinum group metals O For the socio-economic well(PGMs) in order to make a meaningful contribution to the being of the communities within which we operate. sustainability of our planet. PGMs are environmentally friendly ‘green’ metals, which ensure cleaner air through We strive to deliver O A safe, productive and conducive effective emission control and are also used in electronics working environment O A fair working environment and electro-chemical processes, in the medical and dental through equitable and fields and increasingly in the development and use of fuel competitive human capital practices cells. O On the development of our employees O Positive returns to our stakeholders through an operational excellence model O On our commitments to all stakeholders O On our capital projects O Quality products that meet or exceed our customers’ expectations. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 3 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Statement by chairman of social, ethics and transformation committee Thandi Orleyn (59) Social, ethics and transformation committee chairperson BJuris, BProc, LLB Delivering societal transformation in the While we remain particularly conscious of the need to deliver on context of turbulence the transformation agenda, the tough market conditions have As chairman of Implats’ Social, Ethics and Transformation (SET) been constraining our ability to do so at scale. Without the committee, my primary responsibility has been to ensure that luxury of a cash-flush environment, it is essential that we the committee delivers on its independent oversight and maximise operational efficiencies and maintain the building advisory function regarding Implats’ activities relating to the blocks for when the economy turns, so that we can drive the promotion of social and economic development, good transformation agenda over the longer term. corporate citizenship, the environment, and labour and employment issues. Despite the unavoidable impacts of the tough market environment, there is a strong recognition within the Company I believe that our main imperative as a committee is to help the that delivering on socio-economic transformation is noncompany in its contribution to the transformation agenda of negotiable. As with safety, driving the transformation agenda – the countries in which it operates. Driving social and economic within the Company, our neighbouring communities and the transformation – using ‘transformation’ in its broadest sense – country more broadly – is an imperative for all seasons. is an increasingly important business driver, not just in South Promoting social development, acting ethically and investing in Africa but across the world. Business is coming under greater transformation are not ‘soft issues’ that we should seek to scrutiny regarding its social, environmental and human rights address when times are good. While their impact on Company performance and the nature of its contribution to meeting the performance might be less immediately tangible, ensuring needs and desires of society. This is particularly the case for effective delivery on these issues is critical to the long-term the mining sector that is facing growing pressure, globally performance of the Company. These are issues that we need to and nationally, to demonstrate greater social returns from constantly ensure are embedded in the organisational DNA, its extraction of natural resources. informed by an understanding of their contribution to our collective long-term growth and development. The events in the platinum sector over the past three years have highlighted both the importance of delivering social value, Reflecting on our achievements and as well as some of the profound challenges in doing so. We challenges have seen some significant changes in the operating In my 11 years on the board I have seen some significant environment and socio-political climate, characterised by developments that I believe Implats can justifiably be proud challenging labour dynamics, widening socio-economic of in terms of its contribution to the transformation agenda: disparities, and increasingly vocal local communities who have O The Company has shown leadership in its delivery of the heightened expectations for mining companies to provide social commitments encompassed within its social and meaningful social and economic opportunities. These labour plans, particularly when it comes to the housing and expectations come amidst a significantly resource-constrained living conditions of employees; business climate, compounded by lower PGM prices, higher O The equity deal with the Royal Bafokeng was inspired, costs of production, continuing regulatory uncertainty and an adding value for all the parties involved and providing increasingly wary investment community. a genuine example of broad-based beneficiaries; PAGE 4 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Statement by chairman of social, ethics and transformation committee O The Group has engaged positively in Zimbabwe, more generally to meet increasing societal expectations. With demonstrating its commitment to indigenisation and significant innovations in technology relating to digitisation, continuing to make a positive economic contribution to transportation and energy generation, and with shifting the region despite some challenging operating conditions; requirements regarding climate change and the environment, O At a leadership level we have managed to develop and it is important that governments explore and support alternative maintain a constructive relationship with the new union industries and sectors – including agriculture – as the basis for representatives from AMCU, and have worked hard longer-term economic growth and employment. to maintain positive relations with the NUM and other union bodies; Acknowledgements O We have seen visible positive changes in the composition of In closing, I wish to thank my colleagues on the SET committee the Company’s management and executive team, as well as for their advice and support over the many years that I have significant initial progress in promoting women in mining with had the privilege of chairing this committee. Their experience almost 10% of our underground workforce being women, and perspectives have proved particularly valuable in helping us up from 1% when I joined the Company; women deliver on our oversight and advisory duties relating to social representation in management has grown steadily transformation. to 20% in the current year. In this sustainability report we outline what Implats has been Despite these valuable achievements, there is more that we can doing – and what the Company plans to do – to deliver on its do to ensure that the Group remains well positioned to respond strategic commitments relating to its material sustainability effectively and constructively to the socio-political and focus areas. As one of Implats’ stakeholders I encourage you to economic challenges it faces: share your views with us, both on our performance and on our O There remains scope for us to further extend our efforts in disclosure. driving transformation and promoting local socio-economic opportunities through our procurement, skills development It is only through informed engagement and dialogue on the and enterprise development activities; socio-economic challenges facing all of us, that we can most O We should continue our work in understanding and effectively identify the opportunities to leverage on the legacy of responding to the social fabric in our areas of operation, mining in the region, and to ensure that we remain relevant to building on the social impact studies that we have the communities in which we operate. undertaken in some of our communities, and further advancing our social investment initiatives that seek to promote community sustainability; Thandi Orleyn O We must continue to promote the organisational culture Chairman of the SET committee change programme for respect and care; O There remain opportunities for us to leverage more through our various partnerships, and to work on deepening our relationships with government through more active communication of our activities. Looking to the future, I foresee some continuing challenges in the operating environment for the mining sector. Some tough decisions will need to be made – by business, government and labour – as we seek collectively to address some of the deep structural challenges facing the sector so that we can maintain its longer-term ability to deliver social value. In doing so, we need to recognise the significant changes that are happening globally across the mining industry. While I believe firmly that the PGM sector has a strong future, and a continuing capacity to deliver value for stakeholders, we should not have an overly romantic notion of the mining sector’s ability Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 5 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Who we are – what we do “As at 30 June 2015 our major shareholders were Coronation Fund Managers (18.8%), the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN) (13.2%) and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), at 13.01% Impala Platinum Holdings (Implats), one of the world’s foremost producers of platinum South Africa and associated platinum group metals (PGMs), is listed on the JSE Limited (JSE) in South Africa, and sponsored a level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme in the United States of America. Its Head Office is based in Johannesburg, South Africa. Limpopo Polokwane Marula Implats is structured around six main operations: Impala Rustenburg, Zimplats, Marula, Mimosa, Two Rivers and Impala Springs – with a total Impala Two Rivers Rustenburg of 24 underground shafts. Our operations are located on the Bushveld Johannesburg Impala Springs North West Complex in South Africa and the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe, two of Mpumalanga the most significant PGM-bearing ore bodies in the world. The structure of our operating framework allows for each of our operations to establish and maintain close Free State KwaZulu-Natal relationships with their stakeholders while operating within a Group-wide approach to managing the economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability. Northern Cape As at 30 June 2015 our major shareholders were Coronation Fund Managers (18.8%), the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN) Eastern Cape (13.2%) and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), at 13.01%, with the balance of the shares being held by various public and Western Cape non-public shareholders. (Refer to the annual financial statements.) Marula Impala Two Rivers 74 000 ounces 575 000 ounces 174 000 ounces of platinum in concentrate of refined platinum of platinum in concentrate Contribution to Group Pt production Contribution to Group Pt production Contribution to Group Pt production 5.8% 45% 13.6% Life of mine > 30 years Life of mine > 30 years Life of mine > 30 years Average current depth 320m Average current depth 850m Average current depth 350m SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS • 1 fatality • 6 fatalities • 0 fatalities • FIFR 0.111 • FIFR 0.067 • FIFR 0.000 • 4% decrease in LTIFR • 19% decrease in LTIFR • 20% decrease in LTIFR • 13% decrease in TIFR • TIFR 20% decrease * The R11 million balance in • 23% increase in VCT interventions • 29% increase in VCT interventions socio-economic development • 45% increase in ART uptake • 2% increase in ART uptake expenditure for South African operations is attributable to our • R1 million spent on socio• R71 million spent on socioSocial and Labour Plan for Afplats' economic development* economic development* Leeuwkop project in the North West province. PAGE 6 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Zimbabwe South ou o Africa Zimbabwe We produce around 25% of the world’s supply of platinum with a workforce of approximately 55 000, Mashonaland Central including 15 000 contractors, none of which are self Mashonaland West employed. The organisation does not have seasonal employees. A detailed breakdown of our workforce can be found on page 128 of this report. In the financial year Zimplats ended 30 June 2015, the Group produced 2.618 million Mashonaland East ounces of PGMs (2014: 2.370 million ounces), which included 1.276 million ounces of platinum Matabeleland North Midlands (2014: 1.178). Our markets are in South Africa, Japan, Manicaland China, the US and Europe. Bulawayo Mimosa PGMs are primarily platinum and its associated byMasvingo products palladium, rhodium, ruthenium and iridium, Matabeleland which usually occur in association with nickel and South copper. While PGMs are a relatively rare commodity (only about 500 tonnes are produced annually, of which less than 200 tonnes are platinum), they are playing a progressively important role in everyday life, whether it is in goods we use daily, or in the processes required to produce these goods, as well as in auto-catalytic converters for emission control. Zimplats Mimosa 190 000 ounces 117 000 ounces of platinum in matte of platinum in concentrate Contribution to Group Pt production Third-party contribution to Group Pt production 14.9% 9.2% Life of mine > 30 years Average current depth 150m Life of mine >15 years Attributable mineral resources of 196Moz Pt (%) Average current depth 200m as at 30 June 2015 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS 4 2 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS 5 • 0 fatalities 6 O Zimplats • FIFR 0.000 • 0 fatalities O Impala 6 O Afplats • 17% increase in LTIFR • FIFR 0.000 48 O Two Rivers • 49% decrease in TIFR • 49% decrease in LTIFR O Imbasa and Inkosi O Marula • 36% decrease in VCT • 78% decrease in TIFR O Mimosa • 7% increase in ART • 0.3% decrease in VCT 29 • 15% decrease in SO2 • 0.7% increase in ART • US$1 million spent on socio-economic • US$4.1 million spent on sociodevelopment economic development Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 7 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE I N PU T S Cultural values Work environment Safety, Health and People strategies Leadership and supervision OUR CAPITALS Our workforce Skills and training Human Social, ethics, tranformation and remuneration practices B EHAV I OUR Operating cashﬂow Financial Equity funding Debt funding IMPALA PLATINUM MINES Mining rights, reserves and resources Manufactured Plant, property and equipment Utilities CONCENTRATOR Ethics and human rights Milling • Flotation Employee relations Social and Organised labour relationship Community relations Social licence to operate Knowledge and procedures Risk and accounting systems Intellectual R&D and IP Geological models SMELTER People, HR, governance and safety systems Drying • Smelting • Converting Natural resources (land, air, water and biodiversity) Natural Mining reserves and resources TOGETHER Sustainable able sociall in investm ntt in tment investment vestme in ou our commun communities Respect ffor h i ht and human rights d stakeholder t k h ld iinterests t Transparent governance and reporting Legal compliance PAGE 8 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PROCESS How we create value O U T P UT S Mineral resource management Cost and productivity focus Operational delivery and performance management STRA Innovation and new technology TEG IC RE SP ON SE S EX CEL L ENCE Dissolution Ion exchange Purification & precipitation Rhodium & Iridium Hydrolysis Purification & precipitation Platinum Distilation Purification & precipitation Ruthenium Molecular recognition technology Precipitation Palladium Ion exchange Precipitation Gold Dissolution Silver precipitation Silver PLATINUM METALS REFINERY Nickel reduction Briquetting and sintering Nickel powder or briquettes Cobalt reduction Cobalt powder Copper electrowinning Copper cathodes BASE METALS REFINERY Dis Di solluti Dissolution ution nick nickel, i kel tion off nic kel,l copper pp and d cobalt cobalt b lt S US TAI NAB I L I TY Leg egal Legal omplianc com al c compliance pliliianc ce nergy efﬁciency and reduce carbon foo Optimise energy footprint Preservation of natural water resources and water quality Development of alternate energy sources linked to our metals Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 9 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE P OS I T I V E A ND NE GA T I VE I M PAC T S F I N A N C I A L Y EA R 2 0 1 5 O U T C O M ES Well trained and skilled workforce Injuries and fatalities R523m spent on training and Group FIFR 0.058 Occupational health (NIHL, Platnosis) development (Zimbabwe US$5.2m) Skilled leaders and employees Group LTIFR 5.27 Economic empowerment of our people Number of employees Wage bill of (Including RWC) Equity and transformation including contractors R10 224m 55 000 Debt, cost of capital, exchange rate Financial health of Company Procurement of R7.6bn in Labour, legal, consumables, power R2 328m net cash generated South Africa from businesses and and utility costs Shareholder and investor returns, from operating activities suppliers ( US$441m in Zimbabwe) reinvestment of proﬁts All taxes and royalties paid in Dividends per share Total liabilities Contribution to balance sheet, tax revenues South Africa R1 704m and economic growth for country (in Zimbabwe US$99m ) Rnil R24 853m Products that generate revenue and PGMs produced Re-investment in the Group to sustain value creation improve the environment 2.6Moz R4 287m Depreciation and disposal of assets, maintenance costs Reinvestment in shafts, side stream Revenue generated beneﬁciation R32 477m In-migration and constraints on infrastructure and social amenities An investment of R83m* in Local procurement spent in South Africa Informal settlements South Africa in our surrounding R2.6bn Labour and social unrest communities ( US$5.1m* in Zimbabwe) Social investments Education, health and housing Small business Improved living conditions 402 houses built in South Africa Good advances in promoting community supported R228m spent (in Zimbabwe US$6m spent on housing) relations Spend on modernisation Increased competition for already scarce technical skills R25m Continous improvement – safe and (mechanisation) efﬁcient operations Development of IP Fuel cell project R&D expenditure Business improvement R3m R94m Generation of waste Investment of Pollution (air, water, land) and climate change Emissions Land availability and disturbance R100m spent on energy conservation 27 706 tonnes SO2 Emission control – use of PGMs in auto initiatives over the last three years and 349 000 tonnes and industrial catalysts direct (scope 1) Conservation of natural resources Water withdrawn Water recycled Water consumed through recycling, rehabilitation 25 376Mℓ 14 325Mℓ 39 701Mℓ CO2 * Community investment spend excludes housing. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 10 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Our products “The extraction and First industry-wide PGM life cycle assessment completed refining of PGMs is a The International Platinum Group Metals Association (IPA) has conducted a life cycle capital, energy and assessment (LCA) to assess the environmental impacts of the primary and secondary production of platinum group metals (PGMs). The study also evaluated the benefits of labour intensive process using PGMs in automobile catalytic converters (autocatalysts) to control vehicle that provides metal exhaust pollution. Implats was one of 11 IPA members that contributed to the study, representing the primary producers of PGMs (from mining to production), the for a cleaner planet secondary producers of PGMs (recycling and production), as well as the fabricators of autocatalysts. This study is the first industry-wide assessment of the life cycle O By far the largest single use of PGMs today is for of primary and secondary PGM production, and is highly autocatalysts, a pollution control device fitted to cars, trucks, representative of the industry, covering 64% of the global PGM motorcycles, and non-road engines. In this application, supply. The results represent the global average primary and PGMs are coated onto a substrate housed in the exhaust secondary production of PGMs by the participating members. system where they act as catalysts to reduce levels of harmful emissions to legislated levels. PGMs enable car The six PGMs (platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium manufacturers to comply with emissions standards and help and osmium) occur together in nature alongside nickel and regulators to implement tightening emissions regulations. copper. Due to their economic value and higher quantities, platinum and palladium are the most important metals in the The LCA illustrates that even though the impacts of PGM PGM mix and also the main products. The PGMs are highly production appear to be high, from a life cycle perspective, resistant to wear, tarnish, chemical attack and high these impacts are significantly mitigated by the in-use benefits, temperature, and have outstanding catalytic and electrical as indicated by the following findings: properties. All these unique characteristics have made them O Over 1.3 tonnes of toxic and harmful polluting gases indispensable in many industrial applications. (including carbon monoxide, nitrous oxides, unburned hydrocarbons and particulate matter), are reduced by the The PGM industry carried out this LCA study in order to catalytic converter systems in one EURO 5 gasoline and one generate a reliable, up-to-date and independent dataset of the EURO 5 diesel vehicle in use over 160 000km; these environmental footprint of PGMs and PGM-containing emissions are reduced by up to 97%. products, and identify possible areas in the PGM life cycle for O Emissions of carbon dioxide (CO ) are increased by between 2 improving environmental performance. The LCA followed the 2% and 6% through the use of autocatalysts; this is due to “cradle-to-gate” approach, and included all aspects of ore the conversion of carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons into extraction, the production of other raw materials, energy supply CO2 during vehicle use; however, this increase is small when and the production of the PGMs themselves. compared to CO2 emissions from the combustion of the fuel O The extraction and refining of PGMs is a capital, energy and used to drive the vehicle. labour-intensive process. PGMs are produced in low O The emissions reductions as a result of the use of an volumes and are used in very tiny quantities. The high and autocatalytic converter outweigh the emissions generated repeatable recyclability of PGMs means that the during the production of the catalyst including PGMs and environmental burden of PGM production decreases with other related materials used to support the functionality of each recycling round. the catalyst. O Power consumption during mining and ore beneficiation has been identified as the major impact (72%) of the production The LCA study supports the industry’s commitment to of PGMs on the environment; a further 27% of the impact understand and improve the sustainability performance of comes from smelting and refining. Only 1% of impacts are PGMs. Please refer to our website for more details on the attributed to recycling; the low footprint of recycling benefits of our products. (This can be found on our website compensates for the higher footprint of primary production. www.implats.co.za.) PAGE 11 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’s statement “We completed a thirdparty review of our baseline risk Dear Stakeholder assessment, and have In each of my two previous annual letters, I highlighted the unprecedented challenges taken appropriate steps facing our company and the platinum sector more generally. Unfortunately it seems that volatility, and increasing challenges in society, have become the new normal as to address the key once again we have had a particularly difficult year. In the context of a subdued global findings from this review PGM market, a continuing rise in input costs and less than desired productivity, we have been faced with a challenging regulatory environment, persistent electricity supply constraints, and heightened stakeholder expectations across a range of fronts. The events across the sector have have made across many of our leading O We completed a third-party review highlighted the business significance of and lagging indicators for the year. While of our baseline risk assessment, and issues in society, and underlined the I am encouraged by some of the have taken appropriate steps to importance of maintaining a strong focus significant improvements in our safety address the key findings from this on sustainability. In this letter, I reflect on performance this year, this loss of life review. This includes implementing our performance over the past year on remains unacceptable. I am determined an online hazard identification and each of our material sustainability focus to see a further step change in our safety rectification system across the Group, areas. Given the challenging market performance, and am fully committed to providing ready access to the conditions, I believe that our achieving our goal of zero fatalities. required controls and procedures performance this year demonstrates our associated with the 14 identified commitment to the safe and responsible To deliver on this goal, our safety major hazards across our operations. production of PGMs, and to making a strategy is built on changing the culture O We invested a further R221 million in meaningful contribution to the well-being of the organisation, improving an array of technical safety initiatives of our communities. Doing so is integral supervision, and adopting and at the Rustenburg operations. These to realising our vision of being the world’s implementing various technical initiatives include: equipping all underground best platinum-producing company that to improve workplace safety. In driving trackless mobile machinery at all delivers superior returns to stakeholders. this strategy, there have been several operations with personnel detective positive activities that we have systems; installing new shaft safety Driving a safety culture implemented this year: devices and interlocking winder It is with deep regret that I report the loss O We have continued to place a strong facilities in Rustenburg; replacing all of life of five of our employees and two focus on training: 139 stoping teams high-risk conveyor belts with fire contractor employees. All sustained participated in a five-day teamretardant belts and implementing a injuries while working for the Company; mobilisation training programme with policy that the Group will only install six of the fatal incidents occurred at a focus on embedding the right safety fire retardant belts; introducing a Impala Rustenburg and one was and associated productivity culture, SafeBlast® system across most of at Marula. We extend our sincere and more than 4 000 employees and our operations; and installing condolences to the families and friends safety representatives have electronic winch signalling devices of Mojalefa Makhobeng, Otlabusa undertaken a 10-day Mine and an improved fire detection Itumeleng, Martin Briedenhann, Qualification Authority (MQA) system. Jonathan Mabelane, Joseph Sithole, occupational health and safety skills Kgosithebe Richard Orekeng and programme. In addition, all Implats We have made some significant Mantsonyane Malimole. Five of these executives, E and D level production achievements this year across many of fatalities occurred in the first quarter, very managers have attended the threeour operations. Notably between shortly after the return to work following day zero incident process for leaders October 2014 and April 2015 the Group the five-month strike. training programme. This provides achieved a record of 6.9 million fatality managers with insight into the human free shifts. Impala Services and Impala This regrettable increase in fatalities – up behavioural aspects of safety, and on Springs each achieved 10 million fatality from four last year – comes despite the how to influence this to achieve free shifts and Impala Rustenburg’s valuable improvements in safety that we improved safety performance. PAGE 12 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO's statement Terence Goodlace (56) Chief executive officer NHD in metalliferous mining, BCom, MBA 12 and 7A shafts as well as Mimosa geological monitoring and risk mitigation In November 2014, at the tripartite Mine each achieving five million fatality free programme was put in place. Health and Safety Council, we agreed a shifts. Zimplats also achieved 3 million Redevelopment of Bimha Mine was then new set of sector-wide health and safety fatality free shifts. The total injury restarted through two new access ways, milestones. These include commitments frequency rate – a measure of all 30 metres north of the existing workings, to: eliminate fatalities by December recorded injuries, including fatalities, leaving an indestructible pillar between 2020; achieve an annual 20% reduction lost-time injuries, restricted work cases the new drives and the risk areas. The in lost-time injuries; eliminate silicosis, and medical treatment cases (including monitoring programme has shown that pneumoconiosis and noise-induced first aid cases) – was 9.78, down from ground conditions have stabilised and hearing loss; reduce the TB incidence 11.90 in 2014. The serious injury further redevelopment can now take rate in mines to or below the national frequency rate improved to 2.63 per place along 5 North roadway which will TB incident rate by December 2024; million man-hours, down from 2.68 in improve the Bimha redevelopment plan. meet clear targets on implementation 2014. These improvements in safety of the approved culture transformation performance have been underpinned by A continuing challenge that we have framework; and launch a centre of the effective implementation of the safety faced this year has been the number excellence to transfer knowledge and recognition agreement with AMCU at of ‘Section 54’ stoppage instructions technology of quick win projects. We are Impala Rustenburg and Marula, which issued by the Department of Mineral committed to delivering on these targets lays out the agreed responsibilities for Resources (DMR). This year, 55 such through our continuing focus on management and union representatives instructions were issued, resulting in the embedding an effective culture in the on safety issues. loss of approximately 260 shaft days of organisation, supported by our production at Impala Rustenburg, and investment in the physical environment. On 8 July 2014, a major ground collapse 42 shaft days at Marula. The estimated occurred at Zimplats Bimha Mine. The loss of production between Impala Promoting health and collapse was attributed to a weak Rustenburg and Marula was well-being geological structure, the Mutambara 63 000 4PGE ounces and amounted to We have continued to make progress shear, which caused pillar failure and the a loss of revenue of R833 million. While this year in delivering on our health subsequent partial collapse. Employees we fully support all work stoppages strategy, and managing the principal were evacuated timeously and there where this is necessary to manage a health risks facing employees, namely: were no injuries. However, because of direct danger to safety, extending these pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), the the potential of stress propagation and stoppages beyond the scope of the risk associated human immunodeficiency the possibility of further ground collapse, is problematic and in certain instances virus (HIV) co-infection, and the and the safety of our employees could may have a negative impact on safety occupational health risk of noise-induced not be guaranteed, a precautionary performance. In February this year, hearing loss (NIHL). On occupational decision was made to stop all mining in I joined with other platinum group CEOs health issues, we strive to ensure that all the existing workings at Bimha and to to meet with the Minister of Mineral occupational health risks are identified, withdraw all employees. These Resources to highlight the negative mitigation controls are in place and any employees were redeployed to other impact that unjustified work stoppages ill health is detected and treated early areas at Zimplats and an extensive were having on productivity and and efficiently. Our strategy on nonprofitability. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 13 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO's statement occupational health risks focuses on We have continued to work closely with In addition to our ongoing engagements ensuring that all employees have access the South African Department of Health with union representatives, we are taking to affordable healthcare so that health and other partners in support of the measures to encourage greater stressors can be identified, managed national health insurance plan, including communication directly between and treated. through investments in healthcare management representatives and facilities around our lease areas. employees at all levels. We are There was a significant increase this year implementing a structured, two-way in occupational medical examinations Investing in employee communication model that cascades undertaken, mainly due to the reopening relations information from weekly executive of the Rustenburg Occupational Health The events in the South African platinum management meetings all the way Centre following the end of last year’s sector over the past few years and the through to half-level shaft-based strike. No previously unknown five-month strike in 2014 have meetings, with weekly feedback to the occupational illnesses were detected highlighted the importance of developing executive. This is complemented by over the year. This year, 49 cases of and maintaining positive relations periodic employee surveys, as well as NIHL were diagnosed and submitted for between management and employees. engagements through videos, briefings, assessment for compensation. All Anecdotal evidence points to a general manager feedback, and daily, patients who are diagnosed with early significant socio-economic impact of weekly and monthly meetings at shaft signs of NIHL on screening audiograms the strike particularly on businesses, level. We have also been working to have been counselled and are being education and health communities enhance the knowledge, skills and monitored. Another potential surrounding the mines. (Refer to case attributes of managers, employees and occupational illness in the South African study on page 100). their representatives. We have focused mining sector is silicosis. Fortunately the initially on the empowerment of first line risk of contracting silicosis on our Informed by these events, we have been managers through a robust training operations is extremely low due to the focusing our efforts on fostering a new, process, particularly on people very low levels of Alpha Quartz in the dynamic and sustainable partnership management skills. rock mined at our operations. This year, with our employees and their 19 employees and two contractors were representative bodies, with the goal of In the year under review, we have also diagnosed at our Rustenburg operation, becoming the best employer in the focused on employee well-being, by all of whom have proven historical gold sector. launching a responsible living campaign, mine exposure. which focuses on physical, mental and We have placed a particular emphasis financial well-being. This included We are already meeting the sector-wide this year on building relationships with assisting employees with financial health milestone at reducing TB the AMCU national leadership and their literacy, understanding their payslips, incidence rate on mines to below the elected representatives at Impala debt and loan repayments. Aligned national TB incident rate by December Rustenburg, while continuing to maintain to this process was the review of all 2024; our incidence rate of 755 per a good relationship with NUM emolument attachment orders brought 100 000 employees is below the national representatives at our other operations. against our employees by third parties, rate of 940/100 000. Although we have Early in the year our Exco team and of which 40 were subject to a court increased the speed and accuracy of AMCU’s national leadership jointly process and were declared invalid. We diagnosing TB resistance through PCR undertook a relationship building believe this to be a critical issue which laboratory testing, the growth in multiple exercise, working within the structures has a significant impact on employee drug-resistant TB continues to be a outlined in our recognition agreement well-being. We will continue to ensure concern. Our HIV prevalence rate is with the union. This process has we do not indirectly perpetuate such estimated at 23% based on available contributed to a positive relationship unjust acts as this has a direct impact data for the Impala Rustenburg at the leadership level. We have on our employees and their families. operation. This year, a total of 6 140 subsequently run similar relationshipemployees participated in companybuilding sessions throughout our Following the return to work at Impala funded and managed HIV-wellness operations, with most of our shafts Rustenburg, we recommenced our programmes, of whom 4 429 received having completed the process. While the ‘respect and care’ culture change antiretroviral therapy. dynamics vary between the different initiative. Building on a culture survey shafts, I believe that we have set the undertaken prior to the strike, focus foundation for a constructive relationship groups were held across our South across the Group. African operations in which employees PAGE 14 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO's statement raised various concerns and suggestions disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) in 10% of total shareholding of Zimplats aimed at fostering a desired management. We have continued to Private Limited. organisational culture. We have shared place a particular emphasis on the outcomes of this process with each encouraging female representation at all Investing in community of the business units, highlighting the levels of the organisation. By year end development important role of employees as the main we had 146 women in management, One of the most significant risks facing drivers in developing change. We have representing almost 20% of total the mining sector in South Africa is the also commenced a diversity survey at management; overall women crisis of expectation. More and more of our operations to gather the perceptions representation across the Group remains our stakeholders are expecting more of leaders and staff on issues pertaining at 10.6%. In seeking to increase the and more from us in terms of jobs, to the implementation of our values, our number of women working in infrastructure, service delivery and approach to managing diversity and underground conditions, it has been economic opportunities, in an industry women in mining, our human resource encouraging to see the good that has been hit by plunging commodity processes, and related issues. participation of women within our mining prices and increasing production costs. training programmes: this year, 38% of While we recognise the critical Given the challenging market context mining graduates were women, while the importance of contributing to the of low commodity prices and rising representation of women completing the well-being of our host communities, costs, there is pressure to explore all rock breaker qualification increased from it is equally important that the oftenopportunities for operating and capital last year’s 25% to 30%. competing expectations of our costs savings. As we pursue our stakeholders are tempered by an strategic objectives we intend to not Following extensive consultation and appreciation of what we can deliver only reduce costs but also increase analysis by each operation, we have given the current market environment. productivity. This requires that every completed and approved our next It is important to note that a total of person employed contributes towards five-year employment equity plan for R10 224 million in wages was paid to ensuring the financial sustainability of the 2015 to 2019. We have appointed employees during the year and that this Group and in essence protect their own employment equity managers for all contribution to local communities is jobs. Current employment levels are at our operations, and established significant. Managing these heightened risk within the broader developments in representative transformation forums, expectations – in the context of an the business environment. each of which has received formal increasingly vocal and frustrated training on employment equity. community and depressed local and Promoting diversity and Recruiting and retaining highly soughtglobal markets – presents us with a transformation after skilled HDSAs, particularly women, particular challenge. Our commitment to promoting employee remains a challenge given the extreme diversity reflects not only a strong competition for suitable candidates. In In response to this challenge, we compliance requirement, but is driven this context, we have prioritised our completed a detailed assessment this also by the recognition that a more efforts towards retention and promotion, year of how we manage and maintain diverse organisation is ultimately more supported by various initiatives such as our social licence to operate. Through competitive. Encouraging diversity and career progression path and the this process we have prioritised our localisation also forms an important part provision of accelerated training and focus on implementing targeted social of our efforts at promoting sociomentorship programmes. To assess interventions in our areas of operation, economic transformation in our host the quality of our diversity efforts, we driving legislated transformation communities. commissioned an external diversity requirements, and engaging proactively audit; the findings of this exercise are with stakeholders. We made progress this year in being incorporated into our diversity promoting equitable representation, management programme. Our investment in socio-economic particularly at board and senior development programmes focuses management level where we remain well In Zimbabwe, we have had ongoing primarily on infrastructure, health, positioned relative to our competitors. engagements with the government on education, and community At our South African operations, at indigenisation. We are engaging with empowerment initiatives. The social year end we had achieved and in most the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe in order investment strategy complements our cases exceeded all of the Mining Charter to implement the employee share accommodation and living conditions targets for levels of historically ownership scheme which constitutes initiatives, through the provision of Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 15 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO's statement schools, clinics and other amenities. conditions for the South African Voluntary Principles on Security and Our goal is to establish infrastructure operations. At our Zimbabwean Human Rights. A detailed audit plan was that will address urgent needs in mine operations we have spent developed and a gap analysis conducted communities with the focus on longerUS$6.1 million in providing housing at Impala Springs whose findings were term impacts. Our social programmes for our employees. Our goal is to have provided to the executive team and investments are identified in at least 50% of our employees residing for action. A similar process was collaboration with community in decent accommodation by 2020. In commenced in the latter part of financial representatives, the local municipality implementing this goal, we will continue year 2015, at the Rustenburg operation and traditional authority in our areas of to partner with government to ensure and a plan is in place to extend this operation. In South Africa these identified that our housing projects contribute to process to the Marula operation, with initiatives are integrated within the social fully functional communities with all the work at the Zimplats operations having and labour plans (SLPs) for each of our required amenities, and that they are been completed in 2014. Upon operations. constructed within a broader integrated completion, a detailed plan for spatial development framework. We will implementation will be developed and This year, the South African operations also be partnering with government executed at the respective operations to invested R83 million in socioand the Royal Bafokeng Nation to ensure that our codes of practice and economic development projects, and provide bulk infrastructure and services procedures are aligned to these an additional R228 million towards to mine communities in line with our principles and that all relevant personnel improving accommodation and living own developmental needs at our are appropriately trained. conditions of our employees. Our Rustenburg operation. Zimbabwe operations invested Conserving natural resources US$5 million on socio-economic Our social investment programme, and and minimising our impact development projects, with an additional our investment in housing and living As a company involved in the extraction US$6 million on employee housing. conditions, is further supported by our and processing of mineral resources, our Every year an external consultant preferential procurement practices and activities unavoidably have environmental undertakes an independent review and enterprise and supplier development impacts. Given the nature of these assessment of the socio-economic activities. At our South African impacts, it is important that we impacts of most of these investments. operations we spent R2.6 billion this demonstrate responsible stewardship A summary of our social investments, year on procurement from local tiered of the resources we share with the and of the review of their impact, is suppliers, constituting 34% of the total communities in which we operate. provided on pages 74 to 83 and procurement spend. In addition to our Through our policy commitments, pages 102 to 105. direct procurement activities, we have we strive to integrate environmental encouraged some of our existing large management into all aspects of One of the most significant contributions contractors to support local contractors the business, mitigating the direct we make to the well-being of our and to identify opportunities to fill any environmental impacts of our operations communities and employees is our vacancies with youth members from the and investing in local community investment in improving the local community. We are also working environmental projects. accommodation and living conditions with the Royal Bafokeng for the possible of employees, an area where we are development of a supplier park, as well The strategic importance of water was recognised as leaders across the sector. as with the North West Development highlighted during the reporting period, In December 2014 the board approved Corporation regarding the potential for a with rainfall in the Rustenburg area being a revised housing strategy that seeks to North West Platinum Special Economic a third of its usual levels. We saw a address the findings of two independent Zone. In Zimbabwe, local suppliers 12% increase in total water consumption social impact studies. Since the accounted for 73% of the Zimplats’ for the Group, largely as a result of the inception of our previous housing annual expenditure on goods and return to production following the end of strategy in 2008, we have invested services and Mimosa’s indigenous last year’s five-month strike, as well as R3.5 billion on improving housing and procurement as a percentage of the reduced rainfall levels. Despite this living conditions at all our operations total discretionary expenditure was absolute increase in water consumption, in South Africa. In the new social and above 60%. we maintained our unit consumption rate labour plans compiled for the fiveof water (megalitres per tonne ore year period 2014 to 2018, we have In 2014 we embarked on a process milled), giving a positive indication that committed just over R1 billion to to prepare the Group to become we are improving our water management improving housing and living signatories to the United Nations practices. PAGE 16 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO's statement Security of energy supply, rising energy Ensuring effective rehabilitation is an and the promotion of anti-corruption prices, and possible climate change important regulatory and financial risk for (refer to www.unglobalcompact.org). policy instruments (such as the the Company. This is linked to our proposed carbon tax) remain significant closure liabilities, which are reviewed and We have continued to work throughout material risks for our operations. Given updated annually in line with regulations. the year with the Chamber of Mines, these challenges, we have continued Our strategy on rehabilitation is to industry bodies, relevant government with a strong emphasis on energyentrench the concept of ‘design for departments, labour representatives and efficiency projects. These are targeted closure’ throughout our operations, community organisations in the hope of mainly at our mining operations, as there ensuring that all aspects of rehabilitation finding solutions to some of the collective is seen to be limited scope for further are defined at the project-planning challenges that we face. In doing so, an energy efficiency at our smelters. We phase. Our rehabilitation activities focus important objective has been to ensure have invested over R100 million on on ecosystem functionality, which we strategic alignment with the relevant energy conservation programmes in believe is essential in ensuring national imperatives outlined in the South the last three years, resulting in a sustainability beyond closure. The total African national development plan and reduction of 8% in indirect energy area rehabilitated reduced from 46.6ha the framework agreement for peace and usage when compared against the in the 2014 financial year to 9.37ha in stability in the mining industry. These year 2013. The FY2014 performance the 2015 financial year as a initiatives speak to legislative issues, was impacted by the five-month strike consequence of the completion of the taxation, social and labour challenges and is thus not comparable year on year. Open Pit project at the Rustenburg (such as employee indebtedness, health In South Africa we are working closely operation in December 2013. The and safety, the migrant labour system, with Eskom, and continue to participate current cost estimate for Rustenburg housing and living conditions), as well in various demand-side management closure amounted to R1 013.7 million. as economic imperatives (such as (DSM) programmes. Our longer-term The project to backfill redundant open beneficiation, infrastructure constraints, strategic investments include exploring pits continued at Zimplats with a total of energy and water supply). In the year a carbon neutral fuel source for our 320 437 loose cubic metres (LCMs) ahead we shall actively participate in the operations, and participating in being backfilled in the 2015 financial year review of the Mining Charter, through the collaborative efforts to develop fuel-cell at an estimated cost of US$5.8 million. structures established in the Chamber of technology. Mines (CoM). Our progress in meeting Unfortunately, the difficult socio-political the commitments contained in these The most significant air quality emission environment in the Rustenburg area initiatives (reviewed on pages 92 to 93) for the Group relates to the sulphur this year has negatively affected our reflects our commitment to ensuring the dioxide (SO2) emissions from our environmental impact assessment and growth and stability of the industry and smelting and refining operations in environmental management programme our country. Zimplats, Impala Rustenburg and Impala amendment processes, with several Springs. Both our Impala Rustenburg public participation meetings being Despite the difficult market conditions, and Impala Springs operations are cancelled following community and the likelihood that PGM prices may located within the priority areas as disruptions. Given current challenges remain depressed over the short term, promulgated by the National with community engagement, we have Implats’ management and the board Environmental Management Air Quality halted some of these processes, while firmly believe in the future of PGMs and Act. We are fully compliant with the with others we have chosen to submit their important positive contribution for current licence conditions, which expire the required documents to regulatory society at large. We are committed to in July 2019 when new permit conditions authorities for their decision. ensuring the viability both of our are anticipated. At Impala Springs a Company and the sector, which will R250 million capital project is in progress Conclusion allow us to continue to make an to ensure that our boiler emissions for The events of this past year have important positive contribution to society. NOX, SOx and particulates are fully reaffirmed my belief that the pursuit of compliant. Phase I which addresses SOx sustainable development and zero harm I wish, once again, to thank the board for and particulates will be commissioned in are competitive imperatives, and that their leadership and my colleagues on November 2015, with Phase II these should be recognised as the Implats’ management team and addressing NOx, to follow. In Zimbabwe fundamental elements of a mining throughout the Company, as we strive to we are presently undertaking a feasibility company’s fiduciary responsibility. position the Company for a more secure study to install a new stack which will We further commit to the principles of and sustainable future. reduce ground level concentrations of the United Nations Global Compact, emissions at Zimplats. supporting human rights, the Terence Goodlace environment, fair labour practices, Chief executive officer Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 17 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE The challenging business context “This has been yet another very challenging year for Implats and the platinum sector as a whole Responding to a challenging business context sharp slowdown in economic growth in the first quarter was This has been yet another very challenging year for Implats and temporary and more to do with unfavourable weather. The the platinum sector as a whole, with low PGM prices, general backdrop of low interest rates and an improving labour market, volatility in global markets and difficult operating conditions in coupled with a drop in fuel prices, has boosted vehicle sales. South Africa and Zimbabwe. Continuing regulatory and policy uncertainty, increased production costs and persistent Vehicle sales have also increased in Western Europe, reflecting electricity supply constraints have been accompanied by improving consumer confidence across the region. While heightened stakeholder expectations on a range of fronts. growth is likely to improve in the eurozone, uncertainties remain Neighbouring communities are demanding greater economic regarding the impact of the Greek bailout agreement and opportunities and improved local services, governments are possible developments in the Ukraine. In China, the recent pushing for rapid transformation, indigenisation and significant fall in equity markets and the devaluing of the yuan employment, unions are taking a tough stance on wages and suggests that the world’s second-largest economy may be job protection, and a wary investment community continues to losing momentum, as the country seeks to find the right policy put pressure on cost efficiency, capital management and the mix to sustain growth. Despite slowing growth fears, there has delivery of dividends. been positive growth in vehicle sales in both China and India. In contrast, the Japanese market has seen a decline in sales, Subdued PGM prices amidst a tough where the economy remains sluggish. production environment PGM prices have generally remained subdued throughout the Looking to the future in the PGM market, we anticipate a slow year. Platinum was down from a high of US$1 520 in early but steady growth in demand, driven by the gradual economic July 2014 to around US$1 080 by financial year end and broke recovery in the US and Europe, as well as an increasing middle the US$1 000 mark in August 2015, while the other PGMs class in India and China fuelling demand for diesel vehicles and remained generally flat after an initial peak early in the year. platinum-based jewellery. The recent negative diesel sentiment Depressed platinum prices come on the backdrop of a market is likely to result in increased legislation for emission controls driven mainly by investor sentiments on stock overhang, rather and ultimately higher PGM loading to meet compliance than by market fundamentals. standards and hence increase demand. On the supply side, industry is expected to return to pre-strike production levels by The outlook for the global economy and the PGM market 2016, accompanied by a relative slowdown in the availability of continues to be uncertain, driven by continuing geopolitical recycled PGM primarily as a result of the recent rapid decrease tensions, divergent monetary policies, and further financial and in global average new vehicle engine size. While there is no exchange rate volatility. In the United States of America, the complete certainty on current liquid stocks, based on a range economic outlook is positive, with GDP growth supported of available figures it is assumed that these will be depleted by increased employment, gains in real income, and an either by the end of this year or as late as mid-2018. Given accommodating monetary policy. Retail sales rose in March current and projected market sentiment, and expectations for for the first time since November as consumers stepped up a stronger US dollar, we anticipate that PGM prices will remain purchases of vehicles and other goods, suggesting that the lower for longer, possibly for the next 24 months. PAGE 18 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE The challenging business context “Post the strike of 2014, much effort has been made to return production to pre-strike levels The sluggish PGM market has been accompanied by a Responding to shifting community challenging production environment, characterised by rising expectations labour, consumable and utility cost inflation, continuing The challenging business environment was exacerbated by uncertainty regarding the availability and cost of electricity, and the growing demands and expectations in particular of our lower production volumes mainly as a result of the build-up neighbouring communities. In South Africa, many communities after the prolonged strike. Given this tough operating context, have been protesting against what they see to be poor service which has seen reduced sales and revenues and higher unit delivery by local municipalities. Increasingly, they have been costs, it is increasingly difficult to meet the growing, and often looking to mining companies to address these shortcomings conflicting, expectations of our stakeholders. Over the short by providing employment, investing in infrastructure, and term, our focus necessarily is on ensuring the continuing supporting local businesses through their procurement financial viability of the business, which is constraining our activities. Their calls have been strengthened by local ability to deliver on addressing some of the immediate social community-based organisations that are becoming more active challenges surrounding our operations. in holding companies to account. Collectively, these events suggest a groundswell of community expectations and activism Production pressures and power supply that have significant implications for how mining companies Post the strike of 2014, much effort has been made to regain seek to retain their social licence to operate. production to pre-strike levels. However, the continued disruption to power supply resulting in load curtailment has The recent election to parliament of the Economic Freedom significantly impacted the production cycle. Of significance are Fighters (EFF), and their strong appeal to many of the the increased input costs associated with power, and the economically disenfranchised through their fight for social proposed 25% tariff increase recently proposed by Eskom. Our justice and economic parity, is having an important impact on mines continue to go deeper and will require additional power local political dynamics. The growing support of the EFF in the for underground workings. These constraints counter all efforts northwest mining communities, and the continuing rivalry towards economic growth and job creation, and as such between NUM and AMCU – which raises additional political continuous engagements towards finding solutions with all complexities – has heightened the need for effective community stakeholders remain a key focus area. engagement processes. Coupled with this challenge has been the increased issuing of While traditional structures for engagement and communication section 54s and 55s which have resulted in a significant impact have served us well in the past, the changing landscape, on production levels. informed by an increasingly vocal youth, many of whom reject the use of traditional structures, has reinforced the need for Various efforts are in place to improve productivity as well as a new approach. This has been complicated in some engage with the Department of Mineral Resources around the communities by the power play between municipalities and nature and length of instructions issued, and to ensure speedy traditional authorities, with each of them claiming greater responses to remedial actions required. legitimacy as the guardians of community interests. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 19 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE The challenging business context The slow pace of delivery on basic services has further In Zimbabwe, there is continuing uncertainty regarding policy exacerbated this complex dynamic. In-migration and developments relating to indigenisation, beneficiation, land unemployment are putting considerable strain on limited tenure and taxation. A recent legislative change has made resources, raising expectations for mining companies to deliver royalty payments non-tax deductible and a 15% export levy on education and health, employment and skills development, has been added to un-beneficiated platinum, which affects infrastructure, procurement and other key services. our Mimosa operation. While we have implemented various measures to drive indigenisation and localisation, and are Collectively, these expectations are changing the nature of our refurbishing our base metal refinery in support of beneficiation, social licence to operate. Not only have we been prompted to the continuing uncertainties in the fiscal and regulatory regime revise our traditional models of communication and are constraining our capacity for long-term planning. We engagement, but we are needing also to revisit aspects of our support the government’s attempts to grow the local economy corporate social investment initiatives. We are placing a greater and continue to engage with regulators on these issues. emphasis on assessing the social impact of our investments, and on ensuring closer alignment both with the national Developing partnerships to address challenges developmental imperatives of the country and with the in society Company’s strategic growth objectives. In addition, we have The challenging social context in our two countries of operation been exploring opportunities to collaborate across the mining highlights the growing need for business in general, and the sector and with neighbouring municipalities to build local mining sector in particular, to play an active and informed role government capacity and assist in delivering much needed – in partnership with government, labour and civil society – in services. ensuring that mineral wealth is generated more responsibly, and that its benefits are shared more equitably between Continuing policy uncertainty shareholders, workers and the country as a whole. We have Reduced commodity prices and tough market conditions continued to work throughout the year with the Chamber of have seen an increase in resource nationalism globally, with Mines, industry bodies, relevant government departments, governments seeking new opportunities for revenue generation labour representatives and community organisations in the as they struggle to meet growing social expectations. This has hope of finding solutions to some of the collective challenges resulted in policy initiatives such as changes in royalty and tax that we face. In doing so, an important objective has been rates, mandated beneficiation strategies, and an increased to ensure strategic alignment with the relevant national emphasis on localisation and the legislation of social delivery imperatives outlined, for example, in the South African National expectations. Development Plan and the framework agreement for peace and stability in the mining industry. In South Africa, mining companies are facing regulatory uncertainty on a range of fronts, with increasing legislation, The fundamental changes needed to address some of the for example, on environmental performance, climate change shortcomings within the current business model – be it mitigation, tax reform, health and safety, and black economic progressive mechanisation, the effective introduction of empowerment. One of the main regulatory challenges facing performance incentive schemes, or measures to address the the sector is the continuing disparity between the Mining migrant labour system – will not be possible until there is a Charter and the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment significant shift in the nature of the dialogue between business, (B-BBEE) Act, with the greater demand to comply with both government and labour, to an approach based on cooperation, presenting significant administrative and implementation costs. trust and mutual respect. Through effective dialogue, A key concern relates to government demands for greater collaborative partnerships and agreement on a conducive policy ownership equity in mines, with the concept of ‘once environment, the mining sector has significant potential to empowered always empowered’ not being accepted by contribute to the economic growth and development of government. This poses significant challenges for the sector, the region. with many mining licences at risk given the dilution that has occurred over the last few years with the sale of black owned equity stakes. We have also faced challenges this year with the Department of Trade and Industry evaluating developmental pricing of PGMs. PAGE 20 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE The challenging business context “Stakeholders are defined as those who are interested and affected by our business as well as those who have a material influence on our ability to create value Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 21 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Stakeholder review and mapping “Each stakeholder is allocated a responsible executive or champion to manage the relationship with the organisation Stakeholders are defined as those people who are interested Responsibilities are sub-delegated by each executive to and affected by our business as well as those who have a specialist personnel and operational executives depending on material influence on our ability to create value. the nature of the issues. Quarterly stakeholder engagement meetings where operational executives and group champions In the year under review, we embarked on a stakeholder review meet to discuss and identify material issues were initiated in the process with the primary objective of improving relationships by latter part of the reporting period. Part of the agenda is to: becoming proactive in our approach to building relationships. O Identify key stakeholder issues; This process involved: O Highlight potential risks; and O Identifying all stakeholders O Develop appropriate action and responses. O Determining their level of influence on the business O Prioritising stakeholders according to our impacts on them The action items have been populated into the risk and the nature of the relationship management system and allocated to a responsible person, O Mapping each stakeholder against a designated champion thus ensuring that stakeholder actions and responses are or responsible executive managed on a continuous basis and are accessible to the O Defining the method of engagement and identifying potential entire executive team for oversight. opportunities for relationship building O Establishing a tool for monitoring and evaluating relations in Zone 2 stakeholders have existing and mature engagement order to take proactive measures to improve these where structures, as such our objectives are to further build on these they are found lacking. relationships. Progress made in Zone 1 is likely to have an impact on the relationship with stakeholders in Zone 3. The process identified six priority stakeholder groups for the 2015 financial year in Zone 1 for immediate intervention, informed by the nature of the current relationship and the effectiveness of existing engagement structures. This remains an area of critical focus and requires our continuous engagement to build better relationships. Each stakeholder is allocated a responsible executive or champion to manage the relationship with the organisation as outlined in the table alongside. PAGE 22 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Stakeholder review and mapping “Quarterly stakeholder engagement meetings where operational executives and group champions meet to discuss and identify material issues were initiated Priority areas for 2015 Evolutionary progress Progress here will be in 2015 influenced by progress Zone 1 in Zone 1 stakeholders Zone 2 Zone 3 Employees Group executive – People Shareholders/ analysts and Political parties investment Group executive – Unions community Corporate affairs Group executive – People Group executive – Corporate affairs Competitors Community Chief executive officer Group executive – Implats board Corporate affairs Chief executive officer Emergency services Group executive – Government Customers Health and safety Group executive – Group executive – Corporate affairs Marketing and refining Civil society Group executive – Suppliers Business partners Corporate affairs Chief financial officer Chief financial officer Media Industry and Group executive – business forums Corporate affairs Chief executive officer Priority area Evolutionary progress Influenced by progress in Zone 1 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 23 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Responding to stakeholder interests While we recognise that all stakeholders are important, we have prioritised our strategic relationships with employees and unions, government, shareholders and investors, local communities, and the media, each of whom has a material bearing on the success of our business. Some stakeholders are engaged at various forums and structures which have been established on a periodic basis and are supported by a charter, while others are met through ad hoc arrangements as and when is deemed necessary. The following table outlines the engagements for the year under review and the stakeholder issues raised. Stakeholders Nature of engagement Material issues raised Employees O Internal communication O Conditions of employment O Engagement with trade unions O Safety and health initiatives O Workplace forums O Progress with transformation O Production and performance Trade unions O Internal communication O Living wage O Collective bargaining units O Conditions of employment O Branch committees O Discrimination O Chamber of Mines O Union recognition O Tripartite Forum – Northwest O Safety O Transformation Shareholders, O Roadshows O Industrial relations climate analysts and O Results presentations O Wage negotiations investment O Investor conferences O The situation in Zimbabwe community O One-on-one appointments O Future metal prices, and PGM supply and demand dynamics O Cost control measures O Capex programme O Progress at Impala Platinum Government O Meetings with officials from local, provincial and O Labour relations national government O Safety (accidents and stoppages) O Compliance visits from government O Progress with transformation (SA) and O Chamber of Mines Parliament Portfolio indigenisation (Zimbabwe) Committee O Progress with social and labour plans (SA) O Mining Industry Growth, Development and O Community investments and engagement Employment Task Team (MIGDETT) O Environmental compliance O The establishment of a Base Metal Refinery (Zimbabwe) Traditional O Community engagement meetings O Employment and procurement opportunities council, local O Community trust meetings O Enterprise development land owners and O Future forum meetings O Infrastructure development local O One-on-one meetings O Health and social facilities communities O Environmental impacts and property damage O Business opportunities O Educational planning O Unemployment Media O Press releases O All of the above O One-on-one interviews (radio, TV and print media) Advocacy groups O Stakeholder liaison meetings O Ensuring greater community benefit O One-on-one meetings O Improved labour relations O Surveys, hotlines and publications O Environmental impacts O Greater transparency Suppliers O Supplier forums O Conditions of contracts O One-on-one meetings O Review of contractor operating standards in line with Implats policy and standard Customers O Industry forums O Effective delivery against terms O One-on-one meetings O Sustainability of supply O Customer feedback O Reputation surveys Chamber of O Contribute to CoM meetings (at CEO and working O Contribution to industry positioning and lobbying Mines (CoM) group level) activities Producer and O Strategy meetings industry forums O Industry interest group meetings O All of the above PAGE 24 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Responding to stakeholder interests Our response Reference ●● Collaborative engagements to find solutions to issues of concern Page 63 ●● Undertaking a culture survey ●● Reviewing internal incentive systems ●● Team mobilisation ●● Strong focus throughout the year on engaging with union representatives, and establishing a new labour Pages 61 relations environment that fosters open, honest and effective communication to 63 ●● Detailed presentation and road shows have been undertaken to explain current performance and underlying Pages 22 issues related to the business and 23 ●● Implats engages constructively with government at all levels, both as a Company and through industry Pages 91 representative bodies (such as the Chamber of Mines) on these material issues to 99 ●● In the current year, engagement in South Africa included a particular focus on finding solutions to the industrial dispute ●● Key issues addressed in 2015: (i) New Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP), (ii) Mining Charter audit and data submission, (iii) New Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT) in Zimbabwe, (iv) New Community Share Ownership Trust (CSOT) in Zimbabwe, (v) Establishment of Refinery in Zimbabwe. Engagements were also held with the health and safety inspector to resolve issues relating to Section 54s and 55s ●● Detailed performance information regarding employment, procurement, infrastructure and environmental Pages 72 issues are provided at the Community Forums in the year under review and a revised communication plan to 75 has been developed and will be implemented in the new year. A detailed review of engagement structures was also conducted for the Rustenburg operation and implementation is planned in the new year ●● Media releases are done throughout the year, updating the public on all material issues affecting the — Company ●● Where possible one-on-one engagements with the executive have been held to provide information on Pages 22 progress and challenges relating to communities and 23 ●● Modified engagements with contractors developed clear principles that will guide the selection and use of Page 36 reputable contractors with the right skills and values systems to do specific tasks that the business is not able to do. Transformation in the supply chain was also discussed with suppliers ●● Track and respond to customer feedback. Keeping customers informed of any possible supply disruptions Pages 22 due to industrial action. Keeping customers informed of the long-term viability of Implats and our and 23 sustainability strategies ●● Key issues addressed in the year were ownership, energy constraints, Mining Charter review, employee Pages 91 indebtedness and migrant labour to 99 ●● Ongoing cost pressures within the PGM industry resulted in the formation of a platinum CEOs forum, handled through the CoM — Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 25 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Identifying our material sustainability focus areas “Implats’ risk management process sets out to achieve an appropriate balance between minimising the risks associated with any business activity and maximising the potential reward We identify our strategic business objectives, and our material sustainability focus areas, through our structured internal risk management process, and with consideration to the views and interests of our stakeholders. Our risk assessment and management process Implats’ risk management process sets out to achieve an appropriate balance between minimising the risks associated with any business activity and maximising the potential reward. This process enables the board and senior managers to take decisions regarding the possible trade-off between risk and reward, and assists them to identify and pursue appropriate strategic growth opportunities informed by the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance levels. Internal stakeholder issues RISK IDENTI IDENTIFICATION AND MATERIALITY Macro-economic issues External stakeholder issues Exco deliberation Board and ratification confirmation PAGE 26 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Identifying our material sustainability focus areas “We consider the nature of the external operating context, and the views and interests of our stakeholders Our risk management process comprises the information is captured into the Group risk repository system following steps: that informs the Group risk profile. The Group risk profile is O Establishing the context: We consider the nature of the presented on a monthly basis to the Exco and quarterly to external operating context (pages 28 and 29), and the views the board risk committee, which is separate from the audit and interests of our stakeholders (pages 24 and 25) committee. This approach allows for robust discussion O Identifying the risk: We establish both the source and regarding the materiality of the risk, its likely impact on the cause of the risk, and evaluate all possible consequences business in the short, medium and long term, and the (page 28) necessary risk mitigation measures. O Analysing the risk: We identify and assess what this means for the achievement of our objectives (page 28) This process culminates in the identification of a prioritised O Evaluating the risk: We determine the risk rating (by set of Group strategic risks (see page 28). Collectively, these severity, exposure and frequency), identify the controls risks, along with the outcomes of our internal and external (both existing or new), and prioritise the risks stakeholder engagement activities, and our assessment of O Treating the risk: We consider all options to establish the market fundamentals, are used to identify our material most appropriate response for each identified risk. sustainability-related issues. These issues are prioritised in terms of their impact both on the organisation and on our key Arising from this process we identify a set of objective-based stakeholders. They inform the nature of our Group strategic risk assessments (ORAs) that cover approximately 80 of the objectives (page 31), as well as the performance issues for most important aspects of the Implats business. Each identified monitoring and reporting material sustainability focus areas, risk, as well as its associated controls, has a clearly defined line through our structured internal risk management process, management owner. This process is repeated and reviewed and with consideration to the views and interests of our regularly, ensuring that the information remains relevant. All stakeholders. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 27 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Identifying our material sustainability focus areas Classification of Group strategic risks – June 2015 This year the Group risk profile identified the following top 10 priority risks: Group strategic risk Context Depressed PGM basket The current weakness in the PGM basket price remains a concern as it is too low to sustain the prices industry at these depressed levels. Non-delivery of Short-term challenges include: ramping up to full production; maintaining our ability to achieve production and completion of the mining cycle; speeding up the establishment of face length in new mining areas; productivity targets at ensuring increased productivity. Impala Rustenburg Weak balance sheet and The financial impact of the protracted strike has been far reaching. The cash reserves have been cash flows (liquidity) largely consumed by the start-up and ramp-up process. Implats is currently operating in a cash constrained mode, as are our peers. Excessive taxation and There is an exposure to high taxation as a result of the unique Zimplats taxation, particularly the levies at Zimbabwean special mining lease (SML). There are multiple and sometimes conflicting interpretations of this piece operations of taxation legislation, giving rise to taxation risks. Revenue impact of Section 54 stoppages have cost Impala Rustenburg and Marula approximately R833 million in direct Section 54s forgone revenue during the 2015 financial year. The indirect cost of these stoppages in terms of management time and start-up difficulties are of a similar magnitude. A significant Safety is the primary priority for the Implats leadership. The increase in the number of fatalities is deterioration in safety unacceptable. It must be noted that there has been an improvement with regard to NLTIs and LTIs, performance but not with fatalities this year. Mine safety is receiving high priority at a national political level and any significant deterioration in performance carries significant risk. Since the end of the strike, we have had six fatalities at our Impala Rustenburg operations. The security of supply In South Africa, the electricity supply industry is dominated by Eskom, which owns and operates the of electricity in South transmission grid. Eskom has a net installed generation capacity of 42 000MW. Given planned and Africa unplanned outages it is able to bring a maximum of 36 000MW on line at present. 60% of the generating capacity is beyond the 30 years design life. Capital constraints The current cash constrained environment has necessitated the review and reconsideration of a affecting project number of our capital projects. Current capital constraints run the risk of affecting not only delivery delivery of current projects, but also the project pipeline as a whole. Employee relations Following the profound impacts of last year’s five-month strike, we need to shape relationships with climate trade unions based on shared values and mutual interest, allowing unions/managers to share information more freely/openly and to resolve conflicts seeking mutually beneficial outcomes. Maintaining a social Our current approach to mine communities is not meeting our objectives of respect and care from licence to operate in a community perspective. It is vital that, as we explore the future of mining, we seek a new social South Africa contract that will ensure mine communities and employees are given a fair say in how mining will affect their own future. We are working with the Chamber of Mines (CoM) in an effort to develop a new social contract that explores the scope for and means of improving the coordination, scale and impact of social investments by mining companies. PAGE 28 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Identifying our material sustainability focus areas Strategic Our response measures objective Reference Understanding the future demand for our products, and the corresponding industry ●● Excellence: Deliver (Integrated supply-side profile. Scanning the environment for technological advances that may affect operational Annual Report) the demand for Implats’ products (substitution), and instituting appropriate responses excellence IAR where possible. ●● Wisely preserve Page 10 IAR cash Ensuring the safe return to work for all employees by implementing the detailed start-up ●● Excellence: Deliver Page 38 IAR plan for the operations. operational Implementing initiatives relating to: mechanised off-reef development, management of excellence critical spares, detailed work procedures, team mobilisation, training, mine planning ●● Consistently protocols, production planning, quality mining and visible felt leadership. deliver on production targets Proactive and rigorous review of the short and long-term business planning process and ●● Excellence: Deliver Page 42 IAR parameters, together with ensuring that appropriate debt and equity funding is available operational or in place. excellence ●● Continually improve operational efficiency Ensuring compliance through external tax audits and the use of specialist tax advisory ●● Together: working Page 48 IAR services. together for the Strong commitment to tax training and awareness, resolution of historical tax matters benefit of all our and the tax risk management framework. stakeholders ●● Strive to be a good corporate citizen Rigorous interrogation of the impact of Section 54s, along with participation in the ●● Behaviour: Safe Page 54 initiative by the Chamber of Mines. Strong commitment to training of management, as and effective well as to incentivise safe working conditions. people Strong strategic commitment to develop an appropriate safety culture, driven through ●● Behaviour: Safe Page 41 initiatives relating to people, practices and the physical environment. and effective people Maintaining regular contact with Eskom to ensure we are aware of any situation that may ●● Sustainability: Page 116 affect us. Conserving natural Ensuring appropriate emergency evacuation plans. resources Implementing initiatives to reduce energy consumption. Continual review of project prioritisation along with stringent application of professional ●● Excellence: Deliver Page 73 IAR project management principles and methodologies. operational Rigorous risk management is practiced at every level of capital projects. excellence ●● Wisely preserve cash Striving to provide an enabling work environment that fosters open, honest and effective ●● Behaviour: Safe Page 62 relations between management, employees and elected union representatives. and effective Engaging with various government departments directly, working with the Chamber of people Mines and labour representatives to find sustainable solutions to industrial relations ●● Together: Social challenges in the country. capital investment Committing to developing a deep understanding of the situation by conducting a social ●● Together: working Page 87 impact assessment, as well as participating in the multi-disciplinary research on the together for the mining sector. benefit of all our Ensuring that human rights are protected by committing to adopt the Voluntary stakeholders Page 106 Principles on Security and Human Rights. Restructuring of engagement forums to be more inclusive and are structured at various Page 74 levels (executive and operations). Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 29 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Identifying our material sustainability focus areas Our material sustainability focus areas Our vision is to become the world’s best platinum-producing company, delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to our peers. Informed by the Group risk process, and the material interests and concerns of our key stakeholders, we have identified the following four material strategic focus areas, and the associated issues to meet this vision: O Safe and effective people who respect and care. O Deliver operational excellence. O Maintain our production profile at a sustainable level and conserve natural resources and mitigate impacts. O Social capital and licence to operate. MATERIAL SU S TAINA BILITY FOCUS A RE A S B E S T BEHAVIOUR EXCELLE NCE SU STA IN ABIL ITY TOGETH ER Safety strategy Supported by: Supported by: Supported by: supported by: O The operational O Compliance with O Meaningful and O Cultural values excellence all relevant sustainable O Work model legislation social environment O Effective O Continuous investment in O Leadership and planning and improvement in our communities supervision mineral resource air resource O Respecting Health strategy management stewardship human rights supported by: O Intensive cost O Optimisation of and the interests O Employee and productivity energy of all wellness focus efficiencies and stakeholders O Prevention and O Operational reduction of O Abiding by the education delivery and carbon footprint laws of the O Treatment and performance O Preservation of countries in support management natural water which we People strategy O Innovation and resources and operate supported by: new technology water quality O Effective and O Attracting, O Development of transparent retaining and alternate energy governance and developing talent sources linked reporting O Effective people to our metals PAGE 30 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE Our business strategy In this report we address our strategic objectives relating to resources we rely on access to land, water and energy – all Behaviour, Sustainability and Together, while Excellence is of which have a material impact on the environment and the detailed in the integrated report. communities in which we operate. We recognise that the supply of these resources is likely to be constrained going into Strategic objective 1: the future, resulting in increased costs of doing business, and Behaviour – Safe and effective people greater efforts required to address impacts on communities. Our ability to secure an effective employer/employee relationship is vital in the present labour climate and going We continue to address security of supply through recycling, forward. We continue to focus on developing our employee reuse and reduction of use initiatives, as well as actively seeking value proposition so that employees’ personal goals and to minimise impacts, mitigate risks, minimise the cost of doing aspirations are aligned to the objectives and deliverables of the business and address community sustainability in our areas of organisation. We will ensure that our employee housing, skills operation. This is demonstrated on page 110 of the report. development, health and reward programmes, contribute to these goals. Strategic objective 4: Together – Social capital and licence to operate We will strive to institutionalise a more open, democratic and The viability of our business is dependent on us making a transparent industrial relations climate through our cultural meaningful contribution to the societies in which we operate, change management process introduced in 2013. We aspire by implementing projects that have positive impact on our to achieve a common vision and value system, advanced and communities. Respect for human rights and the interests of our owned by our people together with the executive and the stakeholders, and abiding by relevant laws and regulations, are board. critically important. Our strategic approach in investing in socio-economic development is premised on the belief that the Given the nature of our business, ensuring the safety and long-term viability of our business is closely linked to the well-being of our workforce is critical to our ability to create success and well-being of the communities in which we value as it impacts on productivity, and ultimately affects the operate and the areas from which a significant portion of our long-term sustainability of the business. We will continue to employees emanate. Securing the trust and endorsement of invest in new technology and modernise our operations where these communities and their traditional representatives is possible in the quest to reach zero harm. Our strategy focuses essential to maintaining our licence to operate. Our on promoting the right behaviour, ensuring the right practices, commitment to improving the living conditions of our employees and providing the right working environment. This is addressed through access to housing, provides an opportunity for on page 40 of the report. differentiation and competitive advantage. It represents a strong business/employee linkage and serves as the cornerstone of Strategic objective 2: other pillars of our broader transformation strategy such as Excellence – Delivering operational excellence and skills development and retention, local procurement and continuous improvement enterprise development. We are committed to meeting the To sustain our business we need to ensure an effective mineral transformational objectives of the countries of operation resources management system, coupled with a strong drive to through the empowerment of historically disadvantaged manage costs and enhance productivity. Delivering consistent South Africans and the indigenous people of Zimbabwe. Our returns through optimised operations, focused on increased strategy to address this issue can be found on page 66 of mine volumes and grade quality, is essential to reward our the report. stakeholders and ensure their continued support. Ensuring profitability allows us to reinvest in our human resources, These four pillars of our strategy are addressed in this report motivate our staff and continue to contribute towards and in our 2015 integrated report. This report covers those developing sustainable communities in our areas of operation. sites in which we have a majority stake, and excludes Two Refer to the integrated report for more details. Rivers. The operational specific performance for each of the material indicators is outlined in the operational review of each Strategic objective 3: site in the integrated report. Sustainability – Conserving natural resources and mitigating impacts of our operations The Group creates value primarily by extracting and refining PGMs. Without access to these natural minerals we have no business. To support our extraction and processing of these Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 31 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH PAGE 32 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our sustainable development management approach Our management approach and strategic response informs our response to those societal issues that have an impact on our business, and over which we have some influence. Our Group strategy and sustainable development policy are regularly reviewed and revised to provide for the changing social context, and to ensure that we are focusing on the most material issues. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 33 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our sustainable development management approach “At board level, sustainable development issues are addressed through the social, ethics and transformation (SET) committee Our management approach for reviewing performance in terms of the Group’s non-financial At board level, sustainable development issues are addressed indicators. through the SET committee (established in 2004 and restructured in 2012), and the health, safety and environment The sustainable development issues are informed by the (HSE) committee (in place since 1988). following principal objectives: O The SET committee, was chaired by Thandi Orleyn, an O Identify material sustainability issues and risks that have an independent non-executive director, is responsible for impact on the business and devise appropriate strategic the Group’s activities relating to social and economic responses to these risks. development, good corporate citizenship, the environment, O Align strategic interventions to global best practice, the health and public safety, consumer relationships, and labour national and industry agenda concerning sustainable and employment issues. development such as the South African National O The HSE committee, chaired by Alastair Macfarlane, an Development Plan and the Framework Agreement for a independent non-executive director, guides strategy, Sustainable Mining Industry. assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of HSE O Ensure compliance to relevant regulatory statutes in policies, standards and procedures, and reviews Group-wide countries of operation such as South Africa’s Mining Charter performance on a quarterly basis. The committee also and Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, and investigates and reviews all major incidences and fatalities Zimbabwe’s National Indigenisation and Economic that have occurred. Empowerment Plan. O The audit committee, chaired by Hugh Cameron, an O Ensure that the organisation maintains its social licence to independent non-executive director, oversees the operate in host countries by advancing social transformation appointment of the assurance provider for non-financial and upliftment in affected communities. performance each year. The results of these are presented to the committee with the necessary recommendations and The Exco lends support to the board’s HSE committee, action. In future this will fall under the SET committee. the SET committee, and the audit and risk committees. O The risk committee is chaired by our independent nonSustainability objectives form part of the key performance executive director, Almorie Maule, which oversees Group risk indicators against which the performance of Implats’ issues and assesses the recommended mitigation measures management and executives is measured and remunerated. and actions. Details on these KPIs and their implications for the executive are provided in our integrated annual report. A more detailed review of the composition and activities of these board committees is provided in our integrated annual People management report. The people management function is headed by a dedicated Group executive reporting to the CEO. The scope of work At an executive level, sustainable development falls under the includes remuneration, human resource development, talent responsibility of the executive committee, which is responsible management and employment equity. PAGE 34 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our sustainable development management approach “The Group’s environmental team has close links with operational and project management teams and is involved in due diligence exercises Group policies and procedures on people management issues The Group’s environmental team has close links with are established at corporate level and applied at our operations. operational and project management teams and is involved Our policies and procedures are aimed at contributing to sound in due diligence exercises undertaken in connection with employee relations, attracting and retaining talent, and ensuring acquisitions and the development of strategic initiatives. the continuous development of our employees, while at the Implementation of our policies is enhanced by our commitment same time offering opportunities for career progression with a to maintaining ISO 14001 certification for our environmental particular emphasis within our South African operations on management systems. Regular compliance audits are historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs). Each conducted at our operations by the Group’s internal auditors, operation has a transformation committee comprising as well as by the external auditor. All of the Group’s operations representatives from management, unions and women, as are now ISO 14001 certified. well as various other stakeholder groups who contribute to overseeing and advancing transformation at each operation. In addition to the ISO 14001 certification, the refineries are The operational committees report to the Group SET signatories to Responsible Care® and retained their certification. committee. Our operations also have community forums, at Responsible Care® is the chemical industry’s global voluntary which issues of concern to local communities – such as initiative under which companies, through national associations, employment opportunities, procurement, health, safety and such as the Chemical and Allied Industries Association (CAIA) in environmental performance – are discussed. Issues arising South Africa, work together to continuously improve and from these community forums are relayed to the operational communicate on their HSE performance. committee and, ultimately, to the Exco. These are elevated to the SET committee on a quarterly basis and board, as required. Managing our investments in socio-economic development Managing health, safety and environmental The sustainable development department based at Impala (HSE) issues Rustenburg manages our socio-economic development Group and site-specific HSE policies, procedures and initiatives in our South African operations. A technical team is standards are in place to ensure that we comply with legislative responsible for implementing the projects, working together requirements and support our vision of zero harm. with the stakeholder engagement department. The identification Responsibility for implementing HSE policies and procedures of community projects is an ongoing process based on a needs rests with line management. All operations submit quarterly analysis, undertaken in consultation with stakeholder performance reports to the board-appointed HSE committee. representatives from communities and local government. Group and operational level HSE specialists support line The sustainable development project steering committee is management in implementing the strategy and in monitoring responsible for reviewing the proposed projects after due and managing performance. The Group HSE executive is a diligence has been done. Once approved by the project member of Exco. steering committee, the projects are recommended to the Exco, a multi-disciplinary executive-level management team that evaluates the merits of investing in each project. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 35 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our sustainable development management approach In Zimbabwe, sustainable development initiatives are with the right skills and value systems to undertake specific implemented and managed by the stakeholder engagement tasks that we are not able to do ourselves. All contractors and executive supported by technical personnel from the suppliers are appraised on our policies and business practices operations. and are expected to, at a minimum, abide by these principles in their business conduct and practices at all our operations. The Each year an independent audit (Trialogue) is conducted on strategy has been structured into two phases. The first phase selected social projects, based on the financial, legal and entails using our training and recruitment resources to ensure reputational risk as well as to determine impact, progress and that all contracting employees are vetted and assessed potential remedial action where a project faces possible failure. according to our own internal standards. The second phase A detailed summary of this can be found on pages 76 to 78 of specifically interrogates each contracting company and the this report. work they do for us. We have completed the detailed assessments with the assistance of an external specialist and Managing contractors and suppliers will, over time, effect the required change. In the short term we Implats suppliers span the entire value chain from exploration to are planning to insource all development mining, ventilation final production of precious metals in the refining process. Our construction as well as sweeping and vamping services. approach is to source all goods and services within the country of operation, with a greater emphasis on local suppliers defined In the year under review a pilot project was instituted to survey as tier 1, 2 and 3 based on their proximity to the operations in supplier labour practices and to identify possible risks. The South Africa. Tier 1 suppliers are those from directly and review looked at various supplier aspects such as compliance indirectly impacted communities (Bafokeng Villages and to legislation, labour hire, diversity management, compensation, Freedom Park in Rustenburg, and the Four-farms area in living conditions of employees, human rights, skills development Burgersfort), tier 2 suppliers are within the local municipality and other. The review targeted five of our top suppliers. The around the operations, and tier 3 suppliers are those within the findings of the survey highlighted that some suppliers did not bigger areas surrounding the local municipality. In Zimbabwe have the capacity to provide information requested and that local suppliers are those that are within the country of more work needs to be done. We will continue to look at operation. Local procurement is advanced through our processes to provide such information in order to better enterprise development initiatives as described on pages 104 mitigate risk associated with suppliers. and 105 of the report. We will continue to focus our attention on suppliers’ B-BBEE In response to concerns regarding contractor behaviour not certificates and prompting suppliers well in advance of their reflecting our value systems, and to minimise any potential expiry dates. Penalties on annual increases will continue to liability, last year we reviewed our contractor strategy. This be levied on untransformed suppliers. During the year no strategy seeks to ensure that we have defined principles that services of suppliers were terminated. will guide the engagement of reputable contractor companies PAGE 36 Implats sustainable development report 2015 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH Promoting ethics and good governance “The executives and line management are responsible and accountable for the implementation of the fraud policy, code of ethics and the procedures associated with these policies We are committed to promoting the highest standards of Oversight of the code, policy and procedures has been corporate governance, and to ensuring that our practices are delegated by the board to its SET committee. materially aligned with the expectations of the King Code of Governance for South Africa 2009 (King III). The Implats board An ethics line, which is a toll-free helpline, is in place to facilitate assumes overall responsibility for the effectiveness of internal the confidential reporting (whistle-blowing) of alleged incidents. controls, risk management and governance, and for ensuring This year, 102 cases were reported across the Group, 48% of that our business objectives are effectively achieved. which were from the South African operation, 36% from the Zimplats operation, and the remaining 16% from the Mimosa We maintain a zero tolerance stance on fraud and corruption. operation. This reflects a 13% increase from last year’s figure. We expect all our employees at Impala operations, Marula and The founded cases, however, levelled at 34% of total cases Zimplats operations to conduct themselves in accordance with compared to a slightly higher 38% of last year. the Implats code of ethics (the code) and our fraud policy. Both the code and policy are fully compliant with the laws and Of the 102 cases reported and investigated this year, only regulations of the countries within which we operate. one was classified as BEE fronting; 16 were conflict of interest and corruption; 35 were fraud and theft and 50 related to The Implats code of ethics addresses issues relating to conflict misconduct and other irregularities. of interest, the prevention of dissemination of Company information, the acceptance of donations and gifts, and the The status on the 102 cases referred to above is as follows: protection of the Company’s intellectual property and patent O 43 are still pending; rights. Furthermore, it describes the disciplinary action O 24 were unfounded; and (including dismissal or prosecution) that will be taken in the O 35 were founded. event of any contravention. The code is complemented by a recently revised fraud, corruption and whistleblowing policy In keeping with our zero tolerance stance on fraud and that applies to all employees as stated above. The policy corruption, out of the 35 founded cases, disciplinary action underlines our commitment to creating an environment that was taken, with 21 cases receiving sanction ranging from encourages an anti-fraud and anti-corruption culture, informed counselling to written warnings to dismissals. Two are still in by our organisational core values and our respect for open and progress and 12 did not require further action. Only nine of the honest communication. 35 founded cases were subsequently recommended for prosecution all of which were at the Zimbabwean operations. The executives and line management are responsible and accountable for the implementation of the fraud policy, code of ethics and the procedures associated with these policies. The table below provides the classification of the allegations and outcomes in each category: Number of fraud/ethics-related cases reported Group-wide in the 2015 financial year Investigation Allegations Allegations Nature of allegation pending unfounded founded Total BEE fronting 1 0 0 1 Conflict of interest and corruption 10 2 4 16 Fraud and theft 9 7 19 35 Misconduct and other 23 15 12 50 Total 43 24 35 102 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 37 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE PAGE 38 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safe and effective people who respect and care We recognise that our business will only prosper if we are able to gain trust of our employees by adopting an employee value proposition that aligns employees’ personal goals and aspirations with the objectives and deliverables of the organisation. To achieve this, we will continue to implement the cultural change management process aimed at developing a common vision and value system developed and owned by our people and their representatives, together with the executive and board. We will strive to institutionalise a more open, more democratic and more transparent industrial relations climate, where employees are recognised and respected as equals, based on a culture of trust and respect. Prioritising safe production, and ensuring the health of our employees, underpins all that we do and remains key to ensuring the sustainability of our business. We seek to achieve this by focusing on promoting the right behaviour, ensuring the right practices, and providing the right working environment. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 39 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Our strategic approach to safety “Our safety strategy strives to foster a culture of safety within the organisation with the aim of achieving our vision of zero harm Our safety strategy strives to foster a culture of safety within the organisation with the aim of achieving our vision of zero harm. We have developed our strategy informed by external and internal reviews of our safety systems and culture, and by a continual analysis of the root causes of all fatal, reportable and lost-time incidents. As outlined in the diagram below, our safety strategy has three main pillars, each of which is underpinned by an accompanying set of action plans. Culture Leadership Supervision Skills Person Attitudes Motivation Teamwork Team mobilisation Zero harm incentives Respect and care Safety strategy Adopting leading practices Technical initiatives Accident investigation Equipment – Risk Management System (ISO 31000) Physical Design – Practices Standards environment Housekeeping Policies and procedures Zero harm incentives Safety training (ZIP) PAGE 40 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety “The Group achieved a number of new safety milestones and record performances during the year The Group achieved a number of new safety milestones and responsibilities for management and union representatives on record performances during the year and excellent progress safety issues. was made in implementing new safety technology and training however, these achievements were overshadowed by the Developments during the year seven fatal incidents involving our employees and contractors Following is an overview of the progress made during the year that occurred during this year. on some of the key strategic initiatives under each of the three pillars of our safety strategy. Four of the seven fatalities occurred immediately following the five-month strike at Impala Rustenburg. Prior to this, the Group Person had achieved an all-time record of 6.9 million shifts without a Culture O A core goal of our safety strategy is to drive a change in fatal incident. the safety culture across the Group, from the traditional measured culture of dependence to independence, and Details of the fatalities and of the Group’s safety performances ultimately to interdependence. In our dependent culture, are contained in this report. (Pages 46 and 133.) although there is an acceptance of the need for safe practices, these are generally only followed when effective Ensuring the safety and health of our employees, contractors supervision is present and demands it. In an independent and suppliers is essential if we are to respect their most culture, every employee is committed to safe working fundamental human rights; without a meaningful commitment practices, taking clear responsibility for their own actions. to respecting the rights of those with whom we interact, we will In the interdependent culture that we are striving for, there have no social or political licence to operate. is the added focus of helping others to adopt good safety practice. Significant improvements are evident across almost all of our O We have continued in our efforts to implement the five-pillar leading and lagging performance indicators. Our improvements cultural transformation framework developed by the Mine in safety performance have been underpinned by the effective Health and Safety Council (MHSC), and have taken further implementation of the safety recognition agreement with steps to embed the Mining Charter’s health and safety AMCU. Completed in November 2013 after a three-month commitments. The new milestones are outlined on page 45. negotiation process, the agreement lays out the agreed Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 41 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety Effective leadership identification and rectification system has been implemented O The CEO, with the support of the executive team, is driving across the Group, providing ready access to the required our overarching objective of developing the right safety controls and procedures associated with the 14 identified culture through effective leadership and by demonstrating major hazards across our operations. We are currently visible personal commitment. This strong executive finalising the process of refining the critical controls for these commitment is evidenced by the measures taken early in the major hazards. year following the five fatal injuries that occurred shortly after the return to work after the five-month strike. In response to Triggered Action Response Plan (TARP) the increase in incidents the Implats CEO and members of O TARP is a formalised process that enhances the identification the Implats’ executive relocated to Impala Rustenburg for of hazards and ensures that these are documented by the two weeks to assess and review our safety plans. A revised team. TARP then requires the formal implementation of business plan was developed with input from internal and appropriate and predetermined action and response external sources. An important aspect of the new plan is a measures. During the year, training was provided to all teams focus on safe behaviour and compliance to standards and, on all shafts on TARP which is currently focused on the where wilful deviations occur, the enforcement of discipline. recognition and response to ground conditions. O Implats’ executives and all E and D level production managers have attended the Zero Incident Process (ZIP) for Women in Mining (WiM) Leaders training programme. The programme, presented by O Our WiM task team meets monthly to identify and resolve Australia’s Sentis Group, provides managers with insight safety and health issues specific to women. We have been into the human behavioural aspects of safety and how to trialling personal protective equipment (PPE) for women, influence this in order to achieve improved safety awareness to measure its effectiveness and comfort, and we have and performance in their subordinates. implemented awareness initiatives aimed at improving the O Safety-related issues also form a key component of the safety and security of women working underground. five-day supervisory leadership training course that provides for managers, mine overseers, engineers and services Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series managers. This year, 57 employees participated in the (OHSAS) 18001 three-day people leadership programme. O Independent consultants have completed a detailed gap analysis of our occupational health and safety systems at Motivation Impala to identify potential compliance gaps with OHSAS O A new zero-harm incentive scheme which divides the 18001. To meet our goal of full compliance with OHSAS incentive equally between safety and production has been 18001 within three years, our 2016 safety and health implemented. The safety component comprises the leading business plan will include a specific focus on addressing requirement that nets and bolts be installed on all panels the findings of the gap analysis. and development ends, as well as the lagging measure of workforce lost-time injuries. The long-term incentive scheme Critical safe behaviours for D and E levels also includes the lagging FIFR three-year O In collaboration with our HSE representatives, we have performance compared with industry peers. The short-term identified a set of ‘critical safe behaviours’ for 13 critical incentive scheme for E level management has been mining occupations and nine critical occupations at our increased to 35%, with a component of lead indicators. processing division. With our branch safety representatives we are developing a training and awareness programme, Team mobilisation and measurement system, aimed at encouraging the right O This year 139 (23%) of the 600 targeted teams underwent behaviours needed to keep one safe. our five day team-mobilisation training programme aimed at enhancing team functionality among our underground Section 23 actions stoping teams. Team mobilisation includes a strong safety O Section 23 of the Mine Health and Safety Act empowers focus whereby teams are trained in the importance of safe employees to leave their workplace if it appears that there production. is a serious danger to their health and safety. Practices Accident investigations have revealed that this does not always Risk management system occur, even when employees have identified possible danger. O A third-party review of our baseline risk assessment was During the year, all employees were retrained on these rights completed this year. Appropriate steps are being taken to and on the formal process which must take place in order to address the key findings from the review. An online hazard report the danger and to ensure that it has been addressed. PAGE 42 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety Safety training technology and controllers is possible. We are now focusing O Every team and workplace has an elected safety efforts on ensuring reliability and addressing identified representative. The Mining Charter set a target for 8% of all challenges with hand-held front-drive technology. employees to undergo a 10-day occupational health and O Vertical shaft bank and station safety devices: We have safety skills programme. This ensures that employees made good progress across the Rustenburg operation with who put themselves forward for election by their team the installation of new shaft safety devices and interlocking are well versed in health and safety issues. By June 2015, winder facilities. 4 044 employees had undergone training, exceeding our O Fire retardant conveyor belts: All identified high-risk target of 3 422 by 11.8%. conveyor belts have been replaced with fire retardant O 2 339 employees participated this year in our five-day conveyor belts; 30% of all other belts have been replaced, training programme for miners, shift supervisors and mine and we are on track to have all belts replaced by 2017. overseers. O Electronic winch signalling devices: The Rustenburg operation has standardised an electronic winch signalling Safety environment device which gives a 15-second audible and visual warning We continued to make substantial investments in technical before it powers the motor. The system also includes a initiatives, with the aim of minimising the human element of risk facility to trip the winch from any remote area along the within our operations. The following initiatives are under way: length of the gully. All centre gullies are now equipped with O Roof bolts and nets: All stope panels and all ‘on reef’ and these signalling and safety devices. ‘off reef’ development ends require bolting and netting to O Enhanced Central Electronic Blasting System: We have be fitted; this initiative is used as a formal lead indicator introduced a SafeBlast® system at our Rustenburg, Mimosa component of the production bonus and accounts for 25% and Zimplats operations to mitigate the possible risk of an of the team’s bonus value. unintended lightning induced blast. A technical problem O Proximity Detection Systems (PDS) on trackless was experienced at one of the sections at 14 Shaft in machinery: All underground Trackless Mobile Machinery Rustenburg; this has been investigated and addressed by (TMM) at Rustenburg and Marula have been equipped with management and the supplier a vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-person detection system. O Emergency preparedness and response: Eskom has O PDS on track-bound machinery: We are implementing a provided assurance that the underground SA operations pilot project on PDS on locomotives in three of our will not be subject to load shedding, but rather to load Rustenburg shafts; this includes front drive technology and curtailment as per an agreement to reduce electrical vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-beacon detection. The trial demand. Implats is considered by Eskom to be a “Key has confirmed that successful interface between the PDS Customer” or “Energy Intensive User”. There is a signed load Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 43 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety curtailment agreement in place. When the Eskom power national blackout has a low likelihood of materialising, further system becomes severely constrained, Impala Rustenburg is risk assessments have been conducted to ensure that our cautioned timeously to implement load curtailment as per emergency preparedness and response plans are robust the agreement. The load curtailment requirements are and effective. Further responses have been identified for outlined in various stages. In addition to the load curtailment implementation. agreement, essential load registers, which are formal O Underground fire detection system enhancements: We agreements, are also in place with Eskom. These registers have completed the installation of equipment as part of the dictate the essential load requirement in the event of a expansion of the significantly improved fire detection system network collapse (blackout), as well as continuous load at Impala Rustenburg. curtailment (stages 1 to 4). The real time power monitoring O Gas measuring instrument: The scope of the project entails system on site at Impala Rustenburg has enabled Impala to the supply and commissioning of GDI Sentinel Triple Gas act swiftly and accurately when required. A blackout differs measuring instruments, chargers, auto calibration test units from load shedding/curtailment in that the former is and calibration test stations to 11, 11c, 14, 16, 20 shaft and considered a sudden, unexpected interruption in supply to a the training centres. significant area, while the latter is a controlled (manual or automatic) intervention to protect the total system from Over the year we invested R221 million (2014: R148 million) in collapse in the event of an emergency. Load shedding and various technical solutions aimed at protecting all those who curtailment measures are one of the measures implemented work in our mines. These investments are reflected in the table to protect the system from a blackout. While the risk of a and graph below. Safety technical initiatives Total Expenditure estimated Estimated to date expenditure completion Initiative R’000 R’000 date Ongoing Roof bolt and netting 259 016 259 016 working cost Fire retardant conveyor belting 48 306 60 000 Ongoing Self-contained self-rescuers 69 476 85 000 Completed ® SafeBlast system 40 684 84 083 July 2019 Fire detection system 7 712 9 674 October 2016 Ongoing WPD signalling devices for scraper winches 119 594 119 594 working cost Proximity detection systems on track-bound machinery 5 608 252 264 June 2019 Gas measuring instruments 13 152 15 152 October 2015 Shaft Station Safety Devices 30 378 35 000 May 2016 Technical safety interventions (%) 120 100 Q  New winch return rigs Q  New winch signalling devices Q  Shaft safety devices 80 Q  Locomotive speedometers Q  Nets and bolts on Merensky 60 Q  Nets and bolts on UG2 Q  Self-contained self-rescuers 40 Q  PDS 20 0 JULY 2014 June 2015 PAGE 44 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety Case study: 2014 to 2024 safety milestones Implats embraces the 2014 occupational health and safety milestones and we consider these milestones an important tool to transform the culture of health and safety in the workplaces to control risks with the intent to further accelerate our Journey to Zero Harm. The milestones were developed in national collaboration with all stakeholders and agreed upon by the principals. These efforts will ensure learning and participative culture where all are treated with care, respect and dignity. The 2014 to 2024 milestones are: O Milestone 6: Implement a National Centre of O Milestone 1: Elimination of fatalities and injuries Excellence (CoE). – Zero fatalities and 20% reduction in reportable injuries. From 2017 20% reduction in LTIs. The rationale behind the CoE is to conduct O Milestone 2: Elimination of occupational lung diseases occupational health and safety research, and facilitate – Platinum dust exposure <1.5mg/m3 (all the implementation of research outcomes for the measurements) mining sector. – No new case of pneumoconiosis for employees starting 2009 onwards. The CoE will enhance capacity through collaboration; O Milestone 3: Elimination of noise-induced hearing loss develop beneficial relationships; attract and retain – Noise emitted by any equipment < 107dB(A). top research talent; provide high quality training; – No employee’s Standard Threshold Shift (STS) will and facilitate education and training in partnership exceed 25dB from the baseline when averaged at with the MQA. 2 000, 3 000 and 4 000Hz in one or both ears. O Milestone 4: Prevention of TB and HIV/Aids The progress on these milestones will be reported to – The TB incidence rate < National TB incident rate. the DMR in March 2016 for the calendar year 2015. – 100% of employees offered HCT annually. ART for eligible employees. O Milestone 5: Implement five pillars of the Culture Transformation Framework (CTF). Pillar Intention Bonus and performance system Prioritise zero harm ahead of production Risk management Eliminate risks at their source and investigate root causes Leadership Leaders to lead by example and walk the talk of zero harm Leading practice Common approach to identifying and facilitating the adoption of leading OHS practices and research outcomes Elimination of discrimination No racism, genderism and any forms of unfair discrimination Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 45 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety Our 2015 safety performance Key lagging indicators It is with regret that we report that five of our own employees O The Group’s fatal incident frequency rate was 0.058 per and two contractor employees died at our operations during million man-hours worked, up from 0.043 in 2014. 2015. Four of these incidents occurred in the first quarter, O The Group's RIFR improved by 2% to 2.63 per million shortly after the return to work following the five-month strike man-hours (FY2014: 2.68). at Rustenburg. Although these fatalities occurred at different O The Group’s lost-time injury frequency rate (excluding RWCs) shafts and from different contracting companies, nonper million man-hours (LTIFR), increased to 4.62 from 3.92 in compliance to standards and safe production rules was a 2014. At Rustenburg and Marula, injuries which would have common factor in all fatalities. Two incidents were caused by been classified as restricted work cases in the previous year falls of ground, three incidents involved underground moving were classified as lost-time injuries. These included equipment, and the other two were drilling-related incidents. employees with minor injuries who would have been able to We have undertaken investigations into the root causes of return back to work on the next calendar day but were not these fatal incidents and have implemented remedial actions. able to perform their full duties because of the restrictions advised by the treating medical practitioner. For comparative This very regrettable increase in fatalities – up from four last purposes between Group operations and previous financial year, but down from nine in 2013 – detracts from the years, the LTI and RWC rates should be combined. The improvements in safety that we have made across many of combined rate of 5.27 improved from 6.10 in 2014, a our leading and lagging indicators for the year. Despite this 14% improvement. Going forward RWCs will no longer be progress, we acknowledge that there is still much to be done applied and the Group shall report on total LTIs and Medical in our drive for zero harm. Treatment Cases (MTCs). Additional safety data can be found on page 133 of this report. IN MEMORIAM RIFR (per million hours worked) We extend our sincere condolences to the families, friends and colleagues of the five permanent employees and two 2011 3.23 contractors who died at Impala in the course of work 2012 3.13 during 2015. 2013 3.06 Own employees 2014 2.68 O Mr Mojalefa Makhobeng died in an incident involving 2015 2.63 a scraper winch on 7 August 2014 at Rustenburg No 10 Shaft FY15: 2.63 (2% improvement) O Mr Otlabusa Itumeleng died in a fall of ground incident on 26 August 2014, at Rustenburg No 1 Shaft LTIFR (including RWCs) O Mr Jonathan Mabelane died on 5 September 2014 in an incident when drilling blast holes at 11C Shaft 2011 6.24 O Mr Joseph Sithole died in a fall of ground incident on 2012 5.91 6 September 2014 at Marula Platinum 2013 5.80 O Mr Mantsonyane Malimole died in an incident involving 2014 6.10 mobile equipment underground on 13 April 2015 at 2015 5.27 Impala Rustenburg’s 12 Shaft Contractor employees FY15: 5.27 (14% improvement) O Mr Martin Briedenhann from Shaft Sinkers died in an incident involving a drill rig on 4 September 2014 at LTIFR (per million hours worked) (excluding RWCs) No 16 Shaft O Mr Kgosithebe Richard Orekeng from RAK Mining died 2011 4.94 on 19 March 2015 after a locomotive incident which 2012 4.96 occurred at Impala Rustenburg’s E&F Shaft 2013 4.21 2014 3.92 2015 4.62 FY15: 4.62 (18% deterioration) PAGE 46 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety RWCR (per million hours worked) lost amounting to R833 million in revenue lost. We continue to engage actively with the authorities on these stoppage 2011 1.30 instructions. Where we feel this to be unjustified we have 2012 0.95 challenged the authorities legally. While we support all safety 2013 1.59 work stoppages where its condition or behaviour has been identified as posing a direct danger to safety, extending 2014 2.18 these stoppages beyond the scope of the risk is problematic 2015 0.65 and in certain instances may have a negative impact on FY15: 0.65 safety performance. In February, Implats’ CEO joined other platinum group CEOs in a meeting with the DMR Minister to O The total injury frequency rate (TIFR) – a measure of all highlight the negative impact that unjustified work stoppages recorded injuries, including fatalities, lost-time injuries, were having on productivity and profitability. While it was restricted work cases and medical treatment cases – was made clear that none of the CEOs were opposed to Section 9.78, an improvement from 11.90 in 2014. For comparability 54 stop notices, they expressed concern with cases where with industry peers refer to safety data on page 48 of this inspectors were stopping shafts for administrative issues, report. and noted also instances of insufficient training of DMR inspectors. TIFR (per million hours worked) O Our internal safety stoppage system, formalised in 2013, recorded a total of 4 016 proactive stoppages made in 2011 13.47 workings during 2015, compared to 2 562 in 2014. 2012 11.19 O We achieved 94.4% compliance in our road behaviour 2013 10.91 testing, as compared with 95.2% last year; still short of our 2014 11.68 target of 100%. 2015 9.78 O We conducted 1 191 278 breathalyser tests throughout our operations in line with Company policy of zero alcohol in the FY15: 9.78 (18% improvement) workplace. As a result, 472 tested positive, representing a 0.04% decrease in the number of individuals who tested Key leading indicators positive in 2014; disciplinary action has been taken against O A total of 55 Section 54 stoppage instructions were issued all employees testing positive. in 2015 (2014: 40), resulting in the relevant shaft being closed for a period. The shafts collectively lost approximately During the year, several potentially serious safety incidents 260 shaft days of production at Impala Rustenburg, and occurred, during which no injuries were sustained. In each 42 days at Marula (compared with 208 and 29 days case, an investigation into the root cause was conducted and respectively in 2014). This resulted in 63 000 PGEs ounces remedial actions undertaken. Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) Per million man-hours worked 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Impala Rustenburg 0.070 0.052 0.092 0.115 0.061 Impala Springs 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Marula 0.111 0.000 0.000 0.130 0.000 Mimosa 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.100 Zimplats 0.000 0.068 0.000 0.000 0.000 Group 0.058 0.043 0.065 0.087 0.053 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 47 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety FIFR (per million hours worked) 2011 0.053 2012 0.087 2013 0.065 2014 0.043 2015 0.058 FY15: 0.058 (35% deterioration) Comparison of fatality rates (calendar years) across the South African platinum industry (per million man-hours worked) 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 0 ANGLO PLATS LONPLATS NORTHAM IMPLATS AQUARIUS EASTPLATS ROYAL BAFOKENG Pt GLENCORE Pt PLATINUM INDUSTRY Q 2009 Q 2010 Q 2011 Q 2012 Q 2013 Q 2014 Q 2015 Safety performance Notable safety achievements Operation Date Achievement Two Rivers 5 September 2014 Two million fatality free shifts (2 years and 7 months) Impala 12 Shaft 11 November 2014 Five million fatality free shifts (6 years) Impala Services 6 December 2014 Ten million fatality free shifts (13 years and 6 months) Impala 9 Shaft 6 January 2015 One million fatality free shifts (2 years and 4 months) Impala 20 Shaft 20 January 2015 One million fatality free shifts (1 year and 10 months) Implats 23 March 2015 6.9 million fatality free shifts (6 months) Impala 7A Shaft 25 March 2015 Five million fatality free shifts (13 years) Impala 14 Shaft 22 April 2015 One million fatality free shifts (1 year and 4 months) Zimplats 22 April 2015 Three million fatality free shifts (1 year and 9 months) Springs Refineries 21 May 2015 10 million fatality free shifts (19 years and 2 months) Mimosa 30 May 2015 Five million fatality free shifts (4 years and 9 months) PAGE 48 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Safety “On 10, 11 and 12 December 2014 a safety summit was held at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Rustenburg for all Impala’s mining and processing safety representatives Impala safety summit In December 2014 a three-day safety summit was held at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Rustenburg for all Impala’s mining and processing safety representatives. The summit was called following the five fatal accidents that occurred shortly after the commencement of work following the five-month strike. Over 600 safety representatives attended the three-day summit, during which good progress was made on the following issues: O Identifying the critical safe behaviours for the top critical mining and processing risk occupations. O Agreeing to develop a system to formalise the ‘Section 23’ withdrawals by safety representatives. O Introducing a ‘Buddy Barring’ system, involving the second-person observation of the barring process. O Highlighting the concern that safety representatives are not being adequately recognised or rewarded for their duties and responsibilities. These four groupings of issues have been further reviewed and included within a subsequent implementation plan. Our safety focus for 2016 and beyond O Supervision and technology: In seeking to mitigate safety We continue to prioritise the following strategic objectives and risks in the workplace, an ongoing focus is to increase focus areas for safety in the year ahead: supervision and leadership skills and implement best O Normalising the employee relations environment: From practice technical initiatives. a safety perspective, we will continue to pursue interactions O Targets: Our target is zero fatalities across all of our with senior union leadership to gain commitment for safety operations. In striving for zero fatalities and zero harm, we initiatives. will continue to focus on ensuring that all operations have O Promoting a culture shift: Shifting the safety culture behaviour-based safety programmes in place. Each through leadership, using the Chamber of Mines Five Pillar operation is expected to achieve at least a 20% Cultural Transformation Framework (CTF), remains an improvement in their LTIFR performance in support of the ongoing priority. This will include using opportunities MHSC safety milestones. In addition, we will strive to achieve: presented through the revised health and safety agreement – 100% compliance with road behaviour; with all employee representative groups, to engage more – 100% compliance with platinum rules; or effectively with employees in promoting the right safety – 100% disciplinary action for non-compliance, to these culture. rules. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 49 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Our strategic approach to health “Our strategy on nonoccupational health focuses on ensuring that all employees have access to affordable healthcare Our health strategy addresses both occupational and non-occupational health and is focused on preventing harm to our employees. As outlined in the diagram below, it is structured around three main pillars: wellness, education and treatment. On occupational health, our strategy is to ensure that all occupational health risks are identified, mitigation controls are in place and that any ill health is detected and treated early and efficiently. Any resulting disability is referred to independent third parties for assessment and possible compensation. Our strategy on non-occupational health focuses on ensuring that all employees have access to affordable healthcare so that all health stressors can be identified, managed and treated. The delivery and funding arrangements depend on local facilities and conditions, and differ between our operations in South Africa and Zimbabwe. Identification of health risks Early detection of illness Annual medical screening Wellness Occupational health centre Employee Assistance Programme HIV wellness programmes Financial support and counselling Nutritional supplement underground Access to affordable healthcare and medical aid Health strategy Clinics, hospitals and third-party Chronic illness education service providers HIV/Aids ARV treatment programme Treatment Education Tuberculosis Alignment with Department of Health Smoking and alcohol and NHI Noise-induced hearing loss PAGE 50 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Health “This year we made good progress in managing health risks and delivering on our health strategy Employee health and well-being pollution and deforestation, zero new HIV infections and also Effective management of occupational health risks, and zero accidents at the workplace. To ensure that the campaign promoting health and well-being in the workplace, protects our is highly impactful, Mimosa works with sustainable development employees, enhances productivity, and helps maintain our partners such as the National AIDS Council (NAC), Traffic Safety licence to operate. Investing in healthcare in communities Council of Zimbabwe (TSCZ), the Environmental Management around our operations provides a significant societal benefit and Agency of Zimbabwe (EMA), Zimbabwe National Roads is also important for achieving our longer-term business goals. Association (ZINARA) and the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP). At our South African operations, employees and their families have the choice of belonging to one from a menu of medical schemes. Company funding is based on the cost of the internal medical aid, the Impala Medical Plan (IMP). The IMP is a registered medical scheme that was formed to provide private care to employees and their dependants through Companyowned and operated facilities at Impala Rustenburg, Marula and Impala Springs. In addition, we provide access to external medical schemes to those employees who prefer alternative private arrangements. During the second quarter of this year, following a request by AMCU, we added a new scheme, ‘Commed Roots’ at Impala Rustenburg. The scheme was well received and attracted 1 733 new members in the change period at Impala Rustenburg. Extensive consultation took place with individual employees, to ensure an understanding of the associated benefits and rules. The South African Government’s commitment to developing National Health Insurance (NHI) will impact our nonoccupational health strategy. We continue to support the NHI through partnerships, working closely with the Department of Health (DoH) directly and through the Bojanala Health Forum. At our Zimbabwean operations, Mimosa has also been able to institute a national safety and health campaign dubbed the “Let’s Go Zero” Health and Safety Campaign. The initiative aims at mobilising stakeholders’ support operations on the basis of shared national goals. Drawn from Mimosa’s existing company motto, “Zero Harm is Possible”, the private-public partnership campaign seeks to bring better living through encouraging good driving habits to achieve zero carnage on the roads, zero Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 51 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Health “The principal health risks facing our employees are pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), and the associated human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection Our 2015 health performance NIHL submitted for compensation The principal health risks facing our employees are pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), and the associated human immunodeficiency 2011 57 virus (HIV) co-infection, both of which are of epidemic 2012 63 proportions in Southern Africa. The major occupational health 2013 50 risk associated with our mining activities is noise-induced 2014 36 hearing loss (NIHL). 2015 49 A review of health-related trends and performance during 2015 FY15: 49 (36% deterioration) is summarised below. A more detailed breakdown of our health performance at an operational level is provided in the table on O Pneumoconiosis: The risk of contracting silicosis on our page 135. operations is extremely low due to the very low levels of Alpha Quartz in the rock being mined at our operations. This O General health indicators: This year 84 345 occupational year, 19 employees and two contractors were diagnosed at medical examinations were conducted, as compared to our Rustenburg operation; all of these cases have proven 59 322 last year. The significant increase is primarily due to historical gold mine exposure. All cases have been the reopening of the Rustenburg Occupational Health Centre submitted for assessment and compensation to the following the end of last year’s five-month strike, during Department of Health’s Medical Bureau of Occupational which only exit examinations and examinations of essential Diseases. All new employees are thoroughly screened for services personnel and certain supervisors were conducted. pneumoconiosis at pre-employment examination. PreNo previously unknown occupational illnesses were detected employment individuals who have x-ray changes suggestive in the Group this year. We experienced a challenge this year of silicosis are classified as unfit and referred back to their associated with resistance from AMCU regarding fitness previous employer for assessment and submission to the assessments at the Rustenburg Rehabilitation and Fitness Bureau of Occupational Diseases. Assessment (RFA) centre. Despite various meetings with the O HIV/Aids: Our HIV/Aids policy, which covers activities union, and bringing in industry experts to explain the value of across all our operations, ensures patient confidentiality, RFA, we have not reached a final agreement on this issue non-discrimination and highlights our commitment to and continue to engage with the union to reach a resolution. ARV-treatment programmes. Our HIV prevalence rate is O Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL): In 2015, 49 cases of estimated at 23% based on available data for Impala NIHL were diagnosed and submitted for assessment for Rustenburg. During the year, we undertook 11 875 voluntary compensation, up from 36 in 2014. We continue to counselling and testing (VCT) of employees (2014: 10 086). introduce equipment with improved sound suppression and A total of 6 140 employees participated in company-funded exposed individuals are trained in the use of custom-made and managed HIV-wellness programmes (2014: 6 286), of hearing-protection devices. Ensuring adherence to relevant whom 4 429 (2014: 4 276) received antiretroviral therapy requirements remains a challenge. All patients who are (ART). Altogether 1 296 of those on ART joined the ART diagnosed with early signs of NIHL (5% to 9.9%) on programme during the year, a net 4% increase from the screening audiograms have been counselled and are being previous year. There was a reduction in reported ARV cases monitored. PAGE 52 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Health from Company medical facilities due to changes in medical Rustenburg, up from 11 in 2014. The use of PCR laboratory aid membership that took place in January 2015 following testing has increased the speed and accuracy of diagnosing the introduction of Commed Medical Aid to the menu of TB resistance. All cases of pulmonary TB are submitted to available schemes. Ongoing fitness monitoring of these the Department of Health’s Medical Bureau of Occupational patients is a concern as this can now only be done through Diseases. At Impala Rustenburg, where the majority of cases the Occupational Health Centre. The number of employees are diagnosed, these cases are also now first submitted via receiving ART through external medical aids or government the Rand Mutual Assurance Company for independent health facilities is not known and so these figures may be third-party evaluation and record keeping. underestimated. Regrettably, 73 employees passed away due to HIV-related illness during the year (compared with TB 68 in 2014), while an additional 505 patients applied for 2011 350 medical incapacity and left the Group (2014: 331). This 2012 389 increase was primarily compounded by the impact of the strike which resulted in some people defaulting from 2013 334 treatment. 2014 268 2015 304 Aids deaths in service FY15: 304 (13% deterioration) 2011 131 2012 112 O Malaria: This year, 39 cases of malaria were diagnosed 2013 69 at Impala Rustenburg and eight at Zimplats. All of these 2014 68 patients had recently travelled to malaria endemic areas 2015 73 and were successfully treated. O National Health Insurance (NHI): We are continuing to FY15: 73 (7% deterioration) work with the South Africa Department of Health (DoH) in support of the government’s NHI plan. Last year we signed ART an MoU with the DoH, allowing appointed Impala medical personnel and forensic medical experts to attend post2011 2 773 mortem examinations. This has assisted us in determining 2012 3 566 the medical causes of death where the cause is not obvious. 2013 4 039 Through the Impala Bafokeng Trust (IBT) we have committed 2014 4 276 to renovate and expand the Luka Clinic on the Impala 2015 4 429 lease area; an MoU has been signed and building will commence soon. FY15: 4 429 (4% improvement) O Medical aid and non-occupational medical care: During 2015 the Impala Medical Plan (IMP) received 3 023 new O Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB): During the year, 304 new applications and membership of medical aids increased by cases of pulmonary TB were detected (2014: 268), of whom more than our targeted 5%. Currently, membership levels are 68% are HIV-positive. Our incidence rate of 755 per 100 000 22 231. The cost of external medical schemes is becoming employees is below the South African population rate of prohibitive for many employees and we strive to ensure that 940 per 100 000. Multiple drug-resistant TB continues the IMP maintains affordable contribution levels. to be a concern; we have 16 cases on treatment, all at VCT interventions Medical incapacity 2011 14 072 2011 388 2012 9 820 2012 699 2013 11 782 2013 588 2014 10 086 2014 331 2015 11 875 2015 505 FY15: 11 875 (18% improvement) FY15: 505 (53% deterioration) Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 53 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Health “Striving for zero harm Our health focus for 2016 and beyond O Promoting access to effective, affordable healthcare We have prioritised the following key focus areas for health in O Ensuring that our health strategy is aligned with the the year ahead: South African Government’s national health strategy, including providing healthcare facilities around our lease Delivering on our strategic priorities areas O Striving for zero harm O Achieving the 2024 industry health milestones. O Ensuring further mitigation of risks relating to occupational chronic illnesses, HIV/Aids, as well as noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) PAGE 54 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Health Noise-induced hearing loss Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) O We will continue to have annual audiometric screening O We will continue to support initiatives aimed at achieving examinations to detect deterioration of hearing early and an effective regional response to TB in mining, an issue before permanent NIHL develops. Any employee who shows that receives a high level of political focus in southern Africa. signs of early hearing loss of between 5% and 10% will We will focus our efforts on improving our assessment of undergo a formal evaluation and safety investigation. We will TB risks in contractors, enhancing contact tracing in continue to track and investigate all cases of early NIHL. communities, and mitigating the risk of exporting active Employees showing an early hearing loss shift of between TB to our labour-sending areas. This will enable us to retain 2.5% and 5% will undergo formal counselling on the risks of a TB incidence rate below the national average as required noise, the importance of wearing hearing protection devices by the new 2024 milestones. (HPD) and the implications of NIHL. Action will be taken against employees who have been counselled and are found HIV/Aids without HPD in the designated areas. We will continue with O We will strive to ensure a further uptake of at least 5% of our programme of silencing machines across the Group known HIV-infected employees onto our wellness and ART and with our buy quiet policy in support of the 2024 programmes, as well as carefully monitoring and driving milestone that no equipment must exceed a sound pressure compliance of all existing patients on ART treatment. All level of 107dB(A). employees will be offered HIV counselling and testing annually as required by the Mine Health and Safety Diesel particulate matter (DPM) milestones. O The monitoring of personal exposures to DPM will continue. The risk of exposure to DPM is mitigated by adequate ventilation, low sulphur diesel replacement and DPM exhaust filters in underground diesel combustion engines. Implats' fuel cell Load, Haul, Dump (LHD) machine project is focused on eliminating DPM underground. All underground locomotives are electric and therefore do not emit any DPM. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 55 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Attracting, retaining and developing talent “Implats employs approximately 40 000 permanent employees and approximately 15 100 contractors, none of whom are selfemployed individuals. The organisation does not have seasonal employees Attracting and retaining talent, and enhancing the productivity Our strategic approach to people of our workforce, remains a significant challenge, not only for Our approach to securing talent focuses on ensuring that our Implats, but for the mining industry as a whole, locally and employees are motivated, have the ability and requisite skills to globally. Factors contributing to the challenge of securing talent carry out their duties, and that they operate in a safe, fair and in our operations include the growing competition for skilled ethical work environment. resources, the reduced supply of skilled and semi-skilled mining talent, generally low education levels in our semi-skilled talent Our people strategy aims to support the overall corporate pool, and the traditionally poor image of the mining industry as strategy by ensuring that we have the right people, at the right a potential employer. place doing the right things. We strive to achieve this, and maintain our competitive advantage, through our talent and skills development initiatives aimed at developing individuals and teams informed by our shared values founded on respect and care. Our longer-term vision is to progressively mechanise our mining processes, while continuing to improve levels of workforce proficiency, satisfaction and diversity. Our strategic approach to people Value of respect and care Diversity and transformation Fair, ethical Sound corporate governance and sustainable Collaborative relationships with unions organisation Effective engagement with employees Restructuring of ER function Effective people A learning model Remuneration Talent management People People Recognition with who are Team mobilisation potential Reward motivated PAGE 56 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Attracting, retaining and developing talent We made progress this year in implementing our people O Improving the physical working environment: We have strategy, with a focus on three key areas: continued to invest in further improving the physical working O Motivating our people: through appropriate remuneration, environment, including through enhanced illumination, better recognition and reward underground bathroom facilities, enhanced ventilation and O Developing people with potential: by investing in skills noise reduction initiatives, and general housekeeping development, talent management and team mobilisation measures. Improving the working environment is a critical O Developing a fair, ethical and sustainable organisation: part of our drive for zero harm, and also contributes to with a focus on instilling a culture of respect and care, and higher levels of employee motivation, reduced employee investing in diversity and transformation. error rates and absenteeism, and enhanced relationships between employees, supervisors and managers. Further Motivating our people details on some of these investments are provided in our A key focus this year has been on ensuring more effective review of employee safety on pages 43 and 44. communication throughout the organisation of the benefits and opportunities associated with working at Implats. This year we Developing people with potential reviewed and have been implementing our ‘employee value Our training and skills development activities go beyond proposition’ (EVP). This encompasses our programmes and compliance to promote a people-focused culture, with relevant initiatives relating to employee housing, skills development, programmes aligned to Implats’ strategic imperatives and health and financial reward. Our EVP is communicated through values aimed at instilling excellence in efficiency, productivity posters, graphics displayed in the workplace and in public and safety. places such as shopping malls. The underlying message is: if you work for us, this is what you will enjoy. Our skills development, talent management and team mobilisation activities focus on three main areas: optimising In delivering on our employee value proposition, we have the team output and productivity, developing our talent pipelines following strategic focus areas: and maintaining an inflow of requisite skills. These are all critical O Recognising and rewarding performance with appropriate enablers for us to increase intellectual capacity within the Group remuneration: Through our performance management and to facilitate succession planning and advancement programme we have committed to offering attractive activities, thus reducing our reliance on the external market for remuneration and employment benefits, coupled with these skills. Talent development also supports the attainment of effective incentives linked to our safety and production our employment equity targets in our South African operations. efficiencies. We undertake regular benchmarks of pay and We continue to improve the measurement (both quantitative conditions to ensure that we remain competitive. As with the and qualitative) of the outcomes of the training and other companies in the sector, this year we have continued development programmes being implemented. to be faced with lower levels of mining productivity, lower PGM prices and increased costs. This has unavoidably We also invest in developing effective leadership skills and placed pressure on variable pay elements and employees’ capacity, which is critical in promoting sound employerdisposable income, highlighting the need for us to find employee communication and relations. Developing the right opportunities to increase productivity levels, while seeking attributes to deal with people challenges remains a critical to further enhance efficiencies. priority in the current labour environment. Our targeted O Providing career advancement opportunities: This year leadership interventions focus on developing the technical we concluded career paths for all disciplines. Succession ability of managers, as well as on ensuring that they have the planning is undertaken at semi-skilled and supervisory level necessary people leadership skills. positions, as well as at professionally qualified (D level) and senior management (E level). Discipline-specific talent management forums and area-specific talent identification forums identify, develop and assess talent at various levels within the organisation as a line management function with the support and assistance of the talent department. We review and assess our talent pools on a quarterly basis to ensure that identified talent is considered for promotion and developmental opportunities, and share the outcomes with management and unions at our transformation committees. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 57 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Attracting, retaining and developing talent Skills development, talent management and team mobilisation/developing people with potential Optimising team output and Maintaining an inflow of future productivity Developing our talent pipeline requisite skills Objective: Objective: To minimise avoidable Objective: To improve education within To ensure the development and retention turnover, secure the best available talent our neighbouring communities, of talent with the requisite skills, in the market, and recognise, develop identifying and developing skills in local knowledge and experience, in an and reward talent within the organisation. schools, as part of efforts to improve environment conducive to maintaining skills in our communities. continuity and improving safety and productivity. Key initiatives Key initiatives Key initiatives O Team mobilisation: developing O Mining academy: developing an O School adoption programme: respect among team members and in-house mining academy to provide developing management and ensuring that mine overseers and best practice training interventions. infrastructure at targeted schools. supervisors are equipped to This training is in line with the team O School support programme: effectively lead and mobilise their mobilisation initiative. mentoring educators, developing teams. O Engineering training: Implats school sporting facilities, offering O Shaft optimisation: focusing on training projects to develop artisan Impala bursaries to top achievers. direct coaching/training in mining best and engineering skills. O Bursary programme: offering fully practices. O Graduate development training: paid high school scholarships, and O New technology: mitigating the awarding mine manager and mine offering university bursaries to human element risk from our activities overseer certificates, in support of learners in mining related fields. and promote a safe culture through joining the Implats graduate training new technology implementation. programme. O Technical mining training: ensuring O Novice mining training: training that line managers and supervisors people from the local community in are kept informed about evolving mining skills. standards and regulations, and new O ABET: offers full and part-time technologies. classes to ensure career progression and functional literacy and numeracy. PAGE 58 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Attracting, retaining and developing talent Developing a fair, ethical and sustainable organisation – Occupational health and safety skills training for safety Underpinning our efforts to attract, retain and develop talent is representatives: Impala has trained 884 health and our commitment to providing a work environment informed by safety representatives in the 10-day occupational mutual trust, respect and care. health and safety skills programme, meeting the Mining Charter requirements of 8% of the workforce receiving We strive to do so through our Respect, Care and Delivery such training. initiative by maintaining high standards of corporate governance – Labour Relations Course for Supervisors: From January and ethical behaviour throughout our activities (page 37). By 2015 we have provided a one-day training course for driving diversity and transformation and improving employee supervisors on labour relations issues. Thus far relation underpinned by mutual respect in our South African 50 supervisors have received this training. operations (page 65). Our approach to delivering on these – Mining academy: We invested R863 000 this year in commitments is reviewed in other sections of this report. our in-house mining academy for our South African operations. The academy seeks to accommodate Our 2015 performance on people management 1 000 trainees (young people with grade 12 qualifications) A summary of our performance on key human resource issues per year, providing training interventions that will evolve in for 2015 is presented below. Additional detail at an operational line with changing technology, legislative requirements and level over the past four years is presented in the performance training needs. The second phase, in 2016, will involve the table on pages 129 and 136. building of training venues. O Skills turnover: Employee turnover is monitored on a – School adoption programme: We have continued to work monthly basis and has overall remained fairly constant for closely with the South African Department of Education to the year. However, given the current rationalisation, this has formally ‘adopt’ a selection of community schools that we resulted in an increase in turnover in certain categories and have either built or that are in our mining lease area but this may increase overall. Total workforce turnover for 2015 that do not benefit from existing support programmes. We was 5.1%, as compared with 4.5% in 2014. Turnover of currently have seven schools in the scheme, which we aim miners at our South African operations was 10.7% for the to develop into schools of excellence. year, as compared with 5.3% last year. Turnover of rock drill O Skills development expenditure: In our South African operators was 5.1%, compared with 3.9% last year. operations we invested R523 million this year in skills Turnover at our Zimplats operations was 4.4% (2014: 3.6%). development, as compared with R331 million in 2014. O Skills development interventions: Our skills development Expenditure was 6.2% of payroll, against our targeted level activities focus on three main areas: technical skills, general of 5.5%. At our Zimbabwean operations, we spent education and people management skills. The following US$5.3 million on skills development, 10% down from the initiatives were implemented during 2015: previous years. Over the year we provided an average of – Team mobilisation: During 2015, we trained 139 teams as 86.93 hours of training per employee for all our employees, part of this initiative, which seeks to develop a respectful while our contractors received an average of 54.1 hours and caring attitude among all Implats team members with each of training at our South African operations. the aim of ensuring safe production. Specific focus areas O Bursaries and learnership programmes: Over the course include safety, the nature and economics of the platinum of 2015, our South African operations had 49 full-time business, the role played by the individual and team, and bursary holders (80% of which are HDSA) at university the reward structure for delivery on targets. studying primarily in the engineering and mining-related – Supervisory training: This year 57 mine overseers and disciplines, while we had no new full-time bursaries from supervisors participated in a three-day people leadership our Zimbabwe operations in the current year. In addition, programme aimed at enhancing their capacity to lead and 222 and 169 individuals benefited from our apprenticeship mobilise their teams effectively. and learnership programmes (95% are HDSA) across the – Zero incident process for leaders (ZIP): The bestSouth African operations respectively. practice ZIP initiative is designed to empower people to O Adult basic education and training (ABET) and take control of their personal safety by becoming more Foundational Learning Competence (FLC): We have effective within the systems they work in. This year all continued to see improvements in the level of basic literacy D and E level management attended the three-day ZIP (ABET3) at our mining operations, reaching 82.4% literacy training. To further embed the ZIP concepts throughout rate in 2015. During the year, 433 employees were enrolled the Group, ZIP training will be cascaded downwards to for ABET across the South African operations, in both supervisors level. full-time and part-time classes, representing a 39% decrease on 2014 (707 students). At year end the net enrolment was Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 59 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Attracting, retaining and developing talent 292 people. We will implement the anticipated National invest in various skills development initiatives in our local Senior Certificate for Adults (NASCA) qualification, developed communities, as well as seek to promote local employment as an equivalent to the South African school-leaving through our local procurement practices (see page 86). qualification, for implementation by 2016. O Leadership development: This year we suspended our Our focus on people development for 2016 external leadership development programme that was and beyond presented by the Gordon Institute of Business Science In striving to implement an effective people strategy, our (GIBS) and reallocated resources to run in-house people principal objectives for 2016 are to: leadership programmes for frontline managers and O Retain key talent (mine overseers, shift supervisors, miners, supervisors. This programme remains suspended and a engineers, foremen and artisans); this is vital to maintain future decision will be taken in 2016. continuity and improve safety and productivity O Promoting local employment: We continued this year to O Increase supervision and leadership skills and introduce best hold open days at various shopping malls in neighbouring practice technical initiatives communities, to present the opportunities available at O Address potential skills shortages through in-house technical Implats operations. Despite efforts to hire more local people, trainee programmes, capacity-building at supervisory and migrant workers continue to play an important role in the managerial level, and enhanced people-leadership initiatives industry, particularly for rock drill operators and winch O Promote our employee value proposition and develop a operators, who come principally from the Eastern Cape, pipeline of talent in schools, to support our efforts to recruit North West, Northern Cape and Lesotho. We continue to from communities around our operations. PAGE 60 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Investing in employee relations “Driving our shared value of respect and care The events in the South African platinum sector over the past third party conducts biannual surveys on the effectiveness of few years have highlighted the importance of developing and our labour relations. We respect the independent status of maintaining positive relations between management and unions and the right of our employees to associate, or not to employees. The incidents before, during and after last year’s associate, and we strive to ensure full compliance with local five-month strike across the Rustenburg platinum belt brought labour legislation, which is in alignment with the provisions of to the fore the significant challenges associated with rebuilding the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation trust between and within business, labour and government. (ILO). We work closely with unions to resolve all internal Working to regain this trust and restore productivity is disputes through dispute resolution mechanisms and (in South fundamental to restoring the long-term economic viability Africa) within the auspices of the Commission for Conciliation of the platinum industry, and remains a core focus area for Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). We prohibit any attempt to the Company. differentiate between people on the basis of colour, religion, gender or creed, other than as part of conscious efforts to Our approach to employee relations promote diversity and transformation. Informed by the developments of the past year, our employee relations (ER) vision has been to foster a new, dynamic and Currently 82% of permanent employees in South Africa, and sustainable partnership with our employees and their 37% of employees in Zimbabwe are covered by collective representative bodies, with the aim of becoming the best bargaining agreements. These agreements address issues employer in the platinum industry. Our ER mission is to ensure relating to salary and benefit reviews, the participation of unions that our people are treated with respect and care, fairly in decision-making at different forums, consultation and notice rewarded for their contribution, empowered to raise their periods regarding any significant organisational changes. The concerns, safely engaged in their daily duties, and able to minimum notice period for any organisational change or activity deliver on their organisational goals. at Implats’ operations is 30 days. To achieve this mission and vision, we have set ourselves the We carefully monitor the state of industrial relations and the following strategic goals: wage negotiations environment, both among our immediate O Ensuring high levels of employee engagement, based on competitors as well as in the mining industry more broadly. the shared values of respect and care A key focus this year has been the wage negotiation process O Establishing collaborative relationships with all unions in a within the gold sector. Our monitoring activities include holding multi-union environment round table discussions with labour analysts, tracking O Empowering frontline management to engage effectively developments on social media, participating at the forums with employees hosted by the Chamber of Mines, and through our Impala O Restructuring the ER function to enable the achievement future forum, a body that includes representatives from the of the ER strategy. Rustenburg local municipality (RLM) and the Royal Bafokeng Nation/Administration (RBN/A), as well as representatives from Our labour relations policy deals with freedom of association, unions and Impala management. Prior to wage negotiations we recognition of trade unions, discrimination and the rights of hold business planning meetings with union representatives. employees and contractors. We constantly monitor the state We also provide externally run negotiation training and of labour relations in our operations, with reports regularly bargaining courses for shop stewards. submitted from the operations to the Exco. An independent Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 61 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Investing in employee relations “In July 2014, we signed a recognition agreement with AMCU, the new majority union at Impala Rustenburg In South Africa, as at year end, 82% of our workforce is AMCU) and Impala Springs (lower order rights recognition with unionised. The Association of Mineworkers and Construction AMCU). The verification exercises were conducted in an orderly Union (AMCU) have the following representation: Impala fashion, confirming that this approach has been widely Rustenburg 71.1%, Impala Springs 25.8%, Marula 79.9%. accepted and is embedded in the organisation. The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) have the following representation: Impala Rustenburg 4.0%, Impala Springs As we reported last year, we have unfortunately not been able 49.1%, Marula 9.5% and United Association of South Africa to deliver fully on our efforts at establishing a multi-union (UASA) has representivity at Rustenburg and Marula at dispensation with a lower threshold and the avoidance of 6.1% and 1.7% respectively). This year we concluded a ‘winner takes all’ majoritarian system. Through our wage negotiations at our Impala Springs and Marula within engagements with government and other stakeholders, we mandate and without industrial action. have continued to pursue the implementation of a democratic labour dispensation. We believe that recent changes in the In Zimbabwe, the Associated Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe Labour Relations Act will assist in dismantling the principle (AMWUZ) comprise 82% of the unionised workforce, with the of majoritarianism. remaining 18% being members of the National Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe (NMWUZ). We have continued to enjoy We have placed a strong focus this year on building generally cordial relations in our Zimbabwe operations, with relationships with the AMCU national leadership and their no industrial action experienced throughout the year from either elected representatives at Impala Rustenburg, while continuing of these main unions. Collective bargaining for the Zimbabwean to maintain a relationship with NUM representatives at our other mining industry went smoothly and was concluded without operations. Early in the year our Exco team and AMCU’s incident in February 2015. national leadership jointly undertook a high-level relationship building exercise, working within the envisioned structures Our 2015 performance on employee relations outlined in the recognition agreement. We have subsequently This year we prioritised our efforts on three key areas, aligned begun to run similar relationship-building sessions throughout with our four strategic goals for employee relations: our operations, with most of our shafts having successfully O Building effective relationships with all unions in a multi-union completed the process. We plan to complete this process environment in 2016. O Ensuring direct engagement with employees O Driving our shared values of respect and care. As part of this process we have jointly agreed a code of conduct, and we have begun to run a capacity-building training Building relationships with unions process for shop stewards, undertaken by an external service In July 2014, we signed a recognition agreement with AMCU, provider. All full-time shop stewards have been through an initial the newly dominant union at Impala Rustenburg. This followed shop steward development process, and are currently the lengthy process last year aimed at ensuring a smooth undergoing an advanced programme. Additional training is transition from a work environment previously dominated by planned at all our operations focusing on issues such as roles NUM. Following a process of union membership verification and responsibilities, conflict resolution, negotiation skills and conducted in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, we related topics. signed new recognition agreements this year at Marula (with PAGE 62 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Investing in employee relations As part of the agreement that ended last year’s strike, we desire. The survey raised various employee concerns, and committed with all other parties to continue talks on various highlighted the need for further transformation and leadership outstanding issues including: the review of microloans and development across the Company. garnishee orders; the nature of the medical separation agreement; the retrenchment agreement/severance policy; During the first half of the 2015 financial year, following the retirement benefits and funeral cover; sub-contracting, labour return to work at Impala Rustenburg, we held focus group hire and employment agencies; the nature of the job grading discussions across our South African operations to further reviews; employee shareholding; medical aid; and the investigate the survey findings and to consider possible establishment of a life skills centre. In delivering on this remedial actions. These focus groups identified various agreement we have established seven task teams, comprising concerns, including the level of mistrust between management company managers and union representatives, to address and employees, the nature of the leadership style in the mines, these specific issues. We have agreed terms of reference for and the perceived poor relationship between organisational each task team and work has commenced. Through our leadership and the unions. representation on these teams we will be seeking to create an attractive value proposition for our employees that In response to the findings, we ran a communication process management, employees and unions perceive as fair and that, to disseminate the outcomes to each of the business units, collectively, we can be proud of. highlighting the need for a change in the culture of the organisation, and emphasising the importance of employees Engaging directly with employees being the main drivers of this change. We have also In addition to working with union representatives through the commenced a diversity survey at our operations to gather the mutually agreed structures we are implementing measures to perceptions of leaders and staff on issues pertaining to the ensure effective communication directly between management implementation of our values, our approach to managing representatives and employees at all levels. In delivering on the diversity and women in mining, our human resource processes, Group ER strategy, we recognise the need to operate at both and related issues. an informal and formal level. We contract individually with each of our employees; it is thus our responsibility to ensure that we Our focus currently is on integrating and embedding our values engage directly with them. into our key activities, and establishing key success indicators. This year we have developed and are implementing a Our focus on employee relations for 2016 structured two-way communication model that cascades and beyond information and feedback from weekly executive management Looking to the future, an important lesson that we have taken meetings all the way down to half-level meetings. We from the strike is that the current industrial relations landscape complement this structured process with periodic surveys of and mining model cannot continue in the same way. Addressing employee opinions, as well as engagements through videos, the challenges raised by employees during the strike will require briefings, CEO addresses, general manager feedback daily, more than changes to our employee relations strategy alone. It weekly and monthly meetings at shaft level. will require us to revisit our approach to the migratory labour system, to work on transforming the low skill, low paying, To achieve the necessary shift in culture throughout the labour-dependent mines, and to continue with our significant organisation we have been working to enhance the knowledge, social investments in housing and education. We recognise that skills and attributes of managers, employees and their we cannot deliver solutions to these issues on our own, and representatives. We have focused initially on the development that we need to work actively with our industry partners, and empowerment of our first line managers by implementing a government, union leaders and other stakeholders. robust process of training, particularly in the areas of people management, coaching, developing subordinates and handling Recognising the need for a structural change in our approach employee grievances. to employee relations in South Africa, we shall continue to participate actively in relevant forums at the Chamber of Mines, Promoting our respect and care initiative including those relating to: the migratory labour system; the In 2013, as part of the change management initiative led nature of majoritarian system; labour hire and employment by the CEO, we conducted a survey of a representative agencies; the secondment of shop stewards to the regional and 10% sample of our South African workforce to assess national institutions of the union; the establishment of life skills employees’ perceptions of the Implats culture, and to provide centres; and mining housing initiatives. an opportunity for employees to give input into the culture they Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 63 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Investing in employee relations Case study: Addressing the challenge of employee indebtedness Indebtedness is a serious and complex social challenge in South Africa. Many of our employees are struggling with a level of personal debt that is difficult to manage. Indebtedness has a deep impact on employees and their families and research has shown that it is an underlying cause of low morale, stress and labour unrest in the mining industry. As part of our commitment to addressing this challenge, we have identified the following principal causes of debt: O Employees living beyond their means: Employees succumb to peer pressure in seeking to emulate the lifestyle of their neighbours, even though their income may differ substantially. O Financial illiteracy: Employees lack sufficient literacy to understand the detail of credit agreements and the complexity around interest and fee structures. Other challenges are a failure to budget effectively or determine the affordability of taking on additional repayment commitments. O Easy access to cash: Nearby shops advertise cash offers, attracting employees into the debt cycle. O Irresponsible money lenders: Mineworkers are often vulnerable to irresponsible lenders who act outside of the law and exploit borrowers. O Fraudulently obtained emolument attachment orders (EAO): Some of the EAOs issued are obtained by fraudulent means. O Providing for a second household: Some of our employees who migrated from the rural areas or neighbouring countries have established a second family in the vicinity of the mine, which they need to support. O Protracted strike: The five-month-long strike in the platinum sector in the first half of 2014, during which the ‘no work no pay’ principle applied, had a material socio-economic impact on our mineworkers, resulting in many increasing their dependence on credit still further. This year we have been continuing to focus on initiatives to assist workers with financial literacy and planning, and to mitigate employee indebtedness. In addition to addressing financial literacy and education as part of our team mobilisation process, we have established an internal task team to promote progress. We have also launched a campaign and a one-day financial life skills course to explain employee payslips, focusing on providing employees with an understanding of the pay structure, benefits and deductions, overall impact on net pay, managing their budget and debt. We have a wellness forum that meets monthly to consider all employee wellness issues, including financial wellness, within an integrated framework. We have implemented measures to ensure that micro-lenders found to be operating at residences and mine property are removed. During 2015, unscrupulous lenders, some of whom masqueraded as selling safety equipment, were found to be operating on Rustenburg Impala property, including the residences. We have employed a former sheriff of the court in our finance department to assist us in identifying and curbing fraudulent garnishee orders. We have already seen some improvements, as some garnishee orders in place have been deemed illegal. The Pay-roll Office records levels of personal debt and monitors trends for discussion in Joint Forum meetings. We refer high-risk employees to Careways financial advisers for assistance with understanding and managing their debt. Careways also provide debt counselling and debt consolidation services. This year, we audited 40 cases in which judgments had been obtained against employees and emoluments attachment orders (EAOs) issued. In virtually all these cases we found one or more substantial breaches of the rules relating to judgments and EAOs. In August 2015 a court ruled that these EAOs had been obtained illegally and thus fall away and employees released from all obligations to pay. The money lenders will also abandon the debt of some 330 more employees with existing EAOs. Implats has made detailed submissions to the Chamber of Mines, which is consolidating information on the number and legality of garnishee order issues. We are working with the National Credit Regulator (NCR) and Department of Trade and Industry, and providing input on the review of the National Credit Act Amendment Bill. PAGE 64 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Promoting diversity and transformation “Our commitment to diversity is driven by a strong belief that a more diverse organisation is ultimately more competitive Our commitment to employee diversity is driven not only by each of which has received formal training on employment strong compliance requirements, but also by the belief that a equity issues. The delivery of our employment equity plan more diverse organisation is ultimately more competitive. involves various initiatives, including: Encouraging diversity is also an important part of our efforts at O Career progression paths – placing selected highpromoting broader socio-economic transformation in the potential individuals on a clear career progression plan communities in which we operate. O Accelerated training programmes – assisting identified employees to accelerate their training within one of the Our approach to diversity available career paths Implats is committed to continuous transformation with regards O Skills transfer – mentoring targeted HDSAs to a level to employment equity. Our diversity and employment equity where they are skilled to take over identified positions, with strategy focuses on addressing the following issues: the aim of preventing skills loss from the Company in core O Our focus will be to continuously go beyond meeting business areas legislative employment equity targets within the Mining O Bursary holders – ensuring appropriate appointment of Charter targets, our focus will be on areas where we are high-potential HDSA bursary students following completion under-represented in line with the demographics of the of their tertiary studies Employment Equity (EE) Act O Experiential training – offering practical experiential O Integrating transformation and employment equity training to graduates to obtain a qualification considerations within our talent-management activities, and O Mentorship programme – upskilling individuals identified retaining key talent as far as possible, aiming for turnover of as management candidates less than 7.5% per annum O Recruiting and headhunting – if required, looking for the O Accelerating the recruitment, development and promotion of best talent through credible recruitment agencies and at designated groups into occupational levels that are undertertiary institutions. represented O Advancing the representation and role of women in mining, The recruitment and retention of highly sought-after skilled supervisory and management positions HDSAs, particularly women, is an ongoing challenge, with the O Inculcating a corporate culture and value system to advance widespread lack of skills in South Africa resulting in extreme transformation, supporting the cultural transformation competition for suitable candidates. Given the current operating strategy for the South African mining industry. challenges, our efforts remain directed towards retention and promotion. To further develop our understanding of our This year, after extensive consultation and analysis by each strengths and weaknesses in promoting diversity, we operation, we have completed and approved our next five-year commissioned consultants to undertake a diversity audit in employment equity plan for the period 2015 to 2019. We have 2015. The findings of this exercise are being incorporated into appointed employment equity managers for all our operations, our diversity management programme. and established representative employment equity forums, Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 65 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Promoting diversity and transformation Driving the advancement of women In Zimbabwe, there is no legal target set for gender equity. We have continued to place a strong emphasis on encouraging Nonetheless, we are committed to promoting gender equity at female representation at all levels of the organisation. Our all levels of the organisation, particularly at managerial level. The approach classifies women into two specific groups: women at operation aims to achieve at least a ratio of 10% of new recruits all levels, and women in mining (specifically those working in as females, specifically targeting surface engagements. underground conditions). As we progressively mechanise our mining methods, there will be greater opportunity to advance Our 2015 performance on diversity women representation in the long term. We made good progress this year in promoting equitable representation, especially at board and senior management Our employment equity transformation forums and talent level, and remain well positioned relative to our competitors. management forums have placed increased emphasis on At year end, we had achieved and in most cases exceeded identifying high-potential female candidates for placement and the charter’s targets (see table below). Due to operational promotion opportunities. There have been good levels of requirements, several management positions were put on participation this year of women within our mining training hold and not all vacant positions were filled. programmes. Representation of female mining graduates for the 2015 financial year is at 33% (total of 57), and mining At our South African operations, at year end we had diplomats increased to 67% (total of six). 146 women represented in management translating into 17% of total management. Our overall women representation remained During the year we conducted a risk assessment for women at 10.6%. As outlined earlier we have various ‘women in mining’ at the mines, and identified various issues that need to be initiatives, and women representation in mining development addressed as we seek to promote the representation of women programmes continues to improve in all mining training streams. in our mines. These included issues relating to the provision of In 2015, women comprised 32% of those who completed appropriate personal protective equipment for women, and the rock breaker qualification. We increased our targeted implementing measures to minimise any potential for sexual intake of females at entry level/novices from 10% to 15%. harassment on the mine. We established a Women in Mining Safety Forum at the Rustenburg operation, comprising At Zimplats, this year 17% of all surface engagements were management, the safety department and women women, surpassing our target of 10%. The number of women representatives from each shaft with the agreement of the three in mining is improving year on year, with females currently HSE union branch committees. During the year we also constituting 6% of the total Zimplats workforce. approved a revised policy on pregnancy. HDSA in management (South Africa) 2015 2014 Mining Mining Charter Total Charter Total target number of HDSA target number of HDSA 2014 HDSA employees/ employees/ 2013 HDSA employees/ employees/ % % members members % % members members Board 40 63 16 10 40 62 13 8 Exco 40 44 9 4 40 50 10 5 Senior management 40 40 99 40 40 39 105 41 Middle management 40 46 211 98 40 45 210 95 Junior management 40 56 425 239 40 54 434 236 Total management 51 760 391 50 772 385 HDSA excluding non-executives is 381 which represents 51% of management. Senior management representation is E levels (excluding Exco), middle management is D upper and junior management is D lower. PAGE 66 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Promoting diversity and transformation Employment equity at our South African operations Total HDSA Level Total in service employees % HDSA F – Top management 4 2 50 E – Senior management 104 42 40 D – Professionally qualified 636 337 53 C – Skilled technical 5 115 3 924 77 B/A – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making/unskilled 30 117 26 439 88 Total permanent 36 036 30 744 85 Non-permanent employees 68 65 96 Total 36 104 30 809 85 The tables below summarise the indigenous people representation at our Zimbabwean operations. Indigenous people representation at our Zimbabwe operations Mimosa Number of % indigenous Number inindigenous Level people service employees F – Top management 100 7 7 E – Senior management 100 12 12 D – Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 100 71 71 C – Skilled technical and academically qualified junior management 100 100 100 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 100 142 142 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 100 369 369 Total 100 701 701 Zimplats Number of % indigenous Number inindigenous Level people service employees F – Top management 100 4 4 E – Senior management 100 19 19 D – Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 99 83 82 C – Skilled technical and academically qualified junior management 99.9 954 953 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 100 1 557 1 557 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 100 601 601 Total 99.94 3 214 3 212 Our focus on diversity for 2016 and beyond O Continue to focus on promoting diversity in the organisation and the advancement of HDSAs and women across all operations O Graduate programmes will continue to focus on transforming the organisation while retaining talent is critical O Addressing amendments in the new charter and the provision for women representation O Continue to focus on representation of HDSAs at senior management level. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 67 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE PAGE 68 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Social capital and licence to operate Securing the trust and endorsement of communities and their traditional representatives is essential to maintaining our social licence to operate. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 69 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Social investments “Through our core activities, Implats’ operations make a significant positive contribution to socioeconomic development in both South Africa and Zimbabwe Through our core activities, Implats’ operations make a significant positive contribution to socio-economic development in both South Africa and Zimbabwe. We provide employment, skills and training for our employees, we pay taxes and royalties to governments and dividends to our shareholders when we are financially able, we purchase goods and services from local businesses, and we invest in the development and improvement of infrastructure and other social services in the communities that are home to our employees. A detailed breakdown of the economic value added throughout 2015 is provided in the following table. Value added statement 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 for the year ended 30 June Rm Rm Rm Rm Rm Revenue 32 477 29 028 29 844 27 393 33 132 Net cost of products and services (18 855) (17 091) (14 542) (13 463) (14 031) Value added by operations 13 622 11 937 15 302 13 930 18 174 Other net (expenditure)/income 903 153 (185) 1 152 581 Depreciation (8 877) (3 341) (3 332) (1 629) (1 372) Total value added 5 648 8 749 11 784 13 453 18 755 Applied as follows to: Employee benefits 10 224 7 609 8 276 6 521 6 732 Labour and other 10 414 7 378 8 374 6 894 6 783 Share-based payments (190) 231 (98) (373) (51) The state as direct taxes 1 459 706 1 080 1 109 1 897 Deferred tax (1 676) (562) 312 698 507 Royalty recipients (575) 693 674 598 901 Providers of capital (121) 666 1 008 3 731 2 881 Financing costs 355 432 375 248 190 Non-controlling interest (476) (137) 53 119 172 Dividends 0 371 580 3 364 2 519 Total value distributed 9 311 9 112 11 350 12 657 12 411 Reinvested in the Group (3 663) (363) 435 796 6 344 5 648 8 749 11 785 13 453 18 755 PAGE 70 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Social investments During 2015, we created value for our various stakeholders in the form of: Employee wages and benefits Taxation and royalties paid to government excluding PAYE R10 224 million R1 459 million Dividends paid to shareholders Payment to providers of capital Rnil R355 million Skills and training spend in South Africa Reinvestment in the Group to sustain value creation R523 million for stakeholders Skills development in Zimbabwe R4 287 million US$5.3 million Payments to suppliers and contractors In South Africa Investments in socio-economic development initiatives in our communities In South Africa R7 627 million In Zimbabwe R83 million US$441 million In Zimbabwe US$5.1 million Taxation Our tax practitioners are committed to act in accordance with Our approach to taxation sound business principles in supporting commercial decisionTax is a critical element of the overall economic contribution makers and ensuring that the business is compliant in both the we make to host governments and communities. Our tax collection and payment of taxes to governments. Tax matters contributions can play an important role in the economic are governed through the finance department and oversight is development of the countries in which we operate. The amount provided by the audit committee of the board. of tax we generate and pay to governments, and our general approach to tax and tax disclosure, are of considerable interest Tax regime developments to many of our stakeholders. We recognise government efforts to become more efficient and effective in the collection and distribution of taxes and to ensure We are committed to ensuring good tax governance. Our that the tax regime is applied in an equitable and consistent operations are required to comply with their legal obligations manner. In the year under review there were two significant tax and responsibilities in relation to their tax affairs and make such reforms in our host jurisdictions. payments as are required by law within all countries of operation. Our approach to tax supports the principles of The Government of Zimbabwe introduced a 15% export tax on transparency and proactive engagement with tax authorities, unrefined PGMs in January 2015, earlier than expected. The tax governments and other relevant stakeholders. Implats has was first proposed in 2013 and planned for implementation in supported the principles of the Extractive Industries January 2017 to give companies time to build the necessary Transparency Initiative on the disclosure of payments since smelting and refining plants. Talks between the government and 2012. the industry in Zimbabwe have been ongoing, while plans for a Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 71 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Social investments base metal refinery in Zimbabwe are being progressed. In August 2015, the Government of Zimbabwe announced the deferment of the export tax levy for another two years to 2017. Tax policy in South Africa has been subject to broad review by the Davis Tax Committee. The findings of this committee are being reviewed by the Treasury Department that falls under the Reserve Bank of South Africa. Under the leadership of the Chamber of Mines and certain professional bodies, Implats has proactively engaged with the committee and fully supports its recognition of the need to consider tax policy as part of a wider social and economic framework. Our contribution Mining is a major contributor to national economies. In recent years, however, a challenging business context, compounded by a complex labour relations environment in South Africa, increased input costs. Despite the diminishing commodity prices, there was an increase in mining revenue streams and a resultant tax contribution increase compared to previous years (10% and 27% for South Africa and Zimbabwe respectively), further demonstrating the important contribution mining makes towards gross domestic production and the fiscus. Taxes paid directly to government by category and country* South Africa Zimbabwe (Rm)** (US$m)*** Profit taxes 190 61.4 Employee PAYE 1 434 16 Royalties taxes 80 22 Total 1 704 99.4 *Reporting in line with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). ** Excludes Two Rivers. *** Excludes Mimosa. PAGE 72 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Our strategic approach to maintaining our social licence to operate “Our strategic approach to investing in socioeconomic development is premised on the belief that the long-term viability of our business is linked to the wellbeing of our neighbouring communities Our strategic approach to investing in socio-economic development is premised on the belief that the long-term viability of our business is linked to the well-being of the communities in which we operate and the areas from which many of our employees emanate. Securing the trust and endorsement of these communities and their political representatives is essential to our maintaining our social licence to operate. This year we undertook a detailed strategic assessment of how we manage and maintain our social licence to operate in the different regions and countries where we operate. Through this process we identified the following three strategic focus areas as critical in ensuring business sustainability: O Implementing social interventions in our areas of operation; O Ensuring compliance with all transformational imperatives; and O Engaging with our stakeholders to ensure responsiveness to their interests. (Refer to pages 24 and 25) Our strategic approach to social capital and licence to operate Social investments Enterprise development and preferential procurement Social Housing and living conditions interventions Strategic collaboration in research Strategic collaboration in community development Social licence Implementation of to Social and Labour Plans operate Stakeholder review and mapping Stakeholder Responding to the Mining Charter Reinforcement of engagement engagement Legal Compliance with the Broad-Based and communication structures and compliance Black Economic Empowerment Act and methods responsiveness Compliance with Relationship building indigenisation laws of Zimbabwe Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 73 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa “The sustainability of our mining activities depends on our ability to contribute to the well-being and prosperity of our mine communities The sustainability of our mining activities depends on our ability Social investment to contribute to the well-being and prosperity of our mine Our management approach to social investment communities. In South Africa, the challenging social context Our strategic approach to investing in socio-economic highlights the need for sustainable community development development initiatives focuses primarily on infrastructure, as both a commercial and social imperative. Many of our health, education, and community empowerment initiatives. operations are in rural areas characterised by low levels of The strategy aims to complement our accommodation and formal economic activity, and inadequate provision of living conditions initiatives, through the provision of schools, infrastructure and services. clinics and other amenities. Our goal is to establish infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine Social interventions communities with the focus on longer-term impacts. This strategic focus area recognises the importance of targeted social investments aimed at building sustainable local Our social programmes and investments are identified in communities. Our approach is to provide financial resources collaboration with community representatives, the local and technical expertise to ensure effective implementation of municipality and traditional authority in our areas of operation. the community projects outlined in the Social and Labour Plans These are further aligned with the municipalities’ Integrated (SLPs) for each of our operations. These SLP investments are Development Plans (IDP) for the South African operations. supported by our enterprise development and procurement Through the human resources committee, people investments practices, our significant investments in housing and living are discussed on a monthly basis, taking into account skills conditions for employees, and our collaborative research development expenditure, the team mobilisation programme initiatives. and other people-related initiatives. This is evaluated against O Our procurement strategy prioritises potential opportunities team productivity, absenteeism, skills turnover and other for promoting new entrants into the procurement space, with indicators. a particular focus on small and medium black-owned local enterprises, as well as companies owned by historically Our engagement forums consist of representatives from disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) that have benefited municipalities, communities, traditional authority, unions and from our enterprise and supplier development initiatives. management. These forums allow management to engage on O We have an advanced housing and living conditions strategy various socio-economic investments. Performance elements that seeks to promote decent living conditions for our are monitored and reported quarterly to the social ethics and employees; this includes investments in social amenities, transformation committee of the board. education, infrastructure (such as roads, bulk water and power), as well as health facilities. Most of these investments Our SLPs are a critical component of our social investment are taken in collaboration with government institutions, other activities. In March this year, the North West Regional Manager industry players and social partners in the affected regions. of the DMR granted Impala Platinum permission to proceed O Our interventions are informed by detailed research in with the implementation of the second generation five-year SLP. collaboration with other institutions. This year we completed This SLP was developed through an engagement process with two studies: a social impact assessment study undertaken in the Mine Communities Leadership Engagement Forum collaboration with the Royal Bafokeng Administration (see (MCLEF) which involves the participation of representatives from page 87), and a second study conducted through the the various mine communities at our operations, representatives Human Science Research Council (HSRC) funded by of the municipality and traditional authority. The aim is to ensure ourselves and other industry players. that the SLP addresses the developmental needs of these PAGE 74 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa communities. While there were some challenges and delays in the finalisation of the SLP, we believe that the consultation process for the second generation SLP was comprehensive and in line with the expectations of the mine communities and the DMR. Implementation of our Marula SLP has faced challenges as a consequence of fragmentation in communities. A consultation process through the local municipality and DMR is being explored in order to facilitate buy-in and speedy implementation. Our 2015 performance and achievements for social investment This year we invested R83 million in socio-economic development projects for our South Africa operations, inclusive of our SLP commitments, up from R71 million in 2014. An additional R228 million was spent on improving accommodation and living conditions of our employees (see pages 79 to 82). A detailed breakdown of our community investments is presented in the table below. A review of our progress in developing homeownership houses and promoting enterprise development is provided later in this section. South African operations socio-economic development expenditure (Rm) Programme 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Empowerment of community structures 19 20 13 17 31 Health, safety and environment 1 1 2 2 2 Education 49 21 18 15 17 Government and municipality support infrastructure 7 17 45 34 38 Sport development 3 7 10 10 11 Enterprise development 2 3 5 9 28 Community welfare, arts and culture 2 2 9 3 3 Total socio-economic development expenditure 83 71 102 90 130 Housing and living conditions 228 261 445 430 277 Total sustainable development investment 311 332 547 520 407 Our focus on social investment for 2016 and beyond O Ensure implementation of the approved SLP projects that were prioritised in consultation with Impala’s MCLEF in May 2015 for the Rustenburg operation; these include projects relating to the development and/or completion of infrastructure for schools, community centres, sporting facilities, offices, roads and storm water reticulation. O Identify additional collaborative enterprise development initiatives that bolster economic activity in our areas of operation. O Implementing our community communication plan to enhance information sharing. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 75 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Case study: Review and assessment of that are part of our supply chain. One such company, socio-economic impacts Tirafalo IT Solutions, increased its profit by Every year an external consultant (Trialogue) undertakes an 35% between 2012 and 2013 and attributes part independent review and assessment of the socioof this growth to the support it received from Aurik. O Another enterprise development project involves our economic impact of most of our social investments. During funding of Raizcorp to provide incubator services to the year under review, Trialogue visited 31 Socio-Economic 10 small local organisations that are not part of our Development (SED) projects, accounting for R57 million of supply chain. Loapi Investments, a construction and the R83 million of the 2015 financial year SED spend in maintenance services business, participated in the South Africa and US$115 013 of the 2015 financial year programme and grew its staff from just two to 35 in the Sustainable Development (SD) spend in Zimbabwe (12% of first 18 months of the programme. It also became an the total), as well as one housing project. Twelve of the Implats supplier. reviewed projects received no monetary support from O In line with the national development plan priorities and Implats during the year. These were mainly infrastructure our own skills requirements, we continue to fund a projects completed prior to the 2015 financial year and number of education projects. These projects supported visited to assess sustainability and risk. almost 5 900 lecturers, educators, learners and students with salary supplements (for university lecturers The following is a brief summary of the identified of mining-related subjects), bursaries, learnerships, contribution associated with the 32 reviewed novice training, mentorship and sports programmes. investments: O In the 2015 financial year we contributed R10 million O Our socio-economic development expenditure on the to the IBT, which was established in 2007 by the reviewed projects have benefited over 40 000 people in Royal Bafokeng Nation and ourselves to augment South Africa and close to 8 000 in Zimbabwe. Of these, the CSI commitments of both organisations. Its over 23 000 people benefited from our expenditure in health and education programmes benefited over the 2015 financial year. 8 400 children, people with HIV/Aids, early childhood O The majority of these people (around 35 000) benefited development practitioners, educators and learners from general community projects, including 20 000 in the Bojanala area. community members in Marula that benefited from O The demographic of beneficiaries shows that over projects implemented by the Marula Community Trust, 99% of the beneficiaries of the reviewed socio8 500 people from projects funded by the Impala economic development projects were black. Almost Bafokeng Trust (IBT) and 5 400 learners at eight schools 60% of these were youth (35 years of age and under), in and around Rustenburg that benefited from Implats’ making them the greatest pool of beneficiaries. school support programme. Geographically, most beneficiaries of reviewed projects O More than 12 000 people continue to benefit from (42%) were in Limpopo around our Marula operation. In infrastructure paid for by Implats in the 2015 financial addition, over 16 000 people around our Rustenburg year and the preceding five years, including a university operation and 8 000 around our Zimbabwean library in Zimbabwe, library upgrades and a new school operations benefited from our socio-economic projects. in the Eastern Cape, and new primary and secondary The remainder were in the Eastern Cape and Gauteng. schools in Sunrise View, close to our Rustenburg O The four projects reviewed in Zimbabwe included: the operation. construction of a library extension and provision of O Our flagship accommodation project, the development library facilities for a university in Zimbabwe benefiting of houses for our Impala Rustenburg and Impala 7 000 students and 896 staff at a cost of US$83 800; Springs employees, continued and in Impala Springs support of a community market gardening project in 108 new houses benefited a further 400 people, many Chegutu, with the aim of increasing the farm’s income; of whom became homeowners for the first time. and support of a women empowerment enterprise O Our enterprise development initiatives helped to create development project in Ngezi, at a cost of about or sustain around 740 jobs in small black-owned US$30 000. Zimplats also entered into an agreement companies. Some of these are part of our supplier to support a livestock commercialisation project, at a development programme, in which Aurik provides cost of US$116 000, which aims to benefit more than business skills training and mentoring to local SMEs 2 500 households in Ngezi when it is implemented. PAGE 76 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Beneﬁciaries by type of project (%) SD project rating (%) 3 26 O Communities benefiting from O Exemplary infrastructure projects O Good O Employment from ED/SMME projects 31 O Adequate O Individual beneficiaries from social O Poor 2 projects O Defective 66 72 2015 highlights Demographics of beneﬁciaries (%) O Having been suspended during the 2014 strike, our 1 17 enterprise development initiatives kicked off again and O Black male youth 32 O Black female youth are supporting small black-owned businesses around O Black male adults our operations. O Black female adults O Other O We have strengthened our relationship with Royal 18 Bafokeng Enterprise Development (RBED) and 88 of the local companies on RBED’s database are now approved 32 Implats suppliers. O We trained 108 local community members in 2015 to be rock drill or scraper winch operators through our novices Location of beneﬁciaries (%) programme. The 1 478 people that have been through 6 1 16 the programme since its inception in 2012 are all now O Eastern Cape 1 O Gauteng employed by Implats. O Limpopo O We continue to support the children of Implats’ O North West 42 O National employees who died in mining accidents by paying their O Zimbabwe 34 school fees and providing school uniforms and supplies. In 2015, 128 such children were supported. 2015 challenges O Ongoing tensions between the Marula Community Each of the 32 projects was reviewed using one of three Development Agency (MCDA) and Marula pose a templates: infrastructure, enterprise development or social significant risk. The MCDA was established as a development. The templates cover 22 criteria against community forum to liaise between Marula and which the projects are reviewed in the following categories: community members, but split up in 2012, and in 2013 use of Implats’ funds, project design, implementation, while Dikgoshi recalled their members as they felt that results, sustainability and risk. the structures were no longer representing the views of the communities. These tensions are impacting the Of the stated project objectives 50% were fully achieved, implementation of Marula’s SLP. with 45% partially achieved. Only two projects did not O There are also challenges at the Marula Community achieve one or more of their objectives – one which is Trust (MCT), which owns 9% of Marula, as the long-term dysfunctional and one which has not yet been goal of ensuring community buy-in to mining in the area implemented. The categories in which projects scored best is being compromised by lack of funds (due to the were use of funds and project design. Those with weaker unprofitability of Marula) and a community that doesn’t scores included results (often because the results are not accept the financial position of the trust. measured) and sustainability of projects. Overall 66% of the reviewed projects were rated good, 31% rated adequate and one was found to be defective. No projects were rated exemplary or poor. Recommendations for all the projects rated adequate will be taken into account so that the performance and rating can improve in the coming years. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 77 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Social return on investment of our bursary and The net present value of the lifetime earnings per learner is learnership programmes R14.9 million, while the average cost of educating a learner Implats has calculated a social return on investment (SROI) is R253 292 (adjusted for inflation). For those learners that for its SLP bursary and learnership programmes for the first graduate the SROI is thus 1:58, or R58 of social value time. SROI is a way to measure the value created by our created for every R1 spent on the programme by Implats. programmes. It does this by assigning a monetary value to Taking into account those learners that drop out, and those the programme outcomes, so that these can be compared still studying, the SROI is 1:44, an even higher and very with the investment made. satisfactory return. Bursary programme Learnerships (Rm) The calculation is based on the 27 students from the 350 Eastern Cape that participated in our bursary programme 300 between 2008 and 2014. The values provided in the 250 graphs is for total investment made for all graduates. Of 200 these students, five dropped out, 12 graduated and work at Implats, and 10 are studying, mainly mining engineering 150 and electrical engineering. 100 50 The net present value of the lifetime earnings per student 0 is R14.4 million, while the average cost of educating a student is R383 825 (adjusted for inflation). For those Lifetime earnings (all graduates) Total investment Total return students that graduate the SROI is thus 1:37, or R37 of social value created for every R1 spent on the programme by Implats. Taking into account those students who drop Assumptions and limitations out of university, and those still studying, the SROI is 1:25, O The assumed starting annual salary of bursary graduates which is an extremely high return. is R360 000 and of qualified learners is R374 000. These are based on Implats figures. Bursaries (Rm) O The working life of employed graduates and learners is 200 assumed to be 40 years (start work in early 20s and retire in early 60s). O The money earned by the graduates over their lifetime 150 (40 working years) is considered the value created by the project. The salary is assumed to increase with inflation 100 each year and the calculation does not take into account performance or promotional salary increases. 50 O Other social impacts, such as the benefits that accrue to graduates’ families (for example, better education and 0 nutrition from the money remitted), are not included in the Lifetime earnings (all graduates) Total investment Total return calculation. O The investment is made up of the sum of the amounts spent by Implats on all students and learners per year. Learnership programme This includes tuition costs, living costs, as well as book The calculation is based on the 46 learners from the and travel allowances. Eastern Cape participating in our learnership programme O It is assumed that the learners or bursars would not have between 2008 and 2014. The learners study at the a job if they had not participated in the Implats Rustenburg Training Centre and are enrolled at the programmes (ie the full salary is included in our calculation, Rustenburg Technical College to write their trade tests in rather than the difference between an Implats graduate job electrical engineering, fitter and turner, diesel mechanics and another job). and welding. Of these learners, 22 passed their trade tests and are employed at Implats, six dropped out and 18 are expected to write their trade tests in 2015 and 2016. PAGE 78 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa “We are recognised leaders in the mining industry for our contribution towards improving the accommodation and living conditions of employees Accommodation and living conditions accommodation and living conditions of our employees, and to We are recognised leaders in the mining industry for our address key challenges in attracting and retaining critical skills contribution towards improving the accommodation and living for 16, 17 and 20 shafts; and also social and labour plan conditions of employees. Through our investment in housing we compliance. The strategy included clear commitments aimed aim to create viable local communities in which employees are at promoting homeownership options, hostel conversion and able to reside with their families in a stable, healthy and secure improved living conditions for all employees. As outlined in the environment within commuting distance of their place of work table and brief performance review (page 82), we have had in line with the goals of the national development plan. some significant positive results in delivering on this strategy. We recognise, however, that substantial challenges remain in The housing projects we initiate extend into other community terms of the living conditions of some of our employees and projects, including roads, lighting, water, health, sewerage and contractors. To address these challenges, in December 2014 schools as we seek to collaborate with local government to the board approved a revised strategy. eradicate informal settlements surrounding our operations. This investment is the most significant of our contributions to the This revised housing strategy seeks to address the findings of well-being of our communities and employees. two recent studies: a social impact assessment survey completed in 2014 (page 87), and a study conducted by the Currently 24% of our employees in South Africa make use of University of North West in May 2013. These studies highlighted company accommodation in various forms, and an additional the need to provide for different types of tenures and dwellings, 12% are on the Company’s homeownership scheme. The and to reconsider the conditions of contractor employees and balance of employees utilise private accommodation. As part major contractors, with the aim of providing them with decent of our social responsibility we have completed a baseline living conditions. study within the communities in which we operate. This has assisted us in identifying those employees who are not in Our revised strategy includes the following outcomes-based decent accommodation and has informed our reviewed strategic goals: housing strategy. O Achieve collaborative relationship with government to accelerate housing delivery: We will work actively with Our strategic approach to accommodation and living government with the aim of sourcing government grants, as conditions well as either jointly developing state land that fits within our Following extensive interaction with organised labour, our housing strategy or sourcing state land for such industry peers, and other key stakeholders involved in the development. housing environment, in 2013 we adopted the following vision O Develop low cost housing rental stock: We will establish a on accommodation and living conditions: “All company joint working relationship with provincial governments, local employees should live in decent accommodation within a municipalities, the Royal Bafokeng Nation and individual land reasonable distance from work by 2020.” Our mission is to be owners to facilitate the development of community a pioneer in facilitating and promoting decent housing and living residential units or private rental stock for the low-end conditions for employees by creating a sustainable partnership market; the target market is employees who work for with organised labour, government and third parties. contractors, employees of foreign origin and employees from labour sending areas. We are currently exploring Our activities in this area have been guided by our opportunities relating to the provision of innovative low-cost, accommodation strategy that was approved by the board in flexible accommodation, principally aimed at the rental May 2007. The aim of the strategy was to improve the Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 79 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa “Implats has invested over R3,5 billion since 2007 on improving the housing and living conditions of our employees market, with the potential to make a significant positive Our 2015 performance and achievements on impact on conditions in Freedom Park informal settlement. accommodation and living conditions O Promote and facilitate home ownership: We will investigate We are proud to have been recognised by government and further opportunities for facilitating home ownership, other stakeholders for our progressive stance and leading depending on employees’ appetite for owning homes. example in implementing programmes aimed at improving the O Promote other forms of tenure: Recognising that there are housing and living conditions of mineworkers. some employees and contractors who do not wish to own homes in our neighbouring communities, we will be Since the inception of our previous housing strategy in 2008, considering opportunities relating to rental stock provided we have invested R3.5 billion on improving housing and living by reputable third parties. conditions in South Africa. Key results of this investment over O Financial well-being and indebtedness: Introduction of debt the past seven years include: consolidation is proposed as a catalyst to home ownership O Providing 2 687 units in Rustenburg, Impala Springs and for credit defaulters who have shown keen interest in our Burgersfort for home ownership programme. During the debt rehabilitation programme O Converting hostels into 5 375 single units, and 264 hostel employees should be accommodated in another form of rooms into family units secure tenure within the home ownership programme. O Upgrading 1 058 existing housing units and increasing our O Address infrastructure deficiencies collaboratively with existing portfolio by 800 units, and government: On our SLPs we have provided for the O Securing substantial portions of land at Burgersfort and development and/or improvement of basic services and Rustenburg for future development. social amenities within surrounding mine communities, in support of projects identified by communities and local We are building on this leadership position in seeking to deliver municipalities on integrated development plans (IDP). on our ambitious objectives for 2020. This year, at our South O Improve the housing conditions in communal land: We are African operations: We invested R228 million on employee investigating opportunities for providing housing financial housing (2014: R261 million). assistance for local employees who live on communal land where traditional financing is constrained due to the lack of title deeds. O Secure additional land and funding options: While we secured enough land for housing purposes, there is a need for additional land to ensure the provision of bulk services. We are exploring innovative opportunities for securing access to this land, as well as new forms of financing housing and living conditions projects in partnership with third parties. In the new SLP compiled for the five-year period 2014 to 2018, we have committed R1 billion to improving housing and living conditions over this period. PAGE 80 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Case study: Tswelopele housing development survey The Tswelopele housing development in Springs, Gauteng, consists of 108 new homes and was completed by Implats in 2013. A small sample of 29 home owners and residents was surveyed in 2015 on the quality, pricing and amenities of the housing development. Of those surveyed, 89% were first time home owners while the remaining 11% now own two properties. More than half were Implats’ employees. The majority of residents (72%) are satisfied with the building and design of their new homes. Almost all (90%) find the bond affordable and 79% of them were pleased with the price of the property, which is in keeping with our aim of providing affordable housing. Although all respondents mentioned that there were not enough leisure facilities in the area and that public transport was insufficient, 72% of them were pleased with the access to healthcare. Tswelopele has had a great impact on the lives of our employees and is appreciated by most of the owners, with 78% stating they are pleased with their purchase. Affordability, safety and security are the aspects of the housing scheme that our employees find most attractive. Employee comment: “Most people would not have qualified for these houses, it was thoughtful of them to give employees a chance to own homes. The house is affordable. The building of the house is also good.” Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 81 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Housing – South African operations, accumulative totals 2011 to 2015 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Houses built 2 817 2 415 2 122 1 749 1 640 Houses sold 2 687 2 209 1 882 1 621 1 057 Hostel rooms converted into decent single accommodation 5 375 5 375 5 375 5 375 4 858 Hostel converted into family units 264 264 264 264 198 Accommodation 6 000 5 000 Q  Houses built Q  Houses sold Q  Hostel rooms converted into decent 4 000 single accommodation Q  Hostel converted into family units 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Our accommodation and living conditions focus for 2016 We will continue to partner with government to ensure that our and beyond housing projects contribute to fully functional communities with In working towards our vision of having a majority of our all the required amenities, and that they are constructed within workforce at the mines residing in decent accommodation a broader integrated spatial development framework. We will by 2020, we will place a strong focus on the delivery of the also partner with government and the Bafokeng Nation to strategic goals outlined above. In driving out our recently provide bulk infrastructure and services to mine communities revised strategy, we have set ourselves the following in line with our own developmental needs. commitments for our South African operations over the next few years: O Complete 2 420 units at Platinum Village, and acquire the land adjacent to Platinum Village for the next phase O Upgrade basic infrastructure in Freedom Park A O Investigate the use of mobile housing units to replace informal settlements at Freedom Park and to provide decent accommodation for backyard dwellers O Develop a convenience shopping centre in Platinum Village, and provide opportunities for SMME development O Ensure the availability of social amenities. PAGE 82 Implats Sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Case study: National Research Foundation Key recommendations point to a need for: O Enhanced cooperation between stakeholders in dealing (NRF) study Following the strike at Marikana in 2012, a multi-disciplinary with social pressures in mining towns; O Undertaking a review of government policy to foster an study was commissioned with the Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) and National Research environment for development particularly with regards to Foundation (NRF), funded by the then Xstrata, Impala SLPs, migrant labour and housing issues; O Ensuring effectiveness of policy by designing and Platinum Holdings Limited and Anglo American. The study sought to identify the underlying issues that led to the implementing monitoring and evaluation measures for tragedy and to find solutions that can mitigate the risk of enforcement of non-compliance; O Aligning the policy of the DMR with the goals of the such an incident occurring again as well as finding sustainable solutions to some of the social challenges. national development plan (NDP); O Reviewing policy and practice on micro-lending and The NRF study was delayed and was only completed in debt regulation; and O Adopting a collective approach to dealing with all these November 2014. As a result, some of the findings may appear out of date in light of developments such as the issues. implementation of the President’s Framework Agreement. An important issue during the research was the lack of union cooperation in the study, as a result of which no interviews were conducted with the workforce, one of the primary role players in the study. Implats Sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 83 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa “Preferential procurement and investments in enterprise and supplier development provide important opportunities for promoting social and economic transformation in South Africa Enterprise development and procurement O Business advisory and development service: This Preferential procurement and investments in enterprise and programme helps local black entrepreneurs to grow and supplier development provide important opportunities for sustain their businesses and become part of the Implats promoting social and economic transformation in South Africa. supply chain. The aim is to develop business skills that will Their potential has been recognised in the recently revised lead to increased efficiencies, turnover and profit. Of the Broad Based Codes, where they are allocated a substantial companies selected in January 2013, 50% are still on this weighting of 40 out of 105 points. At Impala, our investment in programme and continue to be assisted by an external supporting small businesses, and targeting our procurement service provider. Two of the candidates will complete the expenditure, forms a critical part of our commitment to programme by December 2015 and the others in 2016. supporting socio-economic development in the communities Collectively up to the strike period, the original businesses in which we operate. experienced turnover growth of 20% and employment growth of 61%. Up to June 2015, the turnover of the Investing to support smalland medium-sized businesses remaining beneficiaries grew by 92% collectively while they Our enterprise and supplier development activities – which created 49 jobs since they started on the programme. focus primarily on supporting local and black-owned businesses – are designed to ensure compliance with Our enterprise development (ED) office within the supply chain regulatory expectations, contribute to socio-economic department provides a business assistance programme that development in neighbouring communities, and build a more provides support to any local and black-owned businesses robust and competitive supply chain for the Group. We work experiencing difficulties in meeting their contractual obligations. closely with the Royal Bafokeng Enterprise Development unit The department conducts a diagnostic analysis to determine in Rustenburg, and the Marula Community structures in intervention or development needs required. We then assist Burgersfort. All our initiatives are regularly evaluated to ensure these companies to implement corrective action and provide that they meet defined expectations. mentoring as required. In addition, the ED office functions as a walk-in centre to give guidance to comply with regulatory and This year, we continued to provide support to various small to Impala's procurement requirements for start-up entrepreneurs. medium local black businesses through the following principal initiatives. A review of our compliance with the enterprise and supplier O Supplier development programme: Launched in 2013, this development requirements of the BBBEE Charter is provided initiative seeks to enhance the competitiveness of 10 local on page 94. small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) and blackowned businesses that were already part of the Implats Promoting transformation through procurement supply chain. This 24-month university-accredited training Supporting local and black-owned businesses through and mentoring programme includes business-specific preferential procurement is an important part of our contribution training and bi-weekly on-site meetings with the owner/ to promoting transformation. Our approach to preferential manager. All companies completed the programme during procurement strategy focuses on addressing the following: the strike period last year. Since its inception in January O Seeking, identifying, supporting and promoting appropriate 2013, 70% of participating companies increased their historically disadvantaged suppliers through sustainable turnover, with an average turnover growth rate of more than procurement practices; 400%. A total of 33 jobs was created equating to a 13% job O Leveraging our existing supplier base to unlock local creation rate. employment opportunities, mentorship and investment in the greater value chain; PAGE 84 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa “Supporting local and black-owned businesses through preferential procurement is an important part of our contribution to promoting transformation O Nurturing an environment for partnerships and joint ventures for capital goods. On the operational costs and included in the between our existing supplier base and local entrepreneurs; cost of sales was total discretionary spend of R6.1 billion, of and which 75% was spent with suppliers having BEE ownership O Striving to improve our year-on-year BEE spend of greater than 25%. The consumables category recorded performance relative to the requirements of the Mining 77% and the services category 73% (2014: R5.5 billion, Charter, and reporting in parallel on B-BBEE performance as 72% on consumables and 72% on services). per the dti Codes of Good Practice. Although overall discretionary procurement was slightly lower Implats is continually engaging with suppliers to obtain a better (4%) than the previous year, the BEE procurement spend was understanding of black ownership structures and the increased by 6% to R5.4 billion. Included in the R5.4 billion beneficiaries thereof. Fronting risks are further mitigated by BEE procurement was R1.0 billion from 272 black-owned appointing an independent audit firm, to conduct annual suppliers (>50% ownership). Capital expenditure has reduced assessments on some of our transformed suppliers to gauge year on year in line with the slowing down on capital projects. the quality and validity of BEE information and compliance It remains a priority to increase the number of black-owned levels. Suppliers are selected randomly or handpicked where suppliers into Implats’ supply chain and for the year there were fronting is suspected through supplier engagements. 80 suppliers contributing R0.6 billion of the BEE procurement Compliance to BEE legislation is not negotiable and fronting with ownership levels between 40% and 50%. Implats actively will not be tolerated. and continuously engages with its suppliers to help them transform. This year, total South African operations’ discretionary procurement was R7.6 billion of which 72%, or R5.4 billion, Overall our performance was very good in the key Mining was from companies in which BEE ownership was greater Charter elements of capital goods, consumables and services than 25% (2014: R7.9 billion or 65%). Included in the overall against the 2015 targets (see table below). discretionary procurement spend of R7.6 billion was R1.6 billion Percentage HDSA/BEE procurement (>25%) of category’s discretionary procurement (South African operations) Mining Charter target 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 Category (%) R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % Capital* 40 0.9 60 1.1 48 1.5 42 1.6 41 2.2 57 Consumables 50 2.1 77 1.8 72 2.0 64 1.5 55 1.3 48 Services 70 2.4 73 2.2 72 2.0 60 1.7 61 1.4 59 Total operations 5.4 72 5.1 65 5.5 55 4.8 51 4.9 55 Note: Capital goods have been reported based on IFRS and Implats’ accounting policies recognition criteria for capital expenditure. Suppliers with a valid broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) certificate in the financial year under review, contributed to HDSA spend. The Implats policy stops recognising HDSA spend from a supplier if their B-BBEE certificate expired and was not replaced within a two-month period. * Capital spend has reduced in line with lower capital expenditure. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 85 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Promoting development through local have shareholding in companies outside of the tier 1 procurement geographic area. This year, we spent R2.6 billion on Enhancing procurement opportunities specifically in procurement from local tiered suppliers (all >25% BEE), neighbouring communities is an important contribution towards constituting 34% of the total discretionary procurement spend creating sustainable communities, improving community (2014: R2.0 billion or 26%). Local suppliers are classified as tier relations, and advancing local economic development. 1, 2 or 3 based on their proximity to the operations (see table below). Tier 1 suppliers are not only limited to the proximity of the mining operations, but also where local community individuals Local tiered areas classified as tiers 1, 2 and 3 Category Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Mine lease area (Bafokeng Impala Rustenburg Village) Rustenburg municipality Bojanala district Marula Platinum Mine lease area (four farms) Greater Tubatse municipality Greater Sekhukhune district Local (tiers 1, 2 and 3) HDSA procurement (>25%) as a percentage of total discretionary procurement 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Category R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % Impala Rustenburg 2 424 42 1 816 30 2 197 27 1 911 25 1 557 22 Marula Platinum 129 18 199 26 156 22 130 21 103 13 Our efforts in stimulating sustainable local procurement have Our preferential procurement, enterprise and supplier been enhanced by the positive working relationship that we development (ESD) focus for 2016 and beyond enjoy with Royal Bafokeng Enterprise Development, who Enterprise and supplier development are an integral part and an have assisted us in identifying local community suppliers enabler for preferential procurement. Investment in the that are ready to conduct business. This year, we procured development of SMMEs and black entrepreneurs form part of R498 million from 113 local community suppliers (tier 1), our organisation’s contribution to long-term transformation of up from 102 in 2014. the mining industry and the viability of the economy. For this reason, Implats will undertake the following to align itself with In addition to our direct procurement activities, we have the revised codes of good practice: encouraged some of our existing large contractors to support O Parallel to our existing ED activities, Implats will align the small tier 1 contractors, for example by appointing them as ESD strategy with the existing preferential procurement sub-contractors. We also encourage them to identify policy to address the requirements of the revised codes of opportunities to fill any vacancies with youth members from the good practice, aiming for implementation across the South local community. As part of our drive to support local job African operations. creation, we have been successful this year in encouraging a O Increased focus on developing a localised supplier base to number of our suppliers to commit to moving part of their positively impact employment and economic activity at our manufacturing process closer to the mine lease area. various South African operations while satisfying B-BBEE and Mining Charter requirements. During this year some significant localisation initiatives were O Make an impact on black-owned and black women-owned concluded. This resulted in: spend through broadening the supply base and spend shift O The establishment of joint venture agreements with local strategy. entrepreneurs from the local community areas holding significant amounts of shares in the newly incorporated Through focusing on the above objectives, Implats will companies. proactively implement the revised codes and be well positioned O Existing large contractors to support small tier 1 contractors, to conform to the anticipated DMR Mining Charter alignment appointing them as sub-contractors. with the revised codes. O Existing contractors committing to fill vacancies with youth members from the local communities. O Suppliers committing to moving part of their manufacturing processes closer to the mine lease area. PAGE 86 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Collaborative research case study: Social impact assessment study In October 2013 we commissioned a social impact assessment for our Rustenburg operation. From the onset Implats acknowledges the positive impact of mining in stimulating economic growth and job creation. At the same time there is an acknowledgment of the negative factors that can arise as a consequence of in-migration that increase social pressures due to increased competition for limited resources. While the study covered all surrounding villages at the operations, the focus was on 14 immediate villages directly impacted by the operations as well as one informal settlement – Freedom Park. The aim of the study was to: acceptable, given that the national census of 2011 had O Obtain a global view of developments that have an uncounted rate of 16%. occurred in the areas of operation over the last 10 years, O The study did not include non-Bafokeng areas such as and begin to understand the social trends that are other informal settlements surrounding the Bafokeng influenced by mining activities. villages and land owned by other private entities. This O Determine a historical base from which the organisation thus had an impact on the demographic count in will be able to monitor, evaluate and track the impacts of comparison to the 2011 census. future interventions and to take lessons where relevant O These limitations may have understated real growth in that will inform future interventions. population as non-Bafokeng areas were not covered. O Identify potential risks in current and future areas of operation and determine strategies to turn such risks This study was carried out in three phases: a desk-top into opportunities. These need to take into account analysis completed in November 2013 that compared the areas in which mining will decline and those areas where 2001 and 2011 census findings; a house-to-house survey new operations will start, aligned to a clear time horizon. in the 29 Royal Bafokeng villages completed in June 2014; O Find areas for strategic collaboration with key and a similar survey in the Freedom Park formal and stakeholders on future interventions and to develop informal settlements completed in September 2014. a holistic corporate strategy. Using the census data for 2001 to 2011, the main Limitations of the study: indicators analysed were basic demographics, access to O The strike had an impact on the intermittent availability basic services, educational levels, employment and of migrant workers in the communities, particularly those income, and future shaft closures and the opening of new who work for mining companies and auxiliary industries ones. The study also assisted in identifying the number of during field work, and hence revisits had to be Impala mine workers who may be living in vulnerable conducted where people were not available. conditions. O The study coincided with the national elections, a period dominated by electioneering. This impacted, to some The study confirmed the benefits of mining by way of job extent, the willingness by some of the households to creation, economic activity and community investment participate. Refusals to participate in the census, made by mining companies. However, this invariably acts especially mining households, were at 19% for Freedom as a drawcard for in-migration. Park and 15% for RBN villages. This is statistically Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 87 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Social impact assessment study continued 2001 2011 ! Monakato ! Monakato ! Kopman Tantanana ! Kopman Tantanana ! ! Maile B Maile B ! ! ! Chaneng ! Chaneng ¸ ¸ ! Mamerotse ! Mamerotse Maile C ! Maile C ! Mafenya ! Robega ¸ ¸ Mafenya ! Robega ¸ ¸ ¸ ! Maile A ! Tsitsing B ¸ ! Maile A ! Tsitsing B Rasimone ¸ Rasimone / Bala ¸ ¸ ¸ ! ! Tsitsing Tsitsing ! Tlaseng ! Tlaseng ¸ ¸ ¸ ¸ ! ! Mogono Mogono ¸ ¸ ! ! Mogajane Mogajane ¸ ! ¸ ! ¸ ! Luka ¸ ¸ ! Luka ¸ Lesung Lesung ¸ ¸ ! ! Serutube ¸ ¸ Serutube ¸ ! Lekgalong ¸ ! Lekgalong ¸ ¸ ! ! ¸ ! Mafika ! Mosonthal ¸ ! Mafika ! Mosonthal ¸ ¸ Freedom Park Mabitse ! Setlhokwe Mabitse ! Freedom Park ! Phokeng ¸¸ ! ¸ ! Kanana Lekojaneng ! ! Rankelenyane Phokeng ¸¸ ! ¸ Phetwane ! ! ! Radintsha Lekojaneng ! ! Rankelenyane ! ! ! Kanana ! Meriting Thabaneng Meriting ! Radintsha Thabaneng ¸ ¸ ! ! ! Bobuampja Meriting x1 Bobuampja ! ! ! Meriting x1 ! Matalaneng Kgale ! Tlapa Kgale ! Tlapa ! ! Legend Lefargatlhe ! ! Lefargatlhe Leloreng Leloreng Status of Implats Shafts ! ! ¸ 2013 ¸ ! Thekwane ! Thekwane Closing within 5yrs Mfidikwe Mfidikwe ¸ Closed ! ! ¸ Proposed ! Photsaneng Photsaneng ! Nkaneng Nkaneng Villages of Interest to Implats ! ! RBN Administrative Boundary RBN Exclusion Zones Total Population 0.0 1000.0 1000.1 2000.0 2000.1 4000.0 4000.1 8000.0 0 2.5 5 10 15 20 8000.1 17500.0 Kilometres The following is a summary of some of the key findings O All of the villages near the Impala operation have shown of the study an increase in the employed adult population. The only General population village that has shown a decline is Serutube. O Overall the population in the surveyed area has O The proportion of formal housing has increased by 10%, increased by 3.3% year-on-year between 2011 and informal dwellings have increased by 15% and backyard 2014, mainly as a result of in-migration. This has been dwellings have decreased by 21%. accompanied by a significant increase in population O Households with no sanitation declined by 11% from density, especially near the mine shafts. 14% in 2001 to 3% in 2011, while the number of O The in-migration of more males has resulted in an households with flush toilets increased by 19% from increase in the male-to-female ratio, as well as a 12.7% to 31.7%. significant increase in the economically active age O The majority of households in the RBN have access to population. electricity for lighting, cooking and heating. Access to O In 2014, an estimated 22% of household heads were electricity has improved from 64.6% in 2001 to 84.4% unemployed in the RBN villages and Freedom Park, in 2011. which can be used as a proxy to estimate the level of O The population of Freedom Park has grown from unemployment. The higher levels of unemployment may approximately 6 000 in 2001 to close to 25 000 in 2014 be attributed to increased in-migration, as well as the – faster than other villages immediately surrounding the fact that the census was conducted in the strike period. Impala operation. This is illustrative of in-migration. PAGE 88 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – South Africa Key interventions Impala mining area population growth Informed by the study, we have identified the following 90 000 3.6% p.a issues to be addressed as part of our socio-economic 60 000 development strategy. O Our housing strategy needs to further reduce the 30 000 25% p.a number of employees living in informal dwellings and 0 shacks. Provision also needs to be made for the 2001 2011 2014 increase in demand for rental rather than owned Q Mining area Q Informal settlement accommodation. This study has informed the review of our housing strategy (page 79). O The significant number of contractor employees living in Mining households informal accommodation and shacks needs to be O There are approximately 50 000 people who work for addressed as part of our contractor management mining companies and associated industry within the strategy as this poses a material risk to employees and RBN and Freedom Park area. to the business. O Within the RBN villages, approximately 40% (16 000) O The in-migration of women and children indicates a miners live in formal housing, 35% (14 000) are in back need to address social constraints regarding health and yards, 18% (7 000) in informal dwellings or shacks; in education, and to this end Impala has continued to the Freedom Park area a larger percentage is in formal invest in education and health (page 75). housing (5 000), mainly in Reconstruction and O Addressing the various challenges will need to be done Development Programme (RDP) housing and villages. in collaboration with our social partners, the Royal The balance can be found in informal settlements. Bafokeng Administration (RBA) and the Rustenburg O Of the approximately 27 000 Impala employees local municipality (page 74). identified, approximately 9 900 were found in Freedom O The possibility of additional research work in Park, with 17 000 in RBN villages. Approximately 55% collaboration with an academic institution on this initial of the permanent employees in the RBN villages and data gathered is to be explored, which will inform our Freedom Park live in formal housing, while the balance socio-economic development strategies further. live in backyards and shacks. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 89 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance “Responding to the Mining Charter Implats seeks to comply with or exceed all elements of the Mining Charter. Our transformation strategy is informed by the seven elements of the Mining Charter with housing and living conditions playing a pivotal role in five of these elements. We leverage each element of the Mining Charter in terms of our business performance and therefore increase our value creation potential. PAGE 90 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Mining Charter in South Africa In Zimbabwe we remain committed and supportive of the We have continued to deliver on our commitments made in the country’s indigenisation laws. We have advanced discussions SLPs for each of our operations. We have participated in the with government on the ESOT. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Mining Charter assessment conducted by the DMR in 2015 is now analysing the proposals. Engagement with government on the remaining aspects of the Indigenisation Implementation and have been assessed as compliant (pages 92 and 93). Plan (IIP) continues. This year we obtained our first broad-based black economic empowerment verification certificate for the Group and its During the financial year Mimosa made an additional subsidiaries (page 94). US$2 million payment towards the community trusts, bringing the total contribution to US$6 million. The dispute between the In December 2014 Implats concluded an equity transaction for Zvishavane Community Share Ownership Trust (ZCSOT) and the benefit of qualifying employees of the subsidiary company, Mberengwa Community Share Ownership Trust (MCSOT) led Impala Platinum Limited (Impala). In terms of this transaction, to a resolution that mandated payment of the US$10 million the newly formed Impala Employee Share Ownership Trust originally payable to the ZCSOT alone to be shared with the (ESOT) subscribed for new Impala shares, comprising 4% of MCSOT. The claim for the share by MCSOT was based on the Impala’s share capital. The Implats board of directors position that 798 hectares of the 6 591 hectares occupied by approved the provision by Implats of a loan of approximately the Mimosa Mine lease are in Mberengwa. The apportionment R1.1 billion to the trust to enable the trust to subscribe for the of the US$10 million would be on a 70% – 30% basis to trust shares. This transaction provides a meaningful way of ZCSOT and MCSOT, ie US$7 million and US$3 million aligning employees’ interests with the future profitability of respectively. Impala, while also increasing the ownership of HDSAs to well above the 26% level. Government continues to maintain pressure for the release of the additional funds to the community trusts. Indigenisation in Zimbabwe Government has, in line with the pronouncements made on the Our focus for 2016 and beyond In the forthcoming year we shall focus on the following areas: 2015 national budget, amended the Indigenisation and O Participating in the review of the Mining Charter and seeking Economic Empowerment Act to include the role to be played alignment with the Broad-Based Black Economic by relevant sectoral ministries. The rationale behind the Empowerment Act and Codes of Good Practice inclusion of the sectoral ministries is that special circumstances O Working towards compliance to the new B-BBEE Codes prevailing in each sector will be taken into account, rather than O Implementation of our approved SLPs in South Africa; adopting a ‘one size fits all’ approach. O Meeting the objectives of the President's Framework Agreement and the National Development Plan (NDP). According to the gazetted amendments, business are to O Advancing the implementation of the Community Share submit indigenisation implementation plans for approval to Ownership Trust and Employees Share Ownership Trust as the respective ministries, who in turn will conduct an part of the Indigenisation Plan indigenisation and empowerment assessment rating. When the O Continue to play a leading role in the Chamber of Mines, assessment has been made, the minister will, at the written helping to ensure that it lobbies on key issues and for a request of the business, issue a certificate of compliance to the business within 14 working days. The minister will then consistent and stable regulatory environment. transmit a copy to the National Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Board for inclusion in the register. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 91 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Responding to the mining charter Implats seeks to comply with or exceed all elements of the Mining Charter. Our transformation strategy is informed by the seven elements of the Mining Charter with housing and living conditions playing a pivotal role in five of these elements. We leverage each element of the Mining Charter in terms of our business performance and therefore increase our value creation potential. IMPALA PLATINUM Total score: 98.15% Progress (calendar Target for year year Achieved Element Description Measure ended 2014 2014) Weighting score Reporting Has the company reported a level Documentary proof of Annually Yes Yes/No Yes of compliance for the calendar receipt from year Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) Ownership Minimum target for effective Meaningful economic 26% 30.4% Yes/No Yes HDSA ownership participation Housing and Conversion and upgrading of Percentage reduction Occupancy rate 100% Yes/No Yes living hostels to attain the occupancy of occupancy rate of one person conditions rate of one person per room towards 2014 target per room Conversion and upgrading of Percentage Family units 100% Yes/No Yes hostels into family units conversion of hostels established into family units Procurement Procurement spent from BEE Capital goods 40% 43.4% 5% 5.0% and entities Services 70% 72.3% 5% 5.0% enterprise Consumables 50% 71.8% 2% 2.0% development Multinational suppliers’ Annual spend on 0.5% of 35.2% 3% 3.0% contribution to social fund procurement from procurement multinational value suppliers Employment Diversification of the workforce to Top management 40% 66.7% 3% 3.0% equity reflect the country's (Board) demographics to attain Senior management 40% 50.0% 4% 4.0% competitiveness (Exco) Middle management 40% 39.0% 3% 2.9% Junior management 40% 51.3% 1% 1.0% Core skills 40% 74.6% 5% 5.0% Human Development of requisite skills, HRD spend as 5% 6.8% 25% 25.0% resources including support for South percentage of total development African-based R&D initiatives annual payroll intended to develop solutions in (excluding mandatory exploration, mining, processing, skills development technology efficiency (energy and levy) water use in mining), beneficiation as well as environmental conservation Mine Conduct ethnographic community Implement approved Up to date 98.2% 15% 14.7% community consultative and collaborative community projects project development processes to delineate community implementation needs analysis Sustainable Improvement of the industry’s Implementation of 100% 87.5% 12% 10.5% development environmental management approved EMPs and growth Improvement of the industry’s Implementation of the 100% 100% 12% 12.0% mine health and safety tripartite action plan performance on health and safety Utilisation of South African-based Percentage of 100% 100% 5% 5.0% research facilities for analysis of samples in South samples across the mining value African facilities PAGE 92 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance MARULA PLATINUM Total score: 93.75% Progress (calendar Target for year year Achieved Element Description Measure ended 2014 2014) Weighting score Reporting Has the company reported a level Documentary proof of Annually Yes Yes/No Yes of compliance for the calendar receipt from year Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) Ownership Minimum target for effective Meaningful economic 26% 27.0% Yes/No Yes HDSA ownership participation Housing and Conversion and upgrading of Percentage reduction Occupancy rate 100% Yes/No Yes living hostels to attain the occupancy of occupancy rate of one person conditions rate of one person per room towards 2014 target per room Conversion and upgrading of Percentage Family units 100% Yes/No Yes hostels into family units conversion of hostels established into family units Procurement Procurement spent from BEE Capital goods 40% 68.3% 5% 5.0% and entities Services 70% 70.6% 5% 5.0% enterprise Consumables 50% 72.2% 2% 2.0% development Multinational suppliers’ Annual spend on 0.5% of 28.4% 3% 3.0% contribution to social fund procurement from procurement multinational value suppliers Employment Diversification of the workforce to Top management 40% 71.4% 3% 3.0% equity reflect the country's (Board) demographics to attain Senior management 40% 50.0% 4% 4.0% competitiveness (Exco) Middle management 40% 50.0% 3% 3.0% Junior management 40% 66.0% 1% 1.0% Core skills 40% 75.5% 5% 5.0% Human Development of requisite skills, HRD spend as 5% 6.9% 25% 25.0% resources including support for South percentage of total development African-based R&D initiatives annual payroll intended to develop solutions in (excluding mandatory exploration, mining, processing, skills development technology efficiency (energy and levy) water use in mining), beneficiation as well as environmental conservation Mine Conduct ethnographic community Implement approved Up to date 58.3% 15% 8.8% community consultative and collaborative community projects project development processes to delineate community implementation needs analysis Sustainable Improvement of the industry’s Implementation of 100% 100% 12% 12.0% development environmental management approved EMPs and growth Improvement of the industry’s Implementation of the 100% 100% 12% 12.0% mine health and safety tripartite action plan performance on health and safety Utilisation of South African-based Percentage of 100% 100% 5% 5.0% research facilities for analysis of samples in South samples across the mining value African facilities Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 93 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Broad-based black economic empowerment O Enterprise and supplier development: One of the key The B-BBEE Act of 2003 was amended in 2013 and the changes in the codes is the increased weighting for supporting codes came into effect in May 2015. Earlier this enterprise and supplier development, and the focus on year we completed a verification process under the old codes monetary expenditure for developing black suppliers and for Implats and its subsidiaries, and identified key gaps, procuring from them. There are also increased targets for opportunities and the potential score under the new codes. The procuring from >51% black-owned companies and black comparison of the results with those in the 2012 gap analysis women-owned entities. While Implats scores well for overall shows that there had been major improvements in all elements BEE procurement (4.99 out of 5 points), a detailed with a minimum of one level increase in the different entities. assessment of our procurement expenditure highlights the The new codes, however, demand a major leap in our need to increase procurement from black-owned companies approach to transformation, requiring a clear strategic change and black women-owned companies. There will be a need particularly in those elements where there are serious also to increase our expenditure in terms of supplier challenges in priority elements. The verification outcome places development and enterprise development. the Group at level 3 and our subsidiaries Impala Platinum and O Socio-economic development (SED): While the Group Marula Platinum were at level 2 and level 4 respectively. has performed well under this element, there is an opportunity to improve the link between our SED The following areas have been identified as priorities: investments and supplier development aimed at driving O Management control and employment equity: The new transformation in communities. codes give impetus to the representation of black people at executive board level and further recognition for black female Our next verification process will be under the new codes and participation both at executive board and management level. is planned for March 2016. While both our subsidiaries score well on board executive representation and executive management, the Company Details of Implats’ B-BBEE scorecard can be found at falls short at the Exco level in terms of representation of www.implats.co.za. black executives and female executives. Representation of black females remains an opportunity for improvement across all levels and entities. O Skills development: We need to review elements of our skills development expenditure focusing on those programmes that will result in skills acquisition and that can lead to appropriate credits. PAGE 94 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Responding to the President’s Framework Agreement Context and commitments The framework In signing the FA, Implats agreement commits to: Our contribution in 2015 Building a O Acting in a fair and impartial manner A code of conduct has been developed and leadership relationship-building relationship among in dealing with trade unions and exercises have been completed with union and management at most of our stakeholders based acting swiftly where these principles shafts; this process will be completed in 2016 on trust are violated and respect O Working with government and The Company interdicts against any unapproved mass meetings or picketing labour to identify and address areas. Future forums, as well as employee relations structures and regular factors behind workplace conflict meetings, assist in resolving issues in order to prevent marches. There were O Improve internal security measures no employee-related marches in the period under review and consistently implement them at the workplace Mining companies work closely with security to prevent intimidation, and to O Negotiate in the workplace and ensure ethical behaviour. The Recognition Agreement signed with unions at industry in ways that support Impala last year lowered thresholds in a number of areas in an attempt to long-term development and address the issue of majoritarianism constructive peaceful labour Following the Marikana massacre in 2012, Implats co-sponsored a multirelations disciplinary study in collaboration with the National Research Foundation (NRF) and the Human Science Research Council (HSRC) (page 83) to identify the underlying issues that led to the tragedy and to find solutions that can mitigate the risk of such an incident occurring again and address some of the social challenges. Initiatives are under way to support the recommendations of the study; this includes reviewing community engagement structures to ensure broader stakeholder representation, as well as engagement at different levels between the community and operations Strengthening O Respect the rule of law and the O The envisioned structures required in terms of the recognition agreement with labour relations legal framework in labour relations unions are in place and functioning: the industrial relations climate has matters stabilised O When taking decisions, to take O Union membership verification and processing of union membership stop account of both the broader orders against the Company’s payroll is conducted in accordance with the context in South Africa (in particular Labour Relations Act (LRA) the need to reduce poverty, O New recognition agreements were signed this year at Marula mining inequality and unemployment), as operations and Impala Springs well as the interests of investors O We continue to invest in improving the quality of the relationships that we O Respect agreements and legal have with employees, unions, government and local communities obligations O We implement initiatives aimed at ensuring more effective solutions for O Contribute to create cordial working in a multi-union environment, and a more open system where all relations between unions in the employees are recognised and respected as equals, based on a culture of sector trust, respect and care O Follow proper labour relations O Implats is consulting labour experts to help in the identification of underlying procedures workplace conflict issues (page 63) O Work with labour to fast-track resolution of disputes O The development of a prenegotiations framework O Recognise and respect cultural diversity in the workplace Ensure the rule of O Properly adhere to laws, regulations O The Chamber of Mines (the Chamber) continues to play a very active role in law, peace and and charters governing the sector engaging with the security, crime prevention and criminal justice cluster stability and consistently apply their policies through the national joint operations command (NATJOC). Companies and respect agreements participate through the provincial joint operations command (PROVJOCs) and O Take measures to protect staff NATJOC (including information sharing) members from violence and O Implats’ security maintained improved visibility in traditional safety hotspots, intimidation and to ensure that and reaction units remain on high alert to quell any unrest that may erupt security personnel act in O Security management on the mine work closely with the SAPS accordance with the law at all times O Security plans were developed jointly with the mine and SAPS and are O Avoid acting in a manner that reviewed regularly to manage possible incidences of unrest provokes or raises tensions in the O There were no reports of weapons carrying, or serious violence and workplace intimidation in the period under review O Participate in the Mine Crime O Strategic relationships have been developed with the Phokeng, Boitekong Combating Forum (MCCF) and public order policing forum O Take all legal steps against O Operations play an integral part in the mine MCCFs established in lease areas unprotected labour actions to gain intelligence on any potential security-related issues. Lack of AMCU O Work with government and labour participation in MCCFs remains a concern in developing protocols for security O An initial exercise on the voluntary principles on security and human rights and law enforcement (VPSHR) was conducted at Impala Springs and Zimplats. The exercise at O Where possible, inform police of all Impala Rustenburg will be completed in 2016. In view of recent xenophobic planned and unplanned strikes and violence, the adherence to the VPSHR is viewed as a critical step by protests management Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 95 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Responding to the President’s Framework Agreement continued Context and commitments The framework In signing the FA, Implats agreement commits to: Our contribution in 2015 Improve living O Accelerating the implementation of O A total of R228 million was expended on employee housing (2014: R261 million) conditions human settlement interventions O Implats continues to participate in the Chamber’s task teams, and to work O Assisting with resources and through SLPs and the Mining Charter to improve living conditions and technical support for upgrading address housing issues human settlements around mining O Implats conducted a social impact assessment of the living whereabouts and towns within the context of conditions of its employees. The findings informed the development of a new regulatory requirements and housing strategy, approved in December 2014. Key focus areas are rental additional voluntary contributions stock and house ownership, mobile units for back dwellers and upgrading communal facilities (page 79) O Consultation is ongoing with social partners, the Royal Bafokeng Administration (RBA) and Rustenburg local municipality, to get buy-in on the new approach (page 79) O A meeting was held with the RBA to earmark a portion of land in Freedom Park and land portions were subsequently shortlisted O The development of our second home-ownership flagship project, the Platinum Village in Rustenburg, has progressed well. In the 2015 financial year, R40 million was expended in completing the project’s Phase 1 construction of 557 houses. Phase 2 will entail the construction of 555 houses. The R1 billion development project has a final target of 2 420 units, to be completed over the next two years. Consistent with government’s vision of integrated human settlements, Implats is developing a Platinum Village schools project O At our Marula operation, the R58 million project to construct a target 122 units for employees was completed on schedule in December 2014 Assist workers with O Empower employees to be able to O Financial literacy is addressed as part of the Implats team mobilisation and financial literacy adequately manage their financial ex leave induction training and financial affairs O In 2015, 433 employees were enrolled for ABET, which provides for basic planning O Find sustainable solutions to numeracy skills employee indebtedness and guard O Implats employs an experienced former sheriff of the court to assist in against unscrupulous micro identifying and curbing fraudulent garnishee orders. Auditing of garnishee lenders. orders is ongoing. In instances where breaches of the rules relating to judgments O Inform individual employees upon and emoluments attachment are identified, court proceedings are instituted receipt of emolument garnishee O In general, the number of garnishee orders has reduced and maintenance orders orders and administration orders have stabilised O We are also implementing a campaign to explain employee payslips O Payroll officials monitor the indebtedness status of employees and trends; employees with excessive debt are referred to financial advisers (Careways), who also provide debt counselling and debt consolidation services (page 64) O A tax workshop facilitated by SARS was held and attended by union leadership O The Company continues to participate in efforts to tackle unscrupulous lenders. All unscrupulous lenders are removed from hostels and mine property. The Chamber has an internal task team on employee indebtedness and promoting financial literacy training which we participated in (page 17) O In line with the Implats vision of respect and care and Implats’ support of the Presidential Framework for a Sustainable Mining Industry, we undertook an investigation of the impact of the unsecured lending market on our employees at the Impala Rustenburg operation. Our investigations alerted us to the debilitating effect of Emolument Attachment Orders (EAOs) in terms whereof micro lenders obtain direct monthly deductions from employees’ salaries. We investigated the legality of the EAOs concerned and determined that legal actions were warranted. An urgent court application was launched in October 2014, which immediately stayed the EAOs and their resulting consequences. The outcome of the litigation of 14 August 2015 was that 40 of our employees’ debt judgments and resultant EAOs will be rescinded by the money lenders via the court process and the employees who paid money to the moneylenders will be refunded. The moneylenders will also abandon the debt of some 330 more employees with existing EAOs. Additional human resources are employed in the payroll department to stress test all EAOs being sought to be pursued for adherence to all the relevant legislation and the much publicised recent High Court judgment in the Western Cape on the enforceability of EAOs. In parallel with the successful court procedure and further to the already existing in-house financial literacy training of employees. Impala has further implemented debt counselling services for the benefit of employees through Careways. We embarked on the “Dikoloto” (be aware, be wise, be free) financial information and education campaign focusing on responsible personal financial management and lastly the task team established in terms of the 2013 wage agreements is currently investigating bringing in responsible debt consolidation providers to further assist employees. PAGE 96 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Responding to the President’s Framework Agreement continued Context and commitments The framework In signing the FA, Implats agreement commits to: Our contribution in 2015 Reaching optimal O Accelerate progress in Implats has continued to focus on transformation. Our performance against the levels of transformation, including the areas Mining Charter is as outlined on pages 92 and 93 in this report transformation of ownership, procurement, employment, beneficiation, human resource development, as well as health and safety in line with the targets set out in the Mining Charter O Review its long-term strategy and support initiatives for restructuring, reskilling to achieve competitiveness, sustainable growth and transformation Transform the O Improve socio-economic conditions O Implats participates in the task team spearheaded by the Department of migrant labour in labour sending areas Performance, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME) – a multi-stakeholder system O Enforce and implement all elements committee consisting of labour, industry and government – established last and commitments of the Mining year to participate in the government driven policy review around migrant Charter labour O Ensure integration and O A consultancy appointed by the DPME conducted research pertaining to the implementation of SLPs and IDPs migrant labour system, taking into account economic, social, health, safety, in labour sending areas and mining industrial relations and mining policy areas O The final report was submitted to the DPME in February 2015. The industry has commented on the report via the Chamber. The outcomes of this process will inform policy around migrant labour O In addition to the NRF report (mentioned earlier), a baseline study (SIA) on key socio-economic indicators in Implats’ mining communities was completed this year. The findings will be shared with our social partners to see how these influence social development strategies Resolve labour O Negotiate in the workplace and O Impala works closely with unions to resolve all internal disputes through disputes as industry in ways that support dispute resolution mechanisms and within the auspices of the Commission speedily as long-term development and for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) possible in the best constructive peaceful labour O Seven task teams, including HR managers and union representatives, have interest of relations been established to address issues raised in the wage agreement. The work members and of the task team may include consultation and/or advice from third party South Africa expertise. These task teams are dealing with issues that include: – micro-loans and garnishee orders – medical separation agreements – retirement benefits and funeral cover – subcontracting, labour hire and employment agencies – job grading reviews – shareholding review – medical aid – life skills centre O Both the Impala Springs and Marula wage negotiations were completed in the year under review Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 97 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Responding to the national development plan The NDP objective Context and commitments Our contribution in 2015 Transforming the O Reducing poverty and inequality by O Our investment in employment opportunities, education, health society and uniting broadening opportunity through and infrastructure contribute to building social cohesion the country economic inclusion, education and O We are committed to promoting broad-based transformation, mutual skills development respect and mutual responsibility as evidenced by the nature of our O Promoting mutual respect initiatives presented in this report, for example employment equity, O Deepening appreciation of our mutual skills development, respect and care, preferential procurement and responsibilities housing This year we invested R83 million in socio-economic development projects for our South Africa operations, inclusive of our social and labour plan (SLP) commitments, up from R71 million in 2014. An additional R228 million was spent on improving accommodation and living conditions of our employees (see pages 75 and 80) O A detailed breakdown of our community investments is presented in the tables on page 75 An economy that O In 2030, the economy should be close O We provided more than 40 000 direct jobs in South Africa creates more jobs, is to full employment O We stimulated significant employment opportunities throughout our more inclusive and O It should equip people with the value chain with our procurement spend of R7.6 billion to suppliers that shares the fruits of necessary skills and contractors in South Africa growth more equitably O It should ensure that ownership of O Our enterprise development initiatives helped to create or sustain production is more diverse around 760 jobs in small black-owned companies O The functioning of the labour market O With our training spend of R523 million in South Africa we invested should be improved through reforms significantly in our people skills on dispute resolution O Taxation and royalties of R1 704 million in South Africa and O Small business should be supported US$99.4 million in Zimbabwe were paid to government O The detailed breakdown of the economic value added throughout 2015 is provided in the table on page 70 Building safer O People living in South Africa should feel O Implats continues to participate in various mine crime combating communities safe and have no fear of crime forums (MCCF). The MCCFs were established through the President’s O People should have confidence in the Framework Agreement. These include one in Phokeng (Rustenburg), criminal justice system and police one in Gauteng (West Rand) and one in Limpopo. Mining house service security heads are active participants. The agenda points include but O There should be greater provision for are not limited to: community participation in community – Crimes against mine and mine employees safety – Public violence – Planned marches – Intelligence regarding crime – Identification of hotspots – Profiling of individuals causing violence/destabilisers O Further details on our initiatives to ensure the rule of law, peace and stability in our communities are detailed on page 95 Improving O To grow in a more inclusive manner the O Our strategic approach to investing in socio-economic development infrastructure country needs higher levels of initiatives continues to focus primarily on infrastructure, health, investment in economic infrastructure, education, community empowerment and poverty alleviation projects as well as infrastructure that supports O The strategy aims to complement our accommodation and living human settlements conditions initiatives, through the provision of schools, clinics and other amenities. Our goal is to establish infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine communities with the focus on longer-term impacts O Our 2015 achievements for social investments are detailed on page 75 We also contribute to modernising and optimising of our mining infrastructure through our significant spend on mining research and development projects. In 2015 we invested R94 million on these mining projects PAGE 98 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Legal compliance Responding to the national development plan continued The NDP objective Context and commitments Our contribution in 2015 Reversing the spatial Settlement patterns should meet the O Our flagship investment in the well-being of our local communities effects of apartheid needs and preferences of citizens taking remains our commitment to the provision of accommodation and into account broader social, environmental improved living conditions for our people. To this end, we expended and economic interests R228 million on employee housing in South Africa and a total of 402 houses were completed and handed over to employees in South Africa O With our housing and community development projects in our areas of operation we endeavour to create viable local communities in which employees are able to reside with their families in stable, healthy and secure environments Improving education, Measures taken to address poor O We invested R523 million in skills development programmes training and innovation education and health that significantly in South Africa and providing quality reduce opportunities for a productive life O 421 employees took part in our ABET programme to ensure career healthcare and undermines the dynamism of the progression and functional literacy and numeracy South African economy O In addition to our occupational health measures we continue to address non-occupational health risks such as TB and HIV through our wellness programmes O We partnered with the Employment Bureau of Africa (TEBA) to address community health issues and contributed R1 million to healthcare in labour sending areas O We continue to support the National Health Insurance initiative through partnerships, working closely with the DoH and through the Bojanala Health Forum Fighting corruption Measures taken to address high corruption O We promote high ethical behaviour throughout our activities levels frustrate the state’s ability to deliver O We have a zero-tolerance stance on fraud and corruption, with all on its development mandate employees, business partners, contractors and associates required to conduct themselves in accordance with the Implats code of ethics and our fraud policy O Adherence to this code is facilitated by a ‘whistle-blowing’ helpline that enables the confidential reporting of alleged incidents An inclusive and South Africa’s rural communities should O Our social investment projects benefited more than 40 000 people in integral rural economy have greater opportunities to participate South Africa through investments in infrastructure, health and housing fully in the economic, social and political O Our enterprise development initiatives supported 113 local businesses life of the country through access to good (tier 1) and helped create jobs quality education, healthcare, transport and other basic services Transitioning to a The country needs a coherent plan to emit O Our energy efficiency initiatives are targeted mainly at our mining low-carbon resource less carbon, use water more sustainably, operations, as there is seen to be limited scope for further energy efficient economy and protect the oceans, soil and wildlife efficiency at our smelters and refineries. In South Africa we are working closely with Eskom, and continue to participate in various demandside management (DSM) programmes. Our longer-term strategic investments include exploring a carbon neutral fuel source for our operations, and participating in collaborative efforts to develop fuel-cell technology. In the 2015 financial year we spent R3 million on fuel-cell research O We continue to work with industry bodies and government in seeking an appropriate policy response to climate change that does not compromise the competitiveness of our sector noting both our important development contribution as well as the role of platinum group metals in the transition to a lower carbon economy O Our 2015 carbon and energy management performance is detailed on page 114 of the report Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 99 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Socio-economic impact of the strike Case study: The far-reaching socio-economic impacts of the 2014 Platinum strike The five-month strike between January and June in 2014 across the platinum belt in the greater Rustenburg area in South Africa was the longest in the history of industrial relations in the country and had a material socio-economic impact on employees, their dependants and communities as well as local businesses. Rustenburg operations were suspended throughout the O Education: Based on evidence from school principals, five-month period in order to protect the safety and security the strike had a minimal impact on most schools across of our employees who faced the risk of violence and the Bafokeng area, with the exception of the schools intimidation. The strike by the majority union Association surrounding the mines and especially those frequented of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) by mine employees' children (in the south-east region was concluded with a three-year agreement signed on such as Photsaneng and Mfidikoe). An increase in levels 24 June 2014. of absenteeism is principally attributed to families leaving the area temporarily or a lack of affordability for Mineworkers are a major source of income in the Royal transport. Transport costs were likely to have affected Bafokeng Nation (RBN) villages; it is estimated that high school learners who attend schools further away approximately 29% of the 50 000 households* in RBN from home. Most RBN schools are non-fee schools include mine employees. The lack of income during the therefore school fees were not a factor affecting strike had a significant impact on household nutrition, attendance. Many early childhood development (ECD) health, education, local business income, rental income centres and crèches were suspended during the strike and general security in the RBN, informal settlements and owing to parents being unable to pay fees. While many other surrounding communities. are likely to have reopened following the resolution of the strike, the children will have been out of care for The Royal Bafokeng Administration (RBA) conducted an several months, increasing the burden of care on assessment of the far-reaching impact of the strike on especially female family members and exposing small communities affected. The review identified some of the children to the strike-related stresses in families. following primary social and economic impacts during and O Safety and security: The RBN’s Protective Services Unit following the strike: collates statistics on all crimes to which it responds. An overall reduction in crime in the RBN area was observed Social impacts during the strike period, as compared to the same O Social welfare: Welfare issues impacted by the strike period in 2013. It is unclear whether this is related to the included in particular an increase in the number of strike or simply a continuation of a longer-term trend in children left alone while their mothers went in search of reduced crime incidents based on the effectiveness of food and income. Tapologo Hospice for orphans and the protective services visible policing strategy. However, vulnerable children in Phokeng village, which is specific types of crime increased during the strike supported by Impala through the Impala Bafokeng Trust months, all of which are likely to have had a direct (IBT), experienced an increase in afternoon daily feeding. relationship to the strike. Copper cable theft increased The orphans and vulnerable children centres considerably during the duration of the strike – in the experienced a 163% increase in daily afternoon feeding RBN area and the greater Rustenburg area. Mine shafts compared to the same period the previous year, and a that were quiet during the strike were targeted by 280% increase between January and June 2014. This groups of copper cable thieves who stole large indicates the significant impact the strike had on the quantities of copper cable from underground. Impala availability of food in mining households and those Rustenburg replaced approximately R49 million worth dependent on household income generated by the of electrical cables in order to resume the operation of industry in various forms. some shafts. Copper cable theft from Eskom lines in *Households – individuals who live together under one roof and eat from the same pot. PAGE 100 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Socio-economic impact of the strike residential RBN villages also increased. Levels of violent O Micro-lenders and unscrupulous lenders crime, including arson, assault with grievous bodily harm (Mashonisas): Anecdotal evidence suggests that and murder, were observed to have increased during informal and small-scale money lenders largely went out the strike action. These mostly occurred in the southof business as a result of the protracted strike. This eastern and northern RBN regions, close to the mining includes individual informal ‘mashonisas’ as well as cash areas, and were part of violent intimidation tactics loan and pawn shops in RBN villages. It is likely that between striking and (perceived) non-striking mine such businesses were very active in the early months of workers. the strike but then could not collect on their lendings and therefore went out of business. Further research is Economic impacts needed to determine the extent to which ‘loan sharks’ O Local business revenues: During the strike, the returned once the strike ended, and the impact of their force majeure declared by mining houses resulted in activities on mine workers’ back-to-work payments, contractual obligations being unfulfilled towards certain their first monthly payments and their health and safety service providers; consequently some existing in cases of non-repayment. contractors were not paid and there were no new contracts. Virtually all other businesses in the area, from During the strike the principle of no-work-no-pay was mining input manufacturers to the hospitality industry to applied. As a consequence the housing bonds of informal convenience shops, suffered reduced turnover employees on the Company’s home ownership scheme of between 50% and 80%. Many small businesses were affected. The Company paid these bonds throughout retrenched staff, or closed. Some small businesses the period in order to assist affected striking employees. survived by diversifying their client base beyond the Rustenburg area however, a reduction in local economic The strike and its impact brought into sharp focus the need diversity is expected in the medium term. While for an integrated and collaborative approach to addressing employees of the mines returned to work after the social challenges that exist in communities. We continue to strike, the employees of defunct small businesses may work actively with our industry partners, government, union have not at the time. leaders and other stakeholders to find long-lasting solutions. O Rental income: The RBA data indicates that Impala employees account for approximately 4 000 rental households in the Bafokeng villages. According to anecdotal evidence, most mining households could not afford to pay their rent by the second month of the strike. However, landlords did not evict their tenants for non-payment, in anticipation of future rental income. If the average rental income is conservatively estimated to be R350 (based on a housing market study conducted by the RBA), the rental income lost during the fivemonth period was approximately R7 million. This would exclude those working in support industries who would have also been affected. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 101 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – Zimbabwe “Developing partnerships with our neighbouring communities is one of Zimplats’ top strategic objectives Social investment Our 2015 performance and achievements for social Zimplats investment Our management approach to social investment The Zimbabwe operations’ social investment increased by Developing partnerships with our neighbouring communities is 8% from US$4.9 million in 2014 to US$5.3 million this one of Zimplats’ top strategic objectives. We have developed year. A detailed breakdown of our community investments is and are implementing a community development plan that presented in the tables on pages 103 and 105. Following is seeks to address some of our neighbouring communities’ a brief summary of the identified contribution associated with expectations and developmental priorities. These priorities the US$974 000 worth of investments reviewed in 2015: have been identified through perception and baseline studies, O Herd development project: We launched a three-year as well as quarterly stakeholder meetings with community community herd development project that will benefit representatives, leaders and local chiefs. communities in two wards adjacent to Zimplats’ operations in Ngezi. The project aims to improve genetics and herd Informed by these interactions, our community development health and ultimately to contribute towards household plan focuses on education, health and income generating nutrition and income generation. Current investment in this projects, with the aim of narrowing the gap in terms of project is US$58 000 community expectations relating to development needs such O Library extension: Zimplats has constructed an extension as clinics, agricultural activity, employment, construction of to the library at Chinhoyi University of Technology. The secondary and primary schools, clean water and sanitation, university has more than 7 000 students. The project scope and food security. Through effective implementation of the plan comprised infrastructural extension to an existing library and we seek to further improve the level of communication and provision of furniture at a cost of US$83 800. neighbourliness between Zimplats and our surrounding communities. The Zimplats Mhondoro Ngezi Chegutu Zvimba Community Share Ownership Trust was established in October 2011 as Dialogue with government is currently ongoing towards the part of the company’s indigenisation implementation plan. To conclusion of a substantive indigenisation implementation plan date the trust has implemented projects valued at more than in which we seek credits for some social investment projects. US$4.5 million from the donation of US$10 million initially We have reached agreement in principle on a 10% share for provided to the trust by the Company. More than 100 projects the community and 10% for employees. Our discussions are have been implemented through the trust in the three districts. focusing primarily on the remaining 31%. These include projects relating to road construction and maintenance, rehabilitation of schools, construction of classroom blocks at more than 30 schools, sinking of boreholes to address access to potable water and the provision of infrastructure for income-generating projects. PAGE 102 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – Zimbabwe “The focus in the years ahead will be to continue to identify incomegenerating and infrastructural projects in line with community needs and priorities Zimplats socio-economic development expenditure US$000 Programme 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Empowerment of communities — 4 200 2 500 3 300 — Health, safety and environment 23 91 668 873 223 Education 300 207 3 062 3 283 755 Government and municipality support infrastructure 19 — — — — Sports development 52 94 54 35 27 Enterprise development 413 — — — — Income-generating projects 117 88 80 47 303 Community welfare, arts and culture 50 578 340 1 071 41 Total socio-economic development expenditure 974* 5 258 6 704 8 609 1 349 Housing and living conditions 5 474 15 000 20 548 49 000 — Total sustainable development investment 6 448 20 258 27 252 57 609 1 349 * The community spend for Zimplats is lower than Mimosa as a result of cost management strategies applied across the business on the back of declining metal prices and the impact of the collapse of Bimha Mine on volumes and ultimately revenues. Accommodation and living conditions This year at our Zimplats operations the following was Our strategic approach to accommodation and living achieved: O We invested US$5.5 million on employee housing in the conditions Zimplats' commitment to improving the living conditions of 2015 financial year (2014: US$15 million). O The company commenced the second phase of our employees mirrors the strong commitment evident in our South employee home ownership scheme, with 680 units African operations. The provision of access to housing provides completed and handed over to employees. an opportunity for competitive advantage in attracting future O Sixty-five company houses which were budgeted under the skills, and can be used to support procurement from local 2014 financial year and which were behind schedule and will enterprises and enterprise development in host communities be constructed between July and September 2015 bringing through the value chain. the total number of Company houses to 1 410 at Ngezi. O Discussions have continued with potential partners on an employee housing scheme for Selous Metallurgical Complex-based (SMC) employees in Chegutu. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 103 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – Zimbabwe Enterprise development and procurement Social investment Zimplats continued to implement its local supplier procurement Mimosa and development strategy to further assist in the broader Our management approach to social investment economic recovery of Zimbabwe. During the year local Since inception, Mimosa Mining Company has remained suppliers accounted for 73% (US$294 million procurement committed to sustainable economic development. Engaging spend in the 2015 financial year) of the Company’s annual all stakeholders in a collaborative manner to ensure sustainable spend on goods and services, up from 66% in 2014. solutions is key to its operations. In a bid to ensure that it Mechanisms are in place to encourage and continuously conducts its business in a sustainable manner, Mimosa monitor the growth of local supplier partnerships. In accordance employs the Triple Bottom Line (TBL) framework of People, with the Company’s transparency procedures, a crossPlanet and Profit where it maintains the intricate balance among functional internal team reviews and approves the awarding of the three elements. Its policy is to achieve ZERO HARM in all its tenders. In addition, we administer an anonymous tip-offs operations, and to minimise its impact on the environment system in partnership with an independent audit company so through the sustainable processing of its mineral resource. that suppliers, employees and other stakeholders can report on any incidents of corruption of any nature, including the The Company strives to provide growth and greater value to its awarding of tenders. stakeholders by continuing to work in line with relevant policies and guidelines regarding responsible and ecologically friendly In addition to our supplier development activities, Zimplats has business practices. Its business thrust rests on the quartet of also embarked on a local enterprise development programme. People, Safety, Production and Cost Effectiveness, around We are working with several small and medium enterprises which strategic objectives are centred. Key strategic objectives within the local community in Mashonaland West Province. We are crafted through systematic situational and environmental provide them with technical, financial and skills development analysis. support. The enterprises supply Zimplats with goods and services such as protective clothing (work suits and overalls), Our 2015 performance and achievements for silica, bricks, punch bars, housing maintenance services and social investment ore transportation. The Company implemented and handed over a number of national and local corporate social responsibility (CSR) projects in the financial year. Some of the projects were pursued PAGE 104 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Investing in community development – Zimbabwe following requests by the local communities while others were Zvishavane cleanup campaign: Mimosa has contributed initiated by the mine, all in line with the Company’s CSR policy. to creating a culture of raising environmental awareness in The projects had commendable impact on the communities Zvishavane, a town located 20km from Mimosa. In line with this within which they were undertaken. The projects included the culture, worker representatives initiated a community clean-up following: campaign on 7 May 2015 after requesting to utilise the free time created by electricity load shedding on the day. The clean-up The Ebola Awareness Campaign: The Ebola Awareness campaign covered Platinum Park, 43 houses (Mandava), Campaign was a partnership with the Zimbabwe Ministry of Eastlea Lot 2 and 4. The exercise was well received by the Health. This saw Mimosa providing communication and communities, who were also involved in the clean up. technological support to the fight against Ebola. The message that was being communicated was that, while Ebola is deadly, Local supplier development it is preventable. The Company installed Ebola monitoring Mimosa has a solid policy structure that empowers and equipment and the associated supporting televisions to supports indigenous companies. Its procurement database disseminate information across the Harare International Airport, comprises both local and foreign suppliers, with local suppliers Bulawayo and Victoria Falls airports. It also trained personnel constituting well above 60% of the total number of suppliers. on the use of the equipment. In addition Mimosa installed banners and posters at the airports. Over the years the Company has depended on supplies from local indigenous companies. Its preferred supplier programme A multi-media platform, which was launched by the Ministry of has a strong bias towards competent local entrepreneurs and Health and Child Care was also set up, as a tool to manage is implemented on cost and quality competitiveness. Local growing rumours around Ebola on social media. The platform is companies also supply and maintain key mining equipment now being used to communicate about other diseases. Mimosa under the Company’s technology transfer initiatives. built the site and provided technical support, while the Ministry of Health dedicated resources and people to respond to In 2015, 65% of Mimosa orders were given to local suppliers. comments raised on the site. The campaign generally The mine also continued generating employment for the local positioned Mimosa as a caring company and was well received. people through contracted companies. There is a clause in the contracts which mandates the contracted companies to Renovations at Mpilo Central Hospital: The Mpilo project employ non-skilled employees from the local, surrounding saw Mimosa renovating two wards and refurbishing the entire communities, which the mine enforces. hospital’s electrical system. One ward was completed and officially handed over to the authorities. Mimosa’s socio-economic development expenditure US$’000 Programme 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Empowerment of community structures 396 1 065 411 127 9 Health, safety and environment 69 0 0 39 0 Education 163 53 45 1 507 1 869 Government and municipality support infrastructure 2 006 1 086 3 878 987 93 Sport development 0 0 0 0 0 Enterprise development 0 0 0 0 0 Community, welfare, arts and culture 1 497 1 453 336 489 431 Total socio-economic development expenditure 4 131 3 657 4 669 3149 2 402 Housing and living conditions 67 146 3 031 16 560 15 500 Total sustainable development investment 4 198 3 803 7 700 19 709 17 902 Our social investment focus for 2016 and O Enhance relations with the community through continued beyond engagement aimed at nurturing relations based on mutual In Zimbabwe the key focus will be: respect and understanding. O The implementation of the ESOT as part of our IIP and O Continue to explore ways and strategies to increase capacity progression of discussions on the rest of the IIP. of local companies so that they can supply quality goods and services to both Zimplats and the country as a whole. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 105 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Respecting human rights “Our human rights commitments form part of our code of ethics. Employees are trained on the code through our intranet and as part of the induction process Our 2015 human rights achievements and security-related issues. As part of supporting growth and performance stability in the mining sector, the President's Framework Our human rights policy, which was approved in 2013, commits Agreement was signed by all stakeholders in 2013. Part of this us to striving for full compliance with applicable legislation in the agreement promotes the rights of workers and communities regions in which we operate, as well as to implementing the in ensuring safety and security. Refer to pages 95 to 99. human rights principles in the United Nations Global Compact. Enhancing the interface between the South African Police Our human rights commitments form part of our code of ethics. Service (SAPS) and our own security response is critical in Employees are trained on the code through our intranet and as avoiding any escalation of conflict. To mitigate this risk we have part of their induction process. committed to and are implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). The VPSHR framework We have made provision in relevant policies and procedures for provides useful guidance on: assessing the human rights risks the following human rights issues: associated with security; engaging with public security O Rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining providers in a structured manner; establishing a clear set of O Minimum employment age rules when contracting with private security providers; and O Prevention of forced or compulsory labour creating opportunities for input by affected stakeholders. O Equality and fair treatment of all individuals free from discrimination, irrespective of race, gender, creed or place We are following a phased approach to the implementation of of origin the VPSHR. Phase 1 of the project is a gap analysis against the O Disciplinary and grievance processes requirements of the VPSHR to identify the actions to be taken O The need for security personnel to uphold these to fully comply with the requirements. The first phase of the human rights. process focused on Impala Springs, which has developed mature security systems in response to the high threat of We track implementation of human rights issues through precious metals criminal activity. The gap analysis has been monthly reports. Procedures are in place to ensure that completed; recommendations will be given to the executive channels are available to deal with unfair practices. No cases and management for consideration. The next phase is to of discrimination were reported in the year under review. conduct a similar exercise at Marula and Impala Rustenburg. The assessment of the Rustenburg operation commenced in While our agreements with contractors do not specifically July 2015. contain human rights clauses, contractors are expected to abide by our Company policies, practices, standards and the We will be using this framework to guide and train our security constitution of the countries in which they are operating. We contingent. To formulate appropriate security responses, early recognise the need to further improve our monitoring of identification of the potential for violence is critical, which contracted labour on human rights issues. Through stakeholder requires regularly updated and credible information on security engagement processes, material community issues pertaining threats. to human rights are addressed in community forums. No claims of human rights abuse were made against the Company Third-party services are contracted to provide security at our this year. South African operations. An assessment of their practices indicates that awareness programmes are in place for their Following the tragic events at Marikana in 2012, and the personnel on the protection of human rights. The gap analysis subsequent recommendations of the Farlam Commission, we will assist in determining any further training required and will be recognise the need across the mining industry to manage disclosed in the following year (2016). PAGE 106 Implats sustainable development report 2015 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Respecting human rights “We are committed to and are implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 107 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS PAGE 108 Implats sustainable development report 2015 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Conserve natural resources and mitigate impacts As a company producing green metals we are involved in the exploration, extraction and processing of mineral resources which results in the unavoidable disturbance of land, the consumption of resources, and the generation of waste and atmospheric and water pollutants. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 109 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources “All our operations are ISO 14001 certified, and are required to identify and report on all environmental incidents Given these impacts, it is important that we demonstrate In October 2013 the Implats board approved a revised responsible stewardship of the resources we share with the environmental policy, committing the Company to running our societies in which we operate, particularly as our underground exploration, mining, processing and refining operations in an operations become deeper and consume greater amounts of environmentally responsible manner, and ensuring the wellenergy and water. This involves taking measures not only to being of our stakeholders. Through our policy commitments address security of resource supply (for example through we undertake to integrate environmental management into all efficiency, recycling and fuel-switching), but also to actively aspects of the business with the aim of achieving world-class minimise our impact on natural resources and on the environmental performance in a sustainable manner. communities around our operations. Taking such measures has direct benefits in terms of reduced costs and liabilities, All our operations are ISO 14001 certified, and are required to enhanced resource tenure and improved security of our licence identify and report on all environmental incidents. Systems are to operate. in place to investigate and determine the root causes of high-severity incidents, and to address and close out all such Our environmental mitigation activities focus on the following incidents. Incident classification has been standardised across areas: all operations in the reporting year and the five-tier incident O Promoting responsible stewardship by minimising water use classification matrix is currently being rolled out. This will enable and pollution reporting of incidents for the Group from the 2016 financial year. O Minimising our negative impacts on air quality During the year we implemented a FlexiCadastre software O Responding to climate change risks and opportunities, and promoting responsible energy management O Managing our waste streams O Promoting responsible land management and Adherence to policy biodiversity practices. ISO 14001 certification Compliance with in g environmental authorisation and legislation orc in f Environmental management systems re y all tu Compliance Mu Mu tu al ly re in f Conserving orc Climate change and energy management natural in g – Energy efficiency resources – Demand-side management and – Alternative energy sources mitigating impacts Air quality management Mitigating Resource – SO2 abatement impacts management Reduce potable water consumption – Dust suppression Increase water recycling Waste management Manage water quality Land management and biodiversity plan M u t u a l l y re i n f o r c i n g PAGE 110 Implats sustainable development report 2015 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and “In addition to mitigating conserving natural resources their direct environmental impacts, each of our operations are expected to develop or fund a flagship local community environmental project as part of our commitment to moving beyond compliance on environmental issues system, and have completed the loading of Rustenburg mining Although there are certain areas of improvement such as the rights environmental authorisations. Impala Springs tracks legal operational tailings dam in particular, the general conclusion of compliance to licence conditions on Isometrix. They have a the 2014 EMP assessment is that the level of environmental community forum that meets quarterly and feedback is management performance at Impala has dropped since provided on compliance status as well as progress with the 2012. It is important to note that this may well be a direct various projects. consequence of the extended labour strikes that occurred for the first half of 2014. These strikes created a situation where This year the difficult socio-political environment in the on-site environmental management initiatives were not able to Rustenburg area negatively affected our environmental impact continue as required. assessment (EIA) and environmental management programme (EMP) amendment processes, with several public participation Impacts of most concern are safety of third parties, pollution meetings being cancelled following community disruptions. of soils, surface water, ground water and air quality. These Given the current challenges with community engagement, we impacts have all been quantified by monitoring and/or specialist have put some of the processes on hold, while with others we modelling. Impala should utilise this information to design and have chosen to finalise and submit the required documents to implement appropriate prevention and/or mitigation measures the authorities for their decision. going forward. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 111 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources “Our water conservation strategy, introduced in 2011, guides our approach to water management Water stewardship developed at Impala Springs by Goldsim and is being tested. Our management approach to water stewardship There is good control on our effluent pond levels and high Water is a critical input into our mining, processing and refining recycling figures due to the operation of two crystallisers and operations. We recognise our obligations in terms of the reverse osmosis (RO) plant. maintaining water quality, and not compromising the access rights of other users. The strategic importance of water was Water management continues to receive particular focus at further highlighted this year, with rainfall in the Rustenburg area Impala Rustenburg. The persistently dry conditions experienced being a third of its usual levels. in the north-west of South Africa, together with municipal potable water supply problems, continue to present challenges The strategy focuses on water consumption and quality to our operations and highlight the strategic long-term management, and proposes a framework for operation-specific importance of effective water management practices. We have water conservation strategies, in line with our strategic also been implementing a groundwater and surface-water commitment to reduce the use of potable water and increase treatment project to remediate the pollution plume around our recycled water usage. The Group’s recycled water target is tailings dam. 40%. We have implemented various projects to reduce potable water consumption, optimise industrial use and increase water Our 2015 performance on water recycling. Surface and groundwater monitoring programmes This year Impala Rustenburg experienced 60% less rainfall are in place, and we review our water risk assessments during the summer season than the normally expected levels. annually. In fulfilment of our commitment to transparency on The reduced rainfall impacted negatively on the operation’s performance, we have once again participated in the CDP water resources, such as the tailings dam return water and the Water Disclosure Project. Rockwall dam supplies. The extremely dry conditions also impacted negatively on water recycling levels. We engage regularly with the South African and Zimbabwean regulatory authorities in an effort to ensure that all appropriate Total water consumption for the Group this year was water-use licences are in place, and that due consideration is 39 701 megalitres, including both water withdrawn and water given to our proposals for water-use amendments. At our recycled. The increase of 14% on water consumption levels Rustenburg operation we have continued to experience some (2014: 34 775 megalitres) is largely attributable to the return to delays in the issuing of amended licences, largely as a result of production this year following the termination of last year’s government capacity constraints. We work closely with different five-month strike, as well as the reduced rainfall levels. The stakeholders to ensure security of supply for our operations and maintenance in our unit consumption rate of water (megalitres the surrounding communities. per tonne ore milled) over the 2014 levels is a positive indication that we are improving our water management practices. This Impala Springs are experiencing delays in receiving their year, 14 325 megalitres of water was recycled, equating to amended licence. Amendment applications were submitted in 36% of all water consumed. 2011/2012. The Integrated Water and Waste Management Plan (IWWMP) and Rehabilitation Strategy and Implementation Plan Further details on the total water withdrawn, consumed and (RSIP) are reviewed and submitted to the Department of Water recycled at each of our operations are provided in the and Sanitation (DWS) annually. A water balance has been performance table on page 137. PAGE 112 Implats sustainable development report 2015 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources “Water is a critical input into our mining, processing and refining operations Water consumption units (Mℓ) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (1) Water from water service providers or municipalities 9 576 7 515 8 851 10 722 12 636 (2) Waste water from other organisations 3 104 2 313 2 598 2 767 3 769 (3) Water from rivers 2 164 2 175 2 344 2 124 2 337 (4) Water from dams 6 897 6 696 8 777 7 891 7 016 (5) Water from ground water 3 634 2 667 2 870 1 770 1 287 Water withdrawn (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5) 25 376 21 365 25 440 25 274 27 045 Water internally recycled 14 325 13 409 15 271 14 840 14 823 Total water consumption 39 701 34 775 40 711 40 114 41 868 Notes: Note 1: From 2011 the Zimplats and Mimosa water withdrawn from rivers and dams excludes water provided to communities (in line with the SA operations). Note 2: At Marula and Zimplats, fissure water is included as groundwater from 2011. Our Zimplats operation uses a potentially significant amount of fissure water in one of its mining operations that has not as yet been quantified. Note 3: From 2011 the Impala Springs water withdrawn includes domestic water (offices, stores, etc). This is in line with Group reporting. Note 4: Unit consumption is in kl/tonne ore milled except for Impala Springs which is kl/tonne matte milled. Water (Mℓ) O Increase the use of grey water sources by utilising fissure water emanating from Rustenburg operations 2, 2A and 2011 41 868 5 Shaft into the water circuit. 2012 40 114 O Continue with the water projects at Rustenburg operations 2013 40 711 where scavenger boreholes are drilled close to the operating tailings dam and floating wetlands constructed at the 2014 34 775 Rockwall dam. 2015 39 701 O Continue lining the old BMR pond at Impala Springs Q Water internally recycled Q Water withdrawn Q Total water consumed operation by installing double lining with leak detection to ensure compliance with the WUL Our water focus for 2016 and beyond In Zimbabwe we aim to: In South Africa we aim to: O Achieve a 40% recycling of water for the Zimplats operations. O Continue efforts to increase the percentage water recycled, O Improve water accounting at Selous Metallurgical Complex and to reduce the volume of water withdrawn. (SMC), by installing water meters to account for recycled O Continue to engage with local authorities and communities sewage effluent and storm water. on water-related issues to ensure we meet regulatory and O Conduct internal water and energy audits to ensure efficient social expectations. use of resources at Mimosa. O Investigate the feasibility of water treatment alternatives. O Update the Rustenburg operations water strategy and to access the options available for Water Conservation and Water Demand Management (WC/WDM). Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 113 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources “Our longer-term strategic investments include exploring and participating in collaborative efforts to develop fuel-cell technology Climate change and energy management longer-term strategy includes exploring and participating in Our management approach to climate change and energy collaborative efforts to develop fuel-cell technology (see box Our operations are exposed both to the physical and policy on page 116). implications of a changing climate, as well as to the more immediate impacts associated with regional electricity capacity An important policy development this year has been the South constraints. As an organisation we are acutely aware of the risk African government’s work on setting desired emissions associated with climate change, its impact on the environment reduction objectives (DERO) and sectoral carbon budgets. and socio-economic implications. The possible impact on water We have kept a close watching brief on these policy supply, and possible drying up of water sources has meant that developments and have submitted comments on DEROS, we need to continuously review this risk and look at mitigating carbon budgets and the carbon tax through the Chamber of measures for both the organisation and communities. A Mines (COM). At a Group level we have an absolute GHGfinancial impact assessment has also been undertaken in this emissions reduction target of 5% by 2020 from the 2008 base regard, taking into account the possible tax imposition by year, when our first carbon footprint assessment was government for carbon emissions. Security of energy supply undertaken. and rising energy prices remain significant material risks for our operations in South Africa and Zimbabwe. A more detailed review and assessment of the climate change risks and opportunities for Implats can be found in our Given these challenges, the primary focus of our carbon submission to the CDP’s Climate Change Programme, available management strategy is on energy-efficiency projects. This year at www.cdproject.net. electricity consumption accounted for around 70% of our total energy consumption, and almost 10% of our overall cash cost Our 2015 carbon and energy management performance base. Our projected expansion into deeper operations that are During 2015, our total CO2 emissions amounted to 3.4 million more energy intensive, coupled with the anticipated introduction tonnes, up from 3 million tonnes in 2014. This increase is of a carbon tax in South Africa, highlights the business largely as a result of increased production levels following the imperative of focusing on reducing and optimising our end of last year’s strike action at Impala Rustenburg, which energy use. typically accounts for about 75% of the Group total CO2 emissions. Most of the GHG emissions (3.0 million tonnes) are In Rustenburg energy efficiency initiatives are targeted mainly at associated with Eskom electricity usage, with the balance our mining operations, as there is seen to be limited scope for (0.3 million tonnes) associated with direct use of coal, diesel, further energy efficiency at our concentrators and smelter. At petrol and industrial burning oil. In 2015 our emissions intensity Impala Springs, a steam system assessment was completed by (tonnes of CO2 per tonne of ore milled) was 0.209, down from the National Cleaner Production Centre (NCPC) and a good 0.218 in 2014. This improvement reflects positively on energy operational control score was achieved that indicates efficient efficiency initiatives. use of steam. An energy management plan is planned for the 2016 financial year. A 1.8MW fuel cell installed in two tranches Additional data on our direct and indirect greenhouse gas of 900kW is expected in February/March 2016. In South Africa emissions and our energy usage, by operation for each of the we are working closely with Eskom, and continue to participate past five years, are provided in the performance table on in various demand-side management (DSM) programmes. Our page 138. PAGE 114 Implats sustainable development report 2015 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources “Each year we conduct a GHG emissions assessment to identify areas for GHG mitigation and increasing efficiencies Each year we conduct a GHG emissions assessment to identify O The optimised use of compressed air systems at Impala areas for mitigation and increasing efficiencies. Over the last Rustenburg which has achieved an estimated reduction of three years we have invested over R100 million on energy 7.8GWh per annum conservation programmes, resulting in a reduction of 8% in O The underground compressed air optimisation project with indirect energy usage when compared against the year 2013. an estimated future annual saving of 61.3GWh per annum The 2014 financial year performance was impacted by the O The installation of power factor correction equipment at five-month strike and is thus not comparable year on year. Rustenburg and Mimosa has resulted in an average Energy efficiency initiatives implemented across the Group are: 4% reduction in annual energy consumption O The conversion of all underground lighting at Impala O Projects aimed at continuing to investigate opportunities for Rustenburg to a more energy efficient lighting source. This alternative lower-carbon and carbon-neutral fuel sources. is estimated to reduce annual consumption by 15GWh Climate change indicators Units 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Direct CO2 emissions (t000) 349 323 401 418 436 Indirect CO2 emissions (t000) 3 002 2 714 3 387 3 289 3 587 Electricity purchased (MWh000) 3 129 2 780 3 395 3 322 3 469 Direct energy (GJ000) 4 671 4 386 5 350 5 584 5 661 Indirect energy (GJ000) 11 266 10 008 12 224 11 958 12 561 Total energy (GJ000) 15 937 14 395 17 574 17 542 18 222 Total CO2 emissions (t000) Total energy consumption (GJ000) 2011 4 022 2011 18 222 2012 3 707 2012 17 542 2013 3 788 2013 17 574 2014 3 037 2014 14 395 2015 3 351 2015 15 937 FY15: 3 351 – A 10% increase FY15: 15 937 – A 11% increase Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 115 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources Case study: Managing energy security concerns The continuing electricity supply constraints in South Africa present a significant and potentially prolonged impact on our South African operations. In its 2015 budget review National Treasury of the Republic of South Africa stated that the country will experience constrained electricity supply for at least the next two to three years. Eskom load curtailment As a ‘key customer’ or ‘energy-intensive user’ with Eskom, Implats has specific agreements in place with the electricity provider. In terms of a signed ‘load curtailment document’, Impala Rustenburg is given timely caution to implement load curtailment measures whenever the power system becomes severely constrained. During a stage 1 and 2 load curtailment, we are required to reduce demand by 10% within two hours of notification, under stage 3 we have to reduce demand by 20% within two hours, while stage 4 represents an unscheduled requirement to reduce demand, as instructed by the National System Operator. As a result of our on-site real time power-monitoring system, we have been able to act swiftly and accurately when required. This information also makes Impala’s efforts to assist Eskom more credible, contributing to the ongoing good relationship that we have been careful to maintain with Eskom. Energy reduction plans have been developed and modelled for a range of Eskom scenarios, designed to minimise risks to employee safety, and ensure minimal production loss. During the year Impala received 56 stage 1 and stage 2 load curtailment requests to reduce electrical power usage by the required 10%. The total declared emergency amounted to 514 hours. The weekend requests were and are managed by ensuring the compressors do not exceed 60MW. For early morning week-day requests, load reduction first takes place at our Mineral Processing Plant (furnaces, slag plant and milling circuits) until such time as the Impala profile falls below the calculated Eskom average demand. Afternoon requests by Eskom have not impacted production thus far and this is due to significant reduction in the Impala demand profile from early afternoon through to early evening. Exploring self-generation initiatives Given the current energy context we are aggressively pursuing opportunities to take Implats along the path of sourcing alternative energy supply. As part of this initiative we have been partnering with local businesses to develop and deliver fuel cell solutions that provide sustainable economic returns. The first phase of the project involves the installation of cells using phosphoric acid fuel cell technology from Fuji Electric in Japan. This will operate off excess hydrogen piped to Impala Springs for the metal reduction process. The fuel cells will supply an initial 1.8MW of power in two tranches of 900kW and will also produce heat that will be integrated into the operation. The chemical reaction by the fuel cells produces zero emissions except for clean water that can be utilised within the plant. The first electricity from this project will be available in 2016, subject to final approval and implementation of a power purchase agreement. The second phase of the project will involve the installation of a Doosan fuel cell system producing up to 20MW operating on natural gas. Additionally, a solar powered project to deliver sufficient power alleviating stage 1 load curtailment is being considered for installation and across the fence supply of power at Impala. The project will need a vast area for installation of the solar panels, which will require the cooperation/involvement of the Royal Bafokeng (land owners). PAGE 116 Implats sustainable development report 2015 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources Our carbon and energy management focus for 2016 and beyond We have prioritised the following climate change and energy management activities for the year ahead: O Further improving our atmospheric emissions data management systems, to ensure that we are aligned with the requirements of the national atmospheric emissions inventory system (NAEIS) in South Africa, an online national reporting platform that will hold both air pollutants and greenhouse emissions inventories. O Updating the Group carbon footprint and setting realistic reduction targets for each operation in line with our carbon management strategy. O Further understanding the impact of climate change on our operations and surrounding communities. O Continue to work with government and academic institutions on the development of fuel-cell technologies that will utilise PGMs as alternative energy sources. A total of R6 million budget for this project has been spent over the last three years. O Zimplats is targeting a 1% reduction in carbon emissions through the implementation of energy efficiency initiatives and carbon offset projects. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 117 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources “Ambient air quality is monitored at our operations via a network of ambient monitoring stations Air quality management the mine lease area. Various factors influence the ambient Our management approach to air quality measured data. We report on the results of the ambient The most significant air quality emission for the Group relates monitoring to the relevant authority on a quarterly basis and as to the sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions from our smelting and and when requested. In terms of managing our direct impacts refining operations in Zimplats, Rustenburg and Impala Springs. we are operating within the conditions of our air emissions In August 2014 we received the new air emission licence licence for both these operations. required for Impala Rustenburg which expires in July 2019 when new permit conditions are anticipated. Impala Springs In addition, at Impala Springs, a R250 million project to address received their air emissions licence (AEL) in February 2014 and airborne emissions from the coal-fired boilers is due for will be up for renewal in 2018. Both Impala Rustenburg and completion during the 2017 financial year. In a phased Impala Springs are located within priority areas as promulgated approach, this will ensure sustained compliance to NOx, SOx by the National Environmental Management Air Quality Act. and particulates emissions from these operations as prescribed We are fully compliant with the current licence conditions in by both current and future limits in our air emissions licence. Rustenburg. At the Zimplats operations an SO2 emissions abatement Ambient air quality is monitored at our Impala Springs and bankable feasibility study was commissioned in the 2015 Rustenburg operations via a network of ambient monitoring financial year to ensure both smelter stack point source and stations. These monitoring stations measure SO2, NOx and ground level concentrations around the Selous Metallurgical particulate matter and provide an indication of ambient air Complex communities fall within the South African legislative quality levels and associated trends. The ambient monitoring limits. The sizing of the acid plant required the definition of the results reflect the quality of ambient air in the region and not just future smelter expansion road map. A conceptual study of the around the operations. Source apportionment analysis has smelter expansion was completed and resulted in the smelter been conducted at the Impala Springs operations. However, expansion road map. Air dispersion modelling of the smelter it is much more difficult to accurately attribute the source of expansion scenarios resulted in a sulphur emissions reduction pollution at the Rustenburg operations, due to the extent of plan (SERP). The SERP identified the installation of a higher % direct SO2 emission (%) Total direct SO2 emitted (t) 18 2011 18 881 3 O Rustenburg 2012 18 463 O Refineries O Zimplats 2013 18 536 2014 30 735 79 2015 27 706 FY15: 27 706 – A 10% improvement PAGE 118 Implats sustainable development report 2015 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources stack (>200m) as a first step to ensure the ground level At Zimplats, SO2 emissions decreased by 18% from the concentrations around the SMC communities fall within the previous year, primarily due to a furnace break out incident. South African 24-hour average legislative limit of 125ug/Nm3. However, point source stack emissions will not be complying As a result of the unseasonably low rainfall levels experienced with South African legislative requirements. An acid plant will in the Rustenburg area, dust has become a particular concern. then be installed in later years to ensure SO2 from smelter We have undertaken climatic modelling around the tailings dam operations comply on both stack point source and ground level to model the zone of influence, and will be extending the concentrations exercise for other dust sources. We are also investigating opportunities for further improving dust suppression. Our 2015 performance on air quality This year, total direct Group emissions of SO2 were Our air quality focus 2016 and beyond 27 706 tonnes, down from our emissions of 30 735 tonnes in At the South African operations we aim to: 2014. Our Zimplats operations contributed 79% of total direct O Maintain adherence to Atmospheric Emission Licences SO2 emissions, while Rustenburg and Refineries operations O Complete the coal-fired boilers emission project by end of contributed 18% and 3% respectively. Indirect SOx amounted the 2016 financial year at Impala Springs. to 26 513 tonnes and indirect NOx amounted to 13 459 tonnes. Further details on the SO2 emissions at each of our operations At the Zimbabwean operations we aim to: over the past five years are provided in the performance table O Conduct and complete the higher stack definitive study for on page 138. the SO2 management plan in Zimplats. Managing our waste The hazardous waste situation remains challenging in Our waste management activities across the Group seek, as a Zimbabwe, with no facilities in line with South African or minimum, to ensure compliance with emerging legislative international best practices being available. requirements relating to waste. At Impala Springs the reclassification of waste streams One of the key requirements of the various regulations commenced and are investigating the export of jarosite to published this year under the National Environmental Europe as an option to divert waste from landfill. All legal Management: Waste Act is the statutory obligation on our requirements in terms of the Basel Convention are being South African operations to reclassify waste streams by assessed. All operations continue to investigate reuse and October 2016. We have commenced with a pilot study at recycling opportunities. Impala Rustenburg, focusing on a few of these waste streams. We will commence with the full reclassification of the bulk of the This year the Group’s recycling was 67.1% down from 69.1% in waste streams early next year. The legislation as currently 2014. A large portion of the waste from Impala Rustenburg and drafted has important implications for the Company, both in Impala Springs is treated; although treatment is regarded as a terms of additional administrative demands as well as better waste management solution than disposal, technically it potentially significant cost implications. It is anticipated, for is not considered a ‘recycling’ method. example, that in future, tailings dams and waste rock dumps' design will be required to include some form of plastic (HDPE) Our activities for the coming year will continue to centre on liner. Clarifying and understanding the uncertainties between clarifying and complying with regulatory requirements. the newly imposed requirements under the Waste Act, and the current regulations under the MPRDA, will remain a focus for Implats in the coming year. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 119 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources Land management and biodiversity This year a total of 9.37ha was rehabilitated at our various A principal focus of our land stewardship practices is on tailings dam facilities. This figure is low as compared to the ensuring effective rehabilitation. This is an important regulatory, 2014 financial year as the last open pit was rehabilitated financial and reputational risk for the Company and is linked to in the 2014 financial year. The current cost estimate our closure liabilities, which are reviewed and updated annually for Rustenburg closure amounted to R1 013.7 million; in line with regulations. financial provisions for this amount are in place as per DMR requirements. At Refineries, the Aurora mineshaft has been The Group has entrenched the concept of ‘design for closure’ decommissioned and closed. Rehabilitation obligations and throughout our operations. Our short-term goal is to ensure that closure of the shaft are being investigated with the DMR. all aspects of rehabilitation are defined at the project-planning phase. In support of this, determination of the closure cost Biodiversity liability and the associated financial provision remains a priority. Given the potential of mining activities to affect habitats through Our rehabilitation activities are focused on ecosystem land disturbance, land use change and pollution, biodiversity functionality which is essential in ensuring sustainability beyond monitoring and management is a requirement at our operations. mine closure. All our operations have site-specific procedures and standards to manage the impacts associated with their activities. A formal Developments in 2015 biodiversity management plan, which incorporates the This year, there was a strong focus on maintaining an active published mining biodiversity guidelines from the South African rehabilitation monitoring programme at the Rustenburg National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI), was implemented at our operation. We have continued to maintain previously Rustenburg operation. Our Marula operation has also rehabilitated side slopes and grass new risings at our tailings implemented a site-specific biodiversity management plan. We facilities. All opencast sites have successfully been rehabilitated plan to develop and implement strategic biodiversity and are currently monitored using a defined monitoring management plans at all our operations. methodology called ecosystem function analysis (EFA). Extensive alien and invasive weed control was also conducted Zimplats and Impala Springs both operate within close at the sites during the reporting period. We have also proximity to areas of recognised high biodiversity; Impala completed an agricultural land use potential assessment with Springs commenced with an invader species eradication the aim of defining achievable post-closure land uses for both programme. Our refining operation is near the Cowles dam that the landowner and surrounding communities of all rehabilitated feeds into the Blesbokspruit, an ecosystem deemed under opencast areas. threat and that appears on the Montreux record. Although Impala Springs is not seen to have any direct impact on this Following the cessation of all opencast mining at Zimplats in ecosystem, it is nevertheless represented on the Blesbokspruit 2008, an opencast rehabilitation programme has been in forum and continues to be involved with environmental progress since 2011. To date, 1 703 328m3 of waste rock education and conservation initiatives at the Blesbokspruit material has been backfilled and the project reached 69% Grootvlei Trust. In Zimbabwe, a total of 276ha of the Zimplats completion by year end. We aim to backfill all the voids with operation is located within the Ngezi National Park. This area, waste rock and re-establish indigenous grass and tree species which was associated with historic opencast mining, has by 2017 at an estimated cost of US$5.8 million. subsequently been rehabilitated and is deemed nonoperational. Work is currently in progress to renew the memorandum of agreement of lease of the Ngezi mining claims that will expire in October 2015. PAGE 120 Implats sustainable development report 2015 CONSERVE NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATE IMPACTS Our strategic approach to managing impacts and conserving natural resources Our focus on waste, land and biodiversity 2016 and beyond At the South African operations we aim to: O Conduct an external legal compliance audit as specified by all waste licences O Ensure that biodiversity heritage standards align with all legislative changes O Conduct the closure and liability assessments for the Rustenburg mining rights for submission to the DMR O Ensure all listed waste streams are reclassified as per South African National Standard 10234 at all South African operations in 2016 O Compile and report waste disposal figures at the Impala landfill site onto the National Waste Information system. At the Zimbabwean operations we aim to: O Continue with the Ngezi open pit rehabilitation programme at the Zimplats operations O Plant 500 indigenous trees at the open pit rehabilitated areas O Set up waste segregation systems at the Zimplats landfill sites to enable recycling O Renew all environmental licences permits for Zimplats. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 121 APPENDIX PAGE 122 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Implats has followed the guidance provided by principles and criteria provided in the GRI’s G4 guidelines A brief review of our application of the GRI reporting principles is provided. A detailed response to each of the GRI reporting criteria (with hyperlinks to the corresponding sections of the report) is provided on our website, along with our communication on progress in terms of the UN Global Compact. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 123 APPENDIX Our performance data People South Africa Occupational levels Foreign Male Female nationals Total Rustenburg A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 Senior management 16 0 2 41 5 0 0 2 2 0 61 7 68 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 139 8 12 227 30 0 5 45 11 0 397 80 477 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 2 737 27 1 675 456 7 4 74 272 4 3 712 545 4 257 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 7 739 10 0 89 812 2 0 8 1 712 7 9 550 829 10 379 Unskilled and defined decision making 12 856 20 0 14 1 570 3 0 0 1 815 24 14 705 1 597 16 302 Total permanent 23 488 65 15 1 046 2 873 12 9 129 3 812 35 28 426 3 058 31 484 Non-permanent employees 17 1 0 1 12 2 0 2 0 0 19 16 35 Grand total 23 505 66 15 1 047 2 885 14 9 131 3 812 35 28 445 3 074 31 519 Foreign Male Female nationals Total Marula A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior management 3 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 1 0 8 0 8 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 26 0 0 17 8 0 0 3 3 0 46 11 57 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 358 2 0 32 49 0 1 8 87 0 479 58 537 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1 103 0 0 0 92 0 0 0 42 0 1 145 92 1 237 Unskilled and defined decision making 1 301 0 0 4 389 0 0 21 3 1 326 392 1 718 Total permanent 2 791 2 0 57 538 0 1 11 154 3 3 004 553 3 557 Non-permanent employees 6 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 6 5 11 Grand total 2 797 2 0 57 543 0 1 11 154 3 3 010 558 3 568 PAGE 124 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Foreign Male Female nationals Total Impala Springs A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior management 1 0 1 2 1 0 0 1 2 0 6 2 8 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 15 0 5 28 12 1 4 10 6 1 54 28 82 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 155 3 5 93 37 1 1 17 3 0 259 56 315 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 391 2 2 25 95 0 1 13 6 0 426 109 535 Unskilled and defined decision making 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total permanent 562 5 13 148 145 2 6 41 17 1 745 195 940 Non-permanent employees 8 0 1 2 5 0 0 1 0 0 11 6 17 Grand total 570 5 14 150 150 2 6 42 17 1 756 201 957 Foreign Male Female nationals Total Head office A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 2 1 3 Senior management 5 0 0 8 1 0 1 3 2 0 15 5 20 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 1 0 0 6 5 0 1 7 0 0 7 13 20 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 0 6 6 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 3 0 0 1 4 5 Unskilled and defined decision making 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Total permanent 6 0 0 17 11 0 2 17 2 0 25 30 55 Non-permanent employees 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 5 Grand total 6 0 0 17 16 0 2 17 2 0 25 35 60 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 125 APPENDIX Our performance data People South Africa Occupational levels Foreign Male Female nationals Total Combined (South Africa) A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 3 1 4 Senior management 25 0 3 55 7 0 1 6 7 0 90 14 104 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 181 8 17 278 55 1 10 65 20 1 504 132 636 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 3 250 32 6 800 545 8 6 102 362 4 4 450 665 5 115 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 9 233 12 2 115 1 000 2 1 24 1 760 7 11 122 1 034 12 156 Unskilled and defined decision making 14 191 21 0 18 1 975 3 0 0 1 842 31 16 072 2 009 18 081 Total permanent 26 847 72 28 1 268 3 567 14 18 198 3 985 39 32 200 3 836 36 036 Non-permanent employees 31 1 1 3 27 2 0 3 0 0 36 32 68 Grand total 26 878 73 29 1 271 3 594 16 18 201 3 985 39 32 236 3 868 36 104 Foreign Male Female nationals Total South Africa Combined People with Disability (PWD) A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior management 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 3 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 13 0 0 23 1 0 0 0 2 0 38 1 39 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 167 0 0 71 46 2 1 4 30 0 268 53 321 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 263 1 0 12 44 1 0 2 164 0 440 47 487 Unskilled and defined decision making 786 0 0 0 54 0 0 0 268 0 1 054 54 1 108 Total permanent 1 231 1 0 107 145 3 1 6 464 0 1 803 155 1 958 Non-permanent employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Grand total 1 231 1 0 107 145 3 1 6 464 0 1 803 155 1 958 PAGE 126 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data People Zimbabwe Occupational levels Mimosa Females Males Total F – Top management 1 6 7 E – Senior management 2 10 12 D – Professionally qualified and experienced specialist 16 55 71 C – Skilled technical and academically qualified 16 84 100 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 3 139 142 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 7 362 369 Grand total 45 656 701 Zimplats Females Males Total F – Top management E – Senior management 1 18 19 D – Professionally qualified and experienced specialist 6 77 83 C – Skilled technical and academically qualified 76 878 954 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 91 1 466 1 557 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 33 568 601 Grand total 207 3 007 3 214 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 127 APPENDIX Our performance data In-service 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Impala Rustenburg own employees 31 519 31 804 32 226 31 865 31 779 Contractor employees 10 288 11 201 12 624 14 436 13 462 Impala Springs own employees 957 942 991 1 021 1 053 Contractor employees 1 021 679 899 1 138 282 Marula own employees 3 568 3 395 3 165 2 965 3 272 Contractor employees 811 909 853 743 937 Zimplats own employees 3 214 3 325 2 929 2 791 2 757 Contractor employees 2 605 2 749 2 775 6 412 2 610 Mimosa own employees 701 711 776 786 784 Contractor employees 4 64 65 100 115 Corporate own employees 60 61 64 89 77 Contractor employees 0 0 0 0 0 Total own 40 019 40 238 40 151 39 517 39 722 Total contractors 14 729 15 602 17 216 22 829 17 406 Group total 54 748 55 783 57 367 62 346 57 127 % own employees relative to total workforce 73% Labour sending areas Impala Marula South Africa Number 2015 2015 Eastern Cape 5 089 130 Free State 815 24 Gauteng 870 28 KwaZulu-Natal 621 19 Mpumalanga 231 88 North West 18 225 47 Northern Cape 1 266 5 Limpopo 495 3 058 Western Cape 25 1 Total 27 637 3 400 Foreigners 3 847 157 Grand total 31 484 3 557 Zimbabwe (Zimplats) Number 2015 Bulawayo 31 Foreigner 4 Harare 91 Manicaland 325 Mashonaland Central 321 Mashonaland East 258 Mashonaland West 1 169 Masvingo 481 Matabeleland North 34 Matabeleland South 51 Midlands 449 Grand total 3 214 PAGE 128 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Labour sending areas Zimbabwe (Mimosa) Number 2015 Bulawayo province 47 Foreigner 0 Harare 38 Manicaland 45 Mashonaland Central 35 Mash East 23 Mash West 27 Masvingo 87 Matabeleland North 38 Matabeleland South 31 Midlands 330 Grand total 701 Unit (%) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Turnover Impala Rustenburg 5.1 4.4 6.0 10.1 8.4 Impala Springs 6.2 4.5 7.5 5.3 5.4 Marula 6.3 5.6 4.2 11.0 21.7 Zimplats 4.4 3.6 3.9 4.2 4.4 Mimosa 3.4 9.0 3.5 4.2 3.4 Corporate 18.2 10.0 9.4 7.7 11.3 Group 5.1 4.5 5.7 10.0 8.3 Women turnover Impala Rustenburg 0.3 0.2 4.0 0.3 0.4 Impala Springs 1.5 1.4 2.0 1.7 0.7 Marula 0.4 0.3 5.0 0.7 0.9 Zimplats 0.3 0.2 6.0 6 0 Mimosa 0.3 5.0 4.0 0 0.4 Corporate 7.3 1.6 50.0 2.2 5.2 Group 0.3 0.6 5.0 0.8 0.4 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 129 APPENDIX Our performance data Engagements per age group Number Male Female Total Impala Rustenburg 1 167 120 1 287 15 – 25 184 26 210 26 – 35 513 63 576 36 – 45 292 25 317 46 – 55 173 5 178 56 – 63 5 1 6 Impala Springs 39 18 57 15 – 25 14 5 19 26 – 35 23 12 35 36 – 45 1 1 2 46 – 55 1 0 1 56 – 63 0 0 0 Marula 274 101 375 15 – 25 46 11 57 26 – 35 138 42 180 36 – 45 82 15 97 46 – 55 4 33 37 56 – 63 4 0 4 Zimplats 86 2 88 15 – 25 2 0 2 26 – 35 74 2 76 36 – 45 7 0 7 46 – 55 3 0 3 56 – 63 0 0 0 Mimosa 1 0 1 15 – 25 0 0 0 26 – 35 1 0 1 36 – 45 0 0 0 46 – 55 0 0 0 56 – 63 0 0 0 Corporate 0 1 1 15 – 25 0 0 0 18 – 35 0 1 1 36 – 45 0 0 0 46 – 55 0 0 0 56 – 63 0 0 0 PAGE 130 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Left service per age group Number Male Female Total Impala Rustenburg 1 513 81 1 594 15 – 25 51 6 57 26 – 35 283 28 311 36 – 45 295 27 322 46 – 55 401 2 403 56 – 63 483 18 501 Impala Springs 48 10 58 15 – 25 2 0 2 26 – 35 18 5 23 36 – 45 1 0 1 46 – 55 7 2 9 56 – 63 20 3 23 Marula 211 14 225 15 – 25 0 2 2 26 – 35 71 6 77 36 – 45 70 5 75 46 – 55 40 1 41 56 – 63 30 0 30 Zimplats 131 11 142 15 – 25 28 3 31 26 – 35 54 4 55 36 – 45 26 2 28 46 – 55 11 1 12 56 – 63 12 1 13 Mimosa 71 1 72 15 – 25 3 1 4 26 – 35 32 0 32 36 – 45 20 0 20 46 – 55 11 0 11 56 – 63 5 0 5 Corporate 6 4 10 15 – 25 0 0 0 26 – 35 2 0 2 36 – 45 0 2 2 46 – 55 2 1 3 56 – 63 2 1 3 Unionised workforce Unit (%) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Impala Rustenburg 81 78 73 58 73 Impala Springs 75 71 70 70 62 Marula 91 87 75 65 70 Zimplats 37 40 46 52 37 Mimosa 26 25 24 24 25 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 131 APPENDIX Our performance data Male to female pay ratio Male Female Impala Rustenburg Top management 0.0 1 Senior management 0.8 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 0.8 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0.9 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1.1 1 Unskilled and defined decision making 1.0 1 Total 1.0 1 Impala Springs Top management 0.0 1 Senior management 0.8 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 0.8 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0.9 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1.0 1 Unskilled and defined decision making 0.0 1 Total 1.0 1 Marula Senior management 0.0 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 0.8 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0.9 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1.0 1 Unskilled and defined decision making 1.0 1 Total 0.8 1 Grand total 0.9 1 Zimplats Top management 0 1 Senior management 1 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 0.9 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0.9 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1.3 1 Unskilled and defined decision making 1.0 1 Total 1.0 1 Mimosa Senior management 1 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 1 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 1 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1 1 Unskilled and defined decision making 1 1 Total 1 1 Grand total 1 1 PAGE 132 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Safety Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Fatalities (employees) Number Impala Rustenburg 4 3 8 7 4 Impala Springs 0 0 0 0 0 Marula 1 0 0 1 0 Zimplats 0 1 0 0 0 Mimosa 0 0 0 0 1 Total 5 4 8 7 5 Fatalities (contractors) Number Impala Rustenburg 2 0 1 5 2 Impala Springs 0 0 0 0 0 Marula 0 0 0 0 0 Zimplats 0 0 0 0 0 Mimosa 0 0 0 0 0 Total 2 0 1 5 2 Group total 7 4 9 12 7 Reportable injuries Number Impala Rustenburg 281 209 358 360 370 Impala Springs 2 1 2 1 2 Marula 24 33 36 60 50 Zimplats 8 6 12 4 8 Mimosa 1 1 0 2 0 Afplats and head office 2 2 13 3 0 Group total 318 252 421 430 431 Medical treatment cases Number Impala Rustenburg 393 341 454 441 589 Impala Springs 84 75 78 82 131 Marula 61 86 90 131 178 Zimplats 6 27 19 33 19 Mimosa 1 10 17 26 47 Afplats and head office 1 6 44 11 0 Group total 546 545 702 724 964 Lost-time injuries Number Impala Rustenburg 456 311 503 573 555 Impala Springs 2 1 2 1 3 Marula 90 47 45 88 91 Zimplats 8 6 12 4 8 Mimosa 1 3 2 11 2 Afplats and head office 2 1 15 4 0 Group total 559 369 579 681 659 Restricted work cases Number Impala Rustenburg 0 77 135 59 86 Impala Springs 0 1 0 1 1 Marula 74 121 71 58 69 Zimplats 4 5 7 6 9 Mimosa 1 1 3 6 8 Afplats and head office 0 0 0 0 0 Group total 79 205 216 130 173 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 133 APPENDIX Our performance data Safety Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Employee hours worked Hours Impala Rustenburg 86 231 570 57 954 414 98 131 748 95 598 107 97 628 130 Impala Springs 3 972 573 3 913 170 4 746 833 4 453 614 5 015 400 Marula 9 013 210 8 885 363 8 303 702 7 678 134 9 897 064 Zimplats 13 560 069 14 646 272 17 257 526 19 361 847 10 627 319 Mimosa 7 643 876 7 803 469 7 762 842 9 250 991 9 996 092 Afplats and head office 498 262 854 084 1 395 686 831 411 141 443 Group total 121 034 823 94 056 773 137 598 336 137 174 104 133 305 270 FIFR Pmmhw Impala Rustenburg 0.070 0.052 0.091 0.115 0.061 Impala Springs 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Marula 0.111 0.000 0.000 0.130 0.000 Zimplats 0.000 0.068 0.000 0.000 0.000 Mimosa 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.100 Group 0.058 0.043 0.065 0.087 0.053 LTIFR (including RWC) Pmmhw Impala Rustenburg 5.29 6.69 6.50 6.61 6.57 Impala Springs 0.50 0.51 0.42 0.45 0.80 Marula 18.20 18.91 13.97 19.02 16.17 Zimplats 0.88 0.75 1.10 0.52 1.60 Mimosa 0.26 0.51 0.64 1.84 1.00 Group 5.27 6.10 5.80 5.91 6.24 TIFR Pmmhw Impala Rustenburg 9.85 12.58 11.13 11.22 12.60 Impala Springs 21.65 19.68 16.85 18.86 26.92 Marula 24.96 28.59 24.81 36.08 34.15 Zimplats 1.33 2.59 2.20 2.22 3.39 Mimosa 0.39 1.79 2.83 4.65 5.70 Group 9.78 11.9 10.91 11.19 13.47 MTCFR Pmmhw Impala Rustenburg 4.56 5.88 4.63 4.61 6.03 Impala Springs 21.14 19.17 16.43 18.41 26.12 Marula 6.77 9.68 10.84 17.06 17.99 Zimplats 0.44 1.84 1.10 1.70 1.79 Mimosa 0.13 1.28 2.19 2.59 4.15 Group 4.51 5.79 5.11 5.28 7.10 Total injuries Number Impala Rustenburg 849 729 1 092 1 073 1 230 Impala Springs 86 77 80 84 135 Marula 225 254 206 277 338 Zimplats 18 38 38 43 36 Mimosa 3 14 22 43 57 Afplats 2 7 63 15 0 Group total 1 183 1 119 1 501 1 535 1 796 *Afplats figures include growth and exploration. PAGE 134 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Health Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 VCT interventions Number Impala Rustenburg 9 851 7 626 10 316 7 792 12 647 Impala Springs 4 10 9 14 19 Marula 698 566 540 292 275 Zimplats 1 002 1 563 714 1 424 889 Mimosa 320 321 203 298 242 Group 11 875 10 086 11 782 9 820 14 072 Employees on ART Number Impala Rustenburg 3 929 3 822 3 639 3 222 2 488 Impala Springs 0 27 28 26 19 Marula 200 138 101 65 51 Zimplats 147 137 120 114 92 Mimosa 153 152 151 139 123 Group 4 429 4 276 4 039 3 566 2 773 Pulmonary TB cases Number Impala Rustenburg 274 213 311 352 318 Impala Springs 1 1 1 0 0 Marula 20 41 15 21 19 Zimplats 5 7 1 6 5 Mimosa 4 6 6 10 8 Group 304 268 334 389 350 NIHL Number Impala Rustenburg 32 16 36 53 52 Impala Springs 0 0 0 0 0 Marula 7 14 12 10 4 Zimplats 6 6 2 0 0 Mimosa 4 0 0 0 1 Group 49 36 50 63 57 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT (Zimbabwe) Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Expenditure (US$ 000) Zimplats* 1 784 2 568 2 350 2 763 2 216 Mimosa* 3 522 3 341 2 935 2 617 1 888 Total 5 304 5 909 5 285 5 380 4 104 * Zimplats skills development expenditure impacted by Bhima collapse and subsequent cost containment initiatives, hence the large difference when compared with Mimosa. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 135 APPENDIX Our performance data Skills development Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Expenditure (R million) Impala Rustenburg 456 280 387 313 312 Impala Springs 19 14 16 21 21 Marula 48 37 24 19 24 SA operations total (6% of wage bill) 523 331 428 353 357 Employee literacy (ABET III and above) Percentage Impala Rustenburg 82 82 80 74 57 Impala Springs 92 94 94 93 92 Marula 91 91 90 92 88 Zimplats 99 99 99 99 99 Mimosa 99 99 99 99 96 Average Group literacy 93 93 92 86 86 ABET training employees Number Impala Rustenburg 410U 686 794 900 804 Impala Springs 0* 0* 5 7 13 Marula 11 21 6 0** 25 SA operations total 421 707 805 907 842 Total number of employees trained (including ABET) Number Impala Rustenburg 30 031 20 338 29 299 23 477 24 178 Impala Springs 2 661 963 1 053 1 091 1 127 Marula 3 074 2 660 1 874 1 117 1 421 SA operations total 35 766 23 961 32 226 25 685 26 726 Cost of ABET training (R000) Impala Rustenburg 10 664 8 577 12 769 10 220 11 157 Impala Springs 0* 0* 486 578 1 600 Marula 8 19 2 0* 1 260 SA operations total 10 672 8 596 13 257 10 798 14 017 Hours of ABET training Hours Impala Rustenburg 89 736 69 672 148 728 134 842 190 525 Impala Springs 0* 0* 11 064 13 433 15 136 Marula 26 028 20 160 4 032 0* 14 450 SA operations total 115 764 89 832 163 824 148 257 220 111 Functional literacy Percentage Zimplats 99 99 99 99 99 Mimosa 99 99 99 99 96 Average Zimbabwean operations functional literacy 99 99 99 99 98 * No intake ** Stopped ABET and then outsourced U No full time intake in Q1 2015 due to the strike and no part-time intake Q1 and Q2 due to the strike. PAGE 136 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Environment Unit 2015* 2014* 2013 2012 2011 Key production figures Ore milled (excluding Mimosa) (000 tonnes) 16 024 13 916 17 209 16 626 20 974 Tailings disposed on tailing dam (000 tonnes) 17 891 16 004 20 770 20 619 23 163 Dump slag treated (000 tonnes) 16 90 172 175 250 Furnace and converter slag generated and treated (000 tonnes) 469 382 783 772 880 Total slag treated (000 tonnes) 485 472 955 947 1 130 Platinum produced (000oz) 1 276 1 178 1 581 1 448 1 836 Group material consumption Diesel (000 litres) 21 748 21 776 25 247 27 875 26 000 Petrol (000 litres) 602 830 1 137 1 237 1 666 Coal (tonnes) 138 653 127 883 158 732 161 563 170 000 Industrial burning oil (000 litres) 1 633 1 264 1 730 2 660 2 453 Key production figures – Energy (GJ000) Impala Rustenburg 9 766 7 945 11 453 11 360 12 220 Impala Springs 2 523 2 549 2 727 2 688 2 695 Marula 743 792 729 713 694 Zimplats 2 199 2 390 1 940 2 100 1 865 Mimosa 706 719 725 701 747 Group total 15 937 14 395 17 574 17 542 18 222 Key production figures – Water (Mℓ) (Mℓ) Total water withdrawn Impala Rustenburg 14 491 10 353 14 514 15 961 18 115 Impala Springs 750 758 838 792 769 Marula 1 523 1 690 1 969 1 989 1 817 Zimplats 6 447 6 389 5 775 4 408 4 007 Mimosa 2 165 2 175 2 344 2 214 2 337 Group total 25 376 21 365 25 440 25 274 27 045 Total water consumed** (Mℓ) Impala Rustenburg 21 140 16 247 24 735 26 012 28 044 Impala Springs 1 261 1 255 1 244 1 251 1 244 Marula 3 311 3 573 3 544 3 585 3 355 Zimplats 10 725 10 386 7 852 6 003 5 528 Mimosa 3 264 3 314 3 336 3 263 3 697 Group total 39 701 34 775 40 711 40 114 41 868 Total water recycled (Mℓ) Impala Rustenburg 6 649 5 894 10 220 10 051 9 928 Impala Springs 511 497 406 459 474 Marula 1 787 1 883 1 574 1 596 1 541 Zimplats 4 278 3 997 2 078 1 595 1 521 Mimosa 1 100 1 138 993 1 139 1 359 Group total 14 325 13 409 15 271 14 840 14 823 * Comparability of year-on-year figures impacted by five-month strike in the 2014 financial year. ** Total water consumed = total water withdrawn and total water recycled. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 137 APPENDIX Our performance data Key production figures Emissions Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total direct CO2 (tonnes) Impala Rustenburg 143 523** 114 432* 182 406 193 317 208 463 Impala Springs 143 687 141 372 158 553 154 077 166 267 Marula 6 437 7 102 6 331 6 450 7 157 Zimplats 45 547 51 257 43 864 53 697 41 190 Mimosa 9 806 9 834 9 815 10 362 12 528 Group total 349 000 323 997 400 969 417 902 435 605 Total indirect CO2 (tonnes) Impala Rustenburg 2 267 832** 1 928 823* 2 534 307 2 444 347 2 725 366 Impala Springs 150 711 159 445 149 223 147 166 155 388 Marula 187 298 206 412 175 914 170 958 168 970 Zimplats* 290 863 312 357 366 492 249 345 222 955 Mimosa* 104 818 107 120 106 506 101 391 189 113 Group total 3 001 522 2 714 157 3 332 442 3 113 207 3 461 792 Total direct NOx (tonnes) Impala Rustenburg 9 468** 7 932* 10 644 10 370 11 632 Impala Springs 629 656 633 625 663 Marula 782 850 746 725 180 Zimplats 1 896 1 988 1 555 1 587 1 602 Mimosa 684 682 678 645 689 Group total 13 459 12 107 14 257 13 952 14 766 Total direct SO2 (tonnes) Impala Rustenburg 4 865** 3 729* 5 832 4 736 6 319 Impala Springs 824 1 006 687 256 462 Marula 0 0 0 0 0 Zimplats 22 017 26 000*** 12 017 13 470 12 100 Mimosa 0 0 0 0 0 Group total 27 706 30 735 18 536 18 462 18 881 * Strike impacted, thus comparability impacted year on year. ** Post strike ramp up. *** Start up of phase II. PAGE 138 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Key production figures Land management Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Disturbed areas rehabilitated (ha) Impala Rustenburg 2.4 39.7 18.4 23.4 40.2 Impala Springs 0 0 0 0 0 Marula 1.8 3.0 3.3 0 0 Zimplats 2.5 3.2 2.5 0 0 Mimosa 2.7 0.7 4 0 0 Group total 9.4 46.6 28.2 23.4 40.2 Rehabilitation liabilities/current costs (Rm) Impala Rustenburg 767 729 761 712 708 Impala Springs 137 67 63 60 0 Marula 101 102 94 82 70 Zimplats* 413 285 247 216 164 Mimosa 0 0 98 77 63 Afplats 16 16 Group total 1 434 1 199 1 263 1 147 1 004 Rehabilitation provisions (Rm) Impala Rustenburg 459 436 523 520 455 Impala Springs 96 34 37 38 0 Marula 49 52 54 57 41 Zimplats* 236 145 154 117 99 Mimosa 0 0 47 52 40 Afplats 8 8 Group total 848 675 815 784 636 * The increase is due to providing for rehabilitation of the open pit operation at Zimplats that was established after the partial collapse of the Bimha Mine. Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 139 APPENDIX Our performance data Mining Prospecting Key production figures Implats right right Land leased and managed interest (ha) (ha) South Africa Impala 100% 29 773 Impala RBR JV* 49% 3 789 Afplats 74% 4 602 1 065 Imbasa 60% 1 673 Inkosi 49% 2 583 Marula 73% 5 494 223 Two Rivers 49% 10 675 Mining Implats leases interest (ha) Zimbabwe Zimplats 87% 48 535 Mimosa 50% 6 591 * Prospecting joint venture with Royal Bafokeng Resources. PAGE 140 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Our performance data Total Total Total Key production figures Group Group Group Waste management Unit 2015 2014 2013 Non-mineral/non-hazardous waste Reused tonnes 811 1 014 1 405 Recycled tonnes 10 498 7 582 15 026 Recovered tonnes 0 0 0 Treatment tonnes 0 0 0 Disposal tonnes 6 884 3 001 5 324 On-site storage tonnes 0 0 0 Non-mineral/hazardous waste Reused tonnes 89.5 3.0 3.5 Recycled tonnes 27 704 23 960 27 991 Recovered tonnes 0 0 0 Treatment tonnes 5 127 3 294 6 433 Disposal tonnes 7 131 8 251 9 194 On-site storage tonnes 6.1 9.5 12 Mineral waste Unit 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Accumulated tailings (000 tonnes) 17 891 16 004 20 770 20 619 22 878 Accumulated waste rock (on surface) (000 tonnes) 824 778 1 484 1 323 1 388 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 141 APPENDIX GRI and UN Global Compact Implats has followed the guidance provided by principles and criteria provided in the GRI’s G4 guidelines. A brief review of our application of the GRI reporting principles is provided below. A detailed response to each of the GRI reporting criteria (with hyperlinks to the corresponding sections of the report) is provided on our website, along with our communication on progress in terms of the UN Global Compact. Principles relating to the quality of this report O Materiality: As outlined on pages 27 to 30 the issues covered in this report have been guided by a combination of feedback from stakeholders, the identification of material issues by the sustainable development forum, and matters identified through the Group’s risk management process. O Stakeholder inclusiveness: The views and concerns of stakeholders have been considered in this report. O Sustainability context: The content of the report is informed by the nature of our products and markets, and with consideration to the social, economic and environmental context in which we operate. O Completeness: The Group’s approach to sustainability management have been disclosed under management approach page 34 as well as key sections of the report. O Balance: The Group has endeavoured to report in a balanced manner, reflecting both achievements and challenges during the year. O Comparability: In almost all performance areas, comparisons with 2014 have been made. Where possible and where the information is available, data has been provided over a period of five years. O Accuracy: Implats believes data has been provided in a format that is broadly acceptable and comparable against industry norms. Where necessary definitions have been provided and where there are differences with industry norms, indicated. O Timeliness: This sustainable development report is published annually, combining financial and non-financial performance. O Clarity: The Group has adopted a reporting style that is concise, but comprehensive enough to be understandable to the lay person. O Reliability: In 2009, Implats implemented a sustainability toolkit to collate and verify data, and to ensure greater accuracy and reliability. Certain performance indicators have been verified by the external assurance provider. Principles relating to the boundaries of this report O This report includes operations that are wholly owned or managed by the Group, as well as Mimosa mine, in which Implats has a 50% interest. The Two Rivers operation, in which the Group has a 49% interest and does not directly manage, is not directly covered. O Mass balance: Mass balance accounting is used to calculate all sulphur emissions at our smelters. In this case, sulphur mass balance is a systematic manner in which the mass of inputs containing sulphur with the mass of outputs containing sulphur as products, waste, change in material stocks and emissions. O Particulate matter: Particulate matter is tiny pieces of solid or liquid matter released to the atmosphere. At Implats, particulate matter refers to the mass of particulates measured at ambient monitoring stations. Particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns (μm) in size is called PM2.5 and particulate matter bigger than 2.5 microns (μm) and smaller than 10 microns (μm) in size is called PM10. O Isokinetic sampling: Isokinetic sampling is a sampling method which is used for monitoring pollution from the stacks. The samples are taken in a duct or stack. The sampling collects particles at a rate where the velocity and the direction of the gas entering the sampling nozzle is the same as that of the gas in the duct or stack and elsewhere in the stream. The results are therefore more accurate and reliable. PAGE 142 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Independent assurance report on selected sustainability information To the directors of Impala Platinum Holdings Limited We have undertaken an assurance engagement on selected sustainability information as described below and presented in the 2015 sustainability report of Impala Platinum Holdings Limited (Implats) for the year ended 30 June 2015 (the report). This engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, social, environmental and assurance specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. Subject matter and related assurance We are required to provide: 1. Reasonable assurance on the following key performance indicators: KPIs prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines Assured value Page Boundary 1 Contractor and employee fatalities 7 fatalities 133 Implats Group 2 Contractor and employee lost time incident 5.27 1, 46, 134 Implats Group frequency rate (LTIFR) (including restricted work cases) 3 Total injury frequency rate (TIFR) 9.78 134 Implats Group 4 New cases of noise-induced hearing loss submitted 49 cases 135 Implats Group for compensation (NIHL) 5 New cases of pulmonary tuberculosis diagnosed 304 cases 135 Implats Group and treated 6 Employees on antiretroviral treatment (ARV/ART) – 4 429 employees 135 Implats Group net enrolment at year end 7 Employee voluntary counselling and testing 11 875 tested cases 135 Implats Group programme uptake (VCT) 8 Energy consumption 15 937 GJ 000 137 Implats Group 9 Water withdrawn 25 376 Ml 137 Implats Group 10 Water consumption 39 701 Ml 137 Implats Group 11 Total indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions 3 001 522 tonnes 138 Implats Group 12 Total nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions 13 459 tonnes 138 Implats Group 2. Limited assurance on the following key performance indicators: (a) KPIs prepared in compliance with the Amendment to the Broad-Based SocioEconomic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining and Minerals Industry (BBSEEC) (2010) and related scorecard (2010) Assured value Page Boundary 13 Number of employees who are classified as 381 employees 66 South African historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) and operations only who are employed at management positions, above the supervisor level – excluding non-executive directors 14 Number of women employees in management 146 employees 66 South African positions, above the supervisor level – excluding operations only non-executive directors 15 Number of people trained through adult basic 292 people 59 to 60 South African education (ABET) – net enrolment at year end operations only 16 HDSA procurement (>25%) R5.4 billion 85 South African (in line with the Mining Charter categories of capital operations only goods, services and consumable goods) 17 Local procurement R498 million spent on Tier 1 86 South African procurement operations only Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 143 APPENDIX Independent assurance report on selected sustainability information (b) KPIs prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines Assured value Page Boundary 18 Total socio-economic development (SED) R83 million 75 South African expenditure operations only 19 Total direct carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions 349 000 tonnes 138 Implats Group 20 Total sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions 54 219 tonnes 119 Implats Group Directors’ responsibilities The directors are responsible for the selection, preparation and presentation of the selected sustainability information in accordance with the following criteria: O For the subject matters in 1 and 2 (b): The GRI G4 guidelines; and O For the subject matters in 2 (a): The amendment to the BBSEEC (2010) and related scorecard (2010). This responsibility includes the identification of stakeholders and stakeholder requirements, material issues, for commitments with respect to sustainability performance and for the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our independence and quality control We have complied with the code of ethics for professional accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. In accordance with International Standard on Quality Control 1, KPMG Services Proprietary Limited maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to express assurance conclusions on the selected sustainability information based on the work we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We have conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain assurance about whether the selected sustainability information is free from material misstatement. An assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the quantification of the selected sustainability information and related disclosures. The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments we considered internal control relevant to Implats’ preparation of the selected sustainability information. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures listed above we: O Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain an understanding of the internal control environment, risk assessment process and information systems relevant to the sustainability reporting process; O Inspected documentation to corroborate the statements of management and senior executives in our interviews; O Tested the processes and systems to generate, collate, aggregate, monitor and report the selected sustainability information, which included the following: – Performed control walkthroughs; – Inspected supporting documentation and performed analytical procedures on a sample basis to evaluate the data generation and reporting processes against the reporting criteria; – Undertook site visits to the Impala Rustenburg (mining, concentration and smelting), Impala Springs (refineries), Marula (mining and concentrating) and Zimplats (mining and concentration) operations; and O Evaluated whether the selected sustainability information presented in the report is consistent with our overall knowledge and experience of sustainability management and performance at Implats. PAGE 144 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Independent assurance report on selected sustainability information The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. As a result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion on the matters described in 2 above. Reasonable Assurance Opinion and Limited Assurance Conclusions 1. On the selected key performance indicators on which we are required to express reasonable assurance In our opinion, the selected sustainability information set out in 1 above for the year ended 30 June 2015 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines. 2. On the selected key performance indicators on which we are required to express limited assurance (a) Based on our work performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected sustainability information set out in 2(a) above for the year ended 30 June 2015 is not prepared, in all material respects, in compliance with the amendment to the BBSEEC (2010) and related scorecard (2010). (b) Based on our work performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected sustainability information set out in 2(b) above for the year ended 30 June 2015 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines. Emphasis of matter Without modifying our opinion or conclusions, we draw attention to page 1, which indicates that Implats has changed its calculation and definition of the LTIFR. In previous years the rate was calculated on the number of LTIs only which was changed to include both LTIs and restricted work injuries. For comparability purposes, prior year LTIFR data has been restated. Other matters The maintenance and integrity of the Implats’ website is the responsibility of Implats’ management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the report or our independent assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date of presentation on the Implats’ website. Our report does not extend to any disclosures or assertions relating to future performance plans and/or strategies disclosed in the report. Restriction of liability Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express the opinion and conclusions on the selected sustainability information to the directors of Implats in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any party other than Implats, for our work, for this report, or for the opinion and conclusions we have reached. KPMG Services Proprietary Limited Per PD Naidoo Director Johannesburg 21 October 2015 Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 145 APPENDIX Glossary ABET Adult Basic Education and Training Aids Acquired immune deficiency syndrome AMCU Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union AMWUZ Associated Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe ART Antiretroviral therapy, provided for the treatment of HIV and Aids (excluding state and private medical aid) B-BBEE Broad-based black economic empowerment CO2 Carbon dioxide CoM Chamber of Mines CSOT Community Share Ownership Trust CTF Cultural transformation framework dB Decibels. Unit of measurement for sound DEROs Desired Emissions Reduction Objectives DOH Department of Health DMR Department of Mineral Resources, South Africa DPM Diesel Particulate Matter DSM Demand-side management DWS Department of Water and Sanitation EAO Emolument attachment orders ECD Early childhood development EFF Economic Freedom Fighters EIA Environmental impact assessment EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EMA Environmental Management Agency of Zimbabwe EMP Environmental management programme ESOP Employee Share Ownership Programme ESOT Employee Share Ownership Trust Executive director Is employed by the Company and is involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation EVP Employee value proposition FIFR A rate expressed per million man-hours of any Impala employee, contractor or contractor employee or visitor who is involved in an incident while performing his duties at work and who sustains terminal injuries shall constitute a fatal accident. Any road-related fatal incident where the Company is in full control of the vehicle, the driver and conditions related to the road injury of an employee shall constitute a fatal incident. A fatal injury may occur when an employee is incapacitated for a period of time prior to expiration, thus requiring a revision of injury status from LTI to a fatality FLC Foundational Learning Competence FY Financial year (to 30 June) GJ Gigajoules. Unit of measure for energy GHG Greenhouse gases GRI Global Reporting Initiative HDSA Historically disadvantaged South African HIV Human immunodeficiency virus HPD Hearing Protection Devices HSE Health safety and environment HSRC Human Science Research Council IBC Inside back cover IFC Inside front cover IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IBT Impala Bafokeng Trust, socio-economic development vehicle jointly funded by Implats and RBH ILO International Labour Organisation IMP Impala Medical Plan Impala Platinum Impala Platinum Limited, comprising Impala Rustenburg and Impala Springs Implats Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Independent directors Directors who apart from receiving directors’ remuneration do not have any other material pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company, its management or its subsidiaries, which in the judgement of the board may affect their independence IPA International Platinum Group Metals Association ISO International Organisation for Standardisation IWWMP Integrated waste and water management plan IIP Indigenisation Implementation Plan JSE Johannesburg stock exchange PAGE 146 Implats sustainable development report 2015 APPENDIX Glossary LCA Life cycle assessment LCMs Loose cubic metres LED Local Economic Development Local community Communities that are directly impacted by our mining operations and are on or near the mine lease area Lost-time injury A work-related injury resulting in the employee being unable to attend work at his/her place of work, performing his/her assigned duties, on the next calendar day (whether a scheduled work day or not) after the day of the injury. If the appointed medical professional advises that the injured person is unable to attend work on the next calendar day after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next roster shift, a lost-time injury is deemed to have occurred LSE London Stock Exchange LTIFR Number of lost-time injuries expressed as a rate per million hours worked and includes restricted work cases Marula Marula Platinum (Pty) Ltd Materiality and Issues of materiality are those aspects that may have a significant impact on the organisation’s reputation and may material issues carry a financial and/or legal cost. These aspects are identified internally through the risk process and externally through ad hoc or routine engagements with a range of stakeholders MCDA Marula community development agency MCLEF Mine Communities Leadership Engagement forum MCSOT Mberengwa Community Share Ownership Trust MCT Marula community trust MHSC Mine, health and safety council MIGDETT Mining Industry Growth Development and Employment Task Team Mimosa Mimosa Platinum (Private) Limited Mining Charter Broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African mining industry MPRDA Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 28 of 2002, which came into effect in South Africa on 11 May 2004 Medical treatment A medical treatment case is defined as a one-time treatment and subsequent observation of minor injuries by an cases (MTCs) appointed medical professional. Such minor injuries may include treatment by the application of bandages, antiseptic, ointment, irrigation of the eye to remove non-embedded foreign objects or the removal of foreign objects from the wound. MTCs never involve a loss of one or more calendar days after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next rostered shift or where the injured is unable to perform one or more of their routine functions normally connected with their work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional MW Megawatt, a measure of electric power NAC National Aids Council NASCA National Senior Certificate for Adults NCPC National Cleaner Production Centre NCR National credit regulator NGO Non-governmental organisation NBI National Business Institute NDP National Development Plan NIHL Noise-induced hearing loss NMWVZ National Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe Non-executive director A director who is not involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation but is a nominee director of a material shareholder NOx Nitrous Oxide NRF National Research Foundation NUM National Union of Mineworkers, South Africa OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series ORAs Objective-based risk assessments PBC PGM beneficiation committee PDS Proximity detective systems PFA President’s Framework Agreement PGI Platinum Guild International PGMs Platinum group metals being the metals derived from PGE PIC Public Investment Corporation PPC Platinum producer’s committee PPE Personal protective equipment PPM Parts per million RBED Royal Bafokeng Enterprise Development RBH Royal Bafokeng Holdings RBN Royal Bafokeng Nation/Administration Implats sustainable development report 2015 PAGE 147 APPENDIX Glossary Reportable (a) A reportable injury is an injury which results in: the death of the employee; (b) An injury, to any employee, likely to be fatal; (c) Unconsciousness, incapacitation from heatstroke or heat exhaustion, oxygen deficiency, the inhalation of fumes or poisonous gas, or electric short or electric burning accidents of or by any employee and which is not reportable in terms of paragraph (d), or as required by the OHS Act where applicable (d) An injury which either incapacitates the injured employee from performing that employee’s normal occupation for a period totalling 14 days or more, or which causes the injured employee to suffer the loss of a joint, or a part of a joint, or sustain a permanent disability Restricted Work A restricted work injury is a work-related injury which results in the employee being able to return to his or her Injuries permanently assigned workplace, to perform his or her permanently assigned work on the next calendar day, but where (RWI) the injured is unable to perform one or more of their routine functions normally connected with their work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional RDP Reconstruction and Development Programme RFA Rehabilitation and Fitness Assessment RLM Rustenburg local municipality RO Reverse osmosis RSIP Rehabilitation strategy and implantation plan SD Sustainable development SED Socio-economic development SET Social, ethics and transformation SHEQ Safety, health and environment quality SLP Social and labour plan SMC Selous Metallurgical Complex SMMEs Small, medium and micro enterprises SO2 Sulphur dioxide SRI Socially responsible investment TARP Triggered action response plan TB Pulmonary tuberculosis, which in South Africa is considered an occupational illness when it is associated with the presence of dust in the workplace TEBA The Employment Bureau of Africa TMM Trackless mobile machinery Traditional council Elected/appointed members of a community according to customs and practices. The tenure of these leaders differ leadership among communities. The chief King/Kgoshi/Kgosi or inKhosi is the head of the traditional council leadership and the chairman of the council TSCZ Traffic Safety Council of Zimbabwe UASA United Association of South Africa UNGC United Nations Global Compact VCT Voluntary counselling and testing, in respect of HIV and Aids VPSHR Voluntary principles on security and human rights WBCSD World Business Council on Sustainable Development WC/WDM Water Conservation/Water Demand Management WiM Woman in mining WPIC World Platinum Investment Council WUL Water use licence ZCSOT Zvishavane Community Share Ownership Trust ZINARA Zimbabwe National Roads Association ZIP Zero incident process ZRP Zimbabwe Republic Police INDICATOR Basic calculation Indirect energy 2015 DEFRA Guidelines Indirect CO2 (SA) Eskom Fact Sheet 2015 Indirect CO2 (Zimbabwe) International Energy Agency (IEA) Report 2012 Direct energy from diesel, petrol, and IBO 2015 DEFRA Guidelines Direct energy from Sasol Gas Sasol Gas supplier Direct CO2 from Sasol Gas Sasol Gas supplier Direct energy from coal consumption Supplier analysis Direct CO2 from coal consumption Supplier analysis PAGE 148 Implats sustainable development report 2015 Contact details and administration Registered office Impala Platinum Japan Limited 2 Fricker Road Uchisaiwaicho Daibiru, room number 702 Illovo, 2196 3-3 Uchisaiwaicho Private Bag X18 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku Northlands, 2116 Tokyo Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Japan Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 Telephone: +81 (3) 3504 0712 Email: investor@implats.co.za Telefax: +81 (3) 3508 9199 Registration number: 1957/001979/06 Share codes: Company Secretary JSE: IMP Tebogo Llale ADRs: IMPUY Email: tebogo.llale@implats.co.za ISIN: ZAE000083648 Website: http://www.implats.co.za United Kingdom secretaries St James’s Corporate Services Limited Impala Platinum Limited and Suite 31, Second Floor Impala Refining Services 107 Cheapside Head office London 2 Fricker Road EC2V 6DN Illovo, 2196 United Kingdom Private Bag X18 Telephone: +44 (020) 7796 8644 Northlands, 2116 Telefax: +44 (020) 7796 8645 Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Email: phil.dexter@corpserv.co.uk Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 Public Officer Impala Platinum (Rustenburg) François Naudé PO Box 5683 Email: francois.naude@implats.co.za Rustenburg, 0300 Telephone: +27 (14) 569 0000 Transfer secretaries Telefax: +27 (14) 569 6548 South Africa Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited Impala Platinum Refineries 70 Marshall Street PO Box 222 Johannesburg, 2001 Springs,1560 PO Box 61051 Telephone: +27 (11) 360 3111 Marshalltown, 2107 Telefax: +27 (11) 360 3680 Telephone: +27 (11) 370 5000 Telefax: +27 (11) 688 5200 Marula Platinum 2 Fricker Road United Kingdom Illovo, 2196 Computershare Investor Services plc Private Bag X18 The Pavilions Northlands, 2116 Bridgwater Road Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Bristol Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 BS13 8AE Zimplats SD Report Auditors Block B KPMG Services (Pty) Limited Emerald Park 1 Albany Road 30 The Chase (West) Parktown Emerald Hill Johannesburg, 2193 Harare, Zimbabwe PO Box 6380 Corporate relations Harare Johan Theron Zimbabwe Investor queries may be directed to: Telephone: +26 (34) 332 590/3 Email: investor@implats.co.za Telefax: +26 (34) 332 496/7 Email: info@zimplats.com Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc 2 Eglin Road Sunninghill Johannesburg 2157 BASTION GRAPHICS www.implats.co.za
