AYA Myanilar lnsuran(e Office 951_-291797, 8619409, 10 #*.*u No.23, Kan \bikihar Yangon, Myanmar Road. Mingalar Taung Nyunt Township, ll0tline Email 95,1-4619405 95-9-49i05224 info@ami-insurance.tom wwwami-insurrn€e.com STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT As a young company in the developing country, AYA Myanmar Insurance (Alyfl) aims to play a pivotal role in driving social and economic development in Myanmar. We commit to making United Nations Global Compact's Ten Principles part of our long term stategy and it is in our DNA to fulfill Corporate Social Responsibility to the community we serve. As the company's slogan Parhrer for Life states, we aim to be the positive force in protecting the people and communities against uncertainties of tomorrow in a sustainable manner. AMI believes in fair and ethical business dealings and focus on our corporate social responsibilities (CSR) by implementing the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anticomrption advocated by United Nations Global Compact UNGC). We will at all times observe the highest principles of ethical behavior, respect for society, the law and environment. We would like to express our appreciation to our shareholders for their confidence in the direction y-g are taking, their on-going support and eneouragemef,t and our gratitude to the t and employees for their sfforts that have contributed to the healthy gfowth in our peqft1mancrt.l,r,i,.,, r:,r,, r. ,,..,t,.ri .r,,1,,;r. ,,,,,,,,, AMI has adhered to the l0 principles of UN Global Compact in its stategic management and has shown shong commit-ment.,ir,-:,.i$plgmentingrihe tll$, Global Compact Principles. We invest significant amounto,{i{,!.pq mdl jgto thC sociat ir:itiatives,,:.;vift.,:, lfoctis,bn cbntibuting to ' the society that wefurate in the long rurr ..''j ':', ., ,,i1. ':.i r: .,., Myo Min Thu Managing Director AYA Myanmar Insurance AYA Xlyanriai lnrurance Office 95 -r-?;9].7 97, 86L9 409, LO ** ml No.23, Kan Yeik Thar Road, Mingalar Ta ung NJrunt Township, Yangon, Myanmar Fax Hotline Email 95-1-8619405 95-949305724 info@ami-i nsurance-com www-ami-insurance.com HUMAN RIGHTS Principle I Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed . humanrights Principle 2 Make sure Businessss are not complicit in human right abuses AYA Myanmar Insurance Company Ltd (AMI) acknowledges and respects the principles contained in the International Bill of Human Rights, and the International labor organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work. We recognize our responsibility to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human right abuses, as stated in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. AMI is in full compliance the labor laws and regulations applicable to our activities. AMI make sure there is no discrimination within the organization. We will be resolute in upholding human rights in everything we do and will not tolerate such discrimination within the employees. We respect each employee's human rights and provide equtty of opportunity and treafinent in employment, including hiring, compensation, promotion, fiaining or discipline, for the purpcse of eliminating discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, gender, religion, nationality, \Ye treat our employees equally and respecffillly. We make employee to demonstate respect toward each other and we do not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination. We seek to create an inclusive work environment where employee regardless of their backgrounds can contibute to their potential. We appreciate the diversity and individualrty of our employee and do not discriminate based on personal characteristics such as nationality, gender, ethnicity, .religion or disabilities. We provide our employee fair and competitive wages based on perfonnance and ethical conduct. We protect from uilfair or unethical working conditions, including bonded, foroed or child labor, or any unsafe working conditions. We tain our employees and rotate them in all areas of our business to focus on providing best customer services and innovative solutions while adhering to the respective laws governing those activities. We shive for the highest customer satisfaction. We listen to our customers and provide solutions that add value and create mutual benefit for both parties. AYAMyanilar lnsuranae Office 95-r.-291797, 8619409, 10 #* */lt No.23, Kan Yeik Thar Road, Fax 95-1-86r.9406 Hotline 95-949305224 Mingalar Taung Nyunt Tffi nship, Email info@am i-insura nce.com Yangon, Myanmar www.a m i-insu rance.com LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the . right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation AMI employment is voluntary. We do not use forced, bonded or indsntured labor. All employees have a written contact of employment, with agreed terms and conditions, including notice periods on both sides. All employees are entitled to reasoaable rest breaks, access to toilets, rest facilities and portable water at their place of work, and paid holiday leave in accordance with Myanmar labor law. All employees are provided with appropriate job skills and caresr development learning programs. AMI pays its employees at least the minimum wage required by Myanmar industry law and provides legally mandated benefits including gazette Myanmar holidays and leaves. Our working hours are 8 hours per day including one hour for lunch and 40 hours per week. The employees receive his/ her Basic Monthly salary in Kyats. Overtime pay, which is applicable every employee for the amount of time that exceeds 8 working in a day or 44 hours a week. Overtime work is permiued only with the consent of the employee concerned. If it becomes necessary to work overtime due to the uaavoidable requiremeRt, an employee may work overtime but the overtime period does not exceed 12 hours in a week. AMI does not use or employ child labor under any circumstance, as defined in the intemational Labor Organization Convention 182, Article 3 (Worst Forms of Child Labor). AMI employees are at least age 18. AMI does not use or employ child labor under any circumstances, as dsfined in the Intemational Labor Organization Convention 182, Article 3 (Worst Forms of Child Labor). AMI staffs actively involved in various activities such as blood donation, cleaning of hospital compound and providing lunchboxes to patients and their families. ffice t0 ** *'t AYA M)Enriar lniurance 95-L-29L7 97, 8619409, No.23, Kan Yeik Thar Road, Fax 95-1-8619406 Hotline 95-9-49305224 Min8alar Taung Nyunt Township, Email info@a mi-insurance.com Yangon, Myanmar www.ami-insuIance.com Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautiomry approachto environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffirsion of environmentally friendly technology AMI works towards being a responsible business entity, we stive to achieve business success in ways that reveal respect for people and the planet that we live in, and uphold the values and high standards of ethics. lVe have always taken into consideration long and short term impacts to the environmental and community when we making business decisions. We follow the environmental requirements such as conserving energy, water, raw materials and other natural resources and comply with health and safety requirements. These are also communicated regularly to all employees of the organization through seminars, awareness campaigns and printed materials. We make efficient use of natural resources and minimize the environmental impact of our activities. AMI believes that as a responsible corporate citizen, it is our duty to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment using risk management strategies based on valid data and sound science andto protect and enhance the quality of the environment in areas where we operate. We have embarked on digital plaform leveraging on the advancement of technology to create a paperless office. At present, it's a matter of embracing the new technology and providing fiaining and enoouragement for new business worldlows and practices. Reduce paper flow with customers communicate goals to customers and enlist their support in switching to more productive and accurate electronic solutions such as: . Elimination of paper usage in underwriting processes . Paperless invoices and statements for customers . Electronic invoicing from and payment . Online banking AYA Myanmar lnsurance Office 95 -t-2977 97, 86t9409, tO #*nru No.23, Kan Yeik Thar Road, tax 9s-1-8619406 Hotline 95-9-49305724 Mingalar Ta ung Nyunt Township, Email info@ami-insurance.com Yangon, Myanmar www.amiinsurance.com . Intemal online routing of documents for approval . Sharing electronic documents and publications We have also engage dashboards consisting of business intelligence software that combines system data and offer tools to more effectively analyze data, manage risk on our undervwiting pbrtfolios and online reports. Paperless Collaboration implement ways to minimize paper shared on projects and between departments: Email documents, Share server folders. Environmentally-friendly printing saves energy, reduces paper use, cuts down ofl waste, and improves bottorn line. Educate all employees about new practices and create an easy-to-access, online paperless practices reference document explaining all practices. Environmental awareness fiaining are incorporated into employee learning prograrns, to ensure all emplbyees carry out their daily operatioo io * environmentally conscious mallner and are able to fulfill their environmental responsibilities. , pfifle.Ja (&. AYA ilYanffi IME@ Ym&o!&bAtuI ffi W E ffi AYA rliyanlllar lmurance ffice 95-L-29L797, 8619409, L0 It* |}'J No.23, Kan Yeik Thar Road, fax 95-1-86L9406 Hotline 95-949305224 Mingalar Taung Nyunt Township, Email info@ami-insurance-com Yangon, Myanmar ww.ami-insuEnce-aom Anti-Comrption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of comrption, including extortion and bribery At AMI, we are fully committed to act professionally, fairly and with integrity in doing business or engaging with all stakeholders and customers. We will uphold with highest honor to all relevant and prevailing laws of Myanmar including Anticorruption law in respect of our conduct to all stakeholders. Comrption is a crime not only punishable with imprisonment but also can destroy our company's integrity and as such we take our legal responsibility seriously. Our Management always emphasizes on transparency and opeflness in communication r+ith all stakeholders such as employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, etc. and encourages infonnation and knowledge sharing betweeu all stakeholders. In case of any corruption occurred in organization? we have internal policies ii place to carry out thorough investigation and never hesitate to take appropriate action accordingly regardless of any level of stakeholder involvement. AMI has implemented its policy on 'Anti-Bribery' in support of wide Corporate Governance framework in preventing bnbery and comrption. 'Code of Conduct' and 'Conflicts of Interest' Policies commits us nevor to engage in bribery, any form of unethical payment including facilitation pa)lnents and 'kickbacks'. Any employees who suspects or becomes aware of any violation of applicable law must report to the Designated Person, or Board Members who shall in tum report the matter to the Board. If there is any case of customer complaint about comrption, our matragement team takes immediate action to investigate the incident by interviewing all respective persotrnel, by detail checking of all documents and by reviewing the CCTV records. Based upon the result and report of our inspection t.eam, the management makes careful review of the case and takes necessary actions accordingly.
