UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – COP Participant Name : M/s Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. Country : India Sector : Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period Covered : 2015-2016 (Financial Year April-March) Contact Person : Sh. S.S. Yadav, ED (HR) Contact E-mail : ssyadav@kribhco.net Date : 11th August, 2016 Other Relevant Links : www.kribhco.net 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2015-16 KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED (KRIBHCO) 2 KRIBHCO, a Multi State Cooperative Society is engaged in manufacturing of Urea through its Plant situated at Surat, Hazira. The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles is as under:The Financial year 2015 16 was the 30th year of commercial production of the Society‟s Plant at Hazira, Surat. The plant achieved the highest ever production of 13.528 lakh MT Ammonia & 22.679 lakh MT Urea which corresponds to a capacity utilization of 108.45 % for Ammonia and 103.34% for Urea. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The basic principle of protecting the internationally proclaimed human rights has been given due importance in KRIBBHCO. 3 Actions & Outcomes  Plant visits : To build productive relationship and enhance customer satisfaction, we organized plant visits for co-operative delegates, farmers, students, etc. from all the regions of India. During this period, we organized 09 plant visits in which a total of 1079 co-operative delegates, farmers, students etc. paid visit to our plant at Surat.  HRD Activities : Training and career development are very vital in any company or organization that aims at progressing. Training simply refers to the process of acquiring the essential skills required for a certain job. It targets specific goals, for instance understanding a process and operating a certain machine or system. Career development, on the other side, puts emphasis on broader skills, which are applicable in a wide range of situations. This includes decision making, thinking creatively and managing people. „Training‟ means to impart knowledge, develop skills, change attitude and behaviour, and helps in addressing employee weaknesses, Improvement in workers performance, Consistency in duty performance, Ensuring worker satisfaction, Increases productivity, Improve quality of services and products, Reduce cost, Reduction in supervision etc. On continuous basis, KRIBHCO has made special efforts for the development of employees through various HRD activities such as In-house / External Training programs, Lectures/Presentations/Talks etc. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental & functional training needs of employees and to achieve organization growth to meet global challenges in the field of production , safety, profit and social growth .  In-house training programs: In house training programs were organized for employees on the following topics during the FY 2015-16:  Development Training Programs: Programs were conducted on First Aid, Managing & Coping with Change, Finance for nonFinance personnel, Rapport Building and Inter Personal Skills, Self-Management, Team Building Dynamic. A total of 506 Nos. employees participated in these programmes at Plant Office, Surat. HRD at Corporate Office has organized and conducted a total of 33 Training Programs (19 Outside programs and 14 in house programs) for the development of over 644+ employees. 4 Society‟s HRD took a new initiative to celebrate Women‟s Day to acknowledge the accomplishments and to recognize the inner strength of women workforce on 8 th March 2016 on the eve of International Women‟s Day. Entire day was planned to involve female staff of Society in various engaging activities throughout the day. A visual quiz focusing on good relationship at workplace, stress at work, healthy diet, medical issues, women personalities etc was conducted wherein all female employees participated with full vigor. In another activity, they were asked to share their views voluntarily and many of them came out with full confidence and good presentation skills. HRD team also organized a lecture by an eminent professor. Purple color of International Women‟s Day was the given theme of color code for dress of all female employees. This small act brought a wave of concord within all female employees of Society.  Focus on Employees Health : On continuous basis KRIBHCO is putting special efforts for taking care of the health of employees by organizing camps, talks and lectures on Stress Management, Ergonomics, Awareness on Naturopathy, Ayurveda & Yoga, Building Emotional & Physical Health, Heart Problem, Nutrition/Diet-Healthy food & dietary habits, nutrition and their importance etc. To reduce the stress of the employees in day to day life, regular Meditation, Yoga, Dance, Sports event, etc. are being held periodically for the Township residents including employees.  Functional Training Programmes: Refresher programme on Fire & Safety, Dilution based CEMS System by Environment S.A. India, Effective Selling Skills for Field Representatives, Programme on Control Valve for Instrument Dept. were conducted in which a total of 213 Nos. employees participated. 5  Knowledge & Skill Development of Employees : Opportunities for growth and development help employees expand their knowledge, skills and abilities. Keeping this in mind many employees were sent to the programs like Interpersonal communication skills, Building Global CIO Competencies, Legal compliance in emerging environment, Conduct Rules & Grievance Management, Leadership & Team work for excellence, Project Management & Strategic Financial Planning, Gas in India, Unlocking potential of fertilizer sector, Arbitration in the Era of Globalization, Office Management for Staff Development, Latest Trends & Developments in Fire Protection System 2016, Effective Office Communication skill etc. etc.  External Sponsorship: Based on specific functional training needs of employees, 22 employees were sponsored to various reputed trainings and seminars from Plant at Surat. 73 officials were sponsored to 19 nos. of external programs from Corporate Office at Noida.  Vocational Training: KRIBHCO is committed to fulfill its social responsibility by providing training to students of various technical as well as management institutions in the country. A total of 177 students belonging to Chemical, Electrical, Mechanical, Instrumentation Engineering, Information Technology, Personnel Management, Materials Management and Financial Management etc. were imparted vocational training during the financial year 2015-16.  Knowledge Imparting/Summer Training: Knowledge imparting/summer training in various disciplines is also being imparted through HRD Deptt. Corporate Office, to the students sponsored by various educational/Management/Engineering Institutes.  HRD Forum: An HRD forum at Corporate Office has been formed by which knowledge, information on different topics/themes is sent to all employees by HRD through daily e-mail.  Library Activities: E-Library is well maintained in which, Indian Standards, technical drawings and KBR documents are made available on line. 6  Training to Graduate Engineer Trainees: Total of 30 Graduate Engineers Trainees of various disciplines were trained during the period. Today, Indian organizations have realized the importance of training as a tool to achieve their strategic goals. It is not viewed by the organization as a cost any longer but as an investment on one of its most dynamic assets, namely, employees. Many organizations consider training as a strategic employee retention tool. It helps the organization create a smarter force capable of meeting any situation and challenges.  Productivity week celebration: The nation has commemorated 58th “Productivity Week Celebration” in all sectors of economy from Feb. 12-18, 2016. The mission of „Productivity Week Observance” is to share knowledge and experience for Productivity improvement and all round development in all sectors of economy. National Productivity Council every year celebrates Productivity Week to rededicate the pledge towards enhancement of productivity. This year, National Productivity Council, Delhi has selected the theme “EASE OF DOING BUSINESS FOR HIGHER PRODUCTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE GROWTH”. To join in the efforts of the Government to improve awareness about Productivity, HRD department at KRIBHCO Plant, organized various activities such as poster competition for employees, slogan competition for employees, write up competition for spouse of employees (ladies) and talk competitions for students of township schools. To encourage the participant, the winners have been awarded prizes in each category. At Corporate Office, Noida also various activities were organized during Productivity Week. Quiz, Sharing of thoughts and Talk from an Outside expert was organized to improve awareness about Productivity and sustainable growth and the winners have been awarded prizes. 7  Participation in Commonwealth Sports Event: KRIBHCO has extended support to organize “AVADH 20th Common wealth Table Tennis Championships at Surat from 16-21 December 2015 to Gujarat State Table Tennis Association. The event was witnessed participation from 30 Commonwealth countries.  Participation in National Exhibition-cum-Rural Fare: Under DRDA CRD Mission Man glam programme, a National Regional Saras Fare has organized from 25.12.2015 to 09./01.2016 by District Industries Centre, Surat, wherein KRIBHCO has also supported the event by sponsoring banners.  Community Welfare Programme: KRIBHCO Karmachari Sahakari Dhiran & Purvatha Society Ltd, (KKSD&P Society Ltd) managed by employees of KRIBHCO Plant is also extending community welfare activities as and when requirement arise. In the month of December, KKSD&PS voluntarily collected from the residents of KRIBHCO Township and donated winter wear clothes & blankets, food packets etc to the poor and needy people/ families of tribal village of Dang district, including school children. A function was also held at Primary school for distribution of the above items. The villagers appreciated the efforts and help provided by KKSD&PS. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility the employees Co-operative Society at Plant, KRIBHCO Karmachari Sahakari Dhiran & Purvatha Society Limited (KKSD&P Limited) has undertaken a noble cause of distributing 200 Blankets to the needy people in the winter season in the villages of Pandva & nearby on 22.12.2015 in the presence of Shri Kamleshbhai, Sarpanch of Pandva. On this occasion Biscuits, note books and pencils were also distributed to the school children and old clothes collected from the residents of the KRIBHCO Township were also distributed. KRIBHCO is playing a major role in community development activities by providing Drinking water to nearby villages, text books, study materials & uniform, computer, CD Projector, sports items, 8 construction of boundary wall, Ambulance van, financial aid for construction of water tank, sponsoring school library, supplying benches, fans to nearby schools. KRIBHCO organized two Blood Donation Camps in its Township Hospital & its nearby adopted village Kawas in association with Surat Raktadan Kendra in which more than 200 bottles of blood was collected.  Community Development Activities: KRIBHCO is conscious of its responsibility towards the various sections of the society. Accordingly, over the years, KRIBHCO has been assisting educational institutes in nearby villages as well as in tribal areas by way of construction of additional class rooms, providing books/stationery items, uniforms, school benches, laboratory instruments, sports equipment, book-shelves for school library etc. Following were some of the community development activities carried out during the financial year 2015-16. 9 1. Provided Study materials to the students of Primary School, Kawas & Ichhapore as well as kids of Suvas Bal Bhavan to the tune of apprx. Rs.56,000/2. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, KRIBHCO carried out rural development activities in nearby villages such as providing educational aid to primary school students to encourage parents to send their wards to school and to promote educational activities. Besides, school uniforms were also distributed to the 394 students of Kawas at an expenditure of ₹ 1.88 Lakhs. 3. In the field of rural health, Malaria control activities were carried out (like fogging) in nearby villages. The Society also supports “Ashirwad” in its Township where senior citizens are provided facilities for recreation. 4. For our adopted villages – Kawas and Ichchhapore, drinking water is provided free of cost and the approximate expenditure is around Rs. 60.00 Lakhs per annum.  Ashirwad (Senior citizen Club): A senior citizen club in KRIBHCO Township was established on 14th July, 2000. Today, after 15 successful years, on 14th July 2015, an event was organised by KRIBHCO to celebrate the joyous journey of this institution. The event was inaugurated by Operations Director, Shri R K Aggarwal and Mrs. Rita Aggarwal along with other dignitaries of KRIBHCO and Ashirwad Club members. Operations Director paid a tribute to the Senior citizens recognising them as strong pillars of family and traditions and addressed the Club members. The event was attended by a large number of Ashirwad members, Top senior officials of KRIBHCO and members of Mahila Jagruti Club, KRIBHCO who are regular companion of Ashirwad members in weekly BhajanKirtan. Shri Maganbhai Patel, the President and the most active member of Ashirwad Club, presented the yearly activities of the Club and elaborated the assistance provided by KRIBHCO. He expressed his gratitude to Operations DirectorKRIBHCO for his personal attention and care for the Club members. After a spiritual retreat through Bhajan, sang by club members, the event was winded up with a sumptuous lunch. It‟s a testimonial to the blissful and content life of Senior citizens at KRIBHCO Township. 10  Rural Development Programme: KRIBHCO has sponsored construction of Class rooms with a financial assistance of Rs.2.50 Lac at Sunrise Special School for Mentally Challenged Children, at Surat. A cheque of Rs.2,00,000/was handed over to the Navchetan Trust by Operations Director in a simple function held at the construction site. Mr Rajan Chowdhry, Finance Director and other officials was also present on the occasion.  School Activities: Various sports competitions were organized on the occasion of Annual Sports Day on 10.12.2015 and prizes to the winners were given away by Operations DirectorKRIBHCO. On 11.12.2015 11 cluster CMP was organized wherein various Kendriya Vidyalaya schools participated in group songs, group dance etc. and Annual prize distribution was held on 18.12.2015.  Ladies Club Activity: As a part of social welfare activities, the Ladies Club of KRIBHCO has conducting regular health check camps, distributing medicines, food-grains and blankets to poor labors. The club also running a „Jagruti Bal Bhavan‟ for the children of labors in our township. Various socio-religious activities are also conducted on regular basis.  Socio Religious Activity: Two temples & One Mosque exists in our premises, which helps the township residents and the nearby villagers for their requirement of religious prayers. Bhandara is being arranged on the occasion of Durga Puja, Bharat Mandir Pattoutsav and SAI Mandir Pattoutsav at mandir situated at KRIBHCO premises, wherein large number of devotees take part in the festival and receive the blessings of God. The villagers from nearby villages are also invited and they participate in the Bhandaras. In order to encourage the National unity and diversity various Cultural programmes, such as Holi, Pongal, Navratri, Onam , Diwali, Makar Sakranti, Baisakhi/Lohri, Chath Puja, Durga Puja, Ayappa Puja, Ganeshotsav, Dusshhera etc. are being celebrated with great pomp & show and people from all walks of life actively participate. Bharat Mandir Pattoutsav was held at Bhartat Mandir on 20.02.2016 wherein various religious poojas were held and Mahaprasadam distributed to more than 7000 devottees, The event was arranged by employees like-wise SAI Mandir Pattoutsav at mandir situated at KRIBHCO premises was held on February 2015 , wherein large number of devotees take part in the festival and receive the blessings of SAI BABA God. The villagers from nearby villages are also invited and they participate in the Bhandaras. 12  „SWACHHTA PAKHWADA”: As a part of the Swachh Bharat Mission and to create awareness amongst employees of KRIBHCO, as a responsible citizen, we at KRIBHCO considering it as our moral duty had organized a Cleanliness Campaign “SWACHHTA PAKHWADA” during 01.05.2016 to 15.05.2016 at our Plant & Township. Operations Director emphasized the importance of the mission of Swachh Bharat‟ to all the employees of KRIBHCO and made them aware about the “Swachh Bharat‟ mass movement. All the employees and staff participated in the cleanliness drive, family members and contract workers also gave valuable contribution to this noble cause. Displayed banners / play cards in respect of Cleanliness & hygiene at various places at Township & Plant. 13  Cleanliness Drive at Plant – Surat: A circular was issued to all departmental head to nominate volunteers from the respective departments, inviting all employees working in plant to contribute this noble cause. A daily round was taken up by the Senior Officers to assess the cleanliness of plant areas, proper arrangement & storing of spares & equipment. A competition has been organized amongst plants and offices in respect of best house keeping. The committee recommended for awarding prizes to top two Departments for Best housekeeping of plant. All employees at Plant actively participated in the Cleanliness Drive and the team of Housekeeping contract workers, also joined their hands in cleaning plant areas. During the cleanliness drive, as a special measure, inspection and cleaning of sanitary facilities for workers were carried out. Kribhco Officers Club organized a „Poster Competition‟ on the theme of „Cleanliness & Personal Hygiene‟ to create awareness amongst the township children. The children from various age groups participated in the Poster Competition organized by KRIBHCO Officers Club. To create awareness amongst School children, a talk competition on “Impact of Cleanliness on our Lives„ was organized at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Kribhco Nagar, Surat. All students actively participated in the Talk competition and participated in cleanliness drive within the school campus. 14 To create awareness amongst School children, a talk competition on “Impact of Cleanliness on our Lives„ was organized at Sunflower School. Students were involved in the cleanliness drive within the school campus. KRIBHCO Ladies Club organized an Essay Competition on “Housewives contribution in Hygiene and Healthy Living” to create awareness amongst the ladies of our township. The ladies from township resident were participated in the Essay Writing and best five Essays were awarded during a function. KRIBHCO Staff Club organized a „Slogan Competition‟ on the theme of „Importance of Cleanliness‟ through their club to create awareness amongst the employees and township residents. The best five slogans were awarded with prizes. A schedule has been prepared to carry out the cleanliness drive to cover all the areas during the period of cleanliness drive. During this period, the house keeping contractor advised to provide sufficient labors to carry of all the garbage or thrash collected from the houses and streets. Issued circular for volunteers to participate in the „Cleaning of the various areas of Township‟. To encourage the participants, t-shirts and badges distributed with the message on Cleanliness and „Keeping KRIBHCO Clean‟. 15 Masks & safety kits were provided to the labors involved in the cleanliness activities. Youth group from township undertook cleaning drives in various locations of township. A team consisting of House Keeping, Civil Department, Electrical Department along with officers from Estate Department visited all the township area during the „Swachchta Pakhwada‟ regularly to inspect the cleanliness activities. During the Swachhta Abhiyan, wide publicity was given through Cable TV in Township and banners at public places were displayed to create awareness amongst township residents. The cleanliness campaigns were carried out all the resident area, public buildings located within the township, schools, clubs, guest houses and township internal roads. During the campaign, sanitation works were also carried out considering the ensuing monsoon. The drainages, culverts & outlets were cleaned properly and township residents are requested not to throw garbage / house hold waste in the surrounding of houses and properly collect for handing over to house keeping staff for collection and disposal.  Celebration of Festivals: Holika Dahan at Open Air Theatre ground on 23.03.2016 and Dhuleti –(exchange of Holi greetings) were held at KRIBHCO Township with great Pomp and show and employees and their family members were actively participated.  NAVRATRI CELEBRATION The most religious and famous festival of Gujarat “Navratri” was celebrated from 13.10.2015 for ten days in coordination with Navratri Mandal, KRIBHCO. Daily pooja of nine incarnation of MAA DURGA was carried out and almost all township residents, with no age bar, participated in Garba performed on traditional songs with Musical orchestra till late night in traditional and colorful dresses. Ravan Dahan (Dussera) was celebrated on 22.10.2015 and large gathering enjoyed the variety of fire crackers on the occasion.  NEW YEAR EVE On the eve of 31st December Evening KOC organized “New Year Celebration” with a lot of fun and frolic. A very special type of food menu consisting variety of delicious dishes and Karaoke and 16 DJ Music all were the hallmark of the evening. Food served was appreciated by all the club members and their families. New Year Programme is never complete without music & dance and when the DJ Music started, participants came out in the open to dance with the music. It was altogether a different world of celebration. In the history of KOC first time, the Managing Director Sh. N Sambashiva Rao, Operations Director Sh. R.K. Aggarwal, Finance Director Sh. Rajan Chowdhry and Marketing Director Sh. V S Sirohi with their families attended the programme and they all appreciated the hospitality by KRIBHCO-Plant.  International Labour Day: International Labour Day is being celebrated on a large scale by organizing Labour Day function and cultural programmes to remember the sacrifice and struggle faced by Labour force and to protect them from exploitation by recognizing the importance of their rights which forms an integral part of any establishment. May Day (International Labour Day) was celebrated in KRIBHCO Township by organizing a comedy play by Well-known film artist. Operations Director in his address expressed satisfaction on the performance of employees at all levels and praised their contribution in increasing production of Urea and Bio-fertilizers during the year 2015-16. He also added that the continuous growth of the organization become possible only due to the support and cooperation received from KKS & KOA and congratulated for their cordial relations. He also emphasized the need to maintain good health of employees and their families and appealed to the residents to actively participate in the Prime Ministers mission of Swachch bharat Abhiyan so that awareness about health and hygiene can be created amongst employees and families for maintaining healthy and quality life.  KRIBHCO Day: KRIBHCO day is celebrated every year in order to mark the anniversary of our organization on 14 th November, wherein various sports, Games & cultural programs by internal talents as well as Celebrity artists are organized to celebrate the occasion. This also includes various programmes like classical dance, western dance, Beti Bachao slogans, Skits etc. 17  Hindi Week Celebration: KRIBHCO is promoting the use of Hindi in official communications. We have celebrated annual events like Hindi week celebration and has conducted various workshop for improving Hindi proficiency of employees. During the Hindi week celebration, we have conducted various programmes, quiz and competition for employees, and their families . School children were also actively participated in the celebration.  Public Outreach Programme: DAE/HAEP has organized a Health awareness program – Societal benefits of atomic energy for KRIBHCO township residents wherein health related issues were discussed with leading Doctors of Surat. In this awareness programme, information related to „Role of Atomic Energy in Nation Building‟ was discussed in length amongst the large number of township residents. Public Outreach Programme. Agriculture income is the main strength of farmers. A large number of them are members of our member cooperatives; KRIBHCO with its large dedicated team of agriculture professionals continued its significant contribution along with other serious players in latest farm technology transfer and other rural welfare schemes for improving the profitability of farming community. 18 Programme on Soil Health in Bihar KRIBHCO started transferring improved farm technology under the head Benefit to farmers programmes since 1984, two years ahead of Hazira Urea Plant came into production, indicating a real concern for farmers, their cooperative societies and environment where they resides, i.e., rural areas. In the past 30 years, KRIBHCO has actively reached more than 1.26 crore farmers benefiting them directly by raising their farm income through more than 85 thousand tailor-made programmes. Farmers Meeting in Punjab This makes on an average one programme/day/state. This is the magnitude of our transfer of technology programmes. KRIBHCO has evolved a strong promotional strategy involving about 300 agriculture graduates and post-graduates to uplift farming community through its Farm Advisory Services. KRIBHCO has been organizing technology transfer programmes in more than 15 states through highly trained field force whose skills are updated regularly. 19 Cooperative Conference in AP Over a period of time, it was observed that farmers are hesitant to adopt new farm technology unless their whole system is likely to be benefited economically and socially. Farmers are also deeply attached to their fields, livestock and cooperative societies since these are their lifelines. Farmers Meeting in UP They are also equally concerned about their family welfare including health and children education as well as improvement in rural areas where they spend most of their life time. KRIBHCO carefully considering the above observations adopted the Farming Model which has 5 components, viz., Farmers, his Fields, Livestock, Family and Cooperative Society, all located in rural environment of his village. Since KRIBHCO is a cooperative identity governed by seven Principles of Cooperation. 20 Drinking Water facility in West Bengal During 2015-16, KRIBHCO organized 4040 programmes for our farming community such as Farmers Meetings, Crop Shows, Field Demonstrations, Field Days, Cooperative Conferences, Group Discussions, Soil Testing Campaign, Seed Grower Conference etc. benefiting 5.38 lakh farmers and cooperatives across the country. Seminar on Soil Health in Tamilnadu To back up the Agriculture Technology Transfer, the Society also made available 12.02 lakh Technical folders on KRIBHCO products for the farmers and cooperatives. Farmers Meeting in Uttrakhand 21 Strengthening cooperatives and rural development always remained a top priority for KRIBHCO. In this direction, 63 Cooperative Societies were adopted, 6912 cooperative managers were trained through 56 Cooperative Conferences and workshops. Product Promotion Programme in Gujarat The society also organized 13 Income Generation Programmes and 23 Health Campaigns for livestock and humans, provided 12 Drinking / Irrigation water facilities including micro-irrigation systems for crops in rainfed areas and 12 Rural Sports programmes for integrated rural development. Storage-cum-community centre scheme started on Golden Jubilee celebration of India occasion is still continuing with 184 centers sanctioned and 178 are completed and being used fully. Income Generation Programme in Chhattishgarh KRIBHCO Krishi Pramarsh Kendra, a high-tech centre at KRIBHCO Bhawan, NOIDA continued free consultancy to farm-related problems. The centre also propagated efficient and balanced use of fertilizer by testing 5706 soil samples collected scientifically free of cost (4490 for micro-nutrients and 1216 samples for macro-nutrients & irrigation water) from 14 states. Results along with 22 recommendations were forwarded through electronic medium to farmers at their door-steps, apart from using KRIBHCO website for display of results. Farmers Meeting in AP Pramarsh Kendra also provided latest information on weather, like rainfall, temperature, relative humidity, monsoon movement etc. for use in planning farm operations and mid-term corrections in the event of crop failure generally through KRIBHCO Kisan Helpline. Farmers Meeting in Odisha All States Director of Agriculture were informed about educational programmes conducted and soil samples tested from their states along with district-wise deficiency noticed in various soil samples. Soil Sampling Campaign in Punjab 23 KRIBHCO also joined hands with ICAR, State Agriculture Universities, and State Cooperative Federations for free soil testing and technology transfer which was thankfully acknowledged and appreciated at all platforms. As a step towards modernization, KRIBHCO continued to promote Information Communication Technology (ICT) through KRIBHCO Kisan helpline using e-mail, phone, computer and KRIBHCO website for informing farmers about latest farm technology alongside with traditional tools. Information on monthly farm operations is also made available on website. ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS:  MAJOR AWARDS: KRIBHCO received the following awards in the FAI Seminar 2015 for Plant Performance: 1. Award for Production, Promotion and Marketing of Bio-Fertilizers (1st prize). 2. Golden Jubilee Award on “Transfer of Improved Farm Technologies”. 3. Runner up Award for the Best Production Performance. 4. Award for Innovative Idea for Process Control and Instrumentation in Ammonia Plant at KRIBHCO, Surat. 5. Best Video Film Award. 6. KRIBHCO has been awarded second prize as Best Boiler User Industry (Power Plant): 2014-15 during Steam Tech 2016, National Conference on Boiler & Steam Systems, organized by M/s. Saket Projects Limited which was held during 19-20th February 2016.  Highest Records during 2015-16  The Highest ever Daily Ammonia production since commissioning achieved 3988 MT on 17th Aug‟15 .  The Highest ever Monthly Urea production since commissioning achieved 205802 MT in July‟15.  The Highest ever Monthly Liquid Bio-Fertiliser Production at Hazira of 121130 Ltrs achieved in July‟15.  The Highest ever Monthly Liquid Bio-Fertiliser Dispatch at Hazira of 134170 Ltrs achieved in July‟15.  The Highest ever Monthly Urea Dispatch by Rail of 193195 MT achieved in Oct‟15.  MAJOR PLANT RECORDS IN THE FIN. YEAR:  Highest Yearly Ammonia production of 13,21,855 MT achieved in 2014-15.  Highest Yearly Urea production of 22,25,015 MT achieved in 2014-15.  Highest monthly Urea production of 2,04,750 MT achieved in Jan‟2015.  Highest liquid Bio-fertilizer production of 3,300 Litres/day at Hazira site on 30-October-2014.  Highest monthly Bio fertilizer production of 81,000 Litres and monthly despatch of 1,03,700 Litres achieved at Hazira site in March‟2015. 24  Highest yearly liquid Bio-fertilizer production of 6,33,000 Litres achieved in 2014-15.  Highest Neem coated urea yearly production of 9,55,771.8 MT achieved in 2014-15.  Highest Road + Rail dispatch of Urea (uncoated & neem-coated) of 22,30,538.8 MT achieved in 2014-15.  Lowest Yearly Energy for Ammonia Plant of 8.201 Gcal/MT was achieved in 2014-15.  Lowest Monthly Energy for Urea of 5.581 Gcal/MT was achieved in Jan‟2015.  Lowest Yearly Energy for Urea Plant of 5.724 Gcal/MT was achieved in 2014-15.  FAI Award for Best Production Performance of an Operating Fertilizer Unit for Nitrogen (Urea & Ammonia) Production, Promotion and Marketing of Bio-Fertilisers Runner-up Award for the best Production Performance 25  KRIBHCO wins the “National Award for Excellence in Cost Management”: The Institute of Cost Accountants of India has recognized the efforts of KRIBHCO in the field of Innovative Cost Management Techniques, Cost competitiveness and for practicing best practices in Cost Management and awarded First Prize under “National Award For Excellence in Cost Management in the category of PrivateManufacturing: Organization-Large”. Management appreciates the efforts of employees and officers in attaining sustainable competitive advantage in all fields of the Society and hopes that they will continue their efforts relentlessly.  Community Service on Health & Safety Awareness:  FIRE & SAFETY ACTIVITIES: KRIBHCO has independent departments to look into the Safety, Health and the Environment aspects respectively. The safety setup of KRIBHCO Hazira Plant has been established with a vision to achieve its slogan of “Safety first; Production must.”Safety objectives of the Hazira plant have been derived from following values of KRIBHCO: i. Creation of safe, efficient and pleasant working environment in the plant ii. High level of emergency preparedness at all the times iii. Extending support to the neighboring villages, industries and government agencies for any emergency mitigation beyond plant boundaries. To achieve the above, following systems and infrastructure have been set up, maintained and continually improved upon:  Safety in Process: The safety aspects of each department monitored by top management.  Safety in Maintenance: Effective Safety work permit systemJobs of hazardous nature carried out under the supervision of Fire and Safety personnel. 26  Safety Inspections: Following types of safety inspections are conducted at regular intervals.  Daily Rounds In each shift by Fire & Safety personnel.  Periodical plant safety inspections by Safety managers along with the production & maintenance engineers.  Periodical audits by internal & External Auditors of integrated management system (IMS).  Specialized Third party Safety Audit, Risk Assessment, and Hazard and Operability analysis are conducted at regular intervals.  Accident Investigation System: Investigation of any injuries / dangerous occurrences to implement the corrective and preventive actions.  Safety Committees: Two tier safety committees are operational in KRIBHCO Plant Safety Committees and Central Safety committee.  Safety Awareness:  Boards & hoardings have been displayed at various locations to create safety awareness amongst the employees. Safety pamphlets are provided to visitors coming to the plant.  KRIBHCO Safety manual has been issued to the employees of the plant. Nearby villagers and KRIBHCO Township residents are made aware of the action to be taken in case of Ammonia leakage.  44th National Safety day was celebrated on 4th March-15 at HRD Auditorium and prize distribution was held for various Safety related competitions which were organized during safety week among employees, contract workers & children of Township schools.  Emphasis on Training:  Induction training is being given to the newly joined Trainees & employees.  No contract worker is permitted to work in plant without the induction Fire & safety training.  Refresher Fire & safety training is imparted from time to time to employees.  Training sessions on First-Aid are conducted by internal and external doctors. At shop-floor level also, safety related lectures and fire fighting practical are conducted regularly.  Practical fire fighting training is imparted to various categories of employees at the KRIBHCO Fire and Rescue training ground. 27  Fire Alarm and Gas Detection System: The entire plant area is covered by state of the art automatic and manual fire and toxic gas alarm system. In our water pre-treatment plant, to cater emission of chlorine, a chlorine scrubber system has been installed and commissioned in 2015.  Fire Protection and Fire Fighting System: KRIBHCO has a full-fledged Fire Station equipped with 3 nos. major fire tenders, 1 no. DCP tender, 1 no. Emergency /rescue tender, speed boats, ambulance, auxiliary vehicles & equipment.  The entire plant is served by Firewater ring main (Approx. 30 Km) and maintained at around 8.8 Kg/cm2 pressure with the help of two jockey, pumps, two engine driven pumps and four electric motor driven pumps. The automatic pump switching system and sufficient quantity of raw water ensures total reliability of the fire hydrant system at all the times.  State of art fire suppression system such as sprinkler system, CO 2 flooding, FM200, FE227, Foam system etc. are suitably provided in appropriate quantity to protect delicate and critical equipment like TGs, computer rooms, DCS panels, Fuel tanks, transformers.  Special water diffuser nozzles and water curtains are provided for knocking down the escaping ammonia vapors at critical locations like Ammonia storage loading area, Ammonia pumps, control rooms etc.  Around 1000 portable fire extinguishers of various capacities and types are provided to cover the entire plant for first-aid fire fighting purpose.  Emergency Planning and Preparedness: KRIBHCO has successfully organized “OFF SITE EMERGENCY DRILL “on 30/05/2014 with the involvement of District Administration Authority at Ammonia Storage Area. Mutual Aid Scheme: To cope with any major emergency, a mutual aid scheme has been developed amongst nearby industries – ONGC, RIL, GSEG & NTPC. Major emergency exercises are carried out once in a year involving on-site resources and the nearby industrial fire services & Surat Municipal Corporation Fire Services.  During Year, 3 Nos. of major fire calls received from District Authority and Surat Municipal Corporation. KRIBHCO F&S has tremendously worked to extinguish the Fire. 2. LABOUR Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 28 Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES  Registered Unions & Associations : We recognize the employees‟ right to form associations and to participate in management. In accordance with this principle, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and the same have been recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. The decisions related to the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing since the setting up of the Plant and not a single man-hour has been lost due to industrial unrest.  Compliance to Labour Laws : KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/advantage on the ground of gender, place of birth, caste or community.  Women are provided a healthy and safe working environment & equal opportunities, keeping in mind the principles of equality in gender with respect of their working, development and growth. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES KRIBHCO is fully conscious of its responsibility to the environment. Therefore, care for environment has always been of paramount importance to KRIBHCO. The Society recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations.  Environmental Protection: Care for environment has always been of paramount importance for KRIBHCO. The society emphasizes to recruit the professionally qualified environmental engineers to take care of the environmental aspect. The society also recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive environmental protection plan based on principle of “Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use” has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources. 29  Environment Monitoring System: Following are some of the major modification implemented in the field of Environment Monitoring and Pollution reduction: • Steam Stripper in Urea Plant have been installed in both Phases to recover ammonia from liquid effluent of the Complex. • Society had implemented a scheme to store the excess effluent during Shut-Down or Upset Condition in Bio-Hydrolyser (~1100 m3). • Society has also implemented a scheme for recovery of ammonia from effluent generated during Regeneration in Ammonia plant Condensate Polisher Unit. • Society has installed On-line effluent and stack Monitoring System & connected to GPCB/CPCB server. Also, CCTV Camera installed at Balancing Pond final discharge point & connected to GPCB/CPCB server. • Society has made an agreement with M/s. Adani Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd (AHPPL) for Re-use of Society‟s treated effluent at their end for industrial purpose.  PAT (Performance Achieve & Trade) of M/s. Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) – Energy Audit for 1st Cycle: Monitoring and Verification (M&V) and mandatory energy audit was carried out for the target year 2014-15 under PAT scheme by M/s Devki Energy Consultancy Pvt. Ltd. , Vadodara and M/s ERDA (Electrical Research and Development Association), Baroda. The target SEC for 2014-15 was 0.323MTOE/MT of Urea. KRIBHCO has achieved 0.319 MTOE/MT of Urea. With this, KRIBHCO received 7018 MTOE (MT of Oil Equivalent) Energy Saving (ES) certificates.  Medium Pressure Process condensate stripper installation in Ammonia-I Plant Medium pressure process condensate stripper is installed in Ammonia-I plant at a cost of Rs. 18.00 Crores. During the Annual turnaround of ammonia-I plant in November 2015 all necessary piping tapings were taken so that no extra shutdown is required for taking total MP stripper system in line. The other jobs of equipment erection and piping fabrication continued in running plant. MP stripper was commissioned on 10th February 2016 and supply of Low pressure steam to power plant which is part of scheme started on 15th February 2016 after completion of LP steam piping jobs. Hence total scheme commissioned and lined up to system in middle of February 2016. The purpose of the scheme was to save energy, pollution abatement. Other benefit is improved quality of stripped process condensate leaving MP stripper (compared to old Low Pressure process condensate stripper). This gives better operating hours for condensate polishers, hence less regeneration cycles, subsequently saving of regeneration chemicals and less effluent. The calculated energy saving in ammonia plant is 0.08 Gcal/MT of ammonia. With the full commissioning of scheme: 30 a) LS steam vented in Ammonia plant from LP stripper is sent to power plant de-aerator which gives major energy saving. b) Heat of stripped process condensate from stripper bottom was dumped in CW, most of it is saved by new efficient feed effluent/exchanger. c) The pollutants (methanol which is difficult to handle and ammonia) going to atmosphere are converted to ammonia and CO2 along with MP steam going to reformer. This adds to little ammonia and urea production  OTHER MAJOR ACTIVITIES: o Hazira Jetty Operations: Private Jetty on the bank of river Tapti is being operated by KRIBHCO. Looking to the requirement of Fertilizer demand of the country, as per the allocation of ships from time to time by Govt. of India, during the financial year 2015-16, 4.13 Lakh MT Urea was handled at Hazira Jetty (2.96 Lakh MT of OMIFCO Urea and 1.17 Lakh MT of Imported Urea), which is the highest in a financial year so far (previous highest was 3.82 Lakh MT OMIFCO Urea handled during F.Y. 2014-15). This could have been possible due to dedicated manpower, marketing network and allied factors. KRIBHCO Hazira Jetty shall strive to achieve new heights in the days to come. o New Certifications of ISOIntegrated Management System (ISO9001:2008, ISO14001:2004 & OHSAS18001:2007): The existing certifications of the above ISO systems (i.e. Quality Management System, Environment Management System and Occupational Health & Safety Management System) were valid up to 31.03.2016. The above three systems were integrated with in-house efforts and the Re-Certification Audits were carried out for the ISO–IMS i.e. Integrated Management System (ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 & OHSAS 18001:2007) by M/s. IR Class Systems & Solutions Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai during 2226th Feb., 2016 and new ISO Certificates were issued by them w.e.f. 07/03/2016.  Major Modifications Implemented for Energy Reduction & Plant Improvements:  MP STRIPPER The existing LP stripper in Ammonia plant was proposed and approved to be replaced by MP stripper. In the existing stripper LP steam is used for stripping out CO2, NH3 and Methanol from the process condensate. This has resulted in utilization of the existing LS which was being vented to atmosphere to be reused as stripping steam in Power Plant deaerator. Current energy savings achieved for Ammonia-I plant with MP stripper modifications is in the range of 0.078 – 0.085 Gcal/MT Ammonia. 31  ADD-ON AIR PRE-HEATER MODULE With the objective to achieve saving of 0.03 GCal/MT Ammonia, Add-on Air pre-heater module was installed successfully . It is expected that the design conditions with this action can be achieved.  MS Steam line to Power Plant: In order to preheat BFW in power plant intermediate pressure steam was used which was available from the HP extraction of Turbo-generators after revamping of CPP for GT to take the complete load of plant both the Turbo-generators were shut down and HS steam was let down from HP PRDS to meet the requirement for steam for preheating the BFW. Since the pressure of the steam required for preheating the BFW was ~ 15 Kg/cm2g excessive energy was lost in using HS steam which is at 105 Kg/cm2g. pressure levels and in superheated conditions to be let down to such low pressure levels. Hence it was proposed to use MS steam from Ammonia plant to be let down from 39 Kg/cm2g to the required levels of ~ 15 Kg/cm2g so that less energy is lost in letting down the steam from its higher energy levels and since the new air compressor‟s turbine in ammonia plant is running on lower than the design extraction taking more extraction from this turbine which will be utilized to heat BFW in the HP heater in the power plant will enhance its performance. This modification has reduced the energy consumption of Urea by tune of 0.002 Gcal/MT of Urea.  CO2 Recovery Scheme: Earlier the waste gas from a-MDEA section was sent to the reformer fuel system which led to loss of CO2 (raw material for Urea) to reformer flue gases. The addition of the New CO2 Recovery Column had led to the recycling of CO2 back in to the system to enhance the Urea production of the complex by the tune of 180 MTPD.  Surface Area Enhancement in aMDEA exchanger: The numbers of plates (200) were increased for two exchangers this led to increase in export steam to urea by 72 MT/day.  Improvement of Refrigeration System: 150-C used to chill the process gas going to molecular sieve drier to remove the moisture in 104-F since the inception this exchanger was not performing as per the design so a modification was provided by rerouting the refrigerant vapors of 150-C to 111-F to lower the refrigerant temperature but this increased the power of the refrigeration compressor hence it was decide to add a new exchanger in series with 150-C and an exchanger 160helped in reducing the power consumption of refrigeration compressor. 32  Vibro Priller: During summer season or extreme weather conditions we are unable to maintain the size distribution or the product temperature at the bottom of prilling tower to the desired levels. In continuous search for adopting advanced techniques to overcome these problems and further to improve the product quality pertaining to prill temp & improved prill sizes VIBRO PRILLER system remains a practical option. The system was commissioned and had resulted in excellent prill quality.  Addition of Exchanger Bay To Lean a-MDEA Exchanger: The solution temperature always remained on the higher side which led to higher CO2 slip and load limitation of the ammonia plant. In order to solve the temperature problem which led to CO2 slip issues in a-MDEA section one bay of old 110-C was modified to act as 109-C and by this modification temperature dropped by 2 0C resulting in bringing the slip within the desired range.  Ammonia Cooling Tower Revamp: The Cooling towers were not performing to meet the revamp design specification of 33 0C. The towers were operating close to 35 0C. This led to high power consumption in refrigeration compressor. Fan power increased and fills and damaged nozzles of old cells replaced only Ammonia Cell No. 7 is left. Due to this modification of old cooling towers the temperature has come down to 32.5 0C and refrigeration compressor problem has been solved to a large extent.  Cooling Water Network: The flow through all the surface condensers of turbine of 101-JT,101-JAT,103-JAT,105-JAT was routed from 127-CA/CB/CC exit this lead to lower vacuum in 101-JATC & 103-JTC leading to higher power consumption in both the machines. A 40” new cooling water line was taken from the 64” header and 24” line to 103-JTC and 20” line to 101-JATC and lines to 167-C, 128-C & 103-J inter-after condenser for turbine was added. This led to increase in the vacuum of all the turbines which resulted in lowering the power consumption of all the major drivers in the plant.  a-MDEA Line Damage: Semi-lean aMDEA solution lines were punctured and damaged at many locations in both the units. All the circuit was analysed for higher velocity (>1.5 m/sec). The fabrication of the line sections is carried out and the sections will be replaced.  Other Schemes:  Bio-Fertilizer Plant (capacity enhancement) The capacity of liquid bio fertilizer plant at Hazira has been enhanced from 4000 Litres/ Day to 7500 Litres/Day with addition of inhouse fabricated, seven nos. Fermenters of Capacity 650 Litres each 33 and three numbers of Mixing Tanks. Moreover one Automatic liquid filling machine procured for further quality assurance of the product. The production of liquid Bio Fertilizer has also been started from Varanasi and Lanja Plants with capacity of 500 Litres/Day from each plant with addition of inhouse fabricated Fermenters and Mixing Tanks.  Tree Plantation: The society continually extends supports to the programme that sensitize environment protection and enrichment by way of organizing various campaigns like tree plantation, distribution of saplings and flower buds free of cost , adoption of new technology to reduce minimum pollution level and supporting National Campaign Like Celebration of Yoga Day. KRIBHCO also participate in Agricultural fairs/ exhibitions and other social cause regarding cleanliness like Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in order to enhance the awareness of the general public to preserve the green environment. Under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Toilet blocks were constructed at Labour Colony for the convenience of Labours. Furthermore, the discharged water retreated and reused for Horticulture purposes thereby reducing the pollution. World Environment Day has celebrated through out the world on June 5th 2016 (Sunday) WED aims to inspire more people than ever before to take action to prevent the growing strain on planet Earth‟s natural systems from reaching breaking point. The 2016 theme is the fight against the illegal trade in wildlife, which erodes precious biodiversity and threatens the survival of elephants, rhinos and tigers as well as many other species. This year‟s slogan Go Wild for Life encourages to spread the word about wildlife crime and the damage it does, and to challenge all those around you to do what they can to prevent it since KRIBHCO is also committed for protection and improvement of Environment, a Tree Plantation campaign has held on this day at Bharat Mandir premises. Operations Director, CGM(M), CGM(T), GM(HR) alongwith Senior officers of plant has planted more than 100 trees in the premises. Banners such as GO GREEN, SAVE WATER, SAVE ELECTRICITY, USE SOLAR & WIND ENERGY, SAVE EARTH / PLANET , SAVE PAPER, SAVE TREE, SAVE ENVIRONMENT, USE CLOTH BAG, LED BULB / TUBE,CLEAN WATER, CLEAN AIR, CLEAN SOIL. Has also displayed in various locations to create awareness amongst the township residents. 34 To create awareness among contract workers an Environment Protection Module video has been prepared which is shown to all the contract workers and only after that they are allowed to work in the plant premises. Environmental Management System (EMS) of society has been certified as inline with international standard ISO 14001. Internal & External Audits are conducted periodically for checking efficacy of the system. The society is recycling the rinsing water of Anion & Cation exchangers & boiler blow down water of power plant to D.M plant intake. Recycling of process waste condensate of ammonia plants & urea plants after treatment in deep hydrolyser used as boiler feed water make up. Tertiary treated sewage water is being reused as cooling water make up. Part of Cooling Tower blow down water is being Reused for horticulture / farming. The society has reduced the quantity of cooling tower make up by increasing the cycle of concentration from 3.5 to 8.0  Environment Monitoring System: Following are some of the major modification implemented in the field of Environment Monitoring and Pollution reduction: • Steam Stripper in Urea Plant have been installed in both Phases to recover ammonia from liquid effluent of the Complex. • Society had implemented a scheme to store the excess effluent during Shut-Down or Upset Condition in Bio-Hydrolyser (~1100 m3). • Society has also implemented a scheme for recovery of ammonia from effluent generated during Regeneration in Ammonia plant Condensate Polisher Unit. • Society has installed On-line effluent and stack Monitoring System & connected to GPCB/CPCB server. Also, CCTV Camera installed at Balancing Pond final discharge point & connected to GPCB/CPCB server. • Society has made an agreement with M/s. Adani Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd (AHPPL) for Re-use of Society‟s treated effluent at their end for industrial purpose. 35 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Action and Outcomes:  Vigilance Awareness: KRIBHCO considers Vigilance as an integral part of the Management Function. Main stress of the management is on transparency in the Organization and accountability in the day to day functioning/working of the Society. There is a full fledged Vigilance set up being headed by a Chief Vigilance Officer. KRIBHCO management has been emphasizing on the efficacy of preventive vigilance to improve systems and procedures in a way so as to reduce scope of discretion and eliminate corruption. Efforts are on towards sensitization of employees through “Group Discussion and power point presentations” on Vigilance Activities carried out in the organization. Surprise and regular inspections are carried out by VOs on a regular basis. On the basis of findings of VOs during the inspections, remedial action is taken by the Management whenever adverse findings come to the notice. All officers are required to submit Annul Property Returns of their moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1st January to 31st December every year, which are scrutinized by the Vigilance Department. Vigilance Awareness Week was celebrated in all the units of KRIBHCO viz. Plant, HO and Field Marketing Offices during 26th to 31st October 2015. The theme of this year‟s Vigilance Week was “Preventive Vigilance an effective tool of Good Governance”. Vigilance Awareness Week Celebration was one step towards sensitizing the employees of the organization to bring more transparency in the working of individual and shouldering the responsibility that each and every employee of the organization should work as a Vigilance Officer. Besides the above, efforts are also made to sensitize the public/customers/employees about the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. During Vigilance Awareness Week celebrations, in addition to the Pledge Ceremonies, Group Discussions, Cooperative Conferences, Workshops, Essay writing, Quiz/Debate competitions on Moral Values involving employees, youth/students of colleges were organized by the Society to highlight the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. Individuals, indulging in unethical activities for personal gains at the cost of the organization leads to wastages, losses and economic decline. There is a need to control or restrict such persons‟ misendeavours and promote organizational interest. Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplification and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision making at all levels is 36 constantly strengthened. We encourage transparency (openness), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned), competition amongst vendors, in the interest of the organization. It is the endeavour of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of Organizational Citizenship” among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. In cases where irregularities are detected „Zero Tolerance‟ concept is adopted and Punitive Vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the society. Action Plan against Corruption: For achieving the vision of the society, a strategic action plan has been implemented. A. Awareness: Seminars, Workshops, Lectures and Debates, power point presentation on Vigilance; Distribution of in-house pamphlets, articles on Vigilance Awareness; Giving due protection to the whistle blower/complainant. B. Preventive Vigilance: Simplification of Rules and procedures; Plugging loopholes of systems/procedures to reduce corruption; Sensitizing employees through Group Discussions power point presentation, Dos & Don‟ts at various offices about evil consequences of corruption; Increasing Transparency and accountability in day to day working Effective machinery to deal promptly with complaints; Regular and surprise Inspections; Ensuring high standard of integrity amongst the employees; Exploring fresh areas of corruption resulting due to technological advancements and use of I.T. C. Punitive Vigilance: Speedy disposal of vigilance cases and disciplinary inquiries; Steps to maintain positive discipline. ******** 37
