Statement of Continued Support Period Covered February 2015 – February 2016 I am pleased to confirm that Reltex Tarpaulins (Africa) EPZ Ltd (“Reltex”) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress which we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders as part of our annual CSR report. Yours faithfully Simon Lucas Chairman Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 COMPANY NAME: Reltex Tarpaulins (Africa) EPZ Ltd ADDRESS: Capital Industrial Park, PO Box 419-00204, Athi River, Kenya. SECTOR: Manufacturing CONTACT PERSON: Simon Lucas TEL: +254 45 66 26000 EMAIL: info@reltex.net WEBSITE: www.reltexafrica.com _________________________________________________________________________________ VISION AND MISSION STATEMENT OUR VISION We believe that success comes from cooperation. We put all of our company resources at the service of our customers and partners, from our production facilities, to our experience and network of experts, to our knowledge, energy and the innovative spirit of our people. Our vision is to be a true partner to our clients, providing the highest quality products and services to provide relief to disaster victims all over the world. OUR MISSION Our mission is to be the most trusted provider of international quality humanitarian relief goods whose indepth understanding of our clients’ needs and technical expertise allows us to deliver innovative products quickly and efficiently to wherever they are needed most. COMPANY PROFILE Based in Athi River, just outside Nairobi, Reltex is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of plastic sheeting. Using leading plastics technology we manufacture premium, high-quality products for our customers in the private and public sectors in Africa and internationally. Reltex is committed to high standards of ethics and conduct in all aspects of our operations. Our Code of Conduct provides an ethical and legal framework for all employees in the conduct of Reltex’s business. It is about how we relate to our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the community. An ethical employer committed to achieving impact, Reltex has created and sustained 220 jobs at its factory in Athi River, many of which are occupied by unskilled workers from the local area. We support St Paul’s Children’s Home in Osingili, which receives no government funding as to provide for itself. We have formed a partnership with the school which provides much needed finance as well as employment opportunities for the older children once they reach the age of 18. We currently have 3 of them working at the factory. In 2013 Reltex Africa was awarded 5* for social impact (the highest possible rating) by international impact assessment body GIIRs (Global Impact Investment Rating System) Reltex considerably outperformed other companies in East Africa, particularly in terms of the company’s impact on the local community (5*), treatment of workers (4*), governance (3*) and environmental impact (3*). We want Reltex to be a place where our customers enjoy doing business and come back to us and a place where people like to work. We want to be respected and welcome in the communities where we do business and to provide a safe workplace where human and civil rights are respected. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Reltex’s approach to respecting Risk management systems are regularly reviewed by Regular review of risk management 1: Businesses should human rights consists of several core our Health & Safety Manager to properly identify, systems. support and respect the elements, including adherence to control and prevent accidents in the workplace. protection of corporate policies, compliance with All production sites are visited and internationally applicable laws and regulations, Health & Safety Manuals are available to all staff and regularly assessed by Reltex proclaimed human regular dialogue and engagement copies are kept in the staff canteen and in the staff management to ensure that our rights. with our stakeholders and changing rooms. required standards are adhered to. contributing, directly or indirectly, to 2: Businesses should the general wellbeing of the First aid is provided by representatives of the Kenyan Appropriate action is taken to assist make sure they are not communities within which we work. Red Cross, who visit the factory on a quarterly basis. suppliers in making any necessary complicit in human improvements. rights abuses. Reltex believes that all employees Fire drilling and training now provided by G4, who visit deserve to be treated with dignity and the factory on a quarterly basis. Audits are also carried out by our respect. There is to be no harsh and framework partners. inhumane treatment, including any We have an Anti-Harassment Policy which is available sexual harassment, sexual abuse, to all staff. Social and ethical Sedex audit corporal punishment, mental or carried out by Partner Africa (Nov physical coercion or verbal abuse of All of our employees are provided with the following: 2015). workers, nor is there to be any threat of any such treatment.  free uniforms There have been no  free hot lunches investigations, legal cases or Reltex believes that employers  health insurance incidents involving human rights. should always listen to their  childcare employees and should defend their  paid training programmes. rights by providing appropriate  salaries 8% over the Kenyan minimum wage working conditions.  paid funeral expenses for close relatives  6 months maternity leave  6 months full sick pay LABOUR Principle Assessment Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement Outcomes Reltex respects the individual’s As detailed in our Employee Code of Conduct, Reltex All production sites are visited and 3: Businesses should right to freedom of association and does not tolerate harassment or any behaviour which regularly assessed by Reltex uphold the freedom of their choice of whether or not to join creates a hostile, offensive or intimidating environment management to ensure that our association and the a trade union. for its employees. The Code has been made available required standards are adhered to. effective recognition of to all our employees and makes clear our approach to the right to collective Reltex is opposed to forced labour breaches of policy, which will lead to a process of Appropriate action is taken to assist bargaining. and the occupational health and investigation and, when appropriate, dismissal. suppliers in making any necessary safety of our employees are among improvements. 4: Businesses should our priorities. Reltex complies with Reltex employees are not required to work overtime, uphold the elimination of all applicable working hour but can voluntarily undertake overtime at times of Audits are also carried out by our all forms of forced and requirements as established by The international emergencies. As per the Kenyan framework partners. compulsory labour. Kenyan Ministry of Labour. Employment Act, section 8, every employee is entitled to at least one rest day in every period of seven days. A social and ethical audit has been 5: Businesses should We are firmly committed to Overtime rates are paid in accordance with Kenyan carried out by Partner Africa (Nov uphold the effective providing equal opportunities to our statutory regulations (1.5 times hourly rate and 2 times 2015) to highlight any areas of abolition of child labour. employees and will not tolerate hourly rate on rest days or public holidays) concern. discrimination or harassment based 6: Businesses should on religion, race, colour, gender, It is a company policy that Reltex does not employ uphold the elimination of age, sexual orientation, political anyone under the age of 18. Currently our youngest discrimination in respect orientation, birth right or other employee is 24. of employment and status. Reltex employees should occupation. be particularly sensitive to actions Policies are in place to reduce the risk of forced labour, or behaviours that may be child labour, discrimination, harassment and abuse. acceptable in one culture but not in Workers are required to produce original copies of their another identity cards on employment which acts as proof oft age. A copy of the same is maintained in their personnel files. A signed copy of each employee’s contract of employment is maintained in their personnel files and a copy of the employment act is made available to each worker. Our suppliers are required to adhere to the same principles as Reltex as detailed in our Policy Statement on the Sourcing of Goods & Services. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES Principle Assessment Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement Outcomes 7: Businesses should Reltex has an effective We are working to reduce our greenhouse gas Our water recycling plant is inspected support a precautionary environmental policy and also emission related to our operations and products on a quarterly basis by the Kenyan approach to complies with existing legislation and to implement innovative solutions that expand National Environmental Management environmental challenges and regulations regarding the our portfolio to meet the demands of our customers Agency (“NEMA”) protection of the environment. for affordable, reliable and clean supplies of energy. 8: Businesses should The emissions from our machinery are undertake initiatives to Reltex supports a precautionary Chemical and other materials posing a hazard if inspected on a quarterly basis by The promote greater approach to environmental matters, released to the environment are identified and Kenyan National Environmental environmental undertakes initiatives to promote managed to ensure that there is safe handling, Management Agency (“NEMA”) responsibility greater environmental responsibility storage, recycling or reuse and disposal. and encourages the diffusion of Regular environmental audits are 9: Businesses should environmental technologies Wastewater and solid waste generated from carried out by a qualified audit expert encourage the implementing sound life-cycle operators, industrial processes and sanitation who advises the management team on development and practices facilities are monitored, controlled and treated as future strategies and new technologies. diffusion of required prior to discharge or disposal. environmentally friendly Reltex is committed to minimising We perform risk based environmental, technologies waste and maximising recycling. We have invested in a water recycling plant. social and health impact assessments Waste of all types, including water (ESHIA) on all major capital projects to and energy, are to be reduced or We now have zero plastic waste as all of our plastic minimize negative impacts to eliminated at the source of any is recycled for use in the local market. surrounding communities, natural practices such as modifying resources, air quality, land use, waste production, maintenance and Staff are advised on updates to our environmental management, noise and public health. facility processes, materials policy and encouraged to actively participate in substitution, conservation, recycling recycling. We have endeavoured to reduce We have been awarded a 5 star rating and re-using materials. business travel to the very minimum through the for social impact by the International use of video conferencing and placing an emphasis Body “GIIRS” based on our significant on mail and data transfer. We maintain a nonimpact on the local community, smoking environment and encourage our workers treatment of workers, governance and and staff to maintain a healthy lifestyle. environmental impact. Key messages and information about We have had a SEMA audit carried out environmental awareness are displayed in the by Partner Africa with a view to factory warehouse, office spaces, communal areas identifying any areas for improvement. and washrooms. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle Assessment & Goals Implementation Measurement Outcomes We are committed to conducting our Reltex has a Code of Conduct which covers its All concerns raised during the year 10: Businesses should businesses in a fair, honest and ethical anti bribery and corruption policies. were addressed in line with Reltex’s work against corruption in manner, and in accordance with the Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure. all its forms, including laws and regulations of Kenya. All employees are systematically made aware of extortion and bribery. the Code of Conduct and reminded of the Reltex has established feedback Reltex does not engage in bribery or whistleblowing procedures annually. The internal mechanisms in order to maintain any form of unethical inducement or guidance sets out examples of the types of accurate records which properly and payment including facilitation wrongdoing which should be raised by fairly document all financial payments or kickbacks. All employees employees, including non-compliance with legal transactions. Internal control systems are required to avoid any activities that obligations or a breach of human rights. are subject to regular audits to provide might lead to, or suggest, a conflict of assurance that they are effective in interest with the business of the Whisteblowing procedures are in place to ensure countering bribery and corruption. Company. Corrupt practices are, any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be therefore, unacceptable. We have a voiced. Reltex prepares audited annual zero tolerance approach to bribery and accounts which are verified by corruption. Reltex conducts comprehensive training of new external auditors and would allow for employees and annually reconfirms that all the identification of any suspicious Reltex strongly believes in employees are familiar with Reltex’s payments. transparency and would disclose any whistleblowing policy. situation that may appear as a conflict No fraudulent activities have been of interest and disclose to the UN if reported. any UN official or professional under contract with the UN may have an interest of any kind in the supplier’s business or any kind of economic ties with the supplier. Reltex respects the fact that the UN has a zero tolerance policy and does not accept any kind of gift or any offers of hospitality December 2015
