Contents Statement of support 3 A better workplace 5 A better world 14 A better business 26 Further information 33 2 Statement of support What makes a company a socially responsible entity? Companies BCD Travel is committed to fulﬁl its promise to social and environmental sustainability. Our focus on Corporate Social Responsibility remains that understand how to create a priority in everything we do, in the eﬀorts and contributions of our positive sustainable actions of their employees and the relationships with our partners and clients. Our goal is to continue our path to become a leading CSR entity and guarantee that Corporate Social Responsibility these eﬀorts will have a positive inﬂuence on our people, our communities and our business. programs gain a top-class reputation Sustainability and responsibility are at the core of what we do. The and new business, while meeting notion of corporate social responsibility is based on a vision of business: our company’s vision statement is “To promote business growth by their responsibilities as global improving our clients’ performance, their travelers’ lives and communities worldwide.” CSR is a focal topic for customers and investors who expect citizens. corporations to be accountable for operating in a sustainable manner; it inﬂuences their decision to do business with a company – or not. BCD Travel has always been fully committed to meeting our obligations as a global citizen. We launched our CSR initiative and introduced our principles almost ten years ago. In 2008, we were the ﬁrst corporate travel management company to join the United Nations Global Compact and we report our accomplishments every year with the publication of our Communication on Progress. This report outlines the activities and eﬀorts of our employees around the world, highlighting and recognizing their Kathy Jackson accomplishments in sustainability and goodwill. It details our plans for the Executive Vice President future and this year, presents a slight change in our CSR approach: Global Client Management Our CSR strategy was branded onboard, supported by ﬁve pillars: People, & Advito Community, Environment, Ethical Business Practices and Privacy & Data CSR Executive Sponsor Protection. These pillars formed our CSR Principles. We recognize that the 3 Our BCD Travel staﬀ is bringing top impact to the company as a CSR leader: roots of corporate social responsibility stand on three basic but important our achievements are the result of areas: corporate citizenship, ethical business practice and employee appreciation. To ease the understanding of how we carry out our eﬀorts their commitment. We appreciate in these areas, we now call our CSR eﬀort just that, Corporate Social Responsibility and gave it a new logo. We also simpliﬁed the deﬁnition of and applaud their participation in our principles: our pledge to conserve this world, Workplace: employees; we treat our employees fairly and promote their well-being our business, their workplace. World: communities and environment; we are a global citizen Business: ethical business practices; we operate with openness and transparency While we implemented some updates to our initiative, our objective still is to do good with everything we do. This is our seventh year submitting our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. We are very proud of our accomplishments and remain committed to continue progressing in support of the 10 prinicples of the Global Compact. We recognize that our accomplishments would not have been possible without the eﬀorts from our employees around the world. Our BCD Travel staﬀ is bringing top impact to the company as a CSR leader: our achievements are the result of their commitment. We appreciate and applaud their participation in our pledge to conserve this world, our business, their John Snyder workplace. President & CEO BCD Travel Kathy Jackson & John Snyder 4 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit A better workplace in human rights abuses. Every day, our people bring our creative and personal brand to life. They know their actions count and their views matter. We give them the tools, skills and outlets to build their “conﬁdent self,” because our success hinges on theirs. We operate our services and facilities with a single-minded objective: to Every day, our people bring our creative and personal brand to life. They protect the wellbeing of our employees, customers, the public, and the do this because they know their actions count and their views matter. We environment. want to give them the tools, skills and outlets to build their “conﬁdent self,” because our success hinges on theirs. We defend our employees from unreasonable health and safety risks on the job, forbidding any acts or threats of physical violence—including intimidation, harassment or coercion—that occur in the workplace or during Christian Dahl the conduct of company business oﬀ company property. We speciﬁcally Senior Vice President Strategic prohibit harassment or discrimination based on race, color, national origin, Talent Management & Global ancestry, religion, creed, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, medical Human Resources Our WORKPLACE principle condition, veteran status and age. supports the United Nations Global Honest communication is a vital part of a positive work environment. We Compact principles of Human encourage employees to bring forth their ideas, suggestions, questions and Rights (1 and 2) and the principles concerns. We listen carefully and act upon what we hear. We protect the for Labor Standards (3, 4, 5 and 6). conﬁdentiality of all personal information in our employees’ records and will Our CSR executive sponsor for this never release personal information to outside sources unless we’re legally principle heads talent management required to do so. and human resources activities for the company at global level, In addition, we oﬀer pay and beneﬁts competitive and appropriate for the overseeing the requirements stated markets in which we operate. in the UN principles. 5 Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor A better workplace Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our “We believe that the commitment to human rights and labor standard issues ability of our people to is addressed: conﬁdently and successfully perform their role has a direct Each of our employees has a part to play in our company’s success. Each impact on the success of our employee needs to be conﬁdent that they can play that part. That’s why company. That is why developing your we make it a priority to develop the ‘conﬁdent self’ of each employee. One ‘conﬁdent self’ is fundamental to way we do this is through our competency model. The model links each everything we do in competency to our company’s strategic priorities. We help our employees talent management.” use the model to build their competency levels and develop the skills and abilities they need to advance themselves in their careers. Marian van der Hoeven, Director Learning and Development EMEA, In 2014, we completed the global roll out of Knowledge Hub, an online BCD Travel | Netherlands platform that gives our employees a single point of access to all our learning and training programs and by the end of 2015 we had more than 500+ pieces of new learning content in Knowledge Hub, available to ALL employees around the world.. sites and in local employee and HR manuals. If local laws are more restrictive Our CSR principles outline our position on human rights issues, labor standards, than BCD Travel’s standards, employees must comply with the more stringent, the environment and anti-corruption. Available in six languages (English, applicable local laws. Dutch, French, German, Spanish and Portuguese), this document is given to all employees at orientation and is also available on our website, on local intranet A dedicated global CSR committee helps raise awareness throughout the organization on the issues represented ny our principles. This committee is made up of staﬀ members from various functions and levels across the globe. 6 Labor standards Principle 5: Businesses should support the eﬀective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. A better workplace We’re running our survey this year, and will strive for high engagement and Our locations around the world have a dedicated contact to which satisfaction scores as well as over 80% participation. employees can turn for advice on human rights abuse issues. Bi-annual employee satisfaction surveys are carried out on a global scale. These surveys allow employees to conﬁdentially voice their opinions and raise any important issues. We set a goal to complete 75% of the action plans from the 2014 employee satisfaction survey in 2015. We met our goal by Q42015 as reﬂected in the following graph: “I joined BCD Travel in 2002 and I could not have imagined just how good of an opportunity I was walking into. My job here has groomed me both personally and professionally. It has made me realize the potential I have to grow and provided the opportunities to do so. I endeavour to perform at my best and deliver excellent service every day. BCD values hard work, a can do spirit, a positive attitude. It’s values keep me going and guide the entire organization.” Sanjay Colaco, General Manager Client Management,Strategic Accounts BCD Travel | India 7 A better workplace We work with suppliers and sub-contractors who are encouraged to sign up to our Code of Conduct, which stipulates our policy on human rights issues. Through the development of activities employing our own We value the relationship with our clients, taking great care and responsibility to workforce to attract new employees, our Talent Management manage and protect client data. We recognize that unauthorized disclosure of team is working towards refreshing our employer brand with sensitive information can result in failing to comply with industry best practices, company-wide recognition and Recruiting Management System industry compliance, or applicable legislative requirements and regulations. (RMS) programs. LinkedIn has become our primary source for In addition, unscheduled downtime of the services and applications that we recruitment at all levels. use to process client information or that we provide to our clients negatively aﬀects our performance, reputation and client retention. We protect our clients’ travelers with Travel Risk Management & Traveler Security By developing a customized on-boarding plan for new employees and expanding technology that enables them to monitor their travelers’ security anywhere in the use of technology and social media practices in recruiting, BCD Travel’s Talent the world. Our DecisionSource platform provides crisis management reporting, Management team looks to enhance the employee on-boarding experience via pre-trip and on-trip compliance reporting, risk assessment and destination new technologies and create a more comprehensive talent pipeline program. intelligence, oﬀering instant access to accurate travel and security information. In the event of a crisis, a plan can be immediately executed to get travelers out With our Talent Management initiative, we aim to achieve recognition as of a high-risk area quickly. It monitors risk across the globe, 24 hours a day, seven the “employer of choice” among competitors, and to increase employee days a week, generating e-mail alerts to keep travelers informed and aware. engagement and satisfaction. We also work with a highly specialized third-party ﬁrm that brings home travelers who become sick or are injured while on a business trip, with the maximum of care and minimum fuss. We respect the rights of employees to form works councils to allow a greater degree of employee input into the company. Several works councils are currently in place in European countries and conform to local country and European Union laws. 8 A better workplace What we do An executive sponsor team was named to lead the company’s eﬀorts in support of each of our principles. The role of each executive stems from the function they front within the organization, allowing each to focus on one area to provide “ BCD Travel is a company that better guidance and direction. cares about its employees. Every day I am surrounded by co-workers that bring out each other’s best All regions report quarterly on their activities and progress within our CSR qualities in order for the company to Principles. excel. I am able to voice my opinion without hesitation and be heard. I A number of our locations carry out audits of all work spaces through am proud to work for a company an external company specializing in safety and ergonomic standards in that encourages strong work ethics, the workplace, to certify that our employees are working in a safe and growth and development.” comfortable environment. Shannon Stilp A formal, mandatory screening process is used along with conﬁdentiality HR Coordinator, BCD Meetings agreements and ongoing training and awareness programs. Background & Events | U.S.A. checks are performed on potential employees and contractors. We provide information for clients experiencing travel disruptions on our website. Customized for each region, these pages feature widgets for information about airport delays, weather links, local forecast and government alerts. 9 A better workplace We uphold our duty of care objective by consulting with clients on destination and security, while publishing intelligence pieces and White Papers on topics such as Building a Travel Risk Management Plan and Responsible Travel Management. The Global Crisis Management team coordinates all internal responsibilities and resources to monitor the world through multiple media sources: 24/7/365 for incidents that happen globally, and incidents that have a direct or indirect impact on travel. During crisis mode and after incidents, the team identiﬁes potentially impacted travelers by pulling reports on global data through our risk XYZ Company management and intelligence & analytics tool, DecisionSource. 1 The high street Empire Building London W12 1HQ We uphold our duty of care for our employees while they’re on the United Kingdom road by providing traveller tracking, crisis and emergency response and IATA number security awareness and education. In 2014, we issued ‘Travelsafe’ cards 123-456-7890 to our employees. The card consolidates a company ID card, IATA card Employee and travel insurance card in one and allows us to better support our Another Name employees when they’re outside their regular working environment. It ID card number Employee number includes information for travellers such as telephone numbers to dial 123-456-7890 123-456-7890 in the case of emergency, for medical assistance and information on travel disruption while travelling. In addition, employee traveler data is The bearer of this ID card is employed by the above travel company included in a reporting process that alerts HR teams of any impacted which is a member of IATA travelers. And a 24 hour hotline and ‘follow the sun’ process ensures that our travellers are taken care of while travelling. Employees’ Travelsafe card 10 “The power of this partnership is realised in our ability to listen, learn, plan and deliver together. Our people A better workplace are the diﬀerentiator. Every day with pride and passion, we have the opportunity to be a superstar in how we serve our customers, each other and the community” Denise Farrell Director of Operations Training BCD Travel | Australia Average time spent training per person Completed courses Unique participants Average courses per person 1,147,110 12,014 12.24 10.71 hours Work placements allow students to gain real experience in an industry or a BCD Travel is dedicated to employees’ professional development to hone particular function that he or she is interested in. We have accepted various their skill levels and advance with the company. Training content is developed placements around the globe, working in close partnership with the students’ internally for BCD Travel-speciﬁc training needs and purchased externally for educational institutions, providing practical experience and mentoring to universal content. help students complete necessary course work while on placement. As a result of our partnership with educational institutions we provide longer career opportunities to young and business savvy talent through our Management Associate Program (MAP). This program helps us secure the company for the next generation in respecting the change our customers expects of an innovative travel management company. 11 “Our people – across borders, time zones, cultures and languages – is what makes working for BCD Travel unique. It brings new insights and ideas A better workplace to our projects and adds dynamics and perspectives to our relationships. Working on such a global level has sparked curiosity and awareness in me that extends beyond the workday, impacting both my professional development and my personal growth.” 2,313 diﬀerent courses are oﬀered Courtney Moore Manager, Business Development around the globe Advito | U.S. A. Classroom courses Virtual classroom courses Online courses Other 400 439 573 991 Global Talent Management continued with the CHALLENGE program that Through the Discovery program, BCD Travel Germany provides the opportunity identiﬁes and develops candidates that will potentially fulﬁll future leadership to work for three weeks in another location either in Germany or in other EMEA positions at diﬀerent levels within the organization by strengthening skills and countries. This program allows trainees to strengthen their competencies and capabilities in four areas of management: self, people, business and results. gain experiences valuable to their development. 12 A better workplace Employee appreciation week takes place in many countries We foster a culture that makes the health, safety and well being of our every year – e.g. US, Latam, APAC. Oﬃce events are employees our number one priority. sponsored by various supplier partners and prizes are given to employees. Virtual employees receive communication We conduct our business in accordance with all applicable health and safety and a gift as well. laws and regulations, and other relevant standards to which we voluntarily subscribe, and provide the training, management systems, and resources A global Equal Employment Opportunty statement as necessary to do so. In 2015 we started the process to develop a global health well as policy statements on no drugs, no harassment & safety management system and will roll this out globally in 2016. EEO and quality and fairness were included in local employee BCD Travel has joined ‘The Code’ Code of Conduct for the Protection of handbooks. Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and Tourism to help protect the rights of children. Circle of Excellence (COE) is a peer recognition program for all employees. It is an important part of the company’s culture: recognition is given not only from the top, but employees get to honor the excellent work of their peers. The program includes all employees from BCD Travel, Tbiz and Advito in wholly owned countries. Knowledge Hub is BCD Travel’s global Talent Management System. It provides a common platform for learning and completing the online performance appraisal process. This system not only helps in measuring the value created by an employee towards their assigned tasks and responsibilities, but also identiﬁes a path for growth and development. BCD Travel’s performance appraisal/development goal (reporting for eligible employees with access to knowledge Hub) met a 88% completion rate. Some winners of the Employee Appreciation costume contest 13 A better world From company initiatives like the Haiti Project to individual good works by employees around the world, we believe actions go far beyond collecting money. Simply put, they express our passion for helping others and protect the environment. We carry out that commitment to community in a number of ways. Investment in community begins with the individual. So we encourage our employees’ eﬀorts to improve their local communities through social investment, business relationships and charitable activities. We also leverage our business relationships in support of community. Our Christian Dahl partnership with licensees in emerging markets helps these businesses and Senior Vice President Strategic Talent Management & Global their employees secure their future role in a global marketplace by providing Human Resources Our WORLD principle helps us access to training, technology and opportunities for business growth. And we combine the energy of our business with the power of our business meet our obligations as a global partner relationships to do more for global and local communities than we citizen with our communities, and could do on our own. support eﬀorts for its wellbeing. The CSR executive sponsor for We proudly support our shareholder’s Making a Diﬀerence foundation, our Workplace principle is also an focusing on championing underpriviledged children’s causes around the executive sponsor for this principle, globe. From company initiatives to individual good works by employees in the area of community. around the world, we give back to our local and global communities. These actions go far beyond collecting money. Simply put, they express our passion for helping others. 14 A better world Our systems In support of the Human Rights principle within the UN Global Compact, we believe in being an agent of positive change through: “The key factors which drive success in my role as a Regional Account Local empowerment: investment in our community begins with the Manager across the diverse African & individual and we encourage our employees to initiate and support eﬀorts Middle East region is education, cultural to improve our local communities. awareness and mentorship. Investing Making a Diﬀerence foundation: we proudly support our shareholder’s time in elevating and up-skilling organization-wide eﬀort, focused on supporting underprivileged children’s colleagues helps equip them to achieve greater success in their markets causes around the globe. and developing strong and long lasting Emerging markets: our partnership with licensees in emerging markets helps customer relationships.” these businesses and their employees secure their future role in a global Julianne Barker marketplace by providing access to training, technology and opportunities Regional Account Manager /Africa for business growth. Middle East (Pﬁzer) BCD Travel | South Africa Working with suppliers: we work with suppliers and other business partners to encourage joint in-kind contributions to community initiatives. In December, the Global Finance and Legal teams got together in Utrecht to build bikes for Africa with a charity organization called Tools to Work. 15 A better world What we do The Haiti Project: BCD Travel and the John and Marine van Vlissingen BCD Travel Foundation: In 2015 we created the BCD Travel Foundation, Foundation partnered with the whose mission is to improve the lives of children. The foundation is the non-proﬁt Great Commission Alliance BCD Travel “giving arm” for all of our charitable eﬀorts. It acts as a general fund into to launch the Haiti Project in 2012. Our mission which all of us can channel proceeds from individual and broader charitable was to fund the construction and operation of the BCD School of Hope in activities. We can track what we’re doing around the company to help kids the town of Mirebalais, Haiti, oﬀering 500 underprivileged children the and communities. We have greater visibility into what we raise and can be opportunity of receiving an education and the promise of a bright future.n more eﬃcient in supporting the eﬀorts that are close to our hearts. early 2015, we were forced to suspend our support to the BCD School of Hope in Mirebalais following the aftermath of a paramilitary land invasion. Sadly, we were not able to return to the same school to continue our eﬀorts at that location Making a Diﬀerence: grass-roots level programs that make a direct impact in the lives of children and reinforces the charitable instincts of BCD Group’s employees across the globe. Says John Fenterner van Vlissingen, Chairman and founder of BCD Group: “Making a diﬀerence that can be felt by children living on all continents requires vision on both a global and local level. We are BCD Travel delighted to invite our company’s staﬀ from all corners of the globe to help team members improve the world for children. As an organization, we are dedicated to being gathering donations at a CSR event an agent of positive change and truly beneﬁting children.” in Denmark 16 A better world NORAM BCD Travel US Chicago Thumbuddy Special UK / IE BCD Meetings & Events U.K. BCD Travel US Memphis Hope House Day Care The Link Foundation EMEA BCD Travel U.K. BCD Travel Belguim Zoe’s Place Baby Hospice Bednet A Smile for a Child LATAM BCD Travel France Rêves BCD Travel Argentina Tu Amigo Invisible en el Chaco BCD Travel Germany Städtisches Kinderheim BCD Travel Chile Aschaﬀenburg Minga Foundation Kids To Life BCD Travel Costa Rica FRÜZ Asociacion Proyecto Daniel Pro Mädchencafé Ayuda a Jovenes BCD Travel Israel Con Cancer y Otras Enfermedades Natal Cronicas BCD Travel Luxembourg BCD Travel Mexico Caritas Fundacion Camino a Casa, A.C. BCD Travel Netherlands BCD Travel Nicaragua Kidzbase Asociacion de Padres de ninos y jovenes diabeticos de Nicaragua BCD Travel Russia APAC Books for blind children BCD Travel Venezuela La Estrella de Birongo BCD Travel Singapore Jamiyah Children’s Home 17 “As a schoolleaver, I wanted to work in the travel industry to encounter new countries, cultures, languages and religions. In my role at BCD Travel, I am fortunate A better world to be able to fulﬁll this every day working with peers and colleagues across the globe in an organization that supports and encourages Growth and Emerging Markets: our partner network currently numbers mutual respect and understanding of over 81 agencies around the world, each with an exclusive contract to a multi-cultural environment.” use the BCD Travel brand in their markets. Partners integrate as closely as possible and ensure that our clients receive a seamless service throughout Melanie Ackers the world, whether they are in Eastern and Central Europe, the Middle East, Regional Account Manager /EMEA APAC Lead (Pﬁzer) Africa, Asia Paciﬁc, Latin America or the Caribbean. BCD Travel | UK To deliver this service and ensure that standards are maintained and constantly improved, the main focus of the partner operations is on training, introducing new technologies and products, and streamlining processes so that the agencies can generate eﬃciencies and cost savings, which can then be passed on to their clients. Activities in 2015 EMEA: Latin America: • We continue to look for new • Strong year of growth and opportunities to expand our retention for the region, presence in the region. As we exceeded sales goal by 137% unfortunately lost two partners in • Implemented 225 customers in Africa in 2015, we are working to 18 countries. bring alternate partnerships • Partner engagement is excellent in the region. with a focus on standardization • Continuing implementation of of operations procedures and Global IT Strategy additional implementation of TripSource 71 partners and 81 partners and modules • New managing director assumed joint ventures joint ventures management of LATAM region 18 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. A better world Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We’re committed to a healthy and sustainable environment, by establishing policies and programs that speciﬁcally outline how we conduct business in a safe, environmentally sound manner in accordance with relevant legislation and regulations. Our operations reﬂect our focus on recycling, conserving resources and preventing pollution. And our facilities planning and processes take into account environmental considerations like energy consumption, commuting emissions and eﬃcient use of oﬃce space. We’re dedicated to providing products and services that promote Rose Stratford environmentally sound travel practices, minimize waste and reduce harmful Executive Vice President emissions to the air, water and land. Our Supplier Code of Conduct encourages Global Supplier Relations our business partners to adopt practices aligned with our environmental & Strategic Sourcing principles, ethical business practices, human rights and labor practices. Our WORLD principle also supports the United Nations Global Compact In addition, we regularly conduct formal reviews to make sure our activities principles of Environment (7, 8 and comply with environmental regulations and internal practices. We’ve 9). Our other CSR executive sponsor always been a company that builds for the next generations. And for those for this principle in the area of generations, we have a duty to appreciate, manage and protect the resources we’re fortunate enough to have. ‘Green’ isn’t shorthand for saving trees. It’s environment, heads our relationship a way of life. with suppliers at a global level, overseeing the requirements stated in the UN principles. 19 A better world Our systems Our consulting arm, Advito, provides a range of consultative services to diagnose and improve travel program environmental The following systems and procedures ensure that our and social impacts, including: commitment to environmental issues is addressed: Our comprehensive Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives focus on sustainability to evaluate and reduce the environmental impact of travel activities • Responsible travel program diagnostic: to help travel and procurement and accountability to improve traveler well-being and security and promote ethical managers determine the contribution their program makes to the company’s business standards throughout their travel supply chain and stakeholder network. overall CSR program and help to achieve the right balance of traditional travel management and CSR objectives. Our carbon emission tracker calculates emissions produced by air travel and • Corporate Social Responsibility travel strategy workshop: to help clarify reports on this information at company, departmental and individual traveler corporate requirements and stakeholder expectations and constraints for levels. The tool is incorporated into our information management solution, sustainable and accountable travel management through single or multiple DecisionSource, which provides intelligence to targeted audiences throughout stakeholder workshops. the travel and reimbursement lifecycle. DecisionSource calculates emissions in accordance with the methodologies of both the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) • Travel avoidance program: to help customers to successfully implement trip Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and DEFRA (the United avoidance programs through an integrated approach that considers all key Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Aﬀairs). We oﬀer two stakeholder requirements. credible, transparent and consistent structures to provide our customers with • Sustainable and accountable travel procurement: to design and manage maximum ﬂexibility in integrating business travel emission reporting with their supplier Request for Proposals (RFPs) that are aligned with the organization’s broader internal CSR initiatives. sustainable and accountable procurement principles. Carbon oﬀ-setting can help compensate for the environmental impact of travel • Meeting location optimization: to address the environmental impact of programs by allocating funds commensurate with the emissions produced meetings through sustainable sourcing, ‘environmental housekeeping’ and a through business travel. That money is then invested in climate protection total trip perspective. projects that generate emission-free energy, reduce demand for energy or • Oﬀ-setting advisory: to provide the customized advice needed to address the absorb emissions that have already occurred. BCD Travel’s global carbon key questions on carbon oﬀ-set partner selection and implementation. oﬀ-setting partner, Atmosfair, conforms to the Gold Standard for emissions calculation, project selection and funds allocation. • Travel risk management consulting: to help to assess exposure to travel-related safety and security risks and recommend changes to operational programs, travel security initiatives and risk management providers. 20 A better world What we do Our processes, systems and activities detailed above enable Paperless (or almost) processes: North America oﬃces maintain a listing of a greater understanding of environmental liabilities linked to processes that have become paperless. In years past, most of our business business travel among our employees and clients. The steps we was very paper intensive and we continually work to reduce paper and have taken count towards reducing the carbon footprint of our automate or go online with our processes: online new hire portal, annual travelers and educating our community at large on being more open enrolment for beneﬁts and online pay stubs for direct deposit. environmentally responsible. Pay slips in the UK are now available online, accessible to employees via their own login. This new process saves paper, time and postage. All of our oﬃces in Germany and the Netherlands are certiﬁed to the Travel Operations continues to remove paper from all processes and is environmental management standard ISO 14001:2009. A surveillance implementing a tracking process for each oﬃce to calculate the number audit of both these countries took place in Q1 2015, certiﬁcation is valid of trees saved per year by eliminating ticket stock, ticket jackets, invoice/ until 2017. BCD Travel UK’s oﬃce also achieved ISO 14001 re-certiﬁcation in itineraries, bills /invoices and record keeping of commissions. October 2015. BCD Travel oﬃces continue to increase the number of employees working An ISO 14001 surveillance audit was carried out in our Atlanta Headquarters from home: 63% in the U.S. and 60% in Canada. This saves gasoline and in June 2015 with the current certiﬁcation valid until 2016. The ISO 14001 CO2 emissions as well as time and provides a better work-life balance. certiﬁcation of our Dallas oﬃce was completed in Q4 2015. Additionally, this adds ﬂexibility to supporting the needs of the business or disaster recovery and also reduces oﬃce space (sq. ft) costs/CO2 emissions. BCD Travel Germany increased their share of environmentally friendly oﬃce materials to 46% in 2015. The Netherlands also maintained their share of 36%. 99% of all paper purchased in the Netherlands and Germany in 2015 was 19% 9% 40% environmentally friendly. Total paper consumption was reduced by 7% in Germany and 21% in the M&E UK EMEA Netherlands. globally 21 A better world A green tracking sheet was implemented in Q2 to track all environmental Eleven oﬃce facilities in the US are now Energy Star certiﬁed initiatives. Updates are provided in our CSR quaraterly reports. which means that they meet the strict energy performance standards deﬁned by the EPA (Environmental Protection The Green Brigade in Mexico continues with their car-pooling project through their local intranet. Employees can register to share their car or to Agency). Energy Star rated buildings use less energy, are match up with other employees to share the ride to the oﬃce, thus reducing less expensive to operate and cause fewer greenhouse gas CO2 emissions. emissions. Three oﬃce facilities are LEED certiﬁed. Square footage of oﬃce space has declined in the U.S. and Canada by 46% since 2009. “I joined the BCD Travel Travel itineraries contain CO2 emission statements for air, car, rail and hotel Emergency Service Team about 6 segments. months ago. Thanks to the innovation, technology and vision of the company, I With the move to a smaller location in Paris, the number of employees perform my job from home. I can save valuable working from home has increased resulting in reduced CO2 emissions due time by not having to drive to an oﬃce and I feel to travel. more motivated than ever to provide the best service. But especially, this shift allows me to spend A global initiative to set a baseline for our carbon footprint for electricity and more precious time with my teenage daughter. energy consumption was introduced in Q3 2015. I can fully enjoy the diﬀerent facets of each of my children and be present in their lives while I work. This opportunity has brought me many blessings.” Esperanza Zapata Emergency Service Team BCD Travel | Mexico 22 A better world In 2014 we launched “Green Computing” eﬀorts within the IT department. Our monitors and printers are conﬁgured to enter standby mode when not Commonly referred to as “Green IT”, this global eﬀort is being implemented in use. This reduces the amount of energy used by the devices. Desktops and to address the environmental impact of rising CO2 emissions as a result laptops are conﬁgured with standard energy saving settings that determine of increasing computing demands for business operations. The Green IT their energy consumption based on device usage. When not in use, the devices concept is based around the premise of addressing CO2 emissions through will enter standby mode reducing their energy consumption signiﬁcantly. the deployment of the Green Action Plan. Each Green Action Plan is designed to address CO2 reduction through process and technology. The status of We have deployed storage solutions that leverage virtualization technology each initiative is listed in the table below: in the management and allocation of storage. This technology provides more eﬃcient usage of storage disk and reduction of wasted or used space. Action Status Additionally, our usage of application virtualization has increased allowing Energy eﬃcient desktops with ENERGY STAR ratings Implemented for increased deployment of virtual desktops based on business needs. Energy eﬃcient monitors with ENERGY STAR ratings Implemented Earth Day / Earth Hour / World Environment Day: BCD Power management – desktop, monitors and printers Implemented Travel carried out a number of activities in support of Earth Eﬃcient cooling systems within the data centers Implemented Day on April 22nd, Earth Hour on March 28th and World Physical infrastructure management systems within data Implemented Environment Day on June 5th. These activities included centers planting trees and vegetables, collecting batteries, mobiles and electronics for recycling, grow cards, recycling plastic, Air-ﬂow dynamics management within data centers Implemented shut down of all unnecessary electricity, implementation Virtualization expansion beyond server and desktop to Implemented of trash separation and collection. include storage, network, and application virtualization Expansion of e-waste & IT asset recycling eﬀorts Implemented Expansion of telecommuting eﬀorts Ongoing BCD Travel Deployment of these Green Action plans will reduce IT’s CO2 employees participate in ‘Hug emissions, reduce waste, improve employee productivity, and A Tree” lower IT’s operational costs. 23 A better world Paperless documentation: BCD Travel produces screen friendly documents The COP21 Paris Agreement requires global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that are easy to read and navigate avoiding the need to print them out. to reduce to net zero well before the end of the century. With supply chains This not only helps us reduce our paper consumption but also that of our responsible for up to four times the GHGs of a company’s direct operations, customers and suppliers. they house sizable regulatory risk but also present ample opportunity for businesses to lower emissions. BCD Travel contributes to this initiative by Energy saving: more oﬃces are adopting tighter policies on energy eﬃciency. participating annually in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The goals include opening windows to allow sunlight, switching oﬀ lights during lunch hours, optimizing energy settings in computers, using power strips, using compact ﬂuorescent light bulbs. In accordance with EU law, BCD Travel perform energy audits in some qualifying countries. A set of mandatory measures were provided by the Energy Eﬃciency “Green ICT is more than a Directive in 2012 with the purpose of meeting the EU goal of a 20% energy concept at BCD Travel, it’s deeply eﬃciency target by 2020. All EU countries are required to use energy in a more embedded into our operational eﬃcient manner and all business are expected to comply with this ruling by framework. Our deployment of conducting energy consumption audits to help them identify ways to reduce it.. environmental friendly technologies, systems, and processes all contribute to our eﬀort of reducing C02 emissions, BCD Travel completed an energy audit based on the DIN EN 16247 norm in power consumption and electronic the UK and Germany in 2015. Audits in other qualifying countries are slated waste. To date our eﬀorts have yielded for Q1/Q2 2016. the beneﬁts equating to eliminating 1,565 cars oﬀ the highway and the planting of 27,677 trees.” Reggie McNeill, SVP, Infrastructure & Communications Technology BCD Travel | U.S.A. 24 A better world The Benelux countries and France have a heart for the Costa Rica’s ongoing composting project. environment and for employees. BCD Travel contributes to employees’ well-being and promotes public transportation and Estimated Figures for 2015: bicycles as an alternative to gas guzzling cars for commuters. Organic waste average per person 0.74 Kg Population (number of employees) 140 People Country Public transportation Bicycle Days of operation 261 Days Belgium Employees in Belgium who use public transportation (train, bus, tram, metro) to Total Organic waste generated 27185.76 Kg commute to work are fully subsidized. This Total fertilizer generated 8155.728 Kg includes all employees in any of the three locations or implants. The BCD Travel reimburses the costs of To contribute to Netherlands commuting, based on public transport, employees’ wellsecond class. Commuting is understood to being and to a mean travelling between the Employee’s healthy environment, home address and the BCD Travel head employees with > 1 oﬃce in Utrecht. year of service may apply for a bike to be used to commute to work. France BCD Travel reimburses 50% of the BCD Travel reimburses transportation price (train, subway) the full annual regardless of the zone, at all 3 locations in subscription for France. bicycle rentals (VELIB) in Paris. Belgium Employees in Belgium who use public transportation (train, bus, tram, metro) to commute to work are fully subsidized. This includes all employees in any of the three locations or implants. 25 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. A better business Our world is ever more connected and transparent. And that places a premium on honest and respectful conduct. Today, how we do what we dodetermines whether or not we survive and thrive. BCD Travel employees follow a comprehensive model of conduct that ensures transparency and dependability in our business transactions. No employee can hold any interest (ﬁnancial or otherwise) or be actively involved in any activity, business or organization that might constitute a conﬂict of interest with our company. And employees may not select a vendor for any reason other than its ability to fulﬁll our company needs. Information learned during employment with us cannot be used for personal gain and employees know Stephan Baars they cannot share conﬁdential information with anyone (family or otherwise) Global Chief Financial Oﬃcer who is not employed by us. Our BUSINESS principle supports We deliver what we promise, and only promise what we can deliver. We the United Nations Global Compact maintain accounts and records and prepare ﬁnancial reports in a way that principle of Anti-corruption (10). conforms with our own policies and applicable laws. Only the highest legal One of our CSR executive sponsors and moral standards are observed in our business relationships, conﬁrming for this principle, in the area of our sound reputation as a solid and unwavering partner. ethical business practices, is our global CFO who oversees the requirements stated in the UN principles. 26 A better business Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our “What strikes me with a commitment to anti-corruption issues is addressed: consultancy like Advito is the strong will to always be tough, Our stance on anti-corruption is clearly stated within our CSR Principles, but fair. As consultants, our daily which has been distributed to all employees across the globe and available business is with the chains. We need for download on our Web site. to ﬁnd a balance between being close enough to capture In late 2014 we introduced our Code of Conduct to all employees. The Code information, but not too close as of Conduct sets forth the standards by which we, as a collective organization to compromise our client’s best and as individuals, should act and provides an ethical and legal framework interest. I value these skills passed on for our day-to-day activities. A strong message against corruption is included to me by my management” in the Code. Our Non-Compliance Reporting Policy provides guidelines on bringing any potential misconduct to mangement’s attention. Fatiah Belhout Senior Consultant BCD Travel suppliers and sub-contractors are encouraged to sign up to Advito | France the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-contractors, which stipulates that: “Corruption and bribery are recognized as some of the barriers for sustainable development. BCD Travel does not accept these practices and does not, therefore, oﬀer or accept any kind of undue payment. BCD Travel expects suppliers to act the same way.” 27 A better business What we do We understand that anti-corruption issues may be larger in some markets than others, so we encourage local initiatives to help employees understand the broader issues and ensure all forms of corruption and bribery are prevented. In 2014 we requested suppliers globally to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-contractors. We have also requested our Partners in our global Partner Networks to sign the Code of Conduct. To date 85% have signed and returned the document. The internal Global Group Policies document includes, among others, BCD Travel’s policies on corruption, bribery and conﬂict of interest. This document is updated on a regular basis and communicated to all employees globally. The Code of Conduct and Non-Compliance Reporting Policy were rolled out in late 2014. All employees were required to participate in a mandatory Code of Conduct training which provides speciﬁc training on identifying corruption and how to report non-compliance to the Code. The participation rate reached 95%. Annual Code of Conduct training will be mandatory for all employees globally. 28 A better business A compliance e-mail account was setup and is monitored by the global its majority-owned entities it is evaluating rolling-out the program to all functions Internal Audit and Legal. In addition, we setup the independently minority-owned entities and partners. operated BCD Travel SpeakUp System which oﬀers our employees the opportunity to anonymously report any misconduct. All incidents reported We have further improved our cross-functional approach in preventing and are investigated and the results are reviewed by a designated member of the detecting fraud. External fraud attempts are reported to our fraud email account BCD Travel Board responsible for Compliance. (fraud@bcdtravel.com ). Fraud warnings are immediately drafted/ issued using various communication tools and speciﬁcally designed communication lists. The global internal audit team also partners, upon request, with the compliance and ethics departments of our clients to promote ethical In line with our ZERO tolerance stance against fraud we investigate all business practices beyond companies’ and industries’ boundaries. reported misconduct and take decisive, if necessary, including legal actions towards any internal or external party. We have included the three training modules Code of Conduct, NonCompliance Reporting Policy and SpeakUp System as last resort reporting EcoVadis, the assessor providing supplier sustainability Ratings for global tool into our Compass Program, which ensures all new employees are supply chains has rated BCD Travel in the top 7 % of suppliers in its category trained as they join BCD Travel. and top 12 % of all suppliers. In the Fair Business Practices Section BCD Travel was ranked in the top 2 %. We have implemented the Code of Conduct, the Non-Compliance Reporting Policy and the Speak-Up System in all majority We are continuously working with the Risk Services Practice owned countries. Any ethical concerns can be raised by of one of the big 6 global audit ﬁrms to further improve our every employee via all available communication channels Compliance Program. (1) the manager (in line with our open door policy), (2) the In the UK a speciﬁc training course on anti-corruption and compliance email account ( compliance@bcdtravel.com ) or the Bribery Act 2010 was made available to all staﬀ. 71% of (3) anonymously (and in the respective native language) via all employees participated in the training up to the end of the SpeakUp System. As BCD Travel has completed in 2015 2015. New sessions of the course will be released in Q1 2016 the ﬁrst full year with its new Compliance Program across all to ensure that all remaining employees can participate. 29 A better business We place a high value on information security—not just because it’s a competitive diﬀerentiator—but also because it demonstrates corporate stewardship of the data entrusted to us by our customers and employees. The information that travels over our computer networks is treated as our own corporate asset. We prohibit unauthorized access, disclosure, duplication, modiﬁcation, diversion, destruction, loss, misuse or theft of this information. Third-party information that’s been entrusted to us is protected in a manner consistent with its sensitivity as well as in accordance with all applicable agreements. Our computers, mobile devices and other information storage devices are Russ Howell protected with appropriate information security policies, procedures and Executive Vice President technologies. Our information security measures apply regardless of the media Global Technology on which information is stored: paper, electronic, local, cloud; regardless of the systems that process it: personal computers, voicemail systems; and regardless of Our BUSINESS principle also the methods by which it’s moved: email, telephone, face-to-face conversation. We supports the United Nations Global also protect information in a way that’s consistent with its classiﬁcation, such as Compact principles of Human Rights whether it’s need-to-know or internal only. 1 and 2 in regards to information security and data protection. One of Compliance requirements are set in accordance with industry, international our CSR executive sponsors for this standard, legislative and client expectations. In addition, we regularly perform principle heads global technology audits (including ISO 9001, ISO 27001 and Payment Card Industry Data Protection and oversees the requirements Standard (PCI)) to make sure we comply with best practices, industry regulations stated in the UN principles. and legal obligations. 30 A better business Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to human rights is addressed: The Corporate Security Governance Committee includes management from human resources, legal, operations, ﬁnance, information technology, internal audit, industry relations and security management, to review the security “In a world that tends to see program periodically and ensure that it continues to meet the security needs data as a form of currency, BCD Travel of the business and our customers. respects the validity, security, and integrity of a client’s data. Through a variety of strict We have taken extensive measures to protect corporate and customer processes and well-maintained IT data and information from loss, manipulation unauthorized access and ecosystems, BCD Travel strives to protect falsiﬁcation, by complying with legal provisions and by adopting international and secure all client data once it passes into security standards such as ISO 27000 series and PCI DSS into its global our care. Whether we’re talking about card or security standards. reservation data, controls and prompt attention Certiﬁed Security Professionals with cutting-edge technical expertise and to privacy and data are seen within ever accept professional designations such as Certiﬁed Information Security Manager of our business processes and channels.” (CISM), Certiﬁed Information System Security Professional (CISSP), Holistic Tyler Wolf Information Security Practitioner (HISP), Certiﬁed in Risk and Information Account Executive Global CDS PAC Control (CRISC) and Certiﬁed Information Systems Auditor (CISA), are BCD Travel | U.S.A. dedicated to protecting assets in our care. Information protection is part of our operations and business alignment, led by steering and advisory committees and applying risk assessments. 31 A better business What we do Over 2,000 employees globally participated in our October Our data centers ensure that customer data remains secure while stored on Cybersecurity Awareness Week. This eﬀort aligns with the BCD Travel production information systems. We maintain certiﬁcation to the Anniversary of National Cyber Security Month hosted annually internationally recognized standard Information Security Management ISO in the U.S. by the National Cyber Security Alliance. 27001:2005 which provides a framework for best practices in the management of information security. We use encryption or other compensating controls to secure data during collection, transit and storage. Improving Fraud Management. Continuing to develop fraud awareness training videos in cooperation with Marketing, Internal Audit, Performance solutions and BCD travel academy. Expected completion is late Q1 2016. We have successfully completed PCI Merchant compliance eﬀorts in Germany, Australia, Singapore, India, Switzerland, Annual review of the Global Information Security Policy and Global Information Security Standard manuals. United Kingdom, Czech Republic, Canada and the United States. We incorporate cutting-edge technologies into our network and systems to protect personal data. This includes, among other tools, endpoint protection, intrusion detection, web and e-mail ﬁltering and protection and data loss prevention. We successfully completed the ISO 9001:2008 surveillance audit, ISO 27001:2005 recertiﬁcation audit and the SSAE16 audit report for 2015. Over 12,000 BCD Travel employees received our online security awareness training in 2015. Along with this annual training, BCD Travel employees receive security updates via bulletin and Salesforce alerts, intranet communications and securityrelated articles in our quarterly internal magazine focus. 32 Further information About BCD Travel BCD Travel helps companies make the most of what they spend on travel. For travelers, this means keeping them safe and productive, and equipping them to make good choices on the road. For travel and procurement managers, it means advising them on how to grow the value of their travel program. In short, we help our clients travel smart and achieve more. We make this happen in over 100 countries, with more than 12,000 creative, committed and experienced people. And it’s how we maintain an industrySharon Dirks leading client-retention rate of 97%, with 2015 sales of US$23.8 billion. For Global CSR Coordinator more information, visit www.bcdtravel.com Otto-Lilienthal-Str. 1 28199 Bremen Germany T +49 (0)421 3500 491 About BCD Group sharon.dirks@bcdtravel.de BCD Group is a market leader in the travel industry. The privately owned company was founded in 1975 by John Fentener van Vlissingen and consists of BCD Travel (global corporate travel management), Travix (online travel: CheapTickets, Vliegwinkel, BudgetAir, Flugladen and Vayama), Park ‘N Fly (oﬀ-airport parking) and joint ventures Parkmobile International (mobile parking applications) and AERTrade International (consolidating and fulﬁllment). BCD Group employs over 12,500 people and operates in more than 100 countries with total sales of US$ 25.6 billion, including US$ 10 billion in partner sales. For more information, visit www.bcdgroup.com. 33
