Connectivity CYBERCOM GROUP · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 B A Borderless Sustainability Machines technology heroes of tomorrow enter the cloud About the report: Focus & boundaries: Cybercom presents an annual sustainability report in The information presented in the sustainability report B accordance with GRI. This is Cybercom’s sustainability refers to Cybercom Group AB. With joint ventures and report for 2015. The report is prepared in accordance subsidiaries accounted for on the basis of Cybercom Group's with the GRI G4 international guidelines for sustainability ownership interest. Any organisational boundaries are reporting, Core option. In 2011, Cybercom signed up to mentioned in connection with the reported information. the UN Global Compact and complies with its ten prinMany aspects of sustainability have an impact beyond ciples for responsible business. This report is Cybercom's Cybercom’s legal framework, such as with our clients and A annual communication about how we are living up to, suppliers. Cybercom regularly reports for each material and working with, these principles. sustainability aspect where it has its influence in the company's value chain. 2 Global goals 17 UN sustainable development goals 4 CEO comment The future is here 6 Cybercom in 3 minutes An introduction to Cybercom 8 Interview Interview with Dennis Pamlin 8 10 Targets and outcomes Targets and achievement in 2015 22 14 Outlook Megatrends in the industry 22 The connected world How Cybercom creates value in society 30 Employees 24 Diversity 36 Corporate responsibility Importance of ethics and security 38 Internal environmental efforts 17 Reducing Cybercom’s environmental impact 39 Code of conduct Ethics and code of conduct 42 Chairman’s comment The path forward 43 Corporate governance How Cybercom is governed 44 GRI information Stakeholder dialogue 48 GRI index 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 We take respons­i­bility At Cybercom we believe it is important to take re­ sponsibility for how people, the environment and society are affected by our operations and, ulti­ mately, the operations of our clients. We actively strive to reduce our own impact on the environment, and we conduct dialogue about what is important from a sustainability perspective. That said, the greatest potential of a consulting company is, of course, our ability to influence our clients and, by extension, their users and end customers. Our offer includes innovative, secure and effective solutions that contribute to profitability and sus­ tainable development through, for example, cost savings, energy savings and, above all, reducing the consumption of finite resources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 1 GLOBAL GOALS 1 3 4 No poverty Good health and well-being Quality education End poverty in all its forms everywhere. Ensure healthy lives and promote Ensure inclusive and equitable quality well-being for all at all ages. education and promote lifelong When the 17 goals were adopted, learning for all. Mark Zuckerberg and U2 singer Bono Physical inactivity is one of the ten published an article announcing a biggest risk factors for premature Cybercom is a main partner to digitalisation campaign, arguing the death. Cybercom has developed the Universeum, SOS Children's Villages world need to be connected to reduce MovereX mobile app that supports and the Hello World! association, poverty. This is about Connectivity, physical activity on prescription to aimed at promoting digital creativity what Cybercom works with. deal with this. among children and young people. Find out more on page 15 Find out more on page 16 Find out more on pages 32 11 12 UN global goals Sustainable cities and communities Responsible consumption and production Make cities and human settlements In 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 global goals that inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Ensure sustainable consumption and world leaders have committed to achieve by 2030. production patterns. In Sweden and Finland, Cybercom has The goals were created to: constructed a framework for secure Cybercom was chosen by SVP • End poverty. e-identification that brings together Worldwide as its connectivity partner • Fight injustice and inequality. public and private services for citizens when it wanted to connect its most • Combat climate change. and businesses in one place. advanced sewing machine ever. ICT (Information, Communication & Technology) is able Find out more on page 28 Find out more on page 28 to play an extremely important role, helping to achieve the goals through increased digitalisation. These are the 17 goals and some examples of where Cybercom has contributed in 2015. 2 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GLOBAL GOALS 5 7 9 Gender equality Affordable and clean energy Industry, innovation and infrastructure Achieve gender equality and empower Ensure access to affordable, reliable, all women and girls. sustainable and modern energy for all. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrial­ The AllBright Foundation noted that During the year Cybercom conducted isation and foster innovation. Cybercom is the best in our industry CAPEX/OPEX analysis to create in terms of the proportion of women efficiency improvements for a leading During the year, Cybercom has in management positions, with 36 % telecom operator in Bangladesh. advised several industrial companies women in the management team. on the development of IoT solutions, Find out more on page 21 including for Heliospectra’s intelligent Find out more on page 30 lighting technology for greenhouses. Find out more on page 28 13 16 17 Climate action Peace, justice and strong Partnerships for the goals institutions Take urgent action to combat climate Strengthen the means of implemenchange and its impacts. Promote peaceful and inclusive tation and revitalise the global partsocieties for sustainable development, nership for sustainable development. Together with the City of Gothenburg provide access to justice for all and and others, Cybercom is developCybercom has been a signatory of build effective, accountable and ing new solutions for tomorrow's the UN Global Compact since 2011. inclusive institutions et al. sustainable public transport. Find out more on page 4 Cybercom has developed and is res­ Find out more on page 13 ponsible for Openaid.se, the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency’s web-based information service for Sweden's development aid. Find out more on page 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 3 CEO COMMENT The future is here We find ourselves in an era of both fantastic technological to grow our business with key accounts and priority clients. We have organised ourselves usprogress, generating opportunities to create a better world, and ing this strategy, and I have appointed a business major global concern, with millions of people displaced and an leadership team that, alongside the operational unstable economy. World leaders, innovators and fellow citizens leadership, will be able to help us accelerate our business relationships and increase cooperation have adopted 17 global goals for the development of our world, across regional and national borders. We are and to ensure a sustainable and more equitable future, largely now going a step further in living close to our clients. This is about all of us at Cybercom; we with the help of the opportunities provided by technology. must all be consultants who create value for our clients and grow our business. ogether with leaders from A continued intense force for change is both With 20 years of experience in IT and comT several of our clients, I attended possible, from a technical perspective, and munication services, we can guide our clients the UN Private Sector Forum last necessary, from a sustainability perspective. in their digital journey. Our vision is to be our September to put into practice The world will look very different just ten years clients’ most trusted business partner in the important collaborations that from now. Cybercom is creating competitive connected world. We are experiencing ever will steer the world towards the new sustainable differentiation and new democratic reach, greater demand for strategic advice in Condevelopment goals by 2030. There are solutions, together with our clients, by developing socially nectivity, and we are increasingly being invited and I am optimistic. Both Cybercom and I are on beneficial, secure and accessible services for to leadership conversations, through which we board. We support the Global Compact and we the connected citizen and the connected can make a bigger difference. Digitalisation are convinced that, together with our clients and consumer. We are also helping industries to is a priority agenda item for many leadership partners, we can help to make a difference – to improve their energy efficiency, and we are teams and boards. This was particularly evidrive development in the right direction through helping cities with more intelligent mobility dent at the most recent World Economic For­ digitalisation, by connecting people, machines, solutions. There is growing demand, large um in Davos, where Swedish companies were devices, countries and authorities – through market potential and a sustainable future in criticised for lagging behind. I do not agree. what we call Connectivity. this. I am proud of our clients, my colleagues Every week I see so many good examples of Cybercom’s expertise and our solutions for and the solutions we deliver. In 2015 we took driving innovation and digital development the connected world are contributing to the a step forward in this positive direction. We are among our clients in Sweden, as well as in fourth industrial revolution. This means we the makers of tomorrow. the other countries where we operate. New have a unique opportunity, and a responsibilbusiness models are being created. New and ity, to advance the business of our clients and Strategic direction resilient services are changing business ideas. It to drive development in the right direction During the year we updated our strategic plan is enormously exciting to be part of this. and at the necessary pace. We ensure that the to improve our profitability to 10% in the long In our strategic shift, we have streamlined foundations of our digital society are secure, term, and to lay the foundation for growth of our offering and made it clear where we transparent and based on renewable resour­ 5% annually. We have further focused the busicreate the most value. This is important in ces. We ensure that the services provided by ness towards building long-term relationships order to strengthen our brand. We present our this new society are competitive and access­ with a range of clients, for whom we know we expertise in the areas of Digitalisation, Secure ible, while in the long run having less adverse can bring clear value, both short-term and longConnectivity, Internet of Things and Managed impact on the climate and environment. term. Our sales team is working systematically Cloud. As a component of connectivity we 4 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXXXX CEO XXXXXXXX COMMENT ❝ collaborate with our clients and networks to deliver smart sustainable solutions that are profitable in the short term and long term. This is about creating efficiency and greater competitiveness by benefitting from the opportunities of the connected world – but also managing its risks, complying with legislation and regulations, and protecting privacy. We WE ENSURE THAT THE have unique security expertise, which was exemplified when our The Procurement Check SERVICES PROVIDED BY THIS service was named Swedish IT Security SoluNEW SOCIETY ARE COMtion 2015. We share this free of charge with our clients and colleagues in the industry to PETITIVE AND ACCESSIBLE, improve security in our digital society. WHILE IN THE LONG RUN Meritocracy is crucial HAVING LESS ADVERSE In our strategic shift, we are also focusing on becoming a better employer. Our mission is IMPACT ON THE CLIMATE “Boosting your performance in the connected world”, and this includes all our employees AND ENVIRONMENT. being given room to grow with us, through exciting, challenging and interesting assignments. this and increase our efforts. We are now setIoT development for garden The market for IT services is generally good, and ting a clear goal. We should have at least the machinery and industrial with this comes fierce competition in the recruitsame proportion of women as the percentage robots, and we have conment arena. By 2020 there will be a shortfall of of females graduating from engineering coursnected sewing machines to around one million IT professionals in the EU, es annually in the programs that we recruit the cloud. We have helped and at least 60,000 in Sweden. This means we from – the target is 30%. This starts with the one of Europe's largest face an enormous challenge, namely to secure leadership team, and I am pleased to see that university hospitals with a decentralised data the supply of skills in our industry and to ensure 36% of my colleagues today are women. It security procedure for improved practical work there are people who can nurture and develop is important for Cybercom to have inspiring with data security, and we are enhancing the the digital opportunities in our society. We enleadership that creates a dynamic dialogue digital presence of several Swedish municigage in initiatives to attract and ignite interest in and promotes a common and oxygen-rich palities. We have transferred one of Finland's technology among children and young people in culture built on diversity and clear values. At largest media houses to the cloud. And this is collaboration with, for example, Universeum and Cybercom this is about providing plenty of just the beginning! Next Up in Gothenburg, Makerslink in Linköping, room for innovation, passion and building During the year, it became necessary to Hello World! in Stockholm, Good Malmö, and trust, and generating synergy internally in our adapt our business to the market in Finland. We SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda. We are inoperations and externally for our clients and closed the office in Turku, affecting some 30 volved in organising coding courses for children, other stakeholders in wider society. employees. We concentrated our operations to and we participate in creative hackathons. Tampere and Helsinki to achieve more sustainaSweden currently has a liberal regulatory Our footprint in 2015 ble economic development in our company. framework for labour migration, which is Very many positive things have happened in The year ended with our principal owner, JCE positive and fundamentally necessary for our Cybercom’s business during the year. We were Group, and Teguity placing a bid for Cybercom, sector. As someone who works in our industry, entrusted to help the Finnish government to and the company was delisted. Cybercom is it is amazing to note that IT today accounts for digitalise its activities, and to implement elecnow in private hands to allow an opportunity to the largest share of labour immigration to our tronic identification services and associated adcreate an even more stable platform for future country. I see this as a great potential asset for ministration of roles and permissions. We have growth and profitability. Under private ownCybercom. In the IT world, we speak a universal worked with public authorities and companies ership the company can develop both more language without borders between countries, to create energy-smart public transport solurapidly and more vigorously in its current phase. cultures, genders, social backgrounds, ages or tions in Gothenburg and Stockholm. We are We are now aiming at creating more value religions. Diversity is the best ingredient for us, involved in the development of autonomous for our clients, employees, owners and wider an enabler to develop innovative solutions. vehicles that will be running on our roads in a society by developing our operations closer to Statistics show that the proportion of womyear or so. We have built and optimised mobile our goal of achieving more profitable growth en in the IT and telecom industries in Sweden networks on remote islands in the Caribbean, and creating a more sustainable business. Join dropped from around 32% in 2006 to 29% in and in Africa and the Middle East. We have us for our continued exciting journey! 2014. In our company, it has fallen from 21% connected cranes and asphalt rollers for safer to 17% across the group. We must improve on and more efficient industry. We have driven Niklas Flyborg President and CEO, Cybercom SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 5 CYBERCOM IN 3 MINUTES A business partner to our clients: Cybercom is an innovative IT consult­ ing company founded in Sweden in 1995.Today we enable companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world and to enhance their competitiveness. RESULTS OF CYBERCOM’S 2016 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY 100 91 would recommend us! % % will probably or definitely continue to buy from us 32 % see a great advantage in buying from us compared with competitors 6 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CYBERCOM IN 3 MINUTES Clients AMONG OUR LARGEST CLIENTS: ALMA MEDIA GROUP ASSA ABLOY ERICSSON FINNISH NATIONAL BOARD OF EDUCATION HUSQVARNA IKEA Our clients are found mainly in the public sector, telecommunications and manufacturing, as well as in trade and the media. MTV FINLAND SAAB SWEDISH TAX AGENCY SONY MOBILE VOLVO AB VOLVO CARS STOCKHOLM COUNTY COUNCIL ❝ OUR VISION IS TO BE OUR CLIENTS’ MOST TRUSTED BUSINESS PARTNER IN THE CONNECTED WORLD. Bo Strömqvist, Sales Manager, Cybercom Distributed value 2015 We are located in Ersättning till anställd seven countries Övriga externa kostn Avoch nedskrivning Finansnetto, 0,20% Skatt, 1,14% Utdelning, 0,71% Välgörenhet, 0,04% SWEDEN Bibehållet ekonomisk FINLAND DENMARK • Employee benefits, incl. social charges 64.0% POLAND • Other external expenses 33.4% INDIA • Investment activities 2.0% DUBAI • Net finance income/expense 0.2% SINGAPORE • Tax 0.4% • Charitable donations 0.05% AND WE CONDUCT BUSINESS IN 20 COUNTRIES 1,218 90 employees at Cybercom % of employees have a university degree 237 people recruited in 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 7 INTERVIEW “The sustainability are those with the 8 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 INTERVIEW heroes of tomorrow solutions” We sat down with sustainability expert Dennis Pamlin to talk about his views on the ICT sector's role in creating sustainable societies. ow should a that replace a physical product or sermuch greater than that, and many H company like vice, or by enabling collaboration and commentators claim that ICT comCybercom act to sharing, in which smart ICT solutions panies are the most important sector move in a more are required. The fact that companies for global sustainability. Many ICT sustainable like Cybercom already deliver these companies can contribute to more direction? kinds of solution without calling them than 100 times greater emissions re“It’s very much about showing what sustainable is usually because they are ductions than they emit themselves.” is already being done, but has not actually developed to be smarter and DENNIS PAMLIN been labelled as sustainability, for more cost-effective, not because they Finally, where should Cybercom example by putting numbers to are sustainable.” focus its sustainability efforts in Dennis Pamlin is the founder how many tonnes of greenhouse future? and chief executive of 21st gases are saved using Cybercom’s How big is the actual potential “The sustainability heroes of today Century Frontiers, and a senior solutions. Cybercom has an importfor the ICT sector to create more and tomorrow are the people who associate at the Chinese Acadant role in explaining to clients and sustainable societies? come up with the solutions – particuemy of Social Sciences. He has decision-makers which underlying “ICT has a central role in a sustainlarly IT companies that can create the extensive experience in ICT solutions are critical to smart sustainable future. There are studies that sustainable knowledge society. Cyberand telecoms, specialising in ability solutions. Without encryption, show we could cut global emissions com is able to play an important role innovation and sustainability. compression algorithms, cloud of greenhouse gases by 20% in by shifting the focus from problems He is currently an independstorage and real-time data we cannot 2030 using ICT, without making any to solutions – since your core business ent consultant, responsible ❞ have smart buildings, smart mobility major changes. But the potential is often leads to sustainable solutions, for the Low Carbon Leaders or smart consumption patterns – higher sales go hand in hand with a Project within the UN Global which make up tomorrow’s infragreater contribution to sustainability. Compact. structure for global sustainability.” I would therefore argue that there is a moral responsibility for those that Can modern technology alone have sustainable ICT solutions to make make the world sustainable? I WOULD ARGUE THAT money. That may sound dramatic, but “The technology we have available we cannot afford to continue to lock today is sufficient, but we have to THERE IS A MORAL ourselves into resource inefficient and use it in a smart way and this requires changes to organisations, regulations RESPONSIBILITY FOR non-smart solutions. Working in a sector that has a and our habits. For example, through THOSE THAT HAVE moral responsibility to make money is “dematerialisation”, which is to something I believe we should see as deliver the same or similar services SUSTAINABLE ICT a great opportunity, because it allows with lower consumption of natural reSOLUTIONS TO MAKE us to combine innovation, good sources. This can be achieved through economic performance and a better the development of digital solutions MONEY. world. There are worse jobs.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 9 TARGETS AND OUTCOMES Targets & outcomes Cybercom has identified 10 sustainability aspects that we believe are material to our operations. Based on these aspects we have formulated our operational work and set goals that describe how we govern Cybercom. nt base th, clie , grow ty Su bili sta rofita ina P bl e bu t si n ac es Env s iro Financial stability Information nm security en ta l im p Smart use of Sustainable resources products & services Dedicated employees & Cybercom’s Privacy issues employee development sustainability related to IT aspects Sustainability in Business ethics Cybercom's culture yer lo Bu mp sin e Diversity Anti-corruption es an & equality & anti-competitive se as t e behaviour hi ol cs r ur O ❝ WE WANT AT LEAST AS MANY FEMALE EMPLOYEES AS THE PROPORTION OF WOMEN WHO GRADUATE FROM THE TECHNICAL UNIVERSITIES, WHICH MEANS Simon Südowsson Sustainability Ambassador and Consultant, Cybercom AT LEAST 30% IN THE LONG TERM. 10 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 TARGETS AND OUTCOMES Target met Positive development Negative development Area Description of target Outcome 2015 Status Financial targets Profitability Cybercom shall be one of the more profitable companies In connection of the acquisition of Cybercom among its closest comparable competitors and achieve an large impairments were made to goodwill, which EBIT margin of 10%. generated a negative EBIT margin. Excluding impairment the EBIT margin was 3.0% (5.2). Growth Cybercom shall strive to achieve growth of 5% annually Sales increased by 0% (6). over the business cycle. Operating targets Assignment types We will achieve an even distribution of sales between Turnkey assignments and projects 34% (39) consulting services and turnkey projects/solutions in our Consulting services 66% (61). assignments. Our role as We will have the highest level of engagement among our In previous years, we have measured an overall an employer employees by providing them with an attractive working employee motivation index. We have now environment, good terms and conditions, and useful opporchosen to set a specific target for employee tunities for professional development. We work actively to engagement in excess of 75% – in 2015 this was increase our diversity in order to create a dynamic and inno­ 66% (68). The target for our leadership index is vative working environment. We measure this through a above 80% – in 2015 this was 75% (69). group-wide employee survey called Cybercom People Voice. Sustainable We will increase the amount of sustainable business with At Cybercom’s ten largest clients, 49% (27) business our clients. We measure this by looking at what business of assignments have contributed to improved contributes to sustainable development and responsible sustainability through efficiency, cost savings, use of resources through, for example, cost savings, security or a reduced degree of exploitation of efficiency, security, and reduced use of resources that has the earth’s resources. a negative environmental impact. Business ethics High ethical standards will be a part of our DNA and perme50% of Cybercom's employees, including the ate all our activities and all our business. All our employees, entire board and senior management team, have suppliers and partners should sign Cybercom’s code of completed certification. No incidents have been conduct. We use internal certification for anti-corruption reported. Better systems will be introduced for and the code of conduct. We measure and monitor the monitoring the supplier code of conduct. number of certifications annually. We monitor the number of incidents in our operations. Environmental We will reduce our CO2 emissions as a result of travel per Since 2011, CO2 emissions as a result of travel per impact – travel revenue krona by at least 5% between 2011 and 2015. rev­enue krona have decreased by approximately 55%. New targets from 2016 Client base Recruitment Environmental impact Selected key clients will account for 70% of We will make net recruitment of at least 5%. We strive to achieve a positive environmental sales. Our ten largest clients will account for apWe welcome diversity and strive to achieve impact so that our solutions and the direct proximately 50% of sales and no single client the equivalent of at least the gender distribuimpact of all our operations are net positive. will account for more than 15%. Today the tion of the technical universities, with approxWe work in accordance with ISO 14001. largest clients account for 41% (40) of sales. imately 30% female employees. Currently Parts of the company are currently certified. The largest single client accounts for 14% (15). 17% of Cybercom’s employees are female. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 11 XXXXX XXXXXXXX EASY A 12 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXXXX XXXXXXXX EASY B Easier to share Connectivity makes it easy to share things with each other. This means you can save money and give nature a break, without even having to think about it. Annika Nordlander is regional head at Cybercom Sweden North East: “There are really no limits to connectivity. It will impact all parts of society and pave the way for new ideas on how to do business and how to spread knowledge. It removes administrative burdens and frees up time to be invested in the making of the future.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 13 OUTLOOK Technology without borders There are currently a number of mega­ trends: globalisation, urbanisation and digitalisation. Following in their wake are trends affecting industry, cities, citizens and consumers. Robotisation is making traditional production more efficient, phys­ ical goods are becoming digital services, industry is coming into direct contact with its end customers, and consumption pat­ terns are constantly changing. These changes bring with them many new opportunities, but it is also important to be aware and take account of the risks that can arise with new technology. Security, privacy and a greater understanding of the world around us are all essential ingredi­ ents for safe navigation. On the following pages you can read about some of the trends and new business models that we believe may affect our world today and in the future. 14 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUTLOOK Globalisation Connecting the world to bring it together n September 25, 2015 the announced the launch of a campaign O United Nations held a historic meeting at which 193 to focus on digitalisation, and asserted that internet connection is a human world leaders decided on 17 global right. goals to achieve three extraordinary Mark Zuckerberg declared that changes by 2030. These are to end Facebook intends to work with the poverty, fight injustice and inequality, UNHCR to support the millions of and to combat climate change. The refugees fleeing war and poverty by Urbanisation Cybercom’s influence global goals for sustainable developproviding internet. ment could lead to the solution to “Connectivity will help refugees these problems in all countries and for all people. better access support from the aid community and maintain links to family Building concrete Transparency UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, and loved ones,” he said in his speech. or digital in Swedish German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Zuckerberg and Bono also expan­ lead singer of the band U2 and ded on their thoughts in a New York infrastructure? development aid co-founder of humanitarian organTimes article, in which they described isation ONE Bono, and founder and the current situation of the poor utonomous vehicles are ybercom has helped develop CEO of Facebook Mark Zuckerberg all took part, along with business and refugees. Today, only half of the world’s population has internet A likely to become reality in the future. At the same C OpenAid, a service providing digital transparency to leaders from around the world. Cyaccess, and the proportion is much time, there is a problem with infraSwedish development aid. The website bercom, with its CEO Niklas Flyborg, lower in developing countries. They structure. Several major infrastructure www.openaid.se allows people to was the only Swedish IT consulting emphasised that technology comprojects are being undertaken around see when, how, to whom, and for company that attended the Private panies and entrepreneurs must take the world to increase capacity on what purpose Swedish development Sector Forum, which discussed the responsibility, and said that all the our roads. But are we thinking the aid has been paid. The information Global Compact, an initiative that global goals must be achieved, but right way in expanding with more includes financial support from the focuses on the role of the private secthat the aim of internet access for all asphalt and concrete? The limiting Swedish International Development tor in implementing the sustainable is likely to accelerate fulfilment of the factor in traffic today is actually Cooperation Agency, the Ministry for development goals. other goals. people, and our comparatively slow Foreign Affairs and other authorities The otherwise somewhat odd reaction times. Driverless cars that that administer development aid. duo of Mark Zuckerberg and Bono Find out more at www.one.org react super-fast require significantly This type of information was previshorter distances between vehicles, ously very difficult to access because and expansion might not always be the data was scattered throughout necessary. Modern industry is often different systems. Openaid.se brings much further advanced in terms of together everything in one place, both digitalisation and sustainability which improves the transparency of than government authorities and development aid, and may in turn lead politicians. to increased dialogue on aid effectiveness and outcomes. ❝ DRIVERLESS CARS THAT REACT SUPER-FAST REQUIRE SIGNIFI­CAN­TLY SHORTER DISTANCES. Albin Olsson Sustainability Ambassador and Consultant, Cybercom SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 15 OUTLOOK Digitalisation How business leaders view automated technology xford researchers Frey leaders approach the threats and O and Osborne found in an acclaimed study that about potential of automation. It was found that only 4% of Swedish business half of all jobs could be performed leaders strongly agree with the using automated technology in statement that automation is a threat 15–20 years, given the ongoing to jobs, but that more than one in technological developments. The two managers expect to be able to study* does not, however, address reduce employee numbers. At the how many jobs in other sectors same time, 89% agreed that this is a will be created by automation, necessary and desirable development something that will almost certainly to increase profitability. One in four happen. Other important aspects are respondents also said that automahow automation provides improved tion has affected their own business working environments, health care, to a very large extent over the past education and elderly care, to name five years, and 89% of these said that but a few. automation has created opportunities Cybercom’s influence Research firm Kairos Future has for entirely new products and services. investigated how Swedish business Read more at www.kairosfuture.com. *) Frey och Osborne: The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation? 2013. More exercise reduces Digitalisation health care costs 70 Mapping to understand the % hysical inactivity is one of end customer’s business P the ten biggest risk factors for premature death, and a sedentary lifestyle leads to large costs for health care. The fifth leading risk factor for women to suffer illness is n important trend that simplify time reporting and billing physical inactivity, and for men it is A originated in digitalisation is the need to map end based on data sent from each unit. Eventually, these functions may be the sixth largest risk factor. In order to combat sedentary lifestyles, docof all surveyed patients within the primary care claim to be customers in order to understand decisive in the customer’s choice of tors and physiotherapists sometimes insufficiently physically active their business and their consequent product, and may even account for prescribe physical activity to patients, opportunities and challenges. The the majority of the company’s revesince there is strong scientific more effective prescription manageIndustry is at a stage where it is possinue rather than the sale of a single evidence that this is, in many cases, a ment for health care providers. ble for a company to address more of product, which is a one-off. good alternative to medication. In a playful way, MovereX can its customers’ concerns than simply One problem of prescribing physimake it easier and more fun for pathe ordered product, and a number cal activity is that only just over 40% tients to exercise more, which could of successful businesses have already of patients follow their prescribed exresult in better public health and fitbegun to realise this. ercise – Cybercom wants to change ter patients. It also has the potential Publishing manuals and user this. In October 2015 we launched to considerably reduce health care guides for products online is just the MovereX, a mobile app with an costs as preventative measures using first step. For example, connecting associated activity bracelet and MovereX are very much cheaper than a product to a cloud service enables web interface, which can assist and caring for patients with diabetes, the next step in creating services for motivate patients prescribed physical cardiovascular the customer. One obvious example activity to exercise more. The benefits disease and is connected tools used in contractfor health care of using MovereX, other conditions ing. By connecting each tool, a instead of the usual paper forms, are caused by foreman is able to keep track of time expected to be that more patients physical taken and risk levels in use, and can follow their prescribed exercise and inactivity. 16 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUTLOOK Cybercom’s influence Imagine you being the product n the digital world the to someone else. Always to adapt the exciting job offers, live more sustain­ I product is often a private individual, something that world to the individual and the data they leave behind. ably and be able to afford more. The downside is that we do not know in is increasingly important to consider “The digital world has begun to what context the data will pop up as our everyday products become entwine itself around us as individuand shape our lives. Cybercom’s influence connected. This is not necessarily a als,” says Mattias Allring. “It adapts “I believe, for example, that bad thing, but we need a broader and plays customised versions of within a few years it will be possible to debate about how our digital lives are shaped, says Mattias Allring, a reality. Your world is no longer the same as mine.” automatically make the first shortlist of job applications by examining how Specify consultant at Cybercom. Every day, private individuals leave And this is just the beginning. The next major developmental step will truthfully the applicant describes themselves. The right customer will receive security during hundreds of digital footprints that are gathered, processed, resold and be for virtually everything to be connected to the internet. Your shoes, the red carpet treatment, but those who do not fit the template will be procurement used by companies. The aim is not to your milk carton, your flowerbed. rejected in many ways,” says Mattias. ur world is becoming cause harm – it is a way to optimally adapt activities and offerings to the Each new piece of your life and your surroundings is an opportunity to To participate in shaping the future, we need to set in motion a broader O increasingly connected. People and businesses are individual and their needs. Somedevelop new services for you. debate about what is happening in creating newer, more efficient and times to offer something. Sometimes “The technology already exists the connected world, so that we as a more innovative ways to process, to sell something about that person to realise many of the online world society can be involved in shaping it. share and distribute data. As utopias. Your new connected car “The most important thing we systems become more important, could, technically, already support can do as advisors is to extrapolate so specifying availability, privacy and behaviour-based day-to-day insurthe trend. Demonstrate the logic, security becomes more critical at the ance, with premiums set according enlighten decision-makers who own procurement stage. to how you actually drove yesterday. the ethical decisions by putting the It is challenging to specify security And your online health monitor could picture in a broader context for them, during IT procurement. But achieving be used together with the content and getting them to understand the this provides significantly greater of your fridge to determine the life consequences, not just economically quality aspects than just security, for insurance offered by your insurer,” but also ethically. Our role as advisors both the customer and the supplier. explains Mattias. is to help decision-makers to make This is why we created The ProcureAs a result of all that the connectinformed decisions. We have a social ment Check – a cost-free, flexible ed world offers us, we will probably responsibility to help all of society to Mattias Allring support for all types of IT procurelive longer, reduce our stress, have anticipate the risks and opportunities ment, to ensure that critical security more time with our family, get more of the future.” issues do not fall through the cracks. Since its launch, almost 1,000 ❝ people have downloaded and used The Procurement Check, which partly contributed to The Procurement WHISTLEBLOWING STOPPED Check being named IT Security Solution 2015 at the Security Awards. ACTIVITY BRACELET An article by Mattias Allring in Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter, debating “Data from your activity bracelet is an WE NEED TO SET IN 2015 insurer’s dream” had an impact in Sweden and internationally. In Finland, it was picked up by television news channel YLE MOTION A BROADER SECURITY Nyheter, which discovered that a Finnish insurance company was gathering user data from its policyholders with an activity DEBATE ABOUT AWARDS bracelet it had sent out, in order to provide tailored products, WHAT IS HAPPENING just as Mattias Allring had predicted in his article. The insurer WINNER stopped collecting the data following YLE’s report. IN THE CONNECTED WORLD. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 17 OUTLOOK Are the robots taking our jobs? “Machines have less problems. I'd like to be a machine, wouldn't you?” Andy Warhol’s oft-quoted words were spoken in 1963, but he was neither the first nor the last celebrity to take an interest in the wonders of technology. Robots have been portrayed as anything from pleasant companions to job-stealing killing machines. 18 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUTLOOK he oldest known became really cheap, and therefore a Georg believes jobs that require T design of a robot possible option for more sectors and creativity, analytical skills or a degree of that survives industries,” explains Georg Graetz. judgement will not be outsourced to is of a knight, In their study “Robots at Work”, robots for a while. He also shows there sketched by Graetz and his colleague Guy are many types of jobs that do not reLeonardo da Michaels investigated how the use of quire higher education, but that have Vinci. It could sit down and lift its robots in 17 countries has impacted still not been replaced by technology. visor. The industrial revolution, and productivity gains, employment “Waiters and cleaners are roles the advent of machines in factories growth and other variables. They that do not require much education during the 1800s, lifted people out found that productivity increased but that are still difficult to automate, GEORG GRAETZ of poverty and allowed them to avoid more where robot use was more because they require skills and Georg Graetz is an assistant heavy and dangerous work, and to widespread. Robots account for more human and social interaction that are professor at the Department devote themselves to more advanced than one-sixth of the total producnot easy to program.” of Economics, Uppsala Unitasks. Robotisation enabled mass tivity growth of 2 % per year in the versity. In addition to “Robots production, giving everyone access countries included in the study. Important to keep up at Work”, he has published to goods and services previously only “We have not looked at ICT as with developments a number of papers such as available to the wealthy. a whole, but only where robots Georg Graetz says companies must “Rise of the Machines: The These days, Apple has onshored are involved. For me the results are keep up with new technology and Effects of Labor-Saving Innoparts of its production to the US, interesting because robots do not evaluate how it may be relevant to vations on Jobs and Wages” where it is handled by industrial yet make up a particularly large their business, whether this is about (2015), and “A Question of robots instead of low-wage labour. component of capital. This shows the cost savings or staying ahead of comDegree: The Effects of Degree Companies as diverse as Google and potential in the future. petitors. It is important to not be the Class on Labor Market OutVolvo are developing self-driving cars, last to adopt new, efficient technology. comes” (2015), both together and in China Foxconn has an army Total hours worked unchanged “But decisions to adopt new with Andy Feng. of robots in its first fully automated They also found that the increased use technologies and reorganise a busifactory. Robots have become comof machines had not led to a reducness are strategic, business-critical monplace in the world of services. tion in employment, and the effect on decisions that need to be thought At the airport we check in and drop the total number of hours was zero. through carefully.” Facts our luggage using robots, and on “But when we broke it down into One benefit of new technology is the stock markets lightning-fast different groups, we saw that hours that it is easier to put ideas into prac310 algorithms have replaced the most worked for people with higher edutice and start a business today. This polished brokers. cation increased, while the number of does not require much capital and hours for the low-skilled had fallen.” it is easy to reach out to customers Robots and labour From this they concluded that robots through the internet. But for more But what does this mean for workare taking certain jobs, mainly lowpeople to take advantage of the MUSD was invested in start-ups ers? Cybercom took time to talk with skilled, but that new jobs are added. opportunities we need a new vision related to artificial intelligence economist and robotics researcher “The main negative impact of the of future educational strategies,” (AI) in 2015. Georg Graetz. advance of robots – and technology in says Georg Graetz. “Industrial robots have long been general – has been felt in occupations “Those responsible must think important for improving efficiency, but where you can easily write a program about how education should be ×7 it was not until the 1990s that they for the tasks. Repetitive, mechanical adapted to better prepare people for tasks that follow simple rules, such new technologies. Courses on how ❝ as industrial jobs, accounting and to start a business and develop new customer service are examples of occ­ services, I believe, must have a greater upations that have decreased. Meanrole from the very start of schooling. while, more skilled occupations like We need to intensify the focus on Global investment in AI-related THOSE RESPONSIBLE system developer, programmer and skills that are less likely to be replaced start-ups has increased robot operator have been added.” by robots, such as analytical abilities, sevenfold since 2010. MUST THINK ABOUT The increased use of robots has imcreativity and social interaction, and HOW EDUCATION proved productivity, which has led to also the ability to combine these skills. SOURCES: CB INSIGHT, 2015 & GARTNER, 2015 lower prices for manufactured goods. Skilled jobs in research or the 20% SHOULD BE ADAPTED This in turn leads to increased dehumanities are not as easy to reduce mand and more employees to meet to computerised processes. TO BETTER PREPARE customers' growing desire to buy So even though Andy Warhol these cheaper goods. The advent of wanted to be a machine, it is not PEOPLE FOR NEW robots has also resulted in even safer likely that we will see actors, designof all business texts, such as TECHNOLOGIES. and better working environments and greater precision in the work. ers, engineers, scientists or artists as robots in the near future. press releases, will be written by robots in 2018. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 19 XXXXX XXXXXXXX OUTLOOK Machines are moving into the cloud The first cloud wave, with test environments or less business-critical services has passed. Nowadays, business systems and important industrial services are moving out into the cloud. This is making our industry more efficient. 20 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUTLOOK ocally collected dialogue in the cloud,” says Tarmo. Explosion of connected machines L data on the Tarmo is one of the people behind health of a robot the Machinebook concept (see article 2018 47% at a car factory below). By sharing and reacting to has a low value. information (imagine Facebook’s But once this inthumb), the system learns who is SOURCE: GARTNER, TOP STRATEGIC PREDICTIONS FOR 2016 AND BEYOND formation is instead aggregated with inter­ested in, for example, an alarm 50% of the fastest growing of all connected devices other robots in the chain, the manufrom a machine. The aim is for inforcompanies will have more in 2020 will be able facturer's own data and the owner's mation to move from dashboards in intelligent machines to request their production plans, the information a control room to the right operator than employees. own support. suddenly has a new value. tasked day-to-day with making “We want to take the data from sure that production lines and large machines and make predictive analysis: machinery are working properly. This 95% 2020 When does the machine need servicmakes the company less dependent ing, what spares are required, does the on the skills and availability of an inproduction line need new robots, and dividual operator, and instead builds what about insurance?” says Tarmo up shared expertise. of all cloud-related security Autonomous software agents, Pajunen, a Sustainability Ambassador “In the future we hope that issues will be due to mistakes without human supervision, and IoT manager at Cybercom. machines will be able to learn from in manual handling by will participate in 5% of all Gartner predicts that by 2018, six people by listening to human converthe customer in 2020. financial transactions. billion connected machines and systems sations,” says Tarmo. will require ongoing maintenance. He argues that machines with And by 2020, thirty-five billion things locally stored data quickly become a Facts Case will be connected to the internet. As problem since storing the infora result, companies will be forced to mation locally means the common look at machines and systems like information becomes incomplete if a customers, and even treat them like machine loses contact with the netSocial net­ Telecoms customers. The data generated will be plucked up from each machine work. And building up the cognitive intelligence to be able to understand works and solar and processed centrally. In the cloud. “For this to work the data must what people are saying requires computing power that cannot be housed for machines energy in be stored centrally, where there are databases, computing power and and in an individual machine. “You don’t want to have the inteland humans Bangladesh application program interfaces (APIs) – ligence physically attached to the maand of course everything needs to be chine. It also uses unnecessary electrical As machines become ever Cybercom carries out numerous scalable, so we see a future of machine power and local computer space.” smarter, so their ability to comprojects worldwide to improve ❝ According to a survey of 770 municate directly with people mobile network capacity and major European and North American expands. Cybercom has thereefficiency. We conducted a companies conducted by Forrester Refore developed Machinebook CAPEX/OPEX analysis to create search, more companies are currently – a social network for machines efficiency improvements for evaluating a transfer of their business and people. This network can the leading telecom operator in systems to the cloud. In two years, be used to enhance the effiBangladesh. Cybercom’s analysis YOU DON’T WANT interest in the cloud grew from 12 to ciency of industrial and digital identified high fuel consumption 35%. Tarmo believes there is now a services. The network content in 23% of installed generators, THE INTELLIGENCE similar shift in IoT. This is because the is produced by both people and and excess capacity in 88% of ATTACHED TO THE options for local in-house operation machines. In practice, Machinebook can new generators, which has a diare often too expensive and do not rect impact on fuel consumption MACHINE. IT USES TOO perform adequately to provide any serve, for example, as an alarm and CO² emissions. Cybercom benefit from the collective intelligence when a machine encounters unrecommended switching to a MUCH ELECTRCITY of all the connected machines. One expected problems. It updates hybrid power supply solution, its status on the social network, AND LOCAL COMPUTconsequence is that IBM has increased the pace of IoT functionality in its informing its contacts that it is based on solar energy, saving the operator ER SPACE. public cloud. unable to carry out its tasks, and explains why it is not working. money and “Connected machines themselves providing Tarmo Pajunen are becoming more the norm. The In principle, any machine better susSustainability real benefit occurs when this is done can be connected to Machinetainability Ambassador in a smart way, thinking about how book. solutions. and IoT manager, to improve processes or save money Cybercom by using all this data,” says Tarmo. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 21 THE CONNECTED WORLD In a rapidly changing world, we are a the right solutions into practice. Through reliable and trustworthy business partner our cloud services we can optimise data that understands our clients’ businesses storage and ensure excellent service 24/7. and business models. We can be a partner Our experience in developing systems for throughout the entire lifecycle of a project. strong new business models, with a focus Our advisory services create the foundation on innovation and sustainability, allows of a business relationship. Thanks to us to work with clients to facilitate their our knowledge of the opportunities and delivery of the transformative solutions challenges of digitalisation we can put required in the 21st century. How Cybercom creates value in society 22 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE CONNECTED WORLD ybercom offers business with a strategy for digitalisation, most often provide secure and environmentally sustainC consulting with a deep opens up major opportunities. able storage in a Nordic environment. understanding of the Something that distinguishes Cybercom situation of our clients. from many other companies is that we look INTERNET OF THINGS By combining technical at the whole lifecycle of a service. This has expertise and sound proven highly successful, and Cybercom is Not only people, but also products and mabusiness insight, we offer innovative and now growing rapidly thanks to our ability chines, are becoming connected at an exposustainable solutions. We achieve this based to connect the client's business value while nential pace. This creates entirely new opporon our extensive knowledge of how society delivering a technology-neutral platform and tunities, and also contributes to the challenges is changing in a connected world, combined implementation support, even in organisations that need to be addressed. Cybercom has with our capacity and ability to implement that do not have an interest in technology. We world-leading expertise when it comes to technological solutions based on the individual also help clients to maintain and manage their technology, trends, and how organisations situations of different organisations. systems effectively, such as in our own cloud can benefit from the opportunities of being We work with advisory offerings through solution, or by using third-party solutions. connected. Together with our clients, through iterative and agile business development that With Cybercom, the realisation of a new inspiring seminars, workshops for innovation does not require the investment of large sums, business model is not just an assumption, but and business case modelling, feasibility studies and instead conduct concept development in a natural part of the company's development and prototypes, we create new services and small steps, testing our way forward, evaluating in a connected world. new products that improve the efficiency of and validating every move taken. This requires resources, and automate and open the door different types of initiative, depending on the to new markets. position of the client in their digital infrastrucWe have packaged Cybercom’s expertise ture and expertise. At an early stage, the first and experience into four areas where DIGITALISATION step is to ask how to best take advantage of we believe we create the most value for the opportunities provided by digitalisation, our clients: Our society is undergoing a transformation as what the company’s current situation looks like, significant as when we moved from agriculand what are the most strategic steps forward SECURE CONNECTIVITY ture to industry. In our day-to-day lives it is in order to benefit from these new opportunieasy to miss the enormous changes we are ties; why investment should be made to conCybercom is laying the foundation of a connectgoing through, and equally easy to fall behind nect a product or service, or to change the way ed world with secure and reliable data processif we focus on just doing the same things but of communicating with clients. For example, ing. The people who use these solutions need marginally better. Cybercom has extensive a simple first step could be to make material to be sure that their data is secure and is used in experience in working with companies and available on the internet, providing opportunithe way intended. Customer information must organisations to help draw the best possible ties for increased interactivity and transparency, not get into the wrong hands. Despite this, benefit from these opportunities. This is all with both customers and employees becoming security solutions are often given far too little about new thinking, creating the unexpected. an integral part of business development. priority. At Cybercom this is part of our DNA. It is possible, for example, to provide digital In our conversations with clients, these four customer services more simply than people MANAGED CLOUD areas are often combined into a sustainable believe, by launching an app. This provides a strategy that not only directly contributes much better opportunity for an organisation Ensuring that a business can be in the cloud to the immediate objectives of businesses to achieve its goals. After an initial review, and is almost a given these days, with smarter and organisations, but also helps to deliver once the first measures have been implementdata storage. However, it is important this on global sustainability goals. Unlike many ed, the aim is to create new business models. transition takes place in a strategic manner initiatives labelled as sustainable, strategic In fact, it is rare that a company’s offering is its and that the opportunities it provides are IT solutions provide an opportunity to bring product but, rather, it is the solution to a probutilised. Everything from new opportunities for together increased revenues, reduced costs, lem experienced by the end user. Shifting from collaboration to reduced costs for document improved productivity, accelerated innovation a product to a service, or to a service combined and data management, and storage. We also and globally sustainable solutions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 23 XXXXX XXXXXXXX SECURE A 24 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXXXX XXXXXXXX SECURE B Secure and connected We always consider both the function and the security of our solutions. This improves security for both you and your customers. Rashin, Bengt, Lars, Sandra, Pär, Linda and Andreas are some of Cybercom's dedicated makers in security. Their view is clear: “Technological developments in recent years have brought new ways of consuming goods, services and information, which in turn places new demands on companies and organisations. Our solutions always take into account privacy and security, fundamentals that future operations must be based on.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 25 THE CONNECTED WORLD Connected Industry The path to a Digitalisation affects not only the industrial characteristics of products, but also what business models are relevant. Connected industry is largely about new tomorrow servicification. An important aspect for achieving success is that it often requires a fundamental shift in the perception of how to create value for the end customer. When a product is connected, allowing the collection and analysis of data, it becomes possible to optimise and streamline its use from a management perspective. Individual contexts We are driving development in the right become connected contexts, where everything is optimised in systems rather than in an individual direction and at an increased pace. We address product. Key sustainability impacts include greater our clients based on four strong societal trends security and reduced energy consumption. To ensure its long-term competitiveness, industry that we monitor, and where we are experts must embrace sustainability and digitalisation, two keywords in future corporate positioning. With from a connected perspective. our advisory services, we help companies with feasibility studies and implementation to position their services in the connected world. ➔ Read more about how we helped Heliospectra with smart greenhouse cultivation overleaf. 26 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE CONNECTED WORLD Connected Connected Connected Consumer City Citizen The spread of digitalisation changes the relaA hundred years ago there were only twelve Society faces a huge challenge in the expectations tionship between companies and consumers. A cities in the world with a population greater than of its citizens for digitalisation, apps, communicacompany no longer sells a product, but rather a one million. Today there are over 500, and that tion in many different channels, paperless forms, solution to a customer problem. What were previnumber is growing. This brings greater problems and the ability to easily interact with the communiously associated services could tomorrow become of overload in areas such as energy, infrastructy. This places completely new demands on public more profitable than the product itself. Business ture and waste management. Digitalisation is authorities in terms of mind-set and the building models are changing, and companies need to quite simply essential to make better use of our of systems, not only for ease of use, but also for adapt to existing trends such as social media and resources, intelligently, sustainably, and in an security, identity management, sustainability and online commerce. But new trends like smart homes ethically defensible way in urban life. Smart homes compliance, which must all be managed from a are also rapidly emerging. It is likely that different are the close perspective, and many smart homes totally new perspective. One important trend is the ecosystems of owners and participants will emerge. create the building blocks of a smart city, with aging population, with a rising dependency ratio. For example, security solutions installed in homes even more efficient functions. The city becomes Should we use digitalised solutions such as health could become ecosystems that can also be carriers a device, able to control how it uses energy most monitoring and automation? This is an interdiscipliof connected services from other suppliers, such as efficiently, to avoid traffic jams or manage electric nary challenge with ethical, technological, political, health monitoring or secure transfer of single-use driverless cars that communicate with each other economic, and business perspectives brought to codes for locked doors for home deliveries. Ikea, and with their surroundings. All this will also affect the fore, and as advisors we must be able to handle Apple and Google are examples of strong players corporate business models and the relationships every aspect. that may take control of ecosystems in smart between the customer and industry, which the city homes. Cybercom is able to deliver the technical must embrace and become a part of. We have an ➔ Read more about Cybercom’s ventures in solutions for future ecosystems, and manage them important role to play in this as an enabler, with the electronic identification and Suomi.fi, which will be in flexible cloud services. combination of our understanding of the connectthe new portal for all governmental authorities in ed world and our technical expertise. Finland, overleaf. ➔ Read more about the connected consumer and our advisory testing together with SVP World➔ Read more about how we supported the Elecwide overleaf. triCity research project in Gothenburg overleaf. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 27 THE CONNECTED WORLD Connected Citizen Connected Industry Connected Consumer A portal for all Smart greenhouses The world's most government services offer efficient cultivation advanced sewing machine Large savings and a better overview Half the energy consumption with Online functionality made the sewing of the Finnish public sector. intelligent lighting technology. machine a sales success. aking public sector services digital wedish start-up company HelioVP Worldwide is the world's largest M is one of the most important development projects in today's society. S spectra develops intelligent lighting technology for greenhouse cultivaS manufacturer of sewing machines for the consumer market, and Transparency, accessibility and security are tion. By using a specific lighting combination specialises in the design, manufacture and disthe foundation of the national IT project in for each species, growers are able to fine-tune tribution of innovative consumer machines for Finland, in which Cybercom has a key role. appearance, taste and growth, and thus ensewing and embroidery, as well as accessories The aim is to gather together public and hance quality and reduce waste in production. and software. The company’s most advanced private services, making it easier for citizens to At times when there is strong natural sunlight, high-end sewing machines are manufacmanage their affairs. The project also includes Heliospectra’s LED lamps can be wirelessly tured at the plant in Huskvarna, in southern an identification service for which Cybercom powered down, and then be powered back up Sweden. has developed a framework for secure idenin cloudy weather. This is a big step in terms When SVP Worldwide decided to equip tification. The system’s rights management of sustainability performance compared with its most advanced sewing machine, the permits automatic identification of individuals existing greenhouse lighting . Husqvarna Viking Designer Epic, with internet authorised to handle information on behalf of Cybercom has conducted a number of pilot connectivity, it needed a reliable partner others. studies, including a project to investigate how with extensive experience in the design and “All the data and essential public services sensors can be used to measure light frequency, implementation of solutions for the Internet of will now be available in one place with one light strength, temperature and humidity close Things. SVP Worldwide chose Cybercom as its login at Suomi.fi,” says Timo Laaksonen, to the plants. This makes it possible to dynamconnectivity partner, and the collaboration behead of the Media and Public business unit at ically control each lamp to accommodate the gan with several cross-functional workshops. Cybercom Finland. Filing a tax return, voting illuminated plants’ specific needs, and to optiCybercom supported SVP by defining or exercising other rights and obligations will mise the frequency and light level. Cybercom the online functionality and architecture. be simple and easy using the portal. It will also has also developed a solution to capture 3D Cybercom was also responsible for implemenbe possible to link in private services, such as imaging of the plants to allow growth comparitation of the IoT system, which consists of a health and electricity consumption. son under differing light conditions. back-end solution, a cross-platform mobile Improved security, faster processing, less risk Staffan Hillberg, CEO Heliospectra: application and a communications module for error and reduced crime rates are major “We have worked with Cybercom on inside the machine. factors in the project, as is sustainability. several projects. They are innovative and think SVP Worldwide launched the Husqvarna The system is expected to generate major outside the box, and I appreciate that they get Viking Designer Epic in October 2015, with environmental benefits us to think in new ways.” internet connectivity and through electronic docuHeliospectra has won ease of use as two of its key ment processing, thus elimiseveral accolades, including functions. The launch was nating the costs of printing, the WWF’s Climate Solver a success, and the online delivery and storage of award for its unique lighting features have contributed to documents. technology. its sales achievements. 28 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE CONNECTED WORLD Connected City emission-free buses that pick up passengers inside the terminal stations and are powered by renewable electricity. A journey into the future Together with its partners, Cybercom has of public transport developed the project’s IT environment. The IT environment provides users of public transport with access to entirely new services and inforGothenburg’s ElectriCity project is mation from the vehicles. During an innovadeveloping public transport using tion competition held in 2015, it was possible renewable energy. to download data from the entire western traffic region so that participating teams could ogether with others, including the build applications to further improve public T City of Gothenburg, Cybercom is developing the ElectriCity project transport. The system also includes plans for a car pool and a bicycle pool. ElectriCity has – an exciting collaboration in which science won awards including The European Solar and the public sector are developing new Prize 2015 in the Transport and Mobility catsolutions for the sustainable public transport egory. The motivation was of tomorrow. ElectriCity is an arena for the “Exemplary supply of public testing of new products and services in public transport with renewable transport, intended to act as a source of inspienergy as part of a cooperration for future city development. The new ation between city, industry number 55 bus route is operated using quiet, and science”. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 29 EMPLOYEES Our ability to attract ybercom’s focus during the this through initiatives such as participation in C year has been on diversity projects like LinkedIn’s Welcome Talent and retain skilled management, skills devel(see page 33). Our voice in the community opment and internal career is heard in many ways, and we have been employees is closely paths. Our stance is that each invited by companies and organisations to join associated with the employee should have more expertise when important conversations. During a previous they leave us than when they joined us, and visit to Sweden, UN Secretary-General Ban company's power of they should have had fun along the way. Ki-moon was elected to visit Cybercom as a result of our work with labour migration. We innovation and our Employee experience have welcomed interns for a number of years, capacity to offer excit­ As we demand more experiences in our private and over the winter we employed a refugee lives, thanks to digitalisation and connectivity, from Syria. ing projects that mean so we come to expect the same in the workGender equality is an important part of something to wider place. Tailored development and a personal connection to our careers are becoming diversity. Cybercom’s long-term goal is to equalise the proportion of men and women society. Our goal is increasingly important. Cybercom works among overall employees and in manageactively to improve the employee experiment. The proportion of female employees for every employee to ence on many levels. Skills development, the in the company at the end of 2015 was 17 % have more skills when working environment, meritocracy and good development opportunities are important (17). We are now setting our long-term goal at 30 %. In 2015, the AllBright Foundation recthey leave us than elements at work, and are regularly provided ognised us as best in our industry (technology) within the framework of training opportunities with regard to the proportion of women in when they joined us. and improvement initiatives. One of the key leadership positions, with 36 % women in the elements of the employee experience is to senior leadership team. (AllBright, March 2015 offer co-workers enjoyable, challenging and “Done reducing: time for competence”). important assignments in which they have an opportunity to develop. Strong leadership Strengthening competitiveness requires Diversity and equality professional leaders. Cybercom’s manageConvinced that greater diversity is a critical ment has evolved significantly in recent years, success factor, Cybercom has worked for largely thanks to a strong focus on leadership many years to expand the diversity of its and training. In our Cybercom People Voice employees. Today, a large percentage of employee satisfaction survey, 75 % of employCybercom's employees have an international ees rate the management as 4 or 5. In 2015, background, and we are working to enhance this leadership rating formed a component 30 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES of performance pay for managers, as a clear ments that are not time critical and that allow marker of the importance of good leadership. for learning along the way. Number of employees by country Personal development, or helping to Supply of skills train someone else, means that we have to l Sweden 63% During the year, Cybercom launched its Boostwelcome a new way of thinking about how l Poland 17% ing Your Development skills programme. This a career is formed. By offering a range of l Finland 16% programme is rooted in each individual taking possibilities, careers can move around, go up, l India, 2% personal responsibility for their development, go down, jump forward and go around again. l Singapore 1% and a key component is training on assignModern career development looks more like a l Denmark 1% ment with clients alongside senior colleagues. climbing wall than a ladder. We have identified We invite and challenge our employees to a number of potential development paths that prepare for future opportunities and expand a consultant can choose, and within each path their capabilities. We provide Innovation there are a number of areas for development, Gender distribution, employees Zones where employees can develop between within which employees can choose to broadassignments, such as by taking part in assignen their knowledge in new areas or enhance l Female 17% their specialist knowledge in a specific area. l Male 83% ❝ Activity-based offices If anything, our physical environment will become even more important in future. Cybercom already has several activity-based offices, OUR GOAL IS TO PROVIDE and these are constantly being developed with the idea that our environment should be ALL EMPLOYEES WITH playful and fun in order to inspire innovation Gender distribution, senior OPPORTUNITIES FOR ONGOING and development. management team We believe it is critical that our jobs should DEVELOPMENT IN ORDER provide energy so that employees have the l Female 36% dynamism and strength to do things in their Male 64% TO ACHIEVE THEIR FULL free time that develop them. We offer our l POTENTIAL AND OUR employees many opportunities for leisure activities. Our CyberFri programme sets aside FULL POTENTIAL. money each year so that employees can apply Charlotte Siversson for funding for shared activities, such as exerSustainability Ambassador cising, running races, or starting a photo club and HR Partner, Cybercom or a cultural organisation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 31 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES IN NUMBERS Prize-winning Hello World! 90 % Percentage of employees with a university degree website for Universeum Universeum in Gothenburg houses science exhibitions, technology experiments, aquarpromotes digital creativity Hello World! is a new non-profit organisation with the purpose of promoting digital creativity in iums, and a lot of rainforest. Using a variety children and young people. Cybercom is one of 11 of initiatives and exhibits, Universeum actively the main sponsors of this association, which aims YEARS strives to develop the curiosity of children and young people in science and technology. When to educate 10,000 young people by 2020. Operations concentrate on running camps during they faced the challenge of developing a new school holidays and at weekends, where children and attractive solution for their website they and young people meet and help each other uscontacted Cybercom. The objective ing a virtual mentoring platform and are was to make the site an integral part coached by experienced programmers. Average experience of the Universeum experience, and to The association's goal is for Sweden capture the interest of young people to have sufficient IT skills in the future both before and after they visit the in order to secure competitiveness, by 5 10,000 square-metre science centre. making digital creativity easily access­ YEARS In line with Universeum’s goal of making knowledge available and of raising ible to all young people regardless of their prior knowledge. awareness that inspires young people to learn The main idea is that knowledge of programmore about technology, Cybercom chose to ming develops creativity and logical thinking. develop a visually appealing and responsive and participants are also able to apply and develsite, built using open-source code, using op their maths skills and practice their English. Average length of employment image-rich content to reflect the social media Hello World! engages with Swedish business and experiences of young people. The new site has industry, universities, foundations, the public secbeen very well received since its launch, and tor and other non-profit organisations in order 38 was recently named best tourism website 2016 to collaboratively make the activities available to YEARS by Internetworld. children and young people across the country. Read more at Read more at www.universeum.se www.helloworld.se Average age 2.2 % Average sick leave 77 % Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 32 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES Welcome Composition of Cybercom Talent LinkedIn has launched an initiative Board of directors Managers Other employees called Welcome Talent, which is intended to assist asylum seekers and new arrivals to find internships in Sweden. AGE NUMBER AGE NUMBER AGE NUMBER It contributes to rapid and improved integration, and allows businesses to <30 0 <30 1 <30 276 grow using skills that are in short supply in Sweden. Programmers are the most common profession in Stockholm, and 30–50 7 30–50 75 30–50 696 2 21 149 demand is increasing every day. A skills shortage of 60,000 IT professionals is >50 >50 >50 expected by 2020, and the competition for talent is already very intense. Meanwhile, the IT world speaks a universal language, without borders between countries, cultures, genders, social backgrounds, ages or religions. 33% 20% 17% The greatest benefit that business can offer in integrating newcomers is to welcome them into our companies. This is an important element in being able to address the large flow of refugees. 67% 80% 83% We are taking our responsibility at Cybercom, and we would encourage more companies to do the same – it enriches us and helps us to find ● MALE ● FEMALE new talent. People Average number of training hours Voice 34 Our regular employee survey, Cybercom 30 People Voice, is an important tool to measure how our workers feel about 26 26 their employee experience, their em22 ployer and their situation. The 2015 survey shows a high value 14 for employee engagement, of 66% compared with the industry average of 59%. Cybercom’s leadership index 2013 2014 2015 has increased from 69% to 75% in one year, and is significantly higher than the industry index of 63%. ● MALE ● FEMALE In total, over 80% of employees took part in this year’s survey. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 33 XXXXX XXXXXXXX CLEAN A More with less Connectivity creates smarter products that require fewer resources. This means a cleaner world. Right now, Mattias Allring is on parental leave. Normally he works as a consultant and business developer at Cybercom in Gothenburg. “One of our key areas of focus is long-term sustainability. As an advisor, I have a great opportunity to make a difference by influencing our clients, and thus their users and customers. We help our clients to create more sustainable solutions by achieving cost savings, lower energy consumption and reduced resource consumption.” 34 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXXXX XXXXXXXX CLEAN B SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Ethics, security and open borders High ethical standards should permeate our business mation security for many years. The starting point is our information security policy issued and our operations. Our actions are governed by our by management, which is reviewed and code of conduct in all countries in which we operate, verified annually. Work on information security is planned, implemented and monitored and business ethics are a standing item on the agenda by a designated security group with clear of the leadership team. descriptions of responsibilities and mandates. The security group works with the principle of ccording to the Human Rights is based on our code of business ethics distributed responsibility. Cybercom Sweden's A Watch World Report 2015, and conduct, and includes various possible Chief Security Officer (CSO) has overall rewhich describes the risk of dilemmas to consider. The training has been sponsibility for the planning, implementation human rights violations in completed by 626 employees. The course has and monitoring. different countries, there received very positive feedback from particiThe actual work on information security is are risks in the United Arab Emirates (Dubai), pants, and there is substantial commitment to then divided into five different areas: overall including restrictions on free expression and the issues. Cybercom has not experienced any information security; work related to HR; work association. The risks in India and Singapore cases of corruption or discrimination in 2015. related to premises and physical security; work include those related to discrimination based Cybercom's code of conduct is based on related to IS/IT; and work associated with the on gender, cast (India) or sexual orientation. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact various management functions. Our CSO is We maintain awareness of this as we have a on human rights, labour, the environment directly responsible for the work in the two presence in these countries. and anti-corruption. All employees review the areas of overall information security and the code upon recruitment. The code was adapted management functions. Our actions in 2012 to also apply to suppliers. During the Cybercom’s efforts to ensure information We make use of the Business Anti-Corruption year we continued our efforts to get all our security are based on our information security Portal, developed by a number of European partners and suppliers to sign our code of guidelines. This work is monitored and evaluatgovernments and a practical tool to help conduct and to monitor compliance with the ed through both internal and external audits. companies avoid and combat corruption, code. The company's partner consultants and thereby creating a better business climate. The suppliers receive the code appended to the Client privacy portal suggests that bribery and corruption are agreements they sign. A connected world makes it possible to widespread in India, although efforts are being gather, exchange, store and otherwise process made to combat this. Poland still has a corInformation security information and personal data in new and inruption problem among companies, although For Cybercom, information security means novative ways, and to a far greater extent than it is said that the risk levels have decreased in our ability to ensure the necessary confidenhas previously been possible. Cybercom works recent years. Events in the Nordic countries tiality, integrity and availability of our internal actively to ensure compliance with the existing have also shown that risks must be constantly systems and information, and the systems and regulations for protection of privacy as well as highlighted and countered. Transparency is information of our clients. Cybercom’s systems the new, tougher rules that must be complied important. and clients’ systems should be managed in a with by 2018 in accordance with the EU’s Data Since Cybercom requires that the organisasafe manner, and the effect of any security inProtection Regulation. This work is conducted tion be imbued with high ethical standards, cidents should not risk serious damage to our both internally and on assignment for clients. our employees must, from 2014, complete an own business or the business of our clients. Cybercom has not experienced any losses of online course on anti-corruption. The training We have worked systematically with inforclient data in 2015. 36 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Host company for Swedish Institute When the Swedish Institute organises management programmes in leadership development, sustainability and corporate responsibility for young and talented African company managers, it chooses Cybercom as its host company. For the second year in a row, business leaders in ICT from Ethiopia, Rwanda and Zambia visited Cybercom in Stockholm to share our knowledge of, and experience in, ❝ sustainability issues, electronic identity solutions, eHealth and IT security. A CONNECTED WORLD STRENGTHENS HUMANS, THE ENVIRONMENT, BUSICybercom in Rwanda NESS AND SOCIETY. IT ENHANCES THE EXCHANGE OF We support the activities of SOS Children's national operator in Rwanda, and now KNOWLEDGE AND CREATES Villages in Rwanda to train teachers in children use these networks to search for subject knowledge, teaching and cominformation for their school work. DEMOCRACIES IN OUR SOputer skills. Cybercom is a knowledge CIETY – AND IN COMMUNIcompany with international assignments, Borderless knowledge sharing and as such we want to contribute to When CEO Niklas Flyborg and our TIES DISTANT FROM OURS. knowledge development in a counSustainability Ambassadors visited SOS try where we have business projects. Children’s Villages in Rwanda during the ur sustainability work builds on Education is the foundation for a child's intellectual, emotional, social and physiyear, they inspected computer labs and school activities funded by Cybercom. O the UN Global Compact, the 17 Global Goals for Sustainable cal development. It is essential for being Cybercom’s representatives also gave Development, and our code of business released from poverty. Cybercom has presentations about online security and ethics and conduct. Cybercom should act developed mobile networks for an intere-identification at KLab (klab.rw), an innoresponsibly in all countries and in all convation zone for engineers and entrepretexts in which we operate. Management neurs. Opportunities were discussed with has defined our responsibility and leads the Swedish embassy surrounding supthe work. The focus is on sustainable port for the process of digitalisation in the business, engaged employees and a high country. Meetings were held with Rwanda level of ethics. Alongside their regular Online (rwandaonline.rw) and the director assignments, a team of annually selected general of the national ID authority. On Sustainability Ambassadors works the agenda were national e-ID solutions. together with our Head of CommunicaICT is important for Rwanda’s economic tions, Kristina Cato, to extend knowledge development Vision 2020. We also went about this internally and drive sustainabilon a hike to see mountain gorillas in the ity work operationally in the company's Volcanoes National Park, led by local various regions. Associated annual goals guides. The money from the hike goes to and projects are adopted together with preserving endangered gorilla troops. leadership in ongoing dialogue. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 37 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS Environmental efforts 57,792 Cybercom’s greatest potential lies in developing offerings that can contribute to sustainable development, but of course we also work actively Number of virtual meetings 2015 (18,172 in 2014) to reduce our own environmental impact. ir travel accounts for the •O  ld IT equipment is sold for reuse or The focus at the certified offices is to train A largest portion of Cyberrecycling. personnel through a web-based course from com's carbon dioxide emis• P rinters are set to duplex printing, and Eco Educate. An environmental survey is consions, and we have thereemployees are encouraged to work digitally. ducted every year, and forms the basis of the fore had a target to reduce •W  aste is sorted at source in our offices. company’s environmental efforts. In conjuncemissions from air travel by •W  e buy renewable electricity in all countries tion with the survey we conduct a test called at least five percent per sales krona between except Poland. the Climate Account. The Climate Account is 2011 and 2015. We are pleased and proud to In addition to Cybercom’s quality assurance intended to raise people’s awareness of their announce that we achieved our target, after and ISO 9001 certification, we are also workown individual climate impact in their daily reducing our emissions from air travel by 56% ing on ISO 14001 environmental certification. lives, and how they can reduce it. since 2011, mainly through fewer long-haul flights. One reason that we have managed to reduce travel is that we invested in an IT-based communication tool with the aim of replacing Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel non-essential physical meetings with videoconferencing. This has produced good results, and Tonnes CO2 Kg CO2/SEKm in 2015 more than 57,792 videoconferences 1 000 0.8 were held. Some other examples of measures taken to reduce our environmental impact are: 800 0.6 ❝ 600 0.4 400 WE STRIVE TO ACHIEVE A POSITIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SO THAT OUR 200 0.2 SOLUTIONS AND THE DIRECT IMPACT OF ALL OUR OPERATIONS 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0.0 ARE NET POSITIVE. l Carbon dioxide emissions l Carbon dioxide emissions/sales Rashin Kabodvand Sustainability Ambassador and Consultant, Cybercom 38 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CODE OF CONDUCT Cybercom’s code of business ethics and conduct is based on the Code of UN Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labour, conduct in the environment and anti-corruption. The code was introduced brief in 2004 and has over the years been adapted to the world we live in. Cybercom’s board reviews the code annually. In 2012, a code was also drawn up for Cybercom’s suppliers to sign. 1. Comply with laws ical affiliation or disability. All emin compliance with laws and internaCybercom’s clients may only be used and regulations ployees must show respect for each tionally recognised directives. in the implementation of the project All Cybercom employees are responother and for Cybercom’s business in question. This confidentiality resible for acting in compliance with partners and will take responsibility 6. Corruption and other mains in force even after the project laws and regulations applicable to for combating discrimination. Cyberprohibited business practices has been completed. Cybercom has Cybercom’s operations and delivcom works unabatedly to combat Cybercom complies with the Swedclear guidelines for the handling of eries. In the event of an individual discrimination. This permeates the ish Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code confidential information. issue demanding it, they will seek company’s policies and processes of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits legal advice. Cybercom applies during, for example, recruitment, in Business, and works actively to 9. Protect our clients’ and the Swedish Code of Corporate setting of wage rates, and skills combat corruption and unethical partners’ confidential and Governance. Cybercom presents enhancement. practices. Employees must not give patented information and reports corporate information in Cybercom offers salaries that comor receive gifts, benefits or bribes Cybercom requires all employees to compliance with applicable laws and ply with the minimum wage, as laid that constitute a breach of this code. sign a confidentiality agreement in regulations. down in national legislation, with Cybercom is politically independent accordance with Cybercom’s security correctly prepared employment conand does not sponsor political policy. There are clear rules for the 2. Human rights tracts. Cybercom also ensures that organisations. Cybercom is opposed handling of, and access to, material Cybercom respects human rights as working hours are compliant with to any form of money laundering belonging to Cybercom. laid down in UN conventions. Everylocal legislation. Cybercom seeks to and has taken the relevant measures body in the organisation must show give all employees time for rest. to prevent financial transactions that 10. Take a professional pride in respect for the integrity and dignity Cybercom shall not in any way are of criminal intent. the consultancy role of all people. Cybercom will not in utilise forced labour and will always Freedom with accountability and any way contribute to the violation ensure that the working relationship 7. Promote accurate disclosure focus on the individual are important of human rights. between employee and organisation in financial reports and other contributory factors in Cybercom is at the employee’s own free will. public communications being able to attract highly skilled 3. Labour law and working Cybercom shall be transparent and staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all conditions 4. Health and safety provide relevant information when employees the opportunity for perCybercom supports freedom of asCybercom shall provide a healthy so required. This means that the sonal and professional development. sociation and the right to collective and safe workplace in compliance company shall always provide fair A workplace that is open, creative bargaining. with internationally acknowledged and correct information. Cybercom’s and flexible sets the course for being Cybercom does not permit child lastandards. Cybercom works progoal is for all communication to able to offer clients professional and bour. Cybercom applies the principle actively to prevent accidents and contribute to a stronger brand. attractive products and services. that a child is a person younger than work-related illnesses. All employees 15 years of age unless national legare offered health and safety train8. Properly use company assets To sum up, Cybercom shall always islation states an older age, in which ing when and if required. and confidential information conduct itself ethically in its dealings case the older age applies. Cybercom All business decisions shall be made with all its stakeholders. Cybercom applies the definition of child labour 5. Environment with the good of the company shall be characterised by profesas laid down by the International Our aim is to minimise the compain mind. All consultants will be sionalism and integrity. Cybercom’s Labour Organisation (ILO). ny’s negative environmental impact. professional in their relationship code of conduct is available in full at Cybercom does not tolerate any Cybercom respects the precautionwith Cybercom and will not pursue www.cybercom.com. forms of discrimination. All employary principle and seeks to actively competitive activities. ees have equal rights and must never contribute to reducing negative enviClient trust is of vital importance be subjected to unjust treatment ronmental impact through responto Cybercom. All employees will due to gender, sexual orientation, sible measures and technological treat client information in complete ethnic origin, religion, beliefs, politadvancement. Cybercom always acts confidentiality. Information about SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 39 XXXXX XXXXXXXX CLOSE A 40 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXXXX XXXXXXXX CLOSE B Thought approaching action As the world shrinks, more ideas become reality, technology becomes available and more people are given opportunities. Tejaswee Shah is a software engineer, and Gabriel Ibanez works as a project manager. Both have joined Cybercom during the past two years. We asked them why they joined the company: “We wanted to become the makers of tomorrow. We have the ambition to use connectivity to build smart solutions that will change the world and decrease the distance between countries, businesses and people.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 41 CHAIRMAN’S COMMENT The right path forward J CE Group has been a company. Although its operations do not have committed shareholder in much direct impact on the environment, we Cybercom since 2003, and have a unique opportunity to contribute to a during that time we have more sustainable world through the solutions had, and continue to have, and innovations we provide to our clients. a strong long-term belief in Connectivity creates great opportunities that Cybercom as a company. As I have expressed you can read about here in our sustainability previously, our clients say we have tremenreport, and we realise these opportunities for dously talented employees, and this makes clients in many parts of the world. In concrete me proud. But if we are to make a difference terms, these can be solutions for future autoncompared to our competitors, it is important omous cars, industrial robots that make the to challenge ourselves to become the compaworking environment safer, digitalisation of ny we are aiming for. government services to make things easier for We believe it will be easier to achieve our citizens while achieving efficiency gains, waste goals in an unlisted environment, and we management systems in European cities, or therefore made an offer for Cybercom in developing the best tourism website of the 2015, together with Nicolas Hassbjer, Tequity year – Universeum.se. AB. The offer was accepted by more than Cybercom helps its clients to drive business 96% of shareholders, and we therefore delisttransformation, deliver competitive differentied the company in December. We believe that ation, and improve the customer experience. Cybercom, its management and its employees We are involved in developing public services will be able to develop better and more longfor the connected citizen, secure accessibility term in an unlisted environment. for the connected consumer, energy efficient JCE Group and Tequity are now active in and communicating machines for connected our ownership role, and we work to support industry, and smart infrastructure solutions for Cybercom and its management in efforts to the connected city. This is where Cybercom ❝ safeguard the company's future opportunities. brings value, and where there is fundamental As we see it, this is about corporate responsidemand and large market potential. bility – taking long-term responsibility for how Our goal is to constantly improve ourselves we impact our environment. Our values as in order to create profitable growth. Cybercom owners are entrepreneurship, professionalism will become even more client-oriented, agile and dedication. It is important to always act and focused. The company’s assets are its emCONNECTIVITY CREATES with professionalism; to make decisions while ployees, our talented consultants. I am proud keeping an eye on a resilient horizon and of our knowledge base. Together we make a GREAT OPPORTUNITIES, based on respect for the individual and how difference. AND WE REALISE THESE IN our decisions affect society and the environment, in the short term and in the future. We A CONNECTED WORLD IN are convinced this creates greater economic Hampus Ericsson ORDER TO CREATE INCREASED value for Cybercom, and therefore also for us, CEO and Chairman, JCE Group our employees and our clients. Main shareholder and Chairman, LONG-TERM VALUE. Cybercom is a modern and innovative Cybercom Group 42 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance he general meeting of the Code and other rules and regulations indicators, development of priority activities T shareholders is the comapplicable to the company. The board works and so on. The board has also at several pany’s supreme governing according to annually adopted rules of procemeetings received more detailed information body. It is at the meeting dure and an annual schedule. The company’s on major change initiatives and various units that shareholders have the CEO and CFO participate in board meetings. within the group. opportunity to exercise Other individuals from the executive team and The members of Cybercom’s board in 2015 their influence. Shareholders wishing to atgroup employees participate in board meetwere Hampus Ericsson, Ulrika Dellby, Nicolas tend a general meeting must be registered as ings to present specific issues as needed. Hassbjer, Jan-Erik Karlsson, Katarina Kämpe, shareholders in the transcript or other copy of During the year the board has focused Philip Engström, Henrik Lundin, Maria Glatz the entire share register, according to ownerprimarily on the company's strategy, business and Torsten Södergren. ship status, five weekdays before the meeting, plan and budget, the company's financing, and notify the company of their intent to sector trends and the company's transforBoard work in committees participate not later than on the date specified mation to meet these, internal controls and The board had two committees in 2015: in the notice to the general meeting. review of large client tenders, and the buy-up the audit committee and the remuneration bid from JCE Group and Tequity. committee. The committees’ work is governed Board of directors The board monitors management perforby the board’s rules of procedure. The board The board's work is conducted based on the mance through monthly reports which include committees deal with the issues that fall withrequirements of the Swedish Companies Act, reports of financial results, key performance in their respective area, and submit reports and recommendations that form the basis for the board’s decisions. The committees have some decision-making mandate within the General meeting Shareholders framework of the board’s directives. Minutes of meetings of the committees are sent to the board. The committees were eliminated in Nomination January 2016 following delisting. External auditors committee CEO and executive team Board The board appoints the president. The president and CEO leads the work of the executive team and makes decisions in consultation with the Remuneration rest of the executive team. On December 31, Audit committee² committee² 2015 the executive team consisted of the presiCEO and group dent and CEO, the group’s CFO, the company's management head of communications, head of sales, head of HR, and the heads of the largest regions. The members of Cybercom’s executive team Group functions¹ Subsidiaries in 2015 were Niklas Flyborg, Ammar Adhami, Kristina Cato, Annika Nordlander, Veli-Matti Nurminen, Conny Karlsson, Marcin Siech, Bo ¹Finance, Legal, Sales, HR, IS/IT, Communications Strömqvist, Johan Wallin, Cecilia Westerholm ²Eliminated 31 Dec 2015 Beer and Camilla Öberg. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 43 GRI INFORMATION GRI Information ialogue with stakeholders ees in Sweden and Finland, with clients from employee survey and through contacts with D Cybercom has identified different sectors, with representatives of various our sustainability ambassadors. Employees can its employees, clients, shareholders and with union representatives. also discuss and obtain information on health shareholders and unions as The aim was to identify the main issues for Cyand safety issues or on business-related issues its key stakeholders based bercom based on the sustainability issues that through the health and safety committees or on how much they are most affect and are affected by our activities through their immediate manager. See also affected by or affect Cybercom. and where we can make the biggest difference. forums and formats for dialogue in the table In 2013 and early 2014 we conducted a Cybercom's employees can comment and below. number of interviews and surveys with employask questions to management through the Stakeholder group Issues Dialogue Outcome Clients Offer, quality, delivery, security manClient survey, interviews Sales training, business system in the Swedish oper­ agement, privacy, business ethics, ations for quality, environment and data security labour conditions, climate perforthat will be integrated throughout the group. mance, procurement procedures The system is based on the established standards ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) and to some extent ISO 27001 (information security) Employees Skills development, working enviEmployee survey, interviews Training, management conferences, employee ronment, corporate culture, diversity events/meetings on vision, values and equality Investors/shareholders Profitability, corporate responsibility, Annual general meeting, board work, Code of business conduct and ethics, sustainability business ethics interviews, investor meetings report, corporate governance report Suppliers Suppliers' environmental work Suppliers' code of conduct, procurement, Compliance with code, sustainability focus negotiations Trade unions Labour law, employment conditions, Workplace meetings, board meetings, Support in wage bargaining and negotiation of layoffs skills development, work environment, interviews/surveys codetermination, board matters 44 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GRI INFORMATION Material sustainability aspects per GRI G4 ECONOMICS Cybercom's sustainability aspect GRI G4 aspect SEKk 2015 2014 2013 Business ethics Generated direct economic value Anti-corruption & anti-competitive Anti-corruption behaviour Revenues 1,259,598 1,262,887 1,195,135 Distributed direct economic value Dedicated employees & employee Employment, occupational health development & safety and training & education Employee benefits -782,933 -824,303 -793,840 Other external expenses -408,590 -345,921 -314,732 Financial stability Economic performance Charitable donations -575 -521 -142 Sustainable products & services Products & services and product EBITDA 67,500 92,142 86,421 & service labelling Investment activities -23,873 -26,373 -26,199 Sustainability in Cybercom's culture Net finance income/expense -2,621 -2,490 -6,904 Information security Dividends 0 -9,022 0 Privacy issues related to IT Customer privacy Corporation tax paid by country1 Diversity & equality Diversity & equal opportunity Denmark 0 0 -35 and non-discrimination El Salvador 0 0 -51 Smart use of resources Energy and emissions Finland -925 -3,567 -752 The table shows which aspects of sustainability that Cybercom has assessed as material in terms India -573 -1,637 -774 of their impact on the company and how they are deemed relevant to our stakeholders and Italy -1 0 0 their relationship with the aspects of GRI G4. Korea -809 -123 0 Below we outline supplementary information about the GRI indicators Paraguay 0 0 -440 we report and the methods, assumptions, and conversion factors used Poland -1,755 -472 68 to calculate them. Rwanda 0 -1,350 -1,048 Senegal 0 -4,775 -7,227 External assurance Singapore 185 24 -33 Our sustainability report has not been subject to external independent asSweden -12 -319 -160 surance. We regularly evaluate the need for external assurance, but have not currently taken any decision to change the existing methodology. Taiwan -121 -94 0 Tanzania -802 -582 -2,283 Chad -546 -383 0 ANTI-CORRUPTION Economic value retained 35,658 40,979 40,583 Percentage trained in anti-corruption 2015 The table shows Cybercom's generated direct economic value, and how this is distributed Board 100% between different stakeholder groups. In 2015, Cybercom employees have also worked 1,221 Group management 100% hours pro bono on the Technology for children and young people project together with Universeum and Hello World!. Read more about this work on page 32. Other employees 54% In countries where the company has paid withholding tax during the year, these amounts have 1 The table shows the percentage of the board, group management and other employees that been included in the amount of tax paid. have received anti-corruption training. 2 In Sweden, loss carry-forwards from previous years have been used. ❝ PAYING TAX WHERE WE DO BUSINESS IS A GIVEN FOR US, AS IS REPORTING IT. Camilla Öberg THIS IS ABOUT TRANSPARENCY AND CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIAL AND CFO, Cybercom ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN THE COUNTRIES WHERE WE DO BUSINESS. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 45 GRI INFORMATION EMPLOYEES Key figures and indicators for the number of employees relate to December 31 for each year. 2015 2014 2013 Total number of employees at Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Cybercom on Dec 31 (number) female (number) female (number) female Number of permanent employees 1,200 17% 1,287 17% 1,260 n/a Of which full-time 1,200 17% 1,238 16% 1,199 n/a Of which part-time 0 0% 52 37% 61 n/a Number of temporary employees 18 28% 20 15% 7 n/a Total number of employees 1,218 17% 1,307 17% 1,267 16% The table shows the number of employees broken down by employment category and gender. For 2015, we have changed the reporting of part-time employees. We previously reported this item as employees who have voluntarily reduced their working hours for temporary periods. From 2015 we report this item as employees with part-time contracts. 2015 2014 2013 Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Employees by country (number) female (number) female (number) female Sweden 765 18% 825 19% 794 19% Finland 193 10% 250 11% 244 11% Poland 209 16% 167 17% 134 13% India 28 25% 31 29% 48 17% Singapore 13 8% 19 11% 23 9% Denmark 10 10% 15 7% 24 13% Total number of employees 1,218 17% 1,307 17% 1,267 16% The table shows the number of employees broken down by country and the percentage of female employees. 2015 2014 2013 Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Composition of the company (number) female (number) female (number) female Board of directors 9 33% 9 22% 9 11% Under 30 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 30 50 7 43% 7 29% 6 17% Over 50 2 0% 2 0% 3 0% Managers 97 20% 80 29% 96 25% Under 30 1 0% 0 0% n/a 30 50 75 17% 64 30% n/a Over 50 21 29% 16 25% n/a Other employees 1,121 17% 1226 16% 1,171 16% Under 30 276 18% 334 19% n/a 30 50 696 15% 763 14% n/a Over 50 149 21% 129 19% n/a The table shows the composition of the company broken down by staff category and reported by age category and gender. 46 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GRI INFORMATION 2015 2014 2013 Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Employees Percentage Staff turnover (number) female (number) female (number) female New recruitment during the year Under 30 101 12% 170 16% n/a n/a 30 50 133 18% 151 20% n/a n/a Over 50 3 0% 11 18% n/a n/a Total number of new recruits 237 15% 332 18% 243 n/a Percentage of new recruits 19% 25% 19% People who left during the year Under 30 65 11% 75 12% n/a n/a 30 50 228 18% 174 14% n/a n/a Over 50 39 23% 30 23% n/a n/a Total number of departures 332 17% 279 15% 312 n/a Percentage who ended employment 27% 21% 25% The table shows the number of people who joined and left Cybercom broken down by age and gender. Collective bargaining agreements 2015 2014 2013 ENVIRONMENT Energy Percentage of employees covered We annually review the electricity consumption at our offices and in our by collective bargaining agreements 77% 80% 81% own data centres. Cybercom buys renewable electricity in all countries The table shows the percentage of employees at Cybercom covered by collective bargaining in which we operate, except Poland. To convert energy from MWh to agreements. GJ, use the conversion factor of 3.6. Development reviews 2015 2014 2013 Percentage of employees given development review Electricity consumption 2015 2014 2013 Female 89% 83% n/a Electricity (kWh) 2,229,593 2,610,366 2,436,669 Male 81% 83% n/a Electricity intensity (kWh/SEKm) 1,770 2,067 2,039 All employees 83% 83% 81% The table shows electricity consumption of offices and data centres, and electricity intensity. The table shows the number of employees who have completed development reviews during each year. Our aim is that all employees should have at least one formal development review per Greenhouse gas emissions year. Those who have not completed a review are primarily new employees during the year. We measure and annually monitor our greenhouse gas emissions from employee air travel. We have a target for our greenhouse gas emissions from air travel related to the metric of greenhouse gas emissions per Sick leave 2015 2014 2013 unit of sales. The base year for the target is 2011 and the target extends Percentage of sick leave for each country until 2015. Sweden 2.6% 2.3% 1.9% Greenhouse gas emissions are reported directly by our travel agents Finland 1.5% 2.4% 1.7% in each country. For our operations in Singapore, greenhouse gas Poland 1.6% 1.8% 5.6% emissions are calculated based on distance travelled, reported to us India 2.4% 2.6% 2.1% by a travel agent. We do not make our own conversions from other greenhouse gases to CO² and therefore have no overall value for global Singapore 0.1% 3.0% 4.6% warming potential (GWP). We do not use a radiative forcing index (RFI) Denmark 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% for emissions from air travel. Average Cybercom 2.2% 2.4% 2.0% The table shows sick leave as a percentage broken down by country. In 2015 no work-related Carbon dioxide emissions 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 injuries or accidents were reported. Carbon dioxide emissions Training hours 2015 2014 2013 from air travel (tonnes of CO2) 343 640 599 451 903 Carbon dioxide emissions in Female 34 26 14 relation to sales (tonnes of Male 26 22 30 CO2/ SEKm) 0.27 0.5 0.51 0.34 0.61 All employees 27 22 27 The table shows greenhouse gas emissions from air travel and greenhouse gas emissions in The table shows the average number of training hours broken down by gender. relation to sales. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 47 GRI INFORMATION GRI Index The following list makes reference to the GRI indicators that Cybercom has chosen to report and to the ten principles of the Global Compact. General standard disclosures Pages/remarks Global Compact Principle G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability P 4-5 G4-3 The name of the organisation P0 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services P 26-27 G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Stockholm G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations P7 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form P 50 G4-8 Markets served P 24-27 G4-9 Scale of the organisation P 7, 11, 45 G4-10 Total number of employees P 46 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P 47 Principle 3 G4-12 Organisation's supply chain P 22-25 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period P5 G4-14 Whether the precautionary approach is addressed P 39 Principle 7 G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes P 0-1, 2-3, 4, 38-39 G4-16 Memberships of associations P 32 G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements P0 G4-18 Process for defining the report content P 10, 44-45 G4-19 Material aspects identified P 10, 45 G4-20 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organisation P0 G4-21 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation P0 G4-22 Effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods P 46 G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation P 44 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders P 44 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement P 44 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded P 44 G4-28 Reporting period P0 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Spring 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle P0 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report P 49 G4-32 In accordance option & GRI content index P 0, 48-49 G4-33 External assurance p 45 G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation P 43 G4-56 Organisation’s values codes of conduct etc P 39 Principle 10 48 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GRI INFORMATION General standard disclosures Pages Global Compact Principle DMA Economic performance P 4-5, 11 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed P 45 DMA Employment P 11, 30-31 G4-LA1 Employee turnover P 47 DMA Occupational health & safety P 11, 30-31 G4-LA6 Absenteeism & work-related injury P 47 DMA Training & education P 11, 30-31 G4-LA9 Employee training P 33, 47 G4-LA11 Development reviews P 47 DMA Diversity and equal opportunity P 11, 30-31 Principle 6 G4-LA12 Composition of organisation P 46 DMA Non-discrimination P 36-37 Principles 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination P 36 DMA Anti-corruption P 36-37 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption P 36 DMA Customer privacy P 36-37 Principle 1 G4-PR8 Number of losses of customer data P 36 DMA Energy P 11, 38 Principle 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation P 47 G4-EN5 Energy intensity P 47 DMA Emissions P 11, 38 Principle 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions P 47 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity P 47 DMA Products & services P 1, 4-5, 11 Principle 9 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services P 9, 11, 14-21, 26-29 DMA Product and service labelling P 7, 11 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P6 For more information about this report and our sustainability work, please contact Kristina Cato, kristina.cato@cybercom.com Cybercom Group AB was acquired in December 2015 by Cybercom Holding AB (owner of 96.6% of all shares and votes on 31 December 2015). Consolidated financial statements for Cybercom Group have therefore not been prepared, since this is included in the consolidated accounts for Cybercom Holding. In order to provide a fair picture of the operations in this report, all information for the full-year relates to the Cybercom Group group of companies, while information related to the balance sheet in this report refers to Cybercom Holding AB’s consolidated financial statement. Production: Cybercom in cooperation with Narva. Photo: Mattias Bardå, Getty Images, Istock photos and Ideo. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet, Mölnlycke 2016. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 | 49 NARVA Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting company, founded in Sweden in 1995. We enable companies, organisations and government agencies to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world and to enhance their competitiveness. Cybercom is today a privately owned company. In the years 1999–2015, Cybercom was listed on the Stockholm stock exchange. The company was delisted after the main shareholder, JCE Group AB, and Tequity AB made an offer that was accepted by over 90% of shareholders. We have more than 1,200 co-workers in seven countries. Each individual employee is a win for us. It is our employees who drive forward Cybercom’s development. Our consult­ ants, and the solutions we create, take us all the way from Östersund to the Caribbean islands, via the UN Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic identification, connected sewing machines and elevators. The company’s areas of expertise span the entire eco­ system of communications services. Cybercom’s domestic market is the Nordic region, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. Find out more at www.cybercom.com www.cybercom.com DENMARK · DUBAI · FINLAND · INDIA POLAND · SINGAPORE · SWEDEN
