Corporate Social Respon sibi lit y Report 2016 © 2016 Avasant, LLC Table of Contents Letter from our CEO....................................................................................................................... 3 About Us ........................................................................................................................................ 5 Social Responsibility at a Glance .................................................................................................... 6 Global Initiatives............................................................................................................................. 7 Commitment to the Global Community ..................................................................................8 ➢ Impact Sourcing: Empowering Youth....................................................................................... 8 ➢ Avasant Foundation Objectives ............................................................................................. 10 Commitment to Human Rights and Fair Trade Labour Practices (Adhering to UN Global Compact Goals 1-6 and 10)...............................................................................12 Commitment to the Environment and Sustainability (Adhering to UN Global Compact Goals 7-9) .................................................................................. 14 Primary Community Outreach Programs ............................................................................. 18 ➢ Digital Jobs Initiatives Africa ................................................................................................. 18 ➢ Digital Youth Employment Initiative Jamaica .......................................................................... 19 ➢ Digital Youth Employment Initiative Haiti in partnership with Clinton Global Initiative ......... 19 ➢ Digital Equalizer India .......................................................................................................... 20 ➢ DigitalWORKS Initiative in Trinidad and Tobago ................................................................... 20 ➢ SDG Funders Network .......................................................................................................... . 21 ➢ Microsoft Youth Web Portal ................................................................................................... 21 ➢ Inter-American Development Bank ........................................................................................ 22 The Road Ahead: FY 16-17 CSR Targets ............................................................................................. 23 Letter from our CEO At Avasant, our business of providing advisory services is guided by our core objective of empowering beyond, which drives the social, cultural and corporate vision of Avasant. We exhibit these values in all aspects of our business, including employee welfare, environmental sustainability, fair trade policy, equal opportunity, and business ethics, to name a few. As a UN Global Compact member since 2011, Avasant has aligned its corporate vision and business practices with the ten principles of the Global Compact spanning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Kevin S. Parikh For Avasant, Corporate SocialResponsibility (CSR) means that we discharge Global CEO, Avasant Chairman Avasant this responsibility every day during our regular course of our business. Foundation Board Member Avasant works closely with governments and investment promotion agencies Girl Rising Advisory in emerging regions to bring sustainable investment. Avasant has been accredited for its efforts in attracting investments that have resulted in employment generation, taxation revenues and skills development for local youth. Avasant has assisted multiple governments in creating frameworks for the development of IT and BPO industries by creating the enabling frameworks of standards, policy and human capital. These engagements have earned Avasant global appreciation such as recognition in the Vault Consulting Survey 2016. In addition, Avasant has incorporated a not-for-profit organization to spearhead its community involvement initiatives. Avasant Foundation empowers youth in underdeveloped and emerging economies through creating employment opportunities through skill development training programs while supporting local efforts on science, technology, engineering, arts, and math (STEAM) education and entrepreneurship. Avasant Foundation (AF) raises funds for financing other social program through the Foundation’s annual charity event. It is the firm’s responsibility as a global corporate citizen to build, develop and provide programs that help create jobs for youth in the US and globally. Avasant is strongly committed to environmental sustainability. It also is an equal opportunity employer and does not tolerate any kind of discrimination among employees. By extension, we also treat our partners and vendors with dignity and deploy fair practices in the selection and procurement process. I am pleased to inform that Avasant remains firmly committed to enhancing its CSR efforts and ensuring that it conducts its business in a socially responsible and ethical manner, giving back to the society at every possible opportunity. Kevin S. Parikh Global Chief Executive Officer 3 AF Graduate with Jamaican Minister of State for Finance & Social Service and Director for Community Service at University of Technology, Jamaica 4 About Us With its headquarters in Los Angeles, California, Avasant is a leading management-consulting firm providing digital transformation, sourcing advisory, country capacity development and governance services to Fortune 1000 clients around the globe. Our talented team of consultants, technologists and lawyers average over 20 years of industryhoned experience and have conducted over 1,000 engagements in more than 40 countries worldwide. Avasant drives customer value through the use of its proprietary consulting and advisory methods, which have been refined over decades of real world transaction and engagement experience. Avasant advises governments and private enterprises in developing and implementing business strategies and improving process efficiencies. It also helps small and medium sized organizations increase their market share by enhancing their process efficiencies and customer reach. Avasant’s management consultants and advisors offer focused advisory services on market-expansion strategy, business process assessment, public-private partnerships as well as operations and compliance. Avasant has been at the forefront of the global expansion of outsourcing services. Our credentials include being recognized by the Black Book of Outsourcing as the ‘Number 1 BPO Advisor’ and one of the ‘Top 10 Full Service Advisors’. In 2015, the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) ranked Avasant as the most distinguished sourcing advisory firm in North America. Avasant also ranked as the #2 ‘World’s Best Outsourcing Advisors’ in the IAOP list in 2014. Additionally, Avasant has been ranked in the top 10 for four years consecutively as the ‘World Best Outsourcing Advisors’ by IAOP in 2013, 2012, 2011, and 2010, and in 2016, Avasant was awarded a 5-star ranking by IAOP. The National Outsourcing Association (NOA) also nominated Avasant in ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ category for 2015 and 2014. It has received the ‘Outsourcing Advisory of the Year’ Award for 2015 and 2014. The European Outsourcing Association (EOA) has also recognized Avasant as one of the top five management consulting firms in its Corporate Social Responsibility category. The Vault Consulting Survey consistently ranks Avasant among the Top 50 and “Best to Work For” management consulting firms for 2016, 2015, 2014, and 2013. Avasant has extensive experience working with various governments and donor agencies such as The World Bank, USAID, The Commonwealth Secretariat, and The Rockefeller Foundation, among others to promote and expand markets in countries such as Ghana, South Africa, Uganda, Jordan, Jamaica, Trinidad & Tobago, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Belize, and Bangladesh. As a strategic advisor, Avasant plays a unique intermediary role between multinational and government clients seeking consulting and implementation services and the global service providers who offer them. With our deep relationships in “buyer” markets like the US and UK, we maintain close relationships with many Fortune 1000 companies, as well as a strong presence in leading service provider geographies such as India and China. 5 Avasant Digital Youth Employment Graduates, Montego Bay, Jamaica Social Responsibility at a Glance Avasant believes in giving back to society and empowering people. Be it people policies, business ethics or environmental sustainability, Avasant leads by example. As a consulting firm, we deliver on engagements that have a direct and significant impact on people in our clients’ geographies. Over the years, we have made a conscious effort to work with local organizations in the US and emerging countries to support them in one of the biggest challenges they face – youth unemployment. Our projects in Africa and Latin America have been focused on STEAM particularly in IT/BPO sectors, which in turn create large number of knowledge-based jobs for the youth. We have worked in over 40 countries including Uganda, Kenya, South Africa and Ghana in Africa and Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and Haiti in the Caribbean region in the recent past. We understand that a firm’s social responsibility must not be limited to the outreach initiatives. It should be an allencompassing concept covering all stakeholders (such as employees and vendors) and based on moral, ethical and justifiable business principles (such as fair trade, non-discriminatory policies, zero corruption, etc.). Despite being a consulting organization where employees need to travel to client sites, we try to minimize travel through the use of tech-collaboration tools. This is one example of the many ways that Avasant contributes to the environmental sustainability of our business. Through the Avasant Foundation, a not-for-profit venture, Avasant directly impacts the lives of millions across the globe in emerging economies by providing education enabling employment opportunities and entrepreneurial skills. Avasant works with leading institutional bodies, including the World Bank, InterAmerican Development Bank, African Development Bank, Asia Development Bank, United Nations Agency for International Development, USAID, Rockefeller Foundation, Clinton Global Initiative, American India Foundation, Girl Rising, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) and SDG Funders Philanthropy Platform in their pursuit to end poverty and enable societies globally to realize their potential. To learn more about our community outreach initiatives, please visit www.avasantfoundation.org. Global Initiatives Avasant supports numerous eminent global initiatives aimed at creating opportunities for youth employment. 7 Avasant Foundation was recognized two years in a row at the Clinton Global Initiative for the success of its Commitments to Action in Jamaica and Haiti. Digital Youth Employment Training in Kingston, Jamaica Commitment to the Global Community Impact Sourcing: Empowering Youth In 2015 and 2016, Avasant Foundation worked with Rockefeller Foundation on their Digital Jobs Africa initiative, which seeks to positively impact the lives of a million unskilled and disadvantaged youth across six countries in Africa. The initiative catalyzed Information and Communications Technology (ICT) enabled employment opportunities for African youth who would not otherwise have a chance for sustainable employment. The Foundation’s work delivered impact at two levels—through improving the well-being of those employed, their families and communities, as well as influencing broader adoption of inclusive business practices. The objectives of this initiative were to: • Increase the awareness of Impact Sourcing (IS) among IT and BPO Service Providers, through continuous dialogue and association with the provider c o m m u ni t y. • Promote the inclusion of IS in the outsourcing services delivery value-chain of buyers and service providers, leading to measurable commitments on actual services procured or delivered through use of IS resources in Africa. • Provide guidance and support to BPO service providers to implement a component of IS in their portfolio. 8 This engagement was primarily focused on educating and influencing IS adoption among service providers through regular interactions and training workshops. Key Accomplishments 1. Contacted 62 Service Providers and Captive Centers within India, US, Europe and Africa 2. Conducted 28 workshops and detailed meetings 3. Generated reusable training content 4. Generate commitments from 5 global service providers 5. Created over 1300 IS jobs through service provider commitments 6. Generated interest in Impact Sourcing in several countries, including Egypt, Morocco and Kenya 7. Partnered with KITOS in Kenya and ITIDA in Egypt 8. Partnered with Harambee and CAPFIN in South Africa for pilot implementation 62 28 Avasant provided the business case for IS and charted out the implementation roadmap. The business case demonstrated the “total economic value proposition” of IS. Avasant also focused on educating service providers on IS, its benefits and potential approaches to engage clients. In addition, Avasant has also partnered with the Rockefeller Foundation in its Digital Jobs Africa (DJA) initiative to develop new, sustainable employment opportunities and skills training for African youth, with a focus on the ICT sector. Their goal is to influence a systemic change in business practice by demonstrating the value of impact sourcing in South Africa and beyond, including placing youth in jobs in various industries, and ultimately improving the social and economic well-being of entire families, communities, and nations. Avasant’s primary objective is to develop a better understanding of how IS can be scaled with policies and incentives. Key areas of this project included: • Providing global best practices related to sourcing and engaging communities in emerging economies • Supporting analysis of findings in terms of likelihood of policy and incentives a d o p t i o n • Identifying countries that show the most promise for policy change with a view to understanding where IS is more likely to scale 9 • Developing a roadmap for IS adoption detailing policy levers, incentives and global best practices that countries with sourcing sectors can implement to promote, support and encourage IS while eliminating discrimination Avasant’s Impact Sourcing project seeks to achieve growth with equity globally by enabling people who have the most need to tap into employment opportunities generated by the $119 billion global sourcing sector. Avasant works with donor agencies such as the World Bank and IDB in Latin America, India, Eastern Europe, and South America in order to: • Create jobs for those who would not otherwise have the opportunity for sustainable employment. • Catalyze a new sector that leverages the sourcing sector and substantially improved ICT infrastructure in Africa and globally. • Provide employment opportunities in call center support, Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) centers, and Information Technology Outsourcing (ITO) areas. • Target job development in economic development zones, low-income areas, and rural towns with the objective of driving employment opportunities to those with the most need. Avasant Foundation Objectives 11 Commitment to Human Rights and Fair Trade Labour Practices Avasant adheres to UN Global Compact Principles 1-6 and 10 as relates to human rights, labour practices and fighting corruption. Our commitment to labor principles spans across its supplier base and employees, which includes ensuring no use of child labor, forced and bonded labor in the value chain. Our organization is transparent in its management and commercial relations. It is accountable to all its stakeholders and respects the sensitivity and confidentiality of commercial information supplied. The organization focuses on the social, economic and environmental well-being of marginalized small suppliers and does not maximize profit at their expense. Avasant is committed to a consistent and fair tender process and to facilitate this, all potential suppliers receive: Request for quotation/proposal RFP/RFQ letters inviting suppliers to participate; Intent to respond documents; Non-disclosure documents. Upon completion of these documents, suppliers who wish to offer a tender will receive the RFQ/RFP, which includes process timeframes and response formats to which suppliers must strictly adhere. All tenders provide an opportunity to allow suppliers to respond with questions and give an identical time-period for all to respond. Through this process, Avasant ensures that the supplier bidding process is fair and is conducted through an effective mechanism, which creates a win-win situation for both suppliers and Avasant. Avasant envisions a more integrated and inclusive supply chain in key geographies in which we operate and bettered alignment of our corporate social initiatives with the need of the outsourcing industry and our business. Fostering the social bettering of underprivileged communities helps Avasant to create a positive economic growth and employable workforce in emerging nations where we are directly engaged with governments. Awards Presentation: Key Partners in Jamaica, including representatives from USAID, University of Technology and leading ICT employers. 12 As an equal opportunity employer, Avasant believes that its inherent strength lies in the intellectual and cultural diversity of its workforce. It strongly believes that employees are its biggest asset. Respect for employees is the cornerstone of Avasant’s Business Code of Conduct. Avasant’s workforce contributes towards the firm’s goal of guiding its clients through often difficult, uncertain and ambiguous situations through their extensive knowledge, implicit understanding and passion. The firm, through its policies, upholds human and employee rights and strongly believes in acknowledging and respecting individuals’ dignity, rights and ambitions. Avasant maintains a zero tolerance policy towards any kind of harassment, discrimination, coercion and misconduct. Avasant does not discriminate in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on age, race, caste, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, or political affiliation. Avasant conducts formal 360-degree feedback sessions twice a year along with informal, interactive “happy hour” sessions at least twice a month. Through these interactions, employees voice their concerns and suggest changes to any policy or practice that help nurture and develop them personally and professionally. Ideas are principally focused around areas that integrate teams globally and provide equal opportunities. Any idea supported by the majority is then taken up in a time bound initiative. Avasant’s mentor-mentee initiative is aimed at grooming the associates through regular oneon-one sessions on career progression, firm development and honing consulting skill sets. Avasant also adheres to health and safety standards for its employees, contractors, partners and clients. We also support flexi-working, which allows our consultants to work from his/her home and focus more on their demanding workload and less on unproductive and often stressful office commutes. We encourage our workforce to maintain a healthy work lifebalance and offer them more control of their own time. At our offices globally, employees take breaks to catch a gym workout, a set of tennis or a badminton match. Avasant also offers health insurance to all its associates, offering products of choice for their family through company reimbursement. We continually receive positive feedback from our employees on our policies and believe that it has created goodwill, not just among our employees, but also our stakeholders and clients. Based on the feedback from Avasant employees, the Vault Consulting Survey has recognized Avasant among the “Best Places to Work for” for management consulting firms in 2015. The Vault Consulting Survey ranks Avasant among the top management-consulting firms offering “internal mobility” across departments to its associates. The firm also ranks high for offering international opportunities to its employees and subsequent career progression. In 2015, the Vault Consulting Survey recognized Avasant among the “Best Consulting Firms for Diversity”. This included our representation of minorities, military veterans, and individuals with disability in our workforce. Avasant fully complies with local labor laws applicable to its global workforce. Avasant strongly adheres to a zero tolerance policy against bribery, extortion and other corrupt malpractices. We strictly follow and adhere to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) following a disclosure by the Securities and Exchange Commission of the extensive practice by American businesses operating abroad of making payment to foreign government officials, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have a centralised whistle-blowing cell that takes strict action against any reported malpractices observed by employees, stakeholders or clients or activities in deviance from those suggested by FCPA. 13 Commitment to the Environment and Sustainability Avasant’s corporate and operational policies support environmentally responsible objectives and adhere to UN Global Compact Principles 7 through 9. Avasant complieswith all statutory and regulatory requirements, national and international standards, and industry practices. Avasant has committed itself to raising employee awareness on environmental issues and utilizing industry best practices. Avasant leaders have regularly promoted green sourcing through industry forums related to the importance and benefits of ‘green information technology sourcing’. Avasant undertakes environment-friendly initiatives and sets annual targets, which it shares regularly with its employees and stakeholders. Avasant also strives to reduce its carbon footprints by minimizing travel to client locations and promoting video conferencing facilities with clients. Some of the key environmental initiatives we have taken within the firm include: • Increasing the use of video conferencing and web-collaboration tools (screen-sharing, chat, sharepoint, skype, yammer, etc.) to reduce international workforce travel • Providing a flexible work policy to reduce long office commutes • Utilization of recycled paper and published material in all of our global offices • Using online record keeping as a de-facto standard instead of maintaining a paper-based bookkeeping and record inventory • Using double-side printing unless absolutely necessary • Maximizing the use of email, and communication tools like Skype for Business, Yammer and Delve to communicate externally as well as internally • Adoption of best practices in our offices such as switching off fans, lights and devices when not required, recycling of water and car-pooling Avasant continually promotes green sourcing as one of its practice areas, where it provides consulting services centered around the purchase of environmentally responsible hardware and server components. This includes conducting significant research and analysis before selecting an outsourcing service provider or partner. Our sourcing practice aims at: • Identifying green compliance risks in sourcing strategies • Inviting providers with a green record • Incorporating regulatory guidelines into contractual language of service provider agreements • Assessing financial impact • Incorporating the use of well-defined checklists of agreed environmental considerations to ensure operational compliance Avasant spearheads green sourcing initiatives within the IT outsourcing industry. Its leadership team has been a proponent of green sourcing at multiple industry conferences around the globe and has been coaching organizations on the need to move more towards green solutions and has emphasized the need in the technology sourcing cycle. As a result of our green initiatives, we have been able to: • Reduce the usage of paper in our day to day business operations by over 80% • Reduce staff travel, both internationally and locally by more than 20% • Reduce electricity and water consumption by 20-30% in our offices • Adopt best practices by employees at their homes leading to further decline in electricity, water and fossil fuel consumption • Build awareness among our clients and stakeholders that ‘going green’ makes a viable business case • Spread awareness in the industry of the importance and advantages of green sourcing (Left) Avasant supports the Digital Equalizer Program of the American India Foundation in India (Below) Trainee of Harambee, Avasant’s partner in SouthAfrica on DigitalJobs Africa. 15 Golf for Impact 2016 16 | P a g e Avasant Digital Youth Employment Graduates, Haiti Primary Community Outreach Programs for 2015-16 Digital Jobs Initiatives – Africa Avasant Foundation is a partner with the Rockefeller Foundation on the Digital Jobs Africa (DJA) and an associate member of the Global Impact Sourcing Coalition. As detailed on pages 9-11, the DJA initiative works to catalyze new, sustainable employment opportunities and skills training for African youth, with a focus on the ICT sector. The Global Impact Sourcing Coalition is a forum of the world's leading companies committed to incorporate and scale impact sourcing as a business strategy—ending poverty through procurement. Chitra Rajeshwari, Avasant Foundation’s Executive Director, attended the launch of the coalition at an event hosted by the Rockefeller Foundation and managed by BSR on September 12-13th, 2016 in Johannesburg, South Africa. As a result of our engagement with Rockefeller Foundation which culminated in June, 2016, Avasant was able to create jobs for over 1300 youth through Impact Sourcing, educate the service provider community through over 60 workshops, generate reusable training material, get hiring commitments from many service providers and develop a roadmap for IS adoption detailing policy levers, incentives and global best practices that countries with sourcing sectors can implement to promote, support and encourage IS while eliminating discrimination. 18 Avasant Foundation is also actively looking for funding to offer an entrepreneurship training model in South Africa, Uganda, Rwanda and other parts of Africa based on the iGNITE training model that our Global Strategy team has developed for the World Bank and the government of Uganda. We have had exciting meetings with HUBSV and other incubator programs to explore partnerships to scale iGNITE to new regions. iGNITE aims to initiate the startup process by providing necessary tools and knowledge as well as facilitating key stakeholder engagement at the appropriate time. This training is expected to create a snowball effect through a ‘train-the-trainer’ model and online courses that would benefit close to 22,000 youth in a few years. Digital Youth Employment Initiative, Jamaica Avasant Foundation is involved with the Government of Jamaica in drafting policy interventions that will enhance Jamaica’s outsourcing sector, develop related skills, and create employment opportunity for the youth in Jamaica. The Foundation, in partnership with the Jamaica Promotion Corporation (JAMPRO), BPIAJ (Business Process Industry Association Jamaica), the University of Technology Jamaica, the Fi Wi Jamaica Project and leading ITC employers, launched its Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative in June 2015 to foster employment opportunities in J a m a i ca. In 2016, our Digital Youth Employment Initiative has trained a total of 123 youth in Kingston and Montego Bay. About half of the graduates are already employed with HGS, XEROX, iTEL BPO or 24-7 In Touch, and the rest are in the interviewing and onboarding process. The most recent graduation was early September, and by the end of 2016 Avasant Foundation will have more than 90% of them employed. For 2017, we envision scaling our impact under the platform of Future Jamaica by deepening our partnerships with Jamaica's University of Technology, the Fi Wi Jamaica project and USAID. In additional to skills training for the BPO sector, we will be preparing additional Jamaican youth for tech-enabled support roles in the banking and hospitality sectors and well as entrepreneurship and STEM opportunities. Digital Youth Employment Initiative, Haitiin Partnership with the Clinton Global Initiative For its 2016 Commitment to Action, Avasant Foundation developed a sustainable and scalable technology training program to prepare high potential, disadvantaged youth aged 18-28 for employment in the expanding ICT and BPO industries in Haiti. This pilot training initiative was part of Avasant Foundation’s 2016 Commitment to Action for the Clinton Global Initiative on tackling youth unemployment in Haiti. In February and March 2016, the Foundation offered a successful pilot training program for 30 youth in Port-au-Prince. Graduates developed demand-driven skills in customer service, communication, and basic technology as well as basic industry knowledge and field experience. To date, 19 of the 30 19 graduates have been employed by NatCom, and another with Sogesol. The addition, 10 graduates are starting interviews at Digicel, NatCom and BIMA and will be employed by the end of October 2016. The employment/placement rate is expected to be at least 95%. This four-week immersive program educated thirty students ages 18 to 28 on a range of core business and technology processes. The training focused on social, customer, and technology skills for entrylevel career opportunities in the ICT and BPO industry in Haiti. Experienced trainers and industry experts prepared the students through classroom training, role-play and interviews. The students also received first-hand experience with contact center operations through site visits to the offices of Digicel and BIMA. Other key partners in the pilot included the Center for Facilitation of Investments, Inter-American Development, Actions Toward Initiatives and Volunteering for Education in Haiti (ACTIVEH) and the Association Haitienne pour le developpement des Technologies de l’Information et de la Communication (AHTIC). The Foundation’s efforts in Haiti represent the Digital Youth Employment Initiative’s second successful skill development program. The Initiative continues to expand its reach and sets out to impact other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean region. Digital Equalizer, India Through partnering with the America India Foundation (AIF), Avasant Foundation is bridging the educational and digital divide in India by providing students with access to technology. Avasant Foundation targets underresourced schools to transform teaching and learning into a collaborative, project-based approach, inspiring students to have confidence in their abilities and an increased desire to stay in school. This program has played a life-changing role in the academic journey of students and has been tremendously beneficial in incorporating the use of technology to make education more interesting, effective and relevant. We currently support over 56 schools across Odisha and Bangalore, improving their teaching through technology access and training. This partnership with the American India Foundation serves over 6,500 students. DIGITALWorks Initiative in Trinidad and Tobago DIGITALWorks is a new initiative launched as part of Avasant Foundation’s commitment to ensure job creation and skills enhancement for high caliber graduates. Working with Avasant's Global Strategy team, the Foundation will secure clients for the new DIGITALWorks Impact Sourcing social enterprise in Port of Spain. This center is an opportunity for Avasant Foundation to 'walk the talk' of creating jobs for disadvantaged youth. Under the DIGITALWorks initiative, Avasant Foundation will identify, train and employ some of its graduates directly to provide a range of Digital BPO services. Avasant Foundation will partner with leading BPO service providers to offer Impact Sourcing services to global clients with100% of the operating profits going to the Foundation. The program will also provide the 20 0 participants with ‘on the job’ training and skills development opportunities to foster entrepreneurial and leadership skills. These associates will also be given one-on-one mentoring and coaching with the objective of helping them launch Impact Sourcing businesses that employ disadvantaged youth. SDG Funders Network Avasant Foundation is a founding member of SDG Funders, a global philanthropic platform with a focus on India for 2017. SDG Funders was founded by Rockefeller Philanthropic Advisors. Of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the UN's 2030 Agenda, Avasant Foundation works primarily on three: Quality Education, Gender Equality and Decent Work & Economic Growth, all of which are squarely aligned with our vision and mission. Microsoft Youth Web Portal The Avasant Foundation, in association with Microsoft, offers a customized version of Microsoft’s YouthSpark web portal, which is a global initiative to increase access for all disadvantaged youth in the Caribbean to learn computer science, empowering them to achieve more for themselves, their families and their communities. The custommade state-of-the-art hub offers more than 1200 free, online, selfpaced courses with certifications in fields such as Coding and App Development, Entrepreneurial Skills, Business Development, Soft Skills, Sales and Marketing, College Algebra and Mathematics, working with Windows to enable them to learn relevant skills needed to get a job. AF Digital Youth Employment Trainees, Port-au-Prince, Haiti Inter-American Development Bank Avasant proudly supports initiatives funded by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), which stems from the larger Haiti Infrastructure Program. Initiatives include providing reliable electricity, a residential housing project and a water treatment plant. Avasant supported the IDB’s initiatives by leveraging its Globalization Methodologies within Capacity Development and Go-To-Market domains. Called Le Parc Industriel de la Région du Nord d’Haïti (PIRN), it is intended to bring the following b e n e f i t s : • Creation of more than USD $500 million in salaries and benefits for ten years, with each employee earning an estimated 3-4 times the current per capita GDP in Haiti • Expansion to support 65,000 permanent jobs once the park is fully developed and increasing employment of the Haitian apparel industry by over 200% • Increase in the number of jobs in the private sector by at least 20% • Creation of the first textile factory in Haiti for knitting and dyeing • Increase in the tax base by improving employment and trade flows AF Digital Youth Employment Trainees in Jamaica, Summer 2016 22 The Road Ahead: FY16-17 CSR Targets We understand that the CSR commitment to all stakeholders should be measurable and lasting. The following list provides a sample of some CSR-related activities that Avasant will be undertaking over its next fiscal year. • Assist the governments of 8 countries in developing their services sector through consulting engagements leading to investment, employment, skill enhancement, and improvement of living standards and tax revenues • Provide employment, STEM, and entrepreneurship skills training to over 2,500 students through inperson & online instruction through Avasant Foundation • Enable employment for at least 500 disadvantaged youth globally by working with key stakeholders including service providers • Increase awareness of Impact Sourcing through online channels such as YouTube, Facebook, LinkedIn & Twitter (goal is to achieve 5,000 new viewership) • Expand our skills and iGNITE entrepreneurship training model to disadvantaged youth globally • Fund inclusion of technology in instruction for over 6,500 students in India through American Indian Foundation’s Digital Equalizer program • Provide career mentorship and business coaching to budding entrepreneurs across the globe and arrange funding for 10 tech start-ups in Africa, the Caribbean and India • Bring our youth employment and entrepreneurship training model to new countries including Bahamas, El Salvador, Colombia, Rwanda, Uganda & South Africa • Assist regional implementers to scale Impact Hiring in the BPO and hospitality sectors across the globe through Global Impact Sourcing Coalition • Continue working for disadvantaged youth in all our impact regions to ensure that youth get quality education which leads to decent work and economic growth • Support progress on the 17 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) and especially in India as a founding supporter of SDG Philanthropy Network • Fund thousands of mid-day meals for school children in India through Akshara Patra • Continue to support education and empowerment efforts of girls in India through Girl Rising • Continue to IAOP’s efforts on its Women Empowerment initiative to catalyze changes in the global outsourcing industry to empower the lives of women both inside and outside the workplace • Start playing a leadership role in Womensphere Foundation’s efforts to empower women and girls • Raise USD $300,000 through Avasant’s annual Golf for Impact event to support community initiatives • Further reduce in each Avasant employee’s water and electricity usage by 10% • Increase time spent per employee on usage of collaboration and communication tools by 5%, which would lead to a proportionate reduction in travel • Provide solar powered solutions to disadvantaged communities that do not have access to electricity. We aim to distribute green products that would offset 5% of total conventional power usage in Avasant offices • Engage employees in planting trees across the globe Avasant remains committed to enhancing its Corporate Social Responsibility and ensuring that we conduct our business in a socially responsible way that adheres to the ten UN Global Compact principles. 23
