JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 I. A statement of continued support for the Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that Julie Sandlau Vietnam continues supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and anti-corruption. With this annual report, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Julie Sandlau Vietnam will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. 28th October 2016 Mr. Soren Roed Pedersen CEO/Julie Sandlau Vietnam 1|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2016 II. Introduction: 1. About Julie Sandlau Vietnam. Company : Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Address : Km 9, Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. Contact Person : Soren Roed Pedersen, General Director Tel: +84 433 65 67 68 Soren@juliesandlauvn.com Reporting Period : 28th October 2016 – 28th October 2017 Membership Date : 08th November 2012 Sector : Jewelry designing and producing Number of Employees : 359 2. Brief description of nature of business a. The Company Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Is 100% foreign own factory from Denmark located at Km 9 Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. We are specializing in producing & exporting high-end jewelry. b. CSR Julie Sandlau Vietnam has high focus on social responsibility and as a part of our Corporate Social Responsibility it is a wish to be able to comply according to the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles throughout the organization and collaborators. c. Julie Sandlau Vietnam CSR Vision Julie Sandlau Vietnam vision and intension is to act social responsible both local and global based on the principle and intension of the UN Global Conduct and support the values within:  Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-corruption 3. Availability of this COP This COP is available online at www.unglobalcompact.org . It will also be distributed to clients and suppliers as well as being forwarded to any requesting parties. 2|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2016 Each time making report of CPO is a chance for Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co., Ltd to look back what we carried out in the whole year and therefore motivating us for next action plans. This is our fourth report since 2013, showing results of CPO in 2016 by our amazing employees with their continuous efforts. In March, the company labor union and Human Resources department organized for all the employees a day to watch movie at the Lotte Keangnam cinema on International Women’s Day. The employees had time to entertain together and felt more connected with each other. In April, with the message of “Donating blood helps save lives”, the campaign of voluntarily blood transfusion was taken place by the support of National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion. 115 blood donors are registered and 99 blood units are donated in the launching. The campaign helped to raise awareness of this meaningful action, generating very powerful and positive spirit among our company, attracting many JSV members to participate in. Happy faces of employees when they could donate blood could be seen everywhere in that day. Besides, understanding the importance of healthcare, JSV cooperated with Hoai Duc Federation of Labor to hold an event to disseminate the knowledge of reproductive health at the company for the whole employees and a day to examine breast and cervical cancers for all female staffs by doctors from Hanoi Oncology Hospital in health establishment of the district. Luckily, all of them got negative test result. Fire Safety Training was held following a standardized procedure with both theory and practice. Under the instruction of fire police, the participants have got useful knowledge of fire prevention and fight fighting in the working place and outside as well as evacuation action. JSV has held a variety of training sessions aiming at enhancing awareness of Vietnam Labor Code for the staffs. Issues most concerned by our employees includes the Law of Social Insurance, Health Insurance and Unemployment Insurance. With the purpose to transmit knowledge of those 3|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2016 subjects and to make clear for the employee’s questions, the company has cooperated with local Labor Union to invite some experts for presentation and discussion. As the result, the participants felt pleased to know that the company has been complying with the Law strictly. In addition, they have gained more knowledge of their rights and responsibilities to society. On September, Cua Lo Beach is chosen for the summer trip of the company. The trip was full of memorable moments, keep the spirit of employees up, refill energy after their a long year hard working. A series of activities such as team building and the Gala party with impressive performance connected all members closely. Especially, children of JSV employees also have their own game and receive a great deal of prizes. The company still have many intentions with children so we will continue to do them in next years. The application of Lean Management in JSV has created considerable changes for working environment. Tools and machines are arranged neatly and optimized. The staffs became more aware of what they are doing and always try to change for better. Kaizen helped us not only save time but also cut down cost for many production stages. The competition among departments to get good results of 5S and Kaizen implementation encouraged each member to apply Lean into working place. To many employees, Lean has gradually become a habit. JSV also actively joined in many community activities in the area and programs of Hoai Duc Federation of Labor. The company is ranked second in the performance of Hoai Duc district. The Federation also honored three skilled employees, one outstanding family for close-knit relationship and one resourceful female employee. In addition, one staff is awarded a certificate from Hanoi People's Committee for good moral behavior on the late October. Those achieves have foster JSV member to strive for better. 4|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2016 Promoting the reading culture is always company concern, we timely often add a lot of books to our company’s library, in which every employee could take home any item they wanted to borrow for free. The budget for buying books came from selling paper waste and classified garbage. Publishing internal newsletters periodically is also considered as not only a way to promote core value and goals that we are looking forward to achieve together, but also to improve communication to employees and message of meaningful activities of remakable valuation events. The publication covers subjects of departments, colleagues and team-building activities in the company. Finally, we commit to strictly follow principles of the Agreement, striving to create a good environment of corporate culture. 5|Page
