Pacto Global. Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Comunicación I am pleased to confirm that TENARIS supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and antisobre el corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance with these principles within our sphere of influence. We commit ourselves to include Progreso the Global Compact and its principles as a part of our company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. TENARIS will make a clear statement of this commitment to its stakeholders and general public. We recognize that a key requirement to participate in the Global Compact is the annual submission to the Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress every year according to the Global Compact COP policy. Tenaris is a leading supplier of tubes and related services for the world’s energy industry and certain other industrial applications. It has manufacturing facilities in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Romania and the United States, a proprietary global service along with a worldwide distribution network. Sincerely yours, Paolo Rocca CEO Tenaris Sustainability Report 2015 Index 02 Introduction 04 Tenaris at a glance 06 Chairman’s Letter 08 QHSE Policy 11 Governance and Economic Indicators 15 Safety and Health 19 Environment 27 Innovation 31 Human Resources 43 Community Development Sustainability Report 2015 Introduction Introduction Our values represented in action Tenaris is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of steel pipe products and related services for the world’s energy industry and other industrial applications. Our customers include most of the world’s leading oil and gas companies, and we operate an integrated network of steel pipe manufacturing, research, finishing and service facilities with industrial operations in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa and a direct presence in most major oil and gas markets. Through our integrated global network of manufacturing, R&D and service facilities, we work with our customers to meet their needs for the timely supply of high performance products in increasingly complex operating environments. Safety, quality and transparency are at the core of Tenaris’s values and the cornerstones for the sustainability of our activities. This report shows the way we see these values reflected in our everyday activity. You will find a series of indicators in the areas of Finances and Governance, Health and Safety, Environment, Innovation, Human Resources and Community Work that show our long-term, integrated approach to management in these areas. Ours is a long-term industrial project where we are sure that the only way to succeed and prosper is to build long-lasting relations with all our stakeholders, including our employees, investors, customers, contractors, suppliers, as well as the communities where we operate and the industry where we belong. Within the World Steel Association (worldsteel), Tenaris is signatory of the Sustainability Policy and the Sustainability Charter. We participate and support activities related to technology & innovation impacting the environment and the health & safety of our company and the entire industry. Our HSE Management System is designed according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. Tenaris decided in 2012 to have our main production facilities certified according to these standards by the end of 2015. We have now mostly accomplished that objective: more than 86% of our employees work in sites under certified management systems. We aim to complete the certification process by the end of 2016. Tenaris is committed to building a culture of transparency and integrity, based on ethical behavior and compliance with the law. We believe this is essential for the sustainability of our activities in a market environment that is increasingly challenging and competitive. 3 Key indicators 2011-2015 Our Injury Frequency Rate improved by 46% between 2011 and 2015 86% of our employees work in sites with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified management systems Total economic value generated (2015) USD 7.2 billion Total investment in community projects (2011-2015) USD 86.7 million From 1,179 to 1,358. We increased by 15% the number of scholarships awarded to high-school students in 2015 85% was the record percentage of employee participation in our biennial opinion survey 80 The annual average training hours for our hourly employees. Sustainability Report 2015 Global organization Tenaris Integrated Quality (ISO 9001:2008) and Health, Safety and Environment (ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001) management systems. Tenaris Sales by Region Asia Pacific 4% Middle East 40% & Africa North 16% America 10% Europe 30% South America 30 Countries Services and distribution network 4 Countries Stock exchange listings New York Buenos Aires Italy Mexico Top customers Aramco Chevron ConocoPhillips Continental ENI ExxonMobil Kuwait Oil Company Noble Oxy Pemex Petrobras Pioneer Shell Total YPF Sustainability Report 2015 Chairman´s Letter Chairman’s The collapse in the price of oil and the decline in oil and gas drilling activity worldwide are resulting in profound changes in the markets where we operate. This is the most severe Letter downturn I have experienced and the survival of many companies in our industry is under threat. As we go through a second consecutive year of deep reductions in spending by our customers, global demand for the products we make is less than half what it was in 2014. At the same time, the severe downturn represents an opportunity for oil and gas operators and suppliers to map out a more efficient way of working that can deliver sustainable cost reductions over time. As we advance with the construction of our Bay City mill, we have introduced our Rig Direct™ service model to many customers in the USA and Canada. This is a model that we use extensively in markets where we have local production facilities. It integrates the supply of pipes and accessories from the mill to the rig operating under a single QHSE management system in accordance with the highest professional standards, focusing on process and operational efficiency with the objective of lowering overall costs. Rig Direct™ offers significant environmental benefits in addition to cost savings. The synchronization and shortening of the supply chain results in lower scrapping and reworking of materials as well as reduced logistics emissions. As we implement the measures necessary to ensure our long-term competitiveness and profitability, we are taking care to maintain the long-term values, which have been the hallmark of our company since it was founded over 60 years ago. Safety, for example, is a key value for an industrial company like ours, essential for our competitive differentiation and the long-term sustainability of our operations. Our main safety indicators improved in 2015 as we implemented a zero tolerance program alongside our Safe Hour and Safe Start programs. Our average injury frequency rate declined 15% compared to 2014 and has declined 46% over the past four years. Our objective to complete certification of our HSE management system under the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards is now almost complete, with all our main production sites certified. In addition to our new mill in Bay City, which is being designed to set new standards for environmental performance and efficiency in a seamless pipe mill, we continue to invest, throughout our industrial system, to improve energy efficiency, reduce water consumption, minimize particulate and air emissions from our steel shops, and reduce the waste from our operations. We have also maintained the level of investment we make in our community development programs. Our focus here is on improving the level of technical education in the communities where we operate and encouraging bright students from all backgrounds to pursue education opportunities which might not otherwise be open to them. The Roberto Rocca Technical School in Campana, Argentina has now been in operation for over three years with excellent results. This year we introduced a performance evaluation system designed with the input of the Measures of Effective Teaching established by the Gates Foundation. Our sister company, Ternium, will open a second Roberto Rocca Technical School in Monterrey, Mexico, which will share the curriculum and teaching methods developed in Campana. Tenaris 7 Inevitably, during this prolonged industry downturn, which has severely affected our revenues and profitability, we have had to adjust our structural costs and workforce to ensure the sustainability of the company for the long term. We have sought to be as transparent as possible with our employees about the company’s situation and they have responded positively as evidenced in the results of the opinion survey we held during the year. At the same time, we are continuing to invest in training and development, maintaining the main programs conducted by TenarisUniversity and the number of hours dedicated to training for each employee. I would like to mention the recognition that TenarisUniversity has achieved over the past year. The MOOCs (Massive Online Open Courses) on OCTG products and services that it produced in 2015 for the edX platform founded by Harvard and MIT achieved outstanding performance ratings and completion rates around the world. And Tenaris was included within the top ten companies for its employee training and development practices in 2016 by Training Magazine, an established US publication. Our company is navigating a difficult moment in our industry. However, our financial strength is allowing us to maintain our investments in our people, our industrial system, in developing our service to our customers, developing new products and the communities that help to sustain us, in accordance with the long-term values that we have espoused since our origins. These values will help us to emerge from this downturn with the sustainability of our operations strengthened. Sincerely, Paolo Rocca Sustainability Report 2015 QHSE Policy Quality, Tenaris aims to achieve the highest standards of Quality, Health, Safety and Environment, incorporating the principles of sustainable development throughout Health, its worldwide business. Tenaris identifies the health and safety of its employees, contractors and visitors, Safety and the satisfaction of its customers, the protection of the environment and the development of the communities where it has its operations as integrated key Environment drivers of its business; the entire organization is oriented towards achieving these goals openly and transparently. Policy Quality, Health, Safety and Environment management and risk assessment fundamentals are integrated in all business processes. Management is responsible and accountable for achieving excellence in Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental performance for successful business results. Tenaris is committed to training all its employees in the appropriate use of its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment management systems, strengthening its management through updating of professional and managerial skills, fostering diversity, emphasizing employee evaluation and motivation and complying with the ethical principles established in its Code of Conduct. Nothing is more important than the health and safety of everyone who works for us and uses our products All injuries and work-related illnesses can and must be prevented Working safely is a condition of employment Quality is our main competitive advantage Requirements and expectations of our customers must be satisfied Differentiation is achieved through operational excellence and development of innovative and reliable products and services We are committed to developing a long-term sustainable business Preventing pollution and minimizing the environmental impact of our operations Making the most efficient use of natural resources and energy www.compliance-line.com 9 Tenaris recognizes the importance of implementing this policy throughout its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment management systems, covering the entire supply chain from suppliers to customers and the proper and efficient use of its products in accordance with their agreed specifications. Tenaris commits to comply with applicable legal requirements and all other requirements relating to quality, health, safety and environment issues to which it subscribes. Tenaris communicates this policy throughout its organization, trains its employees in the appropriate use of its Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental management systems and engages them in the regular setting, measuring and revision of objectives. Tenaris undertakes to keep this policy updated, to implement and maintain its management system, and continuously improve its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment performance. July 2014 Paolo Rocca Chief Executive Officer Governance and Economic Indicators Sustainability Report 2015 Governance and Economic Indicators Governance Tenaris is a company established in 2001 in Luxembourg to consolidate the pipe Integrity and Transparency Tenaris has a Code of Conduct incorporating and and tubes business of the Techint Group. In addition to its controlling 60% of the guidelines and standards of integrity and transparency applicable to all its employees Economic shares in Tenaris, the Techint Group has controlling interests in Ternium, a leading and directors. This Code of Conduct establishes the ethical principles that form the Indicators Latin American producer of flat and long steel products; Tecpetrol, an oil and gas basis for relations between the company, its employees and third parties and provides the company; Techint, an engineering and means and instruments to give transparency construction company; Tenova, a supplier to issues and problems that may have a of equipment and technologies for iron and bearing on the management of the company. steel and mining, and Humanitas, a network of hospitals in Italy. We have established a Compliance Line to allow employees, customers, suppliers The Company’s shares trade on the Italian and other interested parties to report any Stock Exchange, the Buenos Aires Stock conduct contrary to the Code of Conduct Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange; or its principles on a confidential basis. The in addition, the Company’s ADSs trade on Compliance Line operates according to the New York Stock Exchange. procedures designed by our Internal Audit ] function under the direct supervision of our Our capital expenditure Responsibility for the management of the Audit Committee. USD 4.6 company resides in its board of directors, currently comprising ten directors, of whom We have also implemented a normative Billion three are independent of the Techint Group framework that contemplates the adoption and company management. Our Chairman of preventive measures to fight corruption between 2011 and 2015 and CEO is Paolo Rocca, the grandson of and bribery and reflects the requirements the founder of the Techint Group. of applicable laws and regulations. The The Company’s board of directors has Compliance Program consists of a stringent an audit committee consisting of its three and consistent risk assessment, which independent members. The charter of the enables the company to focus attention on audit committee sets forth, among other critical factors and identify, evaluate and things, the audit committee’s purpose prevent potential infringements or breaches and responsibilities, which includes the of applicable regulations. responsibility to review material transactions with related parties in order to determine When hiring representatives and contractors, whether their terms are consistent with a comprehensive evaluation of each candidate market conditions or are otherwise fair has been incorporated as an integral part to the Company and/or its subsidiaries. of the retention procedure giving primary The audit committee reports to the board importance to the candidate’s ethical, of directors on its activities, and on the transparent and lawful behavior. adequacy of the systems of internal control Tenaris ensures that relevant policies over financial reporting. and procedures are communicated throughout the organization through For further details of our board of internal communication channels and directors, senior management and corporate by the implementation of additional governance please refer to our website educational tools. (www.tenaris.com). Tenaris 13 Economic value generated and distributed Tenaris regularly trains employees on antibribery provisions through on-line courses (2015, in USD) and in-person training sessions that focus on the most critical topics raised during daySuppliers to-day operations. (Further information on $4 B Business Conduct on Page 48) Community Employees investments $1.5 B Suppliers $12 M Building lasting relationships with our suppliers and contractors is part of our Economic values but also relevant to our performance. value Tenaris purchases most of its supplies Research & generated Capex through Exiros, a specialized procurement Development $7.2 B $1.1 B company whose ownership we share with $89 M our sister company Ternium. Exiros has a total of 36,542 registered suppliers, of which 7,982 were active in 2015. Exiros has a quality Capital Taxes system certified under ISO-9001 standards. providers $315 M All suppliers undergo a rigorous process of $554 M selection to ensure adequate standards are in place in line with applicable laws and regulations and in accordance with our QHSE policy and Code of Conduct. We have developed a Code of Conduct for Suppliers Financial Indicators to be applied in any case covering all aspects 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 related to ethical behavior, compliance with Millions USD law, health, safety and environment. (except otherwise stated) Net Sales 9,972 10,834 10,597 10,338 7,101 Regarding HSE we have a process Operating income 1,845 2,357 2,185 1,899 195 EBITDA 2,399 2,875 2,795 2,720 1,255 implemented to qualify and verify our Shareholders net income 1,332 1,699 1,551 1,159 (80) service suppliers, which are categorized Shareholders equity 10,457 11,328 12,290 12,654 11,713 according to the HSE risk level of their Cash flow from operations 1,283 1,856 2,377 2,044 2,215 activities. Since we started with this project Dividends 449 508 508 531 531 Net cash / (debt) 324 (271) 911 1,257 1,849 in 2012, around 47 percent of the 1,270 EBITDA margin % 24% 27% 26% 26% 18% active service suppliers in a higher HSE risk ROE % 13% 16% 13% 9% -1% category have already been audited before ROCE % 19% 22% 19% 17% 2% FCF / Net income % 30% 63% 103% 81% N/A% contract award or during their activities, and another 350 were audited on HSE even if not classified as high risk. Audits are performed against a standard self-assessment that is required for any service supplier willing to work for Tenaris. During 2015, 372 new audits were performed, and improvement plans conducted when gaps are detected. Sustainability Report 2015 Governance and Economic Indicators We are committed to the involvement and Capital integration of our contractors in our HSE management system through different Expenditures ways, including induction courses, regular meetings and training for awareness, as well as their participation in our Safe Hour Capital expenditures program and other engagement activities. (in million USD) 1,200 1,089 1,132 Capital Expenditures 1,000 During 2015, our capital expenditures, 863 790 including investments at our plants and 800 investments in information systems, 753 600 amounted to $1.132 billion, compared to 400 $1.089 billion in 2014 and $753 million 200 in 2013. Of these capital expenditures, 0 investment at our plants amounted to $1.066 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 billion in 2015, compared to $1.008 billion in Capital expenditures 2014 and $667 million in 2013. In the last five years, Tenaris has invested substantial capital in transforming the capacity and competitiveness of its global industrial system. Despite the current market turndown, we reached another record level of investment in 2015, as the building of our new plant in Bay City, United States, progressed. The new mill is scheduled to start up in 2017. In addition to capital expenditures at our plants, we have invested in information systems for the integration of our production, commercial and managerial activities. These investments are intended to promote the further integration of our operating facilities and enhance our ability to provide value-added services to customers worldwide. Investments in information systems totaled $65 million in 2015, compared to $80 million in 2014 and $86 million in 2013. 15 Safety and Health Safety Safety Our number one priority incidents and fatalities and Leadership in Safety to achieve a solid and uninterrupted and chain of awareness from the CEO to the supervisors and the workers. Health Health Nothing is more important for Tenaris than the health and safety of the people who work The Process Safety Management project, in our facilities and use our products and along with another project on catastrophe services. The entire organization is oriented risk analysis, seeks to detect and to prevent towards achieving the goal of zero accidents unexpected events that could have a serious in a transparent manner. effect on our people, our mills or the environment. Process Safety Management As stated in our QHSE Policy, we believe focuses on the design and engineering that all accidents and work-related injuries of facilities, equipment maintenance, can and must be prevented. The way to effective alarms and control points, achieve this is by building a strong safetyprocedures and training. oriented culture. Special task forces per process area We continue to implement initiatives continued to work this year to improve our to strengthen awareness, achieve full management on different topics, such as ] compliance with our procedures, and to safety control on furnaces, lockout/ tag-out, Our Injury Frequency Rate standardize practices and technologies in the control of overhead cranes and vehicle has improved by order to minimize exposure to safety risks. management. 46% This year we launched two new initiatives: a zero tolerance program and an integral We are placing a great deal of our effort on between 2011 and 2015 revision of our HSE training program. behavior management. After analyzing high severity events in our sites over the last years, Our Injury Frequency Rate continued we concluded that the 90% of the events improving in 2015 compared to previous were related to behavior. We noticed that the years, achieving a reduction of 20% vs effort we have made in improving physical 2014. The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate conditions of work need to be complemented also resumed a downward trend it had lost with a strong focus on behavior. in 2014, as we continue to work to meet the below-1 target set by the World Steel That is why we are launching a “Zero Association (worldsteel). Regrettably, we Tolerance” program, which aims at suffered one fatality in 2015, when one of our identifying and discouraging dangerous employees was trapped between the mast of behaviors by establishing sanctions for a heavy forklift and a spool in our BlueCoil® deviations that could potentially lead to a coiled tubes facility in the United States. fatal outcome. We are currently working on defining the scope of the program and We participate, along with leading steelthe type of disciplinary sanction to be producing companies, in the World Steel introduced. Association’s safety groups in order to define common guidelines on different topics concerning safety management. Some of the aspects under discussion include process safety management to reduce high-risk Tenaris 17 Safety This focus on behavior builds on our Indicators Safe Hour program, introduced in 2012 throughout Tenaris. The Safe Hour establishes a routine one-hour walk twice a week through the mills by top and middle Injury Frequency Rate management of the operative areas. It seeks IFR to engage workers in constructive dialogue 14.0 on safety issues and discuss any safe or unsafe behavior and conditions. Four years 12.0 after the program was launched, it continues 10.0 to prove to be an effective tool to achieve 8.0 8.3 greater awareness and a safety-first culture 6.0 6.6 in Tenaris. In 2015, a total 48,390 Safe Hour 5.7 5.4 routines were performed, 7% more than 4.0 4.5 the previous year. And thanks to the on-site 2.0 conversations during the routines, 14,369 0.0 ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 observations were recorded, 28,515 positive Methodology: Number of accidents with and feedbacks given to workers and 16,507 without lost days (not including First Aid) per improvement commitments obtained. million hours worked. Values refer to own personnel plus contractors from 2007 onwards We also got on with the implementation of Safestart, a safety training program that focuses on risk perception and is designed to Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate reduce injuries both on-the-job and off-theLTIFR job by encouraging personal responsibility 4.0 for safety. 3.5 3.0 During 2015, we started a project to review 3.2 3.0 the HSE training of our main operative 2.5 2.7 2.5 functions. Based on a definition of the 2.0 2.2 minimum required skills, we are now 1.5 reviewing and designing new training 1.0 materials both for new employees and to 0.5 help employees catch up when gaps are 0.0 ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 detected. We also implemented a pilot safety leadership training hosted by Saipem in Methodology: Number of accidents with lost days per million hours worked. Dalmine to teach peer-to-peer detection and Values refer to own personnel plus contractors from 2007 onwards. control of unsafe behaviors. We will continue to focus on safety. We are convinced that the measures we are implementing, combined with increased employee awareness, will be reflected in the continuing improvements of our indicators and allow us to consolidate a “safety first” culture in our company. Sustainability Report 2015 Safety and Health Health Milano University, we performed a study to optimize the design of a quality Tenaris is committed to providing a control workstation using a process healthy workplace, equipment and simulation tool. technologies through a comprehensive occupational health and hygiene program. We have also improved our IT tool for HSE management, in order to integrate We are developing the basic tools for a new the risk analysis with the health protocol. Health Management System in order to This new tool allows occupational assure through a pre-defined health protocol physicians to easily review the results of that all employees receive adequate and environmental monitoring and the risks regular medical checks. associated with the activities carried out by employees during their occupational history. We have defined global procedures and With this information, the physician is guidelines related to in-door air quality, able to correlate potential pathologies with noise, vibrations, etc. Noise studies have the workplace conditions and recommend been performed in all our sites to identify actions to minimize hazards. the action required to reduce noise at the source. We use videos, brochures and other training and communicational material to increase awareness on healthy lifestyles, in order to help our employees prevent common illnesses such as cancer, heart diseases, obesity, etc. With the support of an ergonomic team, we carried out the assessment of ergonomic risks for all job positions at Confab in Brazil. Based on the process implemented in Confab, we have launched an ergonomic risks assessment in the rest of our sites. We have also carried out R&D projects regarding health: in collaboration with Tenaris 19 Environment Environment Tenaris is determined to minimize the ecological footprint of its operations and A number of best available technologies are included in the Bay City designs: nitrogen products. oxide emissions will be minimized by using selective catalyst reduction systems, and also The downturn in oil prices since mid-2014 is by applying the most advanced technology having a profound impact on our market and on burners in order to maximize energy our activity levels. Our activity slowdown efficiency; low volatile organic compounds also affects our environmental performance water-based varnish for coating operations; results, since all of our sites have operated and a water system designed to have the at a lower pace and therefore affected our lowest impact on local water resources. energy consumption efficiency. All these control measures to minimize air emissions allowed the project to be classified Despite the adverse global market situation, as a minor source of emissions, according we have sustained our investment to improve to US regulations, something unprecedented our environmental performance, with for a mill of this size. Particular attention is projects totaling USD 22 million between being placed on the plant’s design in order ongoing and completed during 2015, to control the health hazards common in the and more than USD 190 million invested steel industry (ergonomics, noise, emissions in improving environmental performance and heat stress). ] since 2010. Energy & Climate 86% We have also kept the level of activity in research and development projects related We are aware that our industry has a high level of CO2 emission levels: global of our employees work in sites with ISO 14001 and OHSAS to our environmental performance. Some of steel production accounts for nearly 7% 18001 certified management systems these projects involve switching to materials of GHG man-made emissions. We are with a lower environmental and CO2 transparent about the impact of our footprint; finding new and innovative ways operations, we report it, and set actions in to handle waste products through recycling order to minimize. There are improvement alternatives; studying our combustion opportunities we are focusing on, but within process for energy efficiency enhancement; the existing processes for steel production and finding specific solutions for waste-water possible reductions are more marginal and treatment and consumption. mostly related to efficiency. The construction of our Bay City mill Steel is also part of the solution to the continues. We are following specifications climate change problem of our time, since under the Leadership in Energy & products made of steel are essential to sustain Environmental Design (LEED) of the US our society and also are needed for climate Green Building Council, seeking the same change mitigation: wind energy, geothermal certification we obtained for our rolling mill projects, infrastructure improvements for in Tamsa, Mexico, in 2013. climate change adaptation and for CO2 carbon capture and storage projects. 21 Environmental Indicators Steel Mills Energy Intensity Tenaris Energy Intensity GJ/million tons GJ/ton prod 22 3.5 16.0 19.5 19.6 20.4 20 18.6 19 14.0 18 3.0 13.6 13.3 13.5 13.2 16 12.0 13 2.5 14 10.0 12 2.0 8.0 10 1.5 8 6.0 6 1.0 4.0 4 0.5 2.0 2 0 0.0 0.0 ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 Methodology: measured in GJ/ ton product Energy intensity based on electricity and gas consumption at Steel production each site. Boundaries: Tenaris steel and pipe production Methodology: measured in GJ/ ton steel sites. worldsteel methodology. Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Boundaries: steelmaking mills, including all Tamsa, Dalmine SPA. Siat VA; Siat VC; Confab other processes on site. Tubes, Hickman, Conroe, Republic Conduit, Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Algoma, Prudential, TuboCaribe, NKKTubes, SPIJ, Tamsa, Dalmine. Silcotub CO2 Emissions Steel Mills CO2 Emissions Tenaris Sites ton CO2 /million ton lq steel ton CO2 /ton product 1.6 3.5 1.2 1.4 3.0 1.0 1.2 0.45 0.35 2.5 0.30 0.31 0.34 0.8 1.0 2.0 0.32 0.28 0.26 0.29 0.29 0.8 0.30 0.32 0.6 0.30 0.32 0.37 1.5 0.6 0.4 0.57 0.60 0.58 1.0 0.45 0.44 0.44 0.43 0.42 0.4 0.55 0.55 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 Direct emissions Direct emissions Electricity upstream emissions Purchased electricity Other upstream emissions Steel production Methodology: measured in tn CO2/ tn product. Direct emissions: CO2 emissions related to steel production and/or other processes included Methodology: measured in ton CO2/ ton steel at the site. worldsteel methodology. Purchased electricity: upstream CO2 emissions Direct emissions: CO2 emissions related to steel related to electricity production, using a world production and other processes included at the site. average emission factor of CO2/MWh generated. Purchased electricity: upstream CO2 emissions Boundaries: All tube and steelmaking sites. related to electricity production, using a world For sites without steelmaking processes, gas and average emission factor of CO2/MWh generated. electricity consumption contributes to the indicator. Indirect emissions: other upstream CO2 emissions Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, related to production of raw materials and fuels. Tamsa, Dalmine SPA. Siat VA; Siat VC; Confab Boundaries: steel mill and other processes on site, Tubes, Hickman, Conroe, Republic Conduit, Algoma, including power generation at steelmaking sites only. Prudential, TuboCaribe, NKKTubes, SPIJ, Silcotub. Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Tamsa, Dalmine. Sustainability Report 2015 Environment Tenaris is participating in industry initiatives TuboCaribe, our mill in Colombia, started to reduce emissions. We supply, for instance, to operate a new seamless heat treatment the pipes for the drilling of a carbon capture and finishing line in March 2015. This and storage project in Japan, aimed at means that three old inefficient furnaces storing 100,000 tons of CO2 per year in were deactivated and replaced by an energytwo reservoirs, over a three-year project. efficient line. Compared to 2014, this The project involved the participation of improvement contributed to reducing natural our R&D areas to support the identification gas consumption per ton of heat-treated and testing of the best materials given the pipes by almost 30%, saving the equivalent project’s environment conditions, where of 7,000 tons of CO2 emissions. corrosion resistance was of maximum importance. We participate in worldsteel’s Climate Action Program, and have been recognized Tenaris has, over the years, carried out for the last 7 years for complying with CO2 strategic projects to reduce emissions and emissions reporting requirements, including improve energy efficiency and heat recovery, submission of information and verification. a better use of resources and reduce waste. The data collection program is a key part of the steel industry’s global sectorial approach We generated 30% less emissions in 2015 to climate change. compared with the previous year: our absolute level of emissions decreased by After the COP21 Paris agreement, we are 1,000,000 tons of CO2, from 3.700.000 committed to work and cooperate with the tons in 2014 for our steel making sites. The governments of the countries where we have reduced level of activity had a big impact our production sites in order to implement mainly due to the in-efficiencies for using reasonable and rational policies that help to our installations without a stable level of achieve the objectives established. production together with the modification of emission factors in some ferroalloys caused Steel recycling an increased intensity of around 10%. Steel can be recycled infinitely without losing Energy intensity from all sites, meanwhile, any of its properties. With 650 million tons continued to show a slight decrease. recycled every year, it is the most recycled material in the world. By recycling steel Despite the complex market situation, we we also save iron, energy, coal and other have implemented several energy saving materials, produce less CO2 emissions and initiatives, including improvement in prevent useful material from ending up in furnaces in Siderca, TuboCaribe, Dalmine, landfill as waste. According to worldsteel, Silcotub, as well as actions to achieve more since 1900 the global steel industry has efficiency in our consumption of electricity. recycled over 22 billion tons of steel. This has reduced iron ore consumption by around 28 billion tons, and cut coal consumption by 14 billion tons. During 2015 we recycled 1.43 million tons of scrap, both internal and post-consumer. Tenaris 23 Environmental Tenaris uses electric arc furnaces and gasIndicators based direct reduction processes to produce steel. With lower levels of CO2 emissions, these are considered efficient means of production. The rate of scrap use in our Tenaris recycled steel use steelmaking process has remained stable over % scrap charged the last years at an average 70%. Around two million tons of scrap are recycled per 100 year at our sites: we collect and reuse all 80 scrap from steel and downstream pipe 72 production, as well as post-consumer scrap. 70 70 71 70 60 The recycled content of steel product can 40 range from 5 to 100%. Our Dalmine mill in 20 Italy validated during 2015 its declaration of the recycled content in its products, reaching 0 a minimum of 86.5% of post-consumer ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 recycled material, according to the standard Methodology: Values are calculated as tons of scrap present in the metallic load. UNI EN ISO 14021. Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Tamsa, Dalmine. Air emissions Reducing air emissions is a priority for our Tenaris material efficiency Environmental Management System, as its % potential impact is a primary concern for 100 our communities. 97.3 98.1 98.2 98.5 98.3 80 Steelmaking is one of the most relevant processes in terms of air emissions, 60 especially concerning particulate material. Silcotub in Romania has finished the second 40 stage of a USD 9M investment to increase 20 the capacity of its capture and treatment system. Dalmine in Italy completed the 0 ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 improvement of its system with a USD Methodology: (liquid steel produced + by12M investment. Both sites now have more products) / (liquid steel produced + by-products + capacity of capturing and filtering fugitive waste). worldsteel methodology. Waste: all material sent to landfill and incineration. emissions. During 2016 Siderca in Argentina By-product: all material sent to reuse or recycling processes. will undergo an assessment of its system to Boundaries: steel mill and other processes on site including power plants. identify further improvement opportunities Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, in this field. Tamsa, Dalmine. Sustainability Report 2015 Environment NOx emission reduction is also part of our Environmental improvement plans. We are implementing changes in our furnaces through the use of Indicators low NOx burners to allow lower emission levels, better combustion and improved gas consumption efficiency. Our new heat treatment plant in Colombia is also Tenaris residues and by-products improving significantly on this front by 100 replacing old, less efficient heat treatment 84 facilities. The Bay City mill in the US will 80 79 76 78 79 minimize NOx emissions by using the best 60 technology in terms of emissions and also selective catalytic reduction to achieve even 40 better results. 20 13 15 15 10 11 We are also looking at new lines for coating 8 10 7 6 10 0 pipes, focusing on minimizing emissions Reused/Recycled By products Waste of volatile organic compounds, mainly residues reused/recycled by switching to water-based products for 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 varnishing, our main VOC source. New Methodology: coating lines in Silcotub, TuboCaribe and Residues: includes all residues produced at the site, including hazardous ones. For reused/ Bay City mills are following this design. recycled, we include any internal or external process for reuse or recycling the material. By-products: Steelmaking residues that are reResidues, by-products and used or recycled, internally or externally. Includes mill scale, slag, DRI fines and sludge and electric materials management arc furnace dust. Internal scrap not included. All percentages are calculated comparing tons Steelmaking is a resource-intensive process reused/ recycled to tons generated in the same categories and sites. that generates large volumes of residues Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel and by-products. We follow up the use of Shop, Tamsa, Dalmine, Siat VA, Siat VC, Confab, Hickman, Conroe, Republic Conduit, Mc Carty, materials at all our sites, as well as residue Texas Arai, Algoma, Prudential, Tubocaribe, NKKTubes, Silcotub. streams and by-products that result from our processes, aiming to reduce generation and increase the use and recycling of materials. We are continually looking for effective ways to bring about more sustainable material management, investing in R&D projects to minimize residue generation, standardize materials to improve their use or implementing recycling practices. Tenaris 25 The material efficiency indicator, calculated with worldsteel methodology, shows that the recycling rate at our steelmaking sites is almost 100% and consistent with the trend from previous years, as by-products are mostly used or recycled. Looking at Tenaris as a whole, in 2015 byproducts used decreased a bit as a result of local market considerations. The four-year trend shows that most of our residues (nearly 80%) are in fact by-products and that landfill disposal is now at about 10-15% of the total. Our objective is to continue reducing waste while increasing its use as products. In Dalmine, a USD 9M investment in a treatment plant to recover boron from waste water started to operate. Boron is used in the rolling mill process: under this treatment, the salt is recovered from waste water and sold in the market. In our rolling mill in Zalau, Romania, an upgrade of the waste water treatment facility has been performed to minimize contamination of mill scale so that a greater percentage is available to be used in other processes. Silcotub and Siderca are already recycling refractories from the steel mills, meaning 700 tons were not sent to landfills. Dalmine and Tamsa have implemented externals recycling. Many other initiatives in different mills are ongoing from alumina recycling, wood reuse as biomass, plastics, etc. Sustainability Report 2015 Environment Water Management Our sites located in areas with water scarcity In our steelmaking and seamless pipe have recycling water systems implemented. production facilities, water management We are however looking into ways to is a significant issue in terms of use and continue to improve the way we use and consumption. Water is mainly used for manage water more efficiently. cooling processes in the steelmaking mills and seamless pipe mills. Welded pipe Our new line in Colombia, an area with facilities have much lower water use rates. water scarcity, was designed to recycle all the water used: even wastewater from sanitary Our sites have different industrial water services is used, once adequately treated, systems, which result in noticeable for watering green areas of the new site. differences in the amount of water intake The Bay City mill is also designed to recycle per ton of product produced, absolute cubic more than 95% of the water it will use, while meters used and also the source of the water. wastewater after treatment will be sent to a The situation of each site depends on the local wastewater treatment facility. amount and quality of water available and on local regulations. Reducing noise Many of our sites are located near residential Our main mill in Argentina has, by far, the areas, as the communities historically grew largest abstraction rate of surface water around the mills. We are now working on since it was designed based on abundant many sites in order to minimize noise levels local water availability. It has an open water at the sources in order to improve the impact system, which is used mainly for cooling on our employees’ occupational health and purposes in the steel and rolling processes. the nuisance that the normal operation of a A first-step investment is in the designed mill creates in the daily life of our neighbors. engineering phase for a change in the way Many improvements were achieved in water is managed at the rolling mills. The Dalmine and in TuboCaribe. Other sites project will allow reuse of rolling mills are also working on internal assessments to water, improving the general management of define the best areas to seek improvements. the resource as these processes account for Bay City mill has been designed with a most of the water used in the site. completely different approach in terms of pipe handling and movement in order to During 2015, we launched a program in avoid high levels of noise at source. our seamless mill in Romania to improve water management from the heat treatment, cold-drawn and threading areas. A total reduction of 30% of water intake per year was achieved through improved operational control and the use of rainwater for processes requiring less water quality. 27 Innovation Innovation Helping to transform the Our products have built a reputation over time for their quality and reliability. Our Dopeless® technology has been a pioneer industry in the industry in the use of dope-free connections for environmentally sensitive We operate a global industrial system under and complex operations (See below). Our a single quality management system, whose Research and Development teams work aim is to ensure that the same high levels closely with our technical sales teams, of quality are maintained for all Tenaris who in turn are in constant contact with products irrespective of the production the customers to identify and propose facility in which they have been produced. solutions. We have a network of almost 300 researchers at five R&D centers located in Our products are manufactured in Argentina, Brazil, Italy, Japan and Mexico. accordance with the highest industrial standards and our quality management In 2015, we optimized our spending on system, based on the ISO 9001 and API Q1 research and development considering the specifications, assures that products comply decline in investment by our customers in with customer requirements from the the most complex projects. We invested acquisition of raw materials to the delivery USD 89 million in R&D, roughly 15% ] of the final products. less than the previous year but showing an We invested upward trend over the last five years. Our in Research & Development As our business will only be sustainable if investment in research had topped USD USD 468 our products contribute to a sustainable 100 million in the two previous years, as world, we are developing life cycle analysis. Tenaris increasingly specialized in highMillion During 2015 Dalmine, our mill in Italy, end products. That investment has given has published two Environmental Product us a product portfolio strength that has no over the last five years Declarations: one for line pipe for onshore parallel in the industry. and offshore use and another for pipes for mechanical uses. We will continue with other We strive to engage some of the world’s products, as a deeper analysis helps us to find leading industrial research institutions improvement opportunities and continues to to solve the problems posed by the build our differentiation strategy. complexities of oil and gas projects with innovative applications. We also seek to The capacity for innovation and protect our intellectual property, from specialization of products and services R&D and innovation, through the use of enable Tenaris to maintain and improve patents and trademarks that allow us to its position in the national and global differentiate from our competitors. market. Our value proposition relies on this industrial excellence; our product portfolio, which is the most comprehensive in the industry; and a strong service component that seeks to promote cost-efficiency and a safe and correct use of our products. Tenaris 29 Research and This capacity of being close to our customers both at the global and the Development local level allows us to deliver innovative solutions, not only in products but also in services. In the current market downturn, Investment in R&D we have sought to further integrate product (in million USD) and service into our value proposition in order to give our customers more cost120 efficient solutions. The industry is looking 100 106 107 106 into ways of transforming itself to adapt to 80 89 the new oil price scenario, and we are trying 83 83 83 to be part of the solution, streamlining 60 customers’ operations and making them 40 economically sustainable. 20 Bringing quality and expertise 0 directly to the rig 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2015, we placed a strong impetus on addressing inefficiencies in the supply chain in the United States, where the industry has traditionally worked with third-party distributors, through our Rig DirectTM service program. Rig DirectTM seeks to create a more efficient supply chain in our industry in order to save our customers’ time and money and, at the same time, guarantee the highest levels of safety and environmental compliance. We synchronize deliveries from our mills and manage the supply of pipes and accessories directly to the rig. The system contributes to a more sustainable, costefficient operation, reducing working capital and inventory obsolescence, as well as simplifying operating procedures. Sustainability Report 2015 Innovation We rolled out Rig Direct™ in the Eagle Technology for safer, cleaner and more Ford and Permian regions of the USA, reliable operations opening new service centers in Freeport Our Dopeless® technology continues to and Midland. Midland will be officially be a landmark in the industry in terms inaugurated in the second half of 2016. By of a technological solution that seeks to the end of 2015, we were supplying 50 rigs. guarantee that operations are safer, cleaner Our Bay City mill in Texas, scheduled to and more reliable for our customers. start operations in 2017, is the heart of our Rig DirectTM program. The creation of his dope-free solution and its manufacturing was the result of close Being closer with the products and reducing work with a customer in the North Sea over the time it takes for the pipes to make it to a decade ago, as we jointly strived to find the rigs, we improve logistics and minimize solutions for a concrete situation. Over the the handling of products, as well as waste. years, we have sold more than 500,000 tons of Dopeless® technology products for the With the Rig DirectTM service program, our most complex applications worldwide. experts in pipe materials and performance, material supply, inventory management Dopeless® technology is a dry, and preparation for use help customers to multifunctional coating applied to achieve the most efficient operations all the TenarisHydril premium connections on way to the well. From technical consulting dedicated production lines at Tenaris’s and pipe management to the actual services mills worldwide. The Dopeless® solution on the field, this helps customers reduce provides important operational benefits. For the total cost of their operations, maximize example, the technology reduces make-up safety, minimize environmental impact and problems, increasing the reliability of the optimize the use of their materials. installation and cutting running times. We are also introducing new information It also provides important safety benefits, technologies to better assist our customers as it creates a clean, non-slippery with data about our products during their surface during operations. Being a zero use. Our PipeTracer™ is a unique tracking discharge technology, it also minimizes the and traceability application that allows environmental impact in the field. operators to identify Tenaris products on-site with mobile devices. By scanning codes located on the pipe body and thread protectors, customers can download product information, create digital tallies and generate Excel spreadsheets specific to the operation. Human Resources Human More focused to weather the Employee engagement: Opinion Survey We adapted to this market downturn trying Resources downturn to minimize the impact of the crisis on our people and to preserve our values and our identity. We put significant effort into Our employees are the most important keeping our people engaged and committed. source of our strength and our competitive competitive edge. Tenaris has grown to We have sought to be fully transparent with become a global leader thanks to the work our employees and with the communities of a team that has expanded and continues about the measures we had to take in to expand its knowledge, execution capacity order to tackle our sector’s change of and diversity. circumstances and make our company sustainable in the new scenario. Both The market downturn facing our sector is internally and externally, we have reinforced driving us to review every aspect of our cost our communications to employees and structure, including our human resources. provided details about the decisions we Like every player in the oil and gas sector, have had to take. Our top management we have had to made difficult decisions, as incremented their engagement in periodic we adjusted our budgets to the new levels of communications routines, including Town ] activity and the structural changes that are Hall meetings and webcasts, to explain Employee Opinion taking place in our market. We have sought the state of the market and the company’s Survey 2015 to adapt our activities without affecting strategy. 85% the fundamental values and management principles that have guided us through the The opinion of our people is an essential participation years and taken us to where we are. indicator of the quality of our management, and our commitment is to listen to them The concrete result of that guiding principle and to act accordingly. In 2015 we held is that we have continued to carry out all the our biennial opinion survey, which had the programs designed to help our employees strongest employee participation (85%) since develop their careers. Most of them have we first conducted it in 2008. seen the number of editions or number of participants adjusted to match the shrinking Survey responses showed in general an nature of our market’s situation and our improvement when compared to the level of activity. But we remain committed to results posted in 2012, but a decline versus giving our employees, current and potential, the simplified survey (Mid-Cycle the opportunity to grow their careers in a Survey) we conducted before the crisis, in challenging and stimulating professional March 2014. In comparison to the 2012 environment. survey and taking into consideration the difficult circumstances, over 41 comparable questions, 30 had a higher favorable response (agree and strongly agree) while five questions had a lower rate of favorable response. Tenaris Human Resources Human Resources Indicators Indicators Total hourly and salaried employees Salaried employees by gender In thousands of people In thousands of people 30 10 26.9 26.8 27.7 26.6 8.5 19.2 7.8 8.1 25 19.3 18.8 18.7 8 7.6 6.6 7.4 21.8 6.3 6.0 6.0 20 5.7 14.4 6 15 4 10 7.8 8.1 8.5 2 5 7.6 7.4 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.7 0 0 Dec ´11 Dec ´12 Dec ´13 Dec ´14 Dec ´15 Dec ´11 Dec ´12 Dec ´13 Dec ´14 Dec ´15 Hourly Male Salaried Female Total Total Managers by gender In number of people 1,500 1,209 1,200 1,139 1,131 1,036 1,072 1,100 1,040 1,021 949 980 900 600 300 0 87 92 99 109 110 Dec ´11 Dec ´12 Dec ´13 Dec ´14 Dec ´15 Male Female Total Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources We obtained the best results in our human Upward feedback was introduced into our resources management, performance performance management process in 2012. evaluation, internal communications, in the Employee participation in 2015 showed it recognition of technical and operational has gained credibility among our people. functions, in safety and quality and in The number of employees who gave upward diversity. And we found opportunities for feedback about their supervisors grew improvement in process simplification from 56% in 2014 to 90% in 2015, and the and development opportunities. With the number of supervisors who received upward detailed analysis of the survey’s results, feedback went up from 81% to 96%. we will prepare an action plan designed to improve our employees’ engagement. The Our corporate university turns 10 actions included in the plan are tested in the One of the cornerstones of our employee following survey, two years later. development policy is our corporate University, TenarisUniversity, which turned Performance management 10 in 2015. TenarisUniversity is responsible Our PMP Performance Management for strategically integrating, aligning and Process is designed to help employees disseminating knowledge and expertise assess their own progress, strengthen the across the company. supervisor-employee relationship and reward individual and group merit. It is regularly A decade after its foundation, updated so that it is aligned with Tenaris’s TenarisUniversity has 15 regional centers, business needs, industry best practices and its six schools deliver over 1.2 million hours recommendations made by employees in the of training per year, it has organized 42 biennial survey. TUIC Induction Camps for global trainees, 27 Management Development Programs The PMP has become a pillar of the (MDP) for potential managers, 14 Advanced company’s human resources processes. Management Programs (AMP) for middle In 2015, employee participation in the managers and three Leadership Programs for performance management process also saw top managers. Besides, more than 400 hourly an increase. In 2015, all salaried employees employee courses have been translated into were evaluated: work plans were defined the company’s eight official languages and 50 for 98% of them and 78% worked together development plans have been designed. with their supervisors to complete Individual Development Plans (IDPs). In spite of the company’s budget adjustment, TenarisUniversity has continued to conduct all its programs, focusing on the new demands that the market is placing on our organization. The overall amount of training hours per employee has decreased by 10% this year, but we increased our average training for hourly employees. The reduced level of activity in our mills also gave us an opportunity to strengthen on-the-job training activities. Each hourly employee received an average of 39 hours of training in 2015, up from 32 hours a year earlier. Tenaris Human Resources Indicators Employee participation in TUIC, MDP and AMP courses Participants per course Year AMP MDP TUIC 2011 35 151 234 2012 47 119 170 2013 81 176 241 2014 79 255 233 2015 52 56 180 AMP: Advanced Management Program MDP: Management Development Program TUIC: TenarisUniversity Induction Camp Tenaris Salaried Employees Year % approved % approved workplans IDP 2011 76 41 2012 86 42 2013 89 51 2014 98 76 2015 98 78 IDP: Individual Development Plan Upward Feedback Year % of supervisors % of employees that received UF who provided UF 2012 66 40 2013 76 53 2014 81 56 2015 96 90 Employee Opinion Survey Participation Year Target Rate of population participation (%) 2008 6,817 80 2010 6,892 76 2012 7,646 80 2014* 7,903 74 2015 7,534 85 * Mid-Cycle Survey Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources We continued to conduct our training Human Resources programs for salaried employees at the different levels of their careers: the Indicators TenarisUniversity Induction Camp (TUIC), our one-month program for global trainees; the Management Development Program (MDP) for mid-career professionals; and Total training hours per salaried employee the Advanced Management Program (AMP) for managers. We also organized 60 59 59 three editions of our International 50 55 51 50 Orientation (IO) program, a week-long 40 program for new mid-career employees; and a third edition of our Leadership 30 Program (LP) for top managers. Each of 20 these programs was conducted in different countries, as a reflection of Tenaris’s 10 geographical and cultural diversity: the 0 TUIC and MDP are conducted in Campana, ´11 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 Argentina, the AMP is held in the United States, the LP in Italy and the IO in Romania. Total training hours per hourly employee 99 In April 2015, TenarisUniversity opened a 100 new campus in our mill in Zalau, 90 80 80 77 73 75 Romania. The event also marked the 10th 70 anniversary of Tenaris’s presence in the 60 country. The new 2,500-square meter 50 building has two amphitheaters, three 40 47 43 41 30 37 35 training rooms, another three technical 20 and IT labs, two conference rooms and 10 office space. It was build for a total 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 investment of USD 14 million. Zalau’s is TenarisUniversity’s fifth campus in a list Including On-the-Job Training that also includes premises in Siderca in Excluding One-the-Job Training Argentina, Confab in Brasil, Dalmine in Italy and Tamsa in Mexico. Resignation Rate 10 9 8 7 6 4.5 4.3 5 4.1 4.2 4 3.6 3 2 1 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of employees resigning from the company in previous 12-month period. Tenaris 37 Through the years, TenarisUniversity has The 50-year-old professional development incorporated the most innovative training Training magazine placed Tenaris eighth techniques. Under the collaboration in a 125-company ranking that looks agreement we reached in November 2013 into employee training and development with edX, an educational institution practices. Tenaris applied to the ranking for created by founding partners Harvard and the second time in 2015. the MIT, we launched four Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs) on Computer Growing in diversity Numerical Control (CNC), Introduction to Diversity continues to be a driver of our Steel, Introduction to Oil Country Tubular Human Resources policy. Tenaris is an Goods (OCTG) and Introduction equal opportunity employer and aims to to Running Pipe in Oil and Gas Wells. foster a work environment that attracts and develops talents across all genders, These courses are open for everybody to nationalities, generations, cultures and take online in edX’s platform. The backgrounds for the long-term sustainability completion rate of Tenaris’s four MOOCs of the company. reached 24%, well above the average edX courses’ rate of 5%. In total, 41,000 people Born from the alliance of three companies (average age 27) in 136 countries participated in Argentina, Italy and Mexico, Tenaris in the online courses. Tenaris’s work with has grown over the last two decades to edX received in December 2015 a “Gold” become a truly global company, with 67 Optimas award from the Human Capital nationalities represented among our staff. Media (HCM) publication Workforce. We believe in creating more diverse teams In this context of innovation, we are now in terms of gender, culture and nationalities engaged in reorganizing and updating our as a key to preparing Tenaris for the training materials in order to introduce the challenges ahead. Tenaris’s Diversity project most effective learning techniques. is guided and supported by a global steering committee composed by Tenaris’s executive management to ensure alignment of the project’s principles and initiatives with the company’s business strategy. Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources In 2015 we continued to expand the scope of Human Resources our Diversity program, launched originally in 2008 with a focus on gender diversity. We Indicators launched an internal website (Diversity+) to raise awareness and share experiences about diversity stories and experiences in the company. TenarisUniversity also developed Employees by nationality a special training program dedicated to diversity issues, including courses on Argentina 5,395 Brazil 2,011 introduction to diversity and management of Canada 531 global teams. We are planning on expanding Colombia 667 this curriculum and are already developing Indonesia 532 new courses with even more specific content Italy 2,045 Japon 522 on the management of cultural mix and Mexico 5,195 leading diversity. We plan to launch these Romania 1,639 new courses in 2016. Estados Unidos 2,050 Others 1,164 The Diversity program also includes a flexible work program, an ambassador program to support the recruitment of a Managers by nationality more diverse workforce and infrastructure upgrades in production centers and offices Venezuelan Others US 2% 5% 8% to improve working conditions for female Romanian 3% employees. Mexican 14% Japanese 3% 39% Italian Argentine 16% 1% 5% Indonesian 1% Brazilian British 1% Colombian 2% Canadian 39 Community Development Community Our community work follows the values and heritage of the Techint Group, our Technical education for industrial progress Being an industrial project, our investment in Development parent-organization. We believe that the development and sustainability of an pre-university schooling focuses on technical education. We seek to bridge a growing gap industrial project like ours depends on the that exists between the education students support of the community around it, which receive and the technical skills that are needed has to grow with the project. to have a quality job in the industrial sector. Despite the downturn in our industry, Along with our sister company Ternium, in 2015 we maintained our budget for we have gone forward with the construction community programs and activities at a of a network of state-of-the-art technical similar level to previous years, and in most schools, the first of which was inaugurated of the programs the number of people in the city of Campana, Argentina, in 2013. impacted has increased. Construction of the second in Monterrey, Mexico, started in mid-2015 and the school is We continue to place most of our efforts expected to open in August 2016. The school on education. We invested 56 percent of the network is named after one of the founders total USD 11.9-million community budget of the Techint Group, Roberto Rocca. in education programs, as we believe it is the ] main driver of social mobility and inclusion The school in Argentina had 173 students Investment based on merit. Culture is also an important by December 2015. It is expected to reach its in Community projects aspect of our work, as we seek to encourage full capacity by 2019, with 420 students, as USD 86.7 diversity and cultural integration. the school incorporates 60 students ever year. An average 250 students apply to join the million We are increasingly encouraging our school every year. employees to engage proactively in our between 2011 and 2015 communities via volunteering programs, The Roberto Rocca Technical School in which we organize periodically in Canada, Campana is also serving as a hub for the the United States, Brazil, Colombia, China, creation of knowledge and content for Romania, Japan and Argentina. Our goal technical education. Its staff participated is to strengthen the bond between the in the creation of a Massive Open Online company, employees and the community. Course (MOOC) on Computer Numerical More than 1,100 employees volunteered to Control as part of an agreement our participate in community activities last year, corporate university, TenarisUniversity, dedicating their time off work to refurbish reached with the online teaching school buildings, give motivational talks platform edX. to students, give students support classes or take part in environmental educational activities. Tenaris invested a USD 229,000 budget to back these activities in 2015. We will continue to encourage these activities, which create a strong bond between our employees and the communities. Tenaris 41 Community Last year, the Roberto Rocca Technical School implemented a teachers’ performance Indicators evaluation system designed with the support of Phd. Alejandro Ganimian, a Harvard graduate and member of the Gates Investment in the Community Foundation Measures of Effective Teaching (MET) project. The system consists of (in million USD) opinion surveys and standardized tests on 30 students, on-the-ground class observation 25 27.3 and evaluation of the school’s principal. The 24.6 results help us to better plan and design the 20 school’s activities. 15 13.8 10 12.5 12.6 11.9 In 2006, we created a program called 10.3 Technical Gene, which provides support 5 for infrastructure and equipment, as well 0 as teachers’ training, school management 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 training and on-the-job training internships Note: 2012 and 2013 include the one-time for high school students. The number of investment of USD 13.9 and 12.1 million respectively on the construction of the Roberto students covered by the program increased by Rocca Technical School in Campana, Argentina. more than 30 percent in 2015 to reach 2,002 in 11 schools over six countries. Investment in Education Growing support for elementary education (in million USD) Our education programs cover the entire 8 schooling cycle, from elementary to higher 7 7.1 education. Over the last years we have 6 6.7 6.1 placed strong emphasis on our AfterSchool 5.7 5 program, which offers extra learning and 4 enriching activities for elementary students 3.8 3 of single shift schools (four hours a day) in 2 communities where we have our operations. 1 The program provides three extra hours of 0 non-formal education, four days a week. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The number of children covered by the program has more than tripled over the last three years (See graph). Sustainability Report 2015 Community Development We find the AfterSchool program crucial Higher education: the Roberto Rocca for the promotion of social inclusion in our Education Program communities and set a more solid base for Over a decade old now, the Roberto Rocca the rest of the student’s learning life. This Education Program was founded in 2005 to is particularly important in many Latin promote the study of engineering and the apAmerican countries where high school dropplied sciences at undergraduate and graduate out rates or academic performance still has level in countries where the Techint Group plenty of room for improvement. has a major presence. The program has two main components: Fellowships, for students A reward for merit in high school pursuing PhDs at universities outside their The Merit Award was established in 1959. country of origin; and Scholarships, for unIt is the oldest of our community programs. dergraduate students at universities in their It was initially designed to help the children home country. of our employees go through high school education via financial reward based on In 2015 the program invested USD 2.29 their performance. In 2007, we opened this million to fund 23 new Fellowships for program to the entire community. The aid is students attending universities and 596 allocated based on academic grade perforScholarships for undergraduate students at mance and engagement in the education 90 universities around the world. Over the process, attendance and discipline. In 2015, last decade, the program has granted 3,434 Tenaris increased by 15% the number of scholarships in 17 countries. awards granted and we continued to expand the geographical reach of the program, incorporating three new countries on the list (Nigeria, Mexico and the United States). The Roberto Rocca Education Program Active scholarships and fellowships during the period 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fellowships Global 35 28 27 26 25 Scholarships Argentina 264 261 210 214 182 Brazil 40 40 39 39 27 Canada 15 15 18 15 11 Colombia 25 22 27 31 32 China 20 18 18 15 19 Ecuador 5 Ghana 3 4 4 Guatemala 5 5 5 5 5 Indonesia 6 6 6 Italy 45 45 45 45 45 Japan 11 7 8 9 8 Mexico 161 168 166 166 173 Romania 42 40 40 40 41 UK 2 2 6 2 Uruguay 6 0 3 3 6 USA 14 19 25 26 34 Venezuela 15 10 5 5 Total 663 655 621 629 596 43 Community Community Indicators Indicators Investment by area AfterSchool program, students by country 2015 Students Health 1% Community 2013 2014 2015 Environmental 1% Social Inclusion Veracruz, México 140 261 235 6% Campana, Argentina 85 81 122 Zalau, Rumania 101 130 Culture Cartagena, Colombia 70 36% Pindamonhangaba, Brazil 22 95 Total 225 465 652 Merit Awards by country 56% Education Country 2013 2014 2015 Argentina 321 296 296 Brazil 200 200 200 Canada 50 60 60 Technical Gene Colombia 50 50 Students impacted by country Indonesia 198 207 2015 Italy 45 78 68 Mexico 101 USA 98 Romania Argentina Nigeria 20 560 233 Romania 222 297 331 USA 25 Brazil Total 888 1,179 1,358 252 Italia 88 771 México Total 2,002 Sustainability Report 2015 Community Development Cultural activities to foster identity The libraries are the result of close joint and diversity work with the community in the collectIn 2015 we allocated 36 percent of our ing, digitalizing and archiving the history community budget to cultural activities. We of the cities. They follow the lead taken by continue to focus our cultural work on the Fondazione Dalmine (Dalmine Foundation), promotion of identity and diversity, as we which opened in 1999 and is tasked with want the different communities where we live compiling and preserving the historic phoand work to know themselves better and to tographic archive of our industrial facilities better understand each other. around the world. Film festivals and photo libraries are the We recognize culture as a source of innovabackbone of our cultural activities. In this tion in our communities. Tenaris and its sisperiod, we organized Latin American film ter companies in the Techint Group sponsor festivals in Argentina, Colombia, Italy, RoFundación PROA in the neighborhood of La mania and the United States. A total 10,690 Boca in Buenos Aires, Argentina, a major people attended them. hub for contemporary and modern art; and Galleria d’Arte Moderna e Contemporanea We also opened a new photo library, in (GAMeC) in Bergamo, Italy. Uruguay’s capital Montevideo, which joins another four in Argentina, Brazil and PROA’s programming in 2015 included a Mexico. The next one is scheduled to open in variety of local and international artists, the the United States, where Tenaris is expanding Lebanese-born Palestinian video artist and with the construction of a new seamless pipe installation artist Mona Hatoum, the Daros mill in the town of Bay City, Texas. Latinamerica Latin American art curators, the multidisciplinary group of architects, filmmakers and city planners Forensic Architecture, the Delhi-based Raqs Media Collective group of media practitioners and the English conceptual, video and installation artist Jeremy Deller, among others. Tenaris Corporate Registered Office 29 Av. de la Porte-Neuve 3rd Floor Information L-2227 Luxembourg (352) 26 47 8978 tel (352) 26 47 8979 fax Principal Offices Argentina Av. L. N. Alem 1067 27th Floor (C1001AAT) Buenos Aires Argentina (54) 11 4018 2100 tel (54) 11 4018 1000 fax Italy Piazza Caduti 6 Luglio 1944, 1 (24044) Dalmine, Bergamo Italy (39) 035 560 1111 tel (39) 035 560 3827 fax Mexico Edifi cio Parque Reformas Campos Elíseos 400 17th Floor (11560) Mexico, D.F. Mexico (52) 55 5282 9919 tel (52) 55 5282 9966 fax USA 2200 West Loop South, Suite 800 (77027) Houston, Texas USA (1) 713 767 4400 tel (1) 713 767 4444 fax www.tenaris.com July 2015. ©Tenaris 2015. All rights reserved. Tenaris 47 Addendum Business Conduct: Risk Assessment: The Risk Assessment is based on the evaluation of corruption risks Our commitment to per country, in particular the risk of bribery. Compliance Each examination considers the transparency profile of the country as ranked by Transparency International Corruption Since 2010, Tenaris has a Business Conduct Perception Index; as well as other compoCompliance Program that organizes nents such as the volume and class of operahow Tenaris cultivates, structures and tions, customers, commercial channels and instruments the framework for business employees, among other factors. conduct compliance. Tenaris’s adherence to ethical business practices in relations Normative: Tenaris’s Code of Conduct with public officials, government entities, embraces the guidelines and standards of other corporations, third parties and integrity and transparency applicable to all private companies and citizens, comprises its employees, directors and representatives. diverse activities centered on regular risk The Code of Conduct establishes the ethical evaluations to identify and focus attention principles that form the basis for relations on critical factors and to apply measures to between the company, its employees and prevent potential infringements or breaches third parties, and provides the means and to applicable anti-corruption regulations. instruments to give transparency to issues and threats that may have a bearing on the In 2010, Tenaris’s CEO entrusted the management of the company. enforcement of the Policy on Business Conduct to the Business Conduct The Policy on Business Conduct sets forth Compliance Officer (BCCO). The mandate principles and procedures designed to ensure to instrument the Policy worldwide that Tenaris complies with the requirements includes divulgation, normative, advice, of the Tenaris Code of Conduct and various prevention and monitoring compliance national laws prohibiting corruption, which, of employees. The program approved by in some cases, also criminalize bribery Tenaris is founded on prevention, detection taking place outside their territories. and mitigation actions consistent with Tenaris also has a Code of Conduct for state-of-the-art international anti-bribery Suppliers, a Transparency Policy Regarding compliance, such as mandatory due Relations with Third Parties, a Code of diligence on representatives, on-site and Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, a digital training, monitoring and audits. Corporate Policy on Securities Trading, an The fundamentals of the Business Anti-Fraud Policy and a Financial Controls Conduct Compliance Program are values, and Accounting Policy. accountability, awareness and organization as the company’s response to corruption perils and red flags. Sustainability Report 2015 Governance and Economic Indicators We have implemented internal procedures Advising and Guidance: The BCCO and office applicable to all employees for the approval perform regular advising and guidance on of corporate gifts, business trips, lodging site and remotely to employees, in order to expenses and hospitality meals to public reinforce understanding and alignment with officials and private persons. Any such commitment with Tenaris´s anti-corruption gift, meal or trip can only be offered to the policies. extent it genuinely serves to a legitimate complimentary purpose and does not Communications: Business Conduct Newsletpursue an undue benefit or to influence the ters, Reminders and Notices are aimed at recipient’s ability to make impartial decisions sharing with the employees the latest trends in relation to Tenaris or its subsidiaries. and news on anti-bribery matters in order to raise awareness and alignment over compliTenaris also has an internal authorization ance issues. We seek to spread the Complimanual, which establishes the process ance awareness message at all levels of the and authorization levels required for the organization with a variety of communicaapproval of advances and loans, community tional pieces. integration programs, institutional donations, social development programs Training: Training on business conduct in and other non-profit activities in accordance Tenaris is essential to foster our compliance with the Code of Conduct and the Policy on culture. Tenaris trains employees throughout Business Conduct. Political contributions are the organization by using different learning regulated in the Policy on Business Conduct, tools to ensure that its employees regularly consistently with local laws. receive training on anti-bribery provisions, case studies, and exercises through on-line We have a procedure for the evaluation, courses and in-person training sessions with selection and retention of any representative the BCCO and office. as commercial intermediaries, customs agents, permitting assistants and advisors. Business Conduct training includes: These procedures include the regulation • e-learnings trainings on “Business Ethics”, of due diligence processes, internal “Policy on Business Conduct” and more authorization controls and provisions to recently “Tenaris Anti-bribery Compliance commit third parties with Tenaris´s policies Training”. regarding anticorruption. • in-person trainings by the BCCO and Office. • in person presentations during conventions The Code of Conduct, the Policy on and regional management meetings Business Conduct, and the Code of Conduct performed by the BCCO. for Suppliers have been translated in ten • in person TenarisUniversity training to (10) languages (English, Spanish, Italian, newcomers, managers and management Portuguese, Romanian, Bahasa Indonesia, training programs by the BCCO and Office. Japanese, Arabic, Chinese and Russian). • outsourced e-learnings of first class training resources available in the industry in all necessary languages. Some third parties are also permanent target for learning courses. 49 Third Parties: Tenaris has established specific Compliance Line: According to the Code procedures that apply to the selection, of Conduct, Tenaris has established a retention and evaluation of all commercial Compliance Line to allow employees, intermediaries and noncommercial customers, suppliers and other interested representatives (as custom agents, parties to report any conducts contrary to consultants and permitting assistants). the Code of Conduct or its principles on a confidential basis, including bribery. When hiring representatives as commercial intermediaries and non-commercial Callers to the Compliance Line may ask representatives, a comprehensive integrity that all records regarding their report use evaluation of each candidate has been an assumed name in order to safeguard the incorporated as an essential part of the confidentiality of their identity. retention procedure, giving primarily importance to the candidate’s ethical, Discipline and Remediation: The Policy transparent and lawful behavior. The preon Business Conduct provides one or assessment process includes a thorough due more remediation actions,that go from diligence, internal evaluation and finally, the verbal warnings to employment dismissal engagement authorization. or termination; or other appropriate remedies to the case or circumstances as Tenaris’s representatives are required to may be defined by the BCCO or the Audit acknowledge the Code of Conduct and Committee, as applicable. Policy on Business Conduct. Suppliers, in turn, commit to comply with Benchmarking: Tenaris´s Business Conduct the integrity and transparency guidelines of Compliance Program is updated as the Tenaris Code of Conduct for Suppliers. necessary, and BCCO and Office regularly Compliance with the Code’s standards and participate and share with other compliance principles are an essential part of Tenaris’s professionals in groups, academy and supplier’s registration and evaluation. conferences on anti-corruption and compliance that allows Tenaris and its Monitoring and auditing: compliance Office to keep the program The monitoring plan embraces an annual updated and aligned to the international review of compliance with the Policy on standards. Business Conduct. Actions includes visits, due diligence reviews, background checks and red flags reviews.
