UN Global Compact Communication on Engagement Report 2016 www.gpm.world www.greenprojectmanagement.org Letter from Dr. Joel Carboni Founder and President, GPM Global Projects play a significant role in bringing products and services to life. From the skyscrapers that shape our horizons to the devices that connect us to one another, the world is developing at a rapid pace. GPM Global as a sustainability-centered certified social enterprise holds true to our mission of decoupling socio-environmental degradation from economic growth through advocacy and awareness of sustainable practices in the realm of portfolio, program, and project management. Our goal quite simply is to redefine project success to include sustainability. I am proud of the achievements we have made in our first five years and the positive impacts we have had, not only in our industry but society at large. Our network, which has grown to encompass 145 countries and territories, has shined a spotlight on the materiality of projects as they relate to organizational approaches to sustainability and project managers as actors on the stage of global sustainable development. We are committed to playing an active role in the UN Global Compact, upholding the ten principles and advocating their widespread adoption within our sphere of influence. It is with great pride that we submit our communication on engagement report. Best Regards, Dr. Joel B. Carboni UN Global Compact Communication on Engagement Report The following table provides an overview of how GPM Global has implemented the UN Global Compact Ten Principles internally and within our sphere of influence. Principle Committment Systems and Principles Services Human Rights 1. Businesses should support GPM Global, our partners and suppliers GPM Global Human Rights Statement Portfolio, Program, & and respect the protection of recognize that human rights are an integral Project Management internationally proclaimed part of corporate citizenship. We respect, GPM Global Core Principles Sustainability and human rights; support and advocate the Universal Materiality Assessments Declaration of Human Rights and the GPM Global Supplier and Partner (PSM3) 2. and make sure that they are Guiding Principles on Business and Human Code of Conduct not complicit in human rights Rights: Implementing the United Nations' Projects integrating abuses. Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework’. The GPM Global P5 Standard for Sustainable Methods Sustainability in Project Management (PRiSM) Project GPM Global has a Human Rights Methodology Statement, in line with international best The GPM Reference Guide to practice. Sustainability in Project Management PRiSM Training Labor Standards GPM Global, our partners and suppliers do GPM Global Human Rights Statement Portfolio, Program, & 3. Businesses should uphold not use forced, compulsory or child labor. Project Management the freedom of association GPM Global Core Principles Sustainability and and the effective recognition GPM Global, our partners and suppliers Materiality Assessments of the right to collective support freedom of association and The GPM Global P5 Standard for (PSM3) bargaining; recognize the right to collective bargaining. Sustainability in Project Management Projects integrating 4. the elimination of all forms The GPM Reference Guide to Sustainable Methods of forced and compulsory Sustainability in Project Management (PRiSM) Project labor; Methodology 5. the effective abolition of PRiSM Training child labor; 3 of 6 UN Global Compact Communication on Engagement Report Principle Committment Systems and Principles Services GPM Global’s staff, partners, members, GPM Global Code of Conduct Portfolio, Program, & 6. and the elimination of and certified individuals take pride in our Project Management discrimination in respect of diversity. With a global reach of over 145 GPM Global Code of Ethics Sustainability and employment and occupation. countries, our purpose and passion is to Materiality Assessment advance sustainable development which GPM Global Core Principles (PSM3) begins with our own operations. The GPM Global P5 Standard for Projects integrating Our culture is one that ensures Sustainability in Project Management Sustainable Methods inclusiveness vertically and horizontally, (PRiSM) Project extending to our partners and suppliers. The GPM Reference Guide to Methodology Sustainability in Project Management PRiSM Training Environment GPM Global, Regional Offices and GPM Global Core Principles Portfolio, Program, & 7. Businesses should support Partners are dedicated to managing Project Management a precautionary approach to environmental impacts proactively and to The GPM Global P5 Standard for Sustainability and environment challenges; advocate best practice for environmental Sustainability in Project Management Materiality Assessment stewardship within the realm of project, (PSM3) 8. undertake initiatives to program and portfolio management. The GPM Reference Guide to promote greater Sustainability in Project Management Projects integrating environmental responsibility; GPM Global is a carbon neutral Sustainable Methods organization. (PRiSM) Project 9. and encourage the Methodology development and diffusion of GPM Global is a signatory for Climate for environmentally friendly Action and was a participant in the COP21 PRiSM Training technologies. Business Forum. 4 of 6 UN Global Compact Communication on Engagement Report Principle Committment Systems and Principles Services Anti-Corruption GPM Global, our Regional Offices and GPM Global Supplier and Partner Portfolio, Program, & 10. Businesses should work partners are committed to achieving a high Code of Conduct Project Management against corruption in all its standard of ethical behavior in every Sustainability and forms, including extortion and possible way. GPM Global Core Principles Materiality Assessment bribery. (PSM3) GPM Global attended the UN Global The GPM Global P5 Standard for Compact 10th Principle Anniversary Sustainability in Project Management Projects integrating Sustainable Methods GPM Global is a signatory #107 to the UN (PRiSM) Project Global Compact Anti-Corruption call to Methodology action and is committed to working against corruption in all its forms, including bribery PRiSM Training and extortion. Thought Leadership In 2015 GPM participated in the UN Global Compact +15 Anniversary Summit in New York and COP21’s Business Forum in Paris. In 2015, GPM Global signed a collaborative partner agreement with the International Project Management Association (IPMA) to strengthen the profession of project management in general, and support collaboration on sustainability in project management, through an information exchange, joint research initiatives, joint workshops, and training specialized on aspects of sustainability based on the IPMA ICB GPM Global’s executives served as advisors for the new International Competence Baseline and Project Excellence Baseline, both of which include sustainability principles and key competence elements for sustainable development. GPM Global has been an advocate for the inclusion of sustainability in the ISO TC 258 and ISO PC280 GPM Global signed a collaborative agreement with the Global Alliance for Project Performance Standards in 2015 and holds a seat on the executive board, in support of sustainability across global project management standards. 5 of 6 UN Global Compact Communication on Engagement Report Since 2013, GPM Global’s Alliance for Sustainability in Project Management program has provided an opportunity for like minded organizations to take part in programming as an extension partners. In 2015, the program welcomed new advocates and now includes: • The Project Management Institute Mexico Chapter • The Project Management Institute Madrid Chapter (Spain) • Associacao Portuguese de Gestao de Projectos (Apogep) • Project Management Institute Arabian Gulf Chapter (Kuwait) • International Project Management Association USA • Project Management Institute Northern Utah Chapter (USA) • Project Management Institute Nuevo Cuyo Chapter (Argentina) • Project Management Association of Canada / Association de gestion de projet du Canada (PMAC) • Project Management Association Rome Chapter (Italy) Since 2014 GPM Global has been a UN PRME supporting organization and in 2015, our University Partner Program, which is designed to strengthen the PRME Six Principles in the discipline of project management has been successfully implemented in the following institutions of higher learning: • Universidad De San Buenaventura Cali (Colombia) • Sunway College (Malaysia) • Limerick University, Kemmy Business School (Ireland)* • American University of Beirut CEC • Universidad para la Cooperacion Internacional (Costa Rica)* • Bond University (Australia)* • Victoria University (Australia) • University of Zagreb Faculty of Engineering (Croatia) * Indicates PRME Signatory GPM Global 23573 Haggerty Rd. Novi, MI 48375 USA www.gpm.world www.greenprojectmanagement.org 6 of 6
