COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Bunge is a leading agribusiness and food company whose fully integrated value chain spans the globe. We are accelerating our approach to sustainability, aiming to become a shaper of sustainable practices within SDG 2 End hunger, our sector. achieve food security and We’re working on one of the world’s biggest challenges — how to ensure food security for a growing improved nutrition and promote population in a sustainable way. Our approximately 33,000 employees help farmers produce larger sustainable harvests by ensuring a seamless connection between farmers and customers, and among regions, and agriculture produce high-quality products ranging from consumer foods to animal feed to renewable fuels. In AND operation for nearly 200 years, we currently run activities in more than 40 countries related to: SDG 8: Promote sustained, • Origination of oilseeds and grains from the world’s primary growing regions and transport them inclusive and to customers worldwide sustainable • Crushing oilseeds to make meal for the livestock industry and oil for the food processing, food economic growth, full and productive service and biofuel industries employment and • Producing bottled oils, mayonnaise, margarines and other food products for consumers, decent work for all providing affordable access to staple foods • mill wheat and corn for food processors, bakeries, brewers and other commercial customers • crush sugarcane to make sugar, ethanol and electricity, supporting the development of renewable sources that support the well-being in developing countries • sell fertilizer to farmers Our Sustainability Pillars Bunge aims to improve the global food production chain, from farm to fork, to help meet global nutrition and food security needs while conserving natural resources and supporting local communities. HOW WE ACT: Our Business For Bunge, everything starts in the agricultural fields. Although we do not operate farms for most of the agricultural products we source, we have built strong relationships with farmers, sourcing oilseed oils and whole grains and delivering them to where demand is around the globe. We also process food and ingredients, and operate in the bioenergy market. Nutrition Nutritious food supports human health, which is the basis of human well-being and development. Grains and oilseed oils, specifically, account for 50% of the available calories in the global food supply today. Bunge enhances the nutritional profile of diets around the world with our oilseed oils and grains and through the fortified foods we produce. Nutritious Oils & Grains Soybean, canola, rapeseed and sunflower oils are among the richest dietary sources of polyunsaturated fat and omega-3 and omega-6 fats, all of which have known health benefits. Whole grains are rich in fiber, which is associated with a reduced risk of diabetes and heart disease. They also provide minerals such as iron, magnesium and zinc, as well as B vitamins. And quinoa, millet and sorghum — gluten-free grains — are a good source of nutrients. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Making nutrition available globally SDG 2 With an integrated value chain that stretches from farm to fork, Bunge is well positioned to deliver safe, End hunger, achieve food affordable and nutritious grains and oilseed oils around the world. And our fortified margarines, enriched security and oils and omega-3 blends supply nutrients and other benefits that are needed for human health and improved nutrition and promote decrease disease risks. sustainable agriculture Going forward, we will continue to work with partners across our food value chains, the nutrition AND community and the public health sector to help improve public health by providing healthier oil and grain products, for which there is a growing consumer demand. SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and Food Security sustainable An expected surge of the global population and the unpredictability of rainfall and other weather patterns economic growth, due to climate change are making it necessary for agribusiness and food companies to plan for increased full and productive employment and food production and less food waste, and to take measures to combat and manage the risks of climate decent work for all change. Bunge is preparing to help feed 9.5 billion people by 2050 on several fronts: We are investing in new facilities; working to increase the efficiency and integration of our supply chains; promoting sustainable agriculture and striving to ensure resiliency to climate change in various regions of the world. Partnerships From 2013 through 2015, Bunge was an anchor sponsor of and contributor to the Aspen Institute’s Food Security Strategy Group (FSSG), an expert strategy dialogue among thought leaders from business, government, academia and civil society in support of long-term food security that developed recommended actions for further international coordination around the subject. Most recently, joining forces with industry leaders to work on sustainable solutions to feeding a growing world, in August 2016, Bunge became a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led organization working to galvanize businesses around the world to help create a sustainable future. Going forward, we must balance sustainability requirements with macro efficiencies in order to continue to meet demand and standards of safety and quality around the globe. ENGAGE: Communities Bunge contributes to the well-being of local communities through employment and investments, through our work with local associations and through employee volunteer activities. Community Development Bunge participates in and sponsors activities that support the communities in which we operate around the world. In 2015, these activities supported access to water, disaster and hunger relief, farm safety, children and families in need, environmental preservation, education and literacy, and arts and culture. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE SDG 2 Fertilizing to increase production End hunger, and protect the environment – the Argentine approach achieve food security and improved nutrition Higher yields in the same cropping area, respecting the environment, is the goal for sustainable and promote development. In Argentina, Bunge is generating knowledge based on essential trials conducted for sustainable farmers, to validate and facilitate the beneficial decision-making process. The so called ‘Bunge Proposal’ agriculture (Propuesta Bunge) has shown the increase of productivity that can be achieved in La Pampa region by AND correctly balancing the soil nutrients through a proper fertilization. In average, 13% of yield increase has been reached. SDG 8: To improve the transfer of technology Bunge has launched the Agro Files tools, with a collection of trials Promote sustained, performed and or sponsored by the Company, which are allowing people to choose fertilization inclusive and recommendations by region or crop, and to finding research experiences applicable to their work area. It sustainable has been a valuable support to local sustainable agriculture for putting together all of Bunge Argentina’s economic growth, full and productive research, keeping its farmer’s community updated. More info available at www.bungeargentina.com employment and decent work for all Responsible Sourcing Through our Agribusiness segment, we source oilseeds, soybeans, corn and other grains from major growing regions around the world. Through our Sugar & Bioenergy segment, we produce sugar and ethanol in Brazil, operating directly in plantation fields in this case. In our third year of partnership with the NGO The Nature Conservancy (TNC), we also continue to help protect habitats and biodiversity while Brazil’s agribusiness sector expands. Through our new partnership with TNC, we have begun work on an innovative, open-source tool to help identify the best suited regions to sustainable growing practices within Brazil’s farming sector. We are developing this tool in collaboration with other market players, associations, financial institutions, NGOs, and private and public research agencies, and it will be tested by Bunge and other companies to help determine sourcing operations going forward, in Brazil and beyond. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Community Development Bunge participates in and sponsors activities that support the communities in which we operate around SDG 4 Ensure inclusive the world. In 2015, these activities supported access to water, disaster and hunger relief, farm safety, and equitable children and families in need, environmental preservation, education and literacy, and arts and culture. quality education and promote lifelong learning 60+ years of community development in Brazil opportunities for all The Bunge Foundation, which celebrated a milestone 60 years in Brazil in 2015, supports literacy, history education, individual achievements and sustainable development in that country. Some 500 Bunge Brazil employees volunteered in local community activities in 2015, and more than 32,000 people participated in Foundation activities during the year. Uruguay’s XXI Century Rural School (“Escuela Rural Siglo XXI”) A joint project with Reaching U and Fundación e.dúcate Uruguay over 11 primary schools, benefiting 100 rural families. The objective is to strengthen the rural educational initiative, developing the capabilities of the Rural Educational Community (inspection, schools, teachers) In this terms, children will be able to broaden their geographical and cultural horizons while improving their academic standards, expanding their cultural knowledge and maximizing their creative skills. ENGAGE: Our Employees We engage in best practices to attract a richly diverse workforce and aim to include all voices in our SDG 5 Achieve gender operations. Our extensive employee-training offerings are an investment in our workforce and the future equality and of our business. empower all women and girls Diversity & Inclusion With nearly 33,000 employees across more than 40 countries, diversity and inclusion are valued at Bunge. We are committed to supporting our diverse workforce and to boosting diversity within our operations. We strive to cast a wide net so that our global workforce will be reflective of our broad customer base and so that a diversity of thought is represented across our operations. We also review policies and practices to ensure that none inadvertently undermines diversity. We take proactive measures to increase employees’ participation and inclusion once they are a part of Bunge, and examine policies and rules, both written and unwritten, to assess whether any are excluding participation in any way. We also examine comments received on our Ethics & Compliance hotline and website and our employee engagement survey to gauge employees’ sense of inclusion. To support diversity of professional viewpoints, we also aim for cross-functional representation on our internal teams. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE SDG 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls EOP Headcount 2015 Male Female Total Value Percent Value Percent All Operating 26,722 81.5% 6,050 18.5% 32,772 Company BAS 2,008 81.5% 456 18.5% 2,464 BBR 15,334 86.2% 2,454 13.8% 17,788 BEMEA 4,008 68.4% 1,848 31.6% 5,856 BMSI 138 64.8% 75 35.2% 213 BNA 3,143 77.7% 901 22.3% 4,047 BPL 204 69.6% 89 30.4% 293 BSC 1,884 89.2% 227 10.8% 2,111 Average Workforce Tenure 2015 All Genders Male Female All 7.0 7.1 6.7 Ages <20 1.1 1.2 0.8 20-29 3.0 3.1 2.6 30-39 5.4 5.4 5.2 40-49 8.4 8.4 8.2 50-59 13.4 13.0 15.3 60+ 17.0 16.9 17.7 COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Water SDG 6 Ensure availability Because water plays a central role in the growing of food and production processes, and because access and sustainable to safe, clean water is a UN-recognized human right, managing the limited availability of freshwater management of water and sanitation around the world is a central concern for the agribusiness and food sector. Agriculture is generally for all considered to use roughly 70% of the world’s available freshwater. The direct use of freshwater in Bunge’s operations occurs mainly during our production processes, including heating and cooling, and in some secondary industrial contexts. As the world plans to grow more crops to meet growing demand, Bunge is preparing to simultaneously further reduce our freshwater use, manage our risk in water-stressed locations and support water availability for local communities. Soybean, Bunge’s largest commodity by revenue, is a rain-fed crop in the majority of areas from which we source it. Assessing and managing water risk Using the CEO Water Mandate’s definitions for key water stewardship terms, Bunge assesses water stress and water risk in watersheds or other areas where our facilities are located using: • Internal company knowledge • Regional government databases • The WBCSD Global Water Tool© (GWT) and Aqueduct Some percentage of Bunge facilities are located in river basins considered at risk, though their exposure to this risk is minor at present due to the nature of the facilities’ operations. In addition, Bunge operates some facilities in 20 separate river basins in the world classified as being at high or extremely high baseline water stress, as defined by the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool embedded in the GWT. We also have facilities in 19 separate river basins that will be below sufficient projected annual renewable water supply per person in 2025, according to a World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 2016 update. Of all of the above locations, the risk of potential financial impact from climate change, drought, increased water scarcity or stress, flooding, extreme weather and pollution of water sources is considered medium to high only in the Parana River basin (South America) and low to medium or low in the remaining basins. Progress, disclosure and partnerships We have made strides in water conservation within our operations, having already reduced our freshwater use by 9% since 2013, tripling our goal of a 3% reduction by year-end 2016. We have accomplished this by making our operational processes more efficient. 2015 marked our fourth year of disclosure to the CDP Water program and our first as an endorser of the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Water Withdrawal (megaliters/year)* 2015 SDG 6 Total water withdrawal 97 million cubic meters Ensure availability Total freshwater withdrawal 68 million cubic meters and sustainable management of Water Withdrawal by Source water and sanitation Sea water 22,887,426 megaliters for all City 9,550,514 megaliters Well 13,623,537 megaliters Surface 45,284,317 megaliters Total 97,345,794 megaliters/year Water as a Human Right Bunge recently became a signatory to the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate, a global mobilization of business leaders to advance water stewardship, sanitation and the Sustainable Development Goals. As part of our respect for water as a human right, Bunge also has been engaged in dialogue with investors, including the National Jesuit Committee on Investment Responsibility and members of the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, for several years regarding water security and human rights. Please see our Water section for more information on our water stewardship efforts and performance. Bunge Global Innovation Award: Water Conservation In response to the most severe drought conditions in 150 years in São Paulo, Brazil, the team at our Araçatuba industrial plant constructed a closed-circuit water system in 2014 to dramatically reduce freshwater consumption. As a result of this innovation, the plant has become more sustainable, and during the 2015 harvest period reduced its water consumption by 3.6M cubic meters, energy usage by 150,000 kWh and CO2 emissions by 75 tons. We produce sugarcane products sustainably in Brazil, with three of our eight sugarcane mills producing Bonsucro®certified products as demand requires. In addition, our mills not only produce sugarcane SDG 7 Ensure access to ethanol, an advanced biofuel, but also run on bagasse, a renewable-energy byproduct of sugarcane affordable, reliable, processing, resulting in carbon-neutral electricity and the ability to contribute surplus to the grid to meet sustainable and modern energy for local power needs. In 2015, our Sugar & Bioenergy division exported 570,043 MWh to the Brazilian all national grid (SIN), an increase of 8.03% over the previous year and enough energy to meet the annual power needs of approximately 300,000 households in Brazil. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Waste Bunge’s biggest achievement in the environmental space in 2015 was our 11% reduction of waste sent to SDG 12 Ensure sustainable landfill since 2013, more than double our target of a 5% reduction by year-end 2016. We also reduced the consumption and generation of solid waste in the majority of our operating companies in 2015, and are in the process of production patterns preparing for a landfill-free future. TOTAL Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method (metric tons) Landfill disposal 41,560 Composting 16,330 Land farming 17,534 Hazardous landfill disposal 0 Physic-chemical treatment 540 Incineration —without energy recovery 1,214 Incineration — with energy recovery 6,910 NonFertilizer 1,599 hazardous Biogas production 25,420 Wastes Recovery 14,589 Reuse 22,277 Recycling 51,339 On-site storage 3,449 Mining waste (waste rock) 0 Mining process waste (tailings) 0 Another treatment 1,651 Total non-hazardous wastes 204,412 Incineration 1,391 Hazardous landfill disposal 746 Recycling 976 Recovery 748 Hazardous Reuse 212 Wastes Land farming 0 On-site storage 210 Another treatment 114 Total hazardous wastes 4,282 Total weight of waste 208,694 Total Weight of Waste (by type and disposal method) Non-hazardous wastes (204,412 total metric tons) 2015 Recycling 25% Landfill disposal 20% COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Composting 8% Biogas production 12% SDG 12 Other 11% Ensure sustainable Reuse 24% consumption and production patterns Hazardous wastes (4,282 total metric tons) 2015 Recycling 23% Hazardous landfill 17% Recovery 17% Incineration 32% Reuse 5% On-site storage 5% (GRI-G4, EN23, 25) In South America, where Bunge strongly serves Brazilian consumers directly with food products, the company also runs programs to promote awareness, waste management and recycling. The most important example is the Soya Recicla Program. Created in 2006, the Soya Recicla program consolidated its position as the main Bunge recycling initiative as of 2014. The largest voluntary used cooking oil collection program in the country, Soya Recicla is in place in more than 40 municipalities in eight states (Rio Grande do Sul, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Bahia, Ceará, Pará, Pernambuco and Minas Gerais); it is currently being implanted in another 23 municipal districts. In 2015, the number of schools participating in the program was also expanded, in addition to which collection hotspots were installed in 20 municipal parks in Greater São Paulo. Overall, in 2015, a total of 2,188 active collection hotspots (10% up on 2014) collected 804,042 kg of oil, a 21% increase over the previous year. Since 2006, the program has collected more than 3 million kilograms of post-consumer vegetable oil. A total of 15.7 metric tons of PET packaging was collected, a volume increase of 35% compared with 2014. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Energy Use, Emissions and Climate SDG 13 Take urgent action Carbon emissions and deforestation may contribute to the warming of the atmosphere, which further to combat climate destabilizes climate patterns and places food supplies and livelihoods at risk. change and its impacts As an agribusiness and food company, Bunge seeks to support adaptation and resilience to climate change in our operations and supply chain by managing the location and diversity of crops; by reducing our own energy use and emissions in both our facilities and our fleet; and by protecting forests. Such activities are core to Bunge’s climate change mitigation efforts. Managing climate change risks Climate change poses acknowledged risks for Bunge. First, future additional regulations or taxation of GHG emissions, or policies related to national emission-reduction plans, could affect costs for our business. And second, adverse weather, including as a result of climate change, could affect the availability of agricultural commodities and products, as well as our operations and results. These same possibilities could also create opportunities for our business, in that they could result in a greater demand for our crops grown in unaffected regions, as well as opportunities to leverage our global asset network to meet demand in times of shortages. Public policy advocacy We seek to influence public policy on bioenergy through direct engagement with policy makers and participation in the trade associations of FEDIOL, ABIOVE and UNICA, in whose governance we are also active, and we report avoided emissions to the CDP Climate Change program for our low-carbon products: ethanol, biofuel, biomass and bioelectricity. Energy use reductions in 2015 In 2015, Bunge made good progress in reducing our non-renewable energy use and emissions and in forest protections, and we are on track to accelerate our efforts in these areas. Substantially all of our major industrial facilities are located in the U.S., Argentina and Brazil; 2015 emissions reported to the CDP Climate Change program originated at approximately 100 processing plants, mills, refineries, packaging facilities and fertilizer production facilities. Although it takes a great deal of energy to produce and deliver safe, quality products, we have decreased our energy use/MT of production by 4% since 2013, surpassing our goal of a 3% reduction by year-end 2016. We’ve accomplished this through a variety of energy-efficiency programs across our operating companies and varying energy sources. We also use renewable energy, including sunflower husks and biomass, when possible, and our sugarcane mills in Brazil run on and produce renewable energy. Progress, disclosure and partnerships In emissions reductions, we are closing in on our target of a 3% reduction in carbonand energy-intensity by year-end 2016, reaching 2.8% thus far. Following the global call for a cleaner-energy economy, we are reducing emissions in our facilities and our fleet, including through our membership in the Sustainable Shipping Initiative. Bunge also participates in the European Union Emission Trading Scheme, complying COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE with regional legislation and purchasing carbon credits in 2015 for projects verified to the Clean Development Mechanism. SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Emissions (in metric tons) 2015 Direct CO2 emissions from fuel use in facilities 1.69M metric tons Indirect CO2 emissions from purchased electricity and steam 1.72M metric tons Emissions from ocean freight and bunker fuel GHG Emissions (metric tons)* UNIT TOTAL Greenhouse Production 2015 Metric tons 71,847,263 Gasses Emission Intensity kgCO2/tons 47.66 GHG emissions (Scope 1) — total direct emissions without offsets/credits 1,694,967 metric tons GHG emissions (Scope 2) — total indirect emissions without offsets or credits 1,729,080 metric tons GHG emissions intensity — intensity ratio .00008 Denominator chosen to calculate ratio 43,483 Reduction of GHG emissions — achieved as a direct result of initiatives 51,912 * Bunge collects activity data and calculates Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions using the Brazil GHG Protocol Programme, the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006), and the U.S. EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule; national sources such as the U.S. EPA, the Argentine Secretary of Energy, and the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology; and local sources. (GRI G4-EN15-21) Energy Consumption (Scope 1 and Scope 2, MWh)* Scope 1 Natural gas 26,605,014 Gasoline 6,708 Light oil 22,577 Diesel 265,594 Fuel oil/heavy oil 77,920 Shale oil 0 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 86,999 Wood or wood waste 6,214,349 Seed hulls 2,497,877 Other primary solid biomass 3,182,800 Sugar cane waste 31,905,952 Ethanol 75,914 Coal 3,268,171 Total direct energy consumption 74,209,876 COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Scope 2 Electricity SDG 13 Take urgent action Breakdown of consumption (joules, watt-hours or multiples for electricity, heating, cooling, steam) to combat climate Consumed energy purchased change and its impacts Total electricity sold Total electricity Steam Purchased 1,194,514 Total Indirect Energy Consumption 3,386,044 * Bunge collects activity data and calculates Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions using the Brazil GHG Protocol Programme, the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006), and the U.S. EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule; national sources such as the U.S. EPA, the Argentine Secretary of Energy, and the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology; and local sources. Energy Consumption by Source 2015 Direct energy consumption 74,209,876 Sugarcane waste 72.7% Natural gas Wood 14.2% Seed hulls 5.7% Coal Other primary biomass 7.3% Other Ethanol .2% 2015 Indirect energy consumption 3,386,044 Electricity 65% Steam 35% 2015 Total energy consumption 77,595,920 gigajoules (GRI-G4 EN3-7) COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE HOW WE CONSERVE: Sustainable Agriculture We are committed to eliminating deforestation from all of our agricultural supply chains worldwide, and SDG 15 Protect, restore and are now developing implementation plans for necessary cropand region-specific solutions. In addition, promote we disclosed to the CDP Forests program for the first time in early 2016, as part of our recent policy sustainable use of terrestrial dedicated to the mitigation of deforestation in our supply chains. [see our commitment at ecosystems, http://www.bunge.com/citizenship/sustainable.html] sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Palm Oil Palm oil is the most widely used vegetable oil in the world, used by many companies as an alternative to hydrogenated vegetable oils, whose use is now restricted due to the health concerns related to the trans fatty acids those oils contain. In growers’ efforts to produce more palm seeds for global markets, important ecosystems have been converted to oil palm plantations. The protection of forests and peat land within the palm oil industry, notably the protection of highconservation value (HCV) and high-carbon-stock (HCS) forests, is critical for minimizing greenhouse gas emissions, combating climate change and preserving habitats and biodiversity. While progress is being made in palm traceability and forest and peat protection, achieving full traceability for palm oil in Asia remains an industry-wide challenge. Our Global Palm Oil Sourcing Policy, first implemented in 2014, calls for: • Eliminating deforestation from our agricultural supply chains worldwide, employing tested methodologies that incorporate carbon and biodiversity protections • Respecting local and indigenous community rights and applying free, prior and informed consent for land purchases and use • Enhancing the traceability and transparency of key supply chains over time, aiming for 100% traceability to the mill in countries or areas of countries in which this has not yet been achieved • Engaging directly with suppliers on the ground to close gaps and implement transformational projects • Creating a grievance process whereby our stakeholders can raise any concerns or issues related to our Policy • Launching a supplier-qualification and -evaluation process • Publicly disclosing progress on our efforts Bunge’ existing global labor policy prohibits forced and child labor and protects freedom of association. Looking ahead By 2017, we aim to reach 100% traceability for palm oil in our Europe, North America and South America businesses; begin issuing regular traceability updates for global operations; and ensure our palm oil grievance mechanism is fully operational. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Going forward, we will work with The Forest Trust to close palm traceability and policy gaps in our supply chain and further enhance our public reporting and grievance mechanism. And, in those regions and SDG 15 countries that are lagging behind throughout our industry, we aim to replicate recognized best practices Protect, restore and in palm traceability. promote sustainable use of terrestrial The Forest Trust (TFT) is an international nonprofit that helps transform commodity supply chains by ecosystems, guiding companies through policy creation, source mapping, action on the ground and verification. Bunge sustainably manage forests, combat joined TFT in 2015, committing to measurable progress in respecting people and nature in our palm oil, desertification, and sunflower oil and soy supply chains. (GRI-G4 16) halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity Progress in 2015/2016 loss In 2015, we mapped and improved the traceability of our palm oil, achieving a 93% traceability to the mill average rate for Europe, North America and South America, and a 67% overall rate in the last quarter. Rates were similar or improved for the first and second quarters of 2016: Europe and the Americas rose to between 95% and 98%, while Asia remained a challenge with 41% traceability to the mill due to local market particularities and the industry’s origination and trading model. We are working on these challenges to enhance our traceability pattern. CONSERVE: Environment Environmental stresses such as freshwater limits and climate unpredictability have intensified, making it necessary for agribusiness and food companies to better manage environmental performance within their operations and supply chains. In addition to adhering to our Environmental Policy, Bunge has been proactively advancing our management of water, emissions, energy use and waste, exceeding three of our four goals in these areas in 2015, ahead of schedule. Adding additional targets, our Environmental Working Group has developed more ambitious goals for these environmental priorities for 2017 and beyond. We measure environmental performance in our factories and production centers. Silos and ports, whose impact is marginal, are not included. This year, we are reporting on the progress made against our 2014– 2016 environmental goals and setting the stage for our expanded efforts over the coming decade. A partnership with the NGO TNC is in place in Argentina, where Bunge supports the project on regenerative investment in natural assets, carried out in the Southeast of the Province of Buenos Aires. The project goal is to develop and apply an agronomic, financial and commercial model that allows rural actors from that region to generate a normal farm income, by sustainably improving the natural assets and the ecological functions of their land and of the region, and the rural social fabric. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Transparency Bunge is considered to be a good partner by stakeholders within our value chains, a professional team SDG 17 Strengthen the with whom organizations can engage in dialogue around sustainability. We are respected for being honest means of about what we are doing and for reporting our progress in sustainability in a balanced way. implementation and revitalize the global partnership for Public Reporting sustainable We publicly disclose our efforts and progress through several sustainability reporting mechanisms, development including through the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework at the global and regional levels, as in this report, and through CDP programs. Sustainability reports Bunge issued our first global edition of a Citizenship report in 2008. In 2011, we launched our Citizenship website. Bunge’s 2014 Citizenship Report was our first GRI-based report at the global level, and this year’s Global Sustainability Report is our first global report in compliance with the Core indicators of the GRI G4 framework. We have been reporting on sustainability at the regional level longer: Bunge Brazil released its thirteenth report this year — its third GRI Comprehensive report. And Bunge Southern Cone, which has been reporting on its performance since 2009, published a GRI G4–based report for operations in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia this year. (GRI-G4 27) CDP programs & the CEO Water Mandate Bunge also discloses its sustainability performance to three CDP programs: CDP Water, CDP Climate Change and, for the first time in 2016, CDP Forests. 2015 was the fourth consecutive year, in fact, that we disclosed information to the CDP Water program. In 2015, we also became a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate. Charters and Principles Bunge belongs or is a signatory to several charters and principle frameworks, including the UN Global Compact and Brazil’s Soy Moratorium. Member Organizations Bunge is a member of the following organizations, all of which are working toward a more sustainable agribusiness and food industry. Bunge’s board and council participation in these organizations is noted where applicable. ABIOVE (Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oils Industries), Council participation Bonsucro, Board participation (2013–2016); chair in 2015/16 FEDIOL (Federation representing the European Vegetable Oil and Protein meal Industry in Europe), Board participation; presidency in 2016 Field to Market* COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2015/2016 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE New Vision for Agriculture: founding partner, partner companies are collectively working toward a 20% improvement in agricultural food chain performance across 18 countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America SDG 17 in each decade leading up to 2050. Strengthen the means of implementation and Sustainable Shipping Initiative revitalize the global partnership for The Forest Trust: transforms commodity supply chains by guiding companies through policy creation, sustainable source mapping, action on the ground and verification. Bunge joined TFT in 2015, committing to development measurable progress in respecting people and nature in our palm oil, sunflower oil and soy supply chains. (GRI-G4 16) UNICA, Council participation World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD) *Founding member Participation in global forums and debates Another important way in which Bunge engages with stakeholders is through active participation in global public events, in addition to local opportunities: • Aspen Institute’s Food Security Strategy Group (FSSG) annual meetings, 2013–2015 • Bonsucro Week 2015, Sao Paulo — “Inform, Improve, Inspire” — attended by producers, industry, trade and NGOs. Bunge’s Michel Santos, then chair of Bonsucro, opened the conference by calling for an accelerated transformation of the sugarcane industry in the next few years. • Soy Traders Meeting, Miami, Florida, 2016 – Bunge participated in the “Anticipated Challenges for Soy Expansion, Deforestation and Policy Developments for Latin America” discussion, organized by the World Wildlife Federation and Conservation International, together with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) • Innovation Forum, Washington, D.C., 2016 – In the “How Business Can Tackle Deforestation’ discussion, Bunge weighed in on transferable lessons from the Soy Moratorium for other commodities. • IFC’s LAC Climate Business Forum 2016, Bogotá, Colombia – Bunge participated in the “Threats and Opportunities Posed by Climate Change on Agribusiness” panel discussion. • World Bank Strategies Workshop, Bogotá, Colombia, 2016 — Bunge participated in the “Developing a Common Methodology for Landscape Conservation in Latin America” discussion with other invited companies and NGOs.
