Annual Integrated Report 2015 MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD GRI G4-1 This year we have unified our sustainability and against the US Dollar “US$” was a major feature of Tecon Rio Grande and Tecon Salvador moved over term contract to Petrobras. During the year, three the annual reports. The objective is to produce 2015 causing the revenue and bottom line earnings one million twenty-foot equivalent units “TEU” in vessel charters were concluded; the associated one document that has all significant results of to fall while positively impacting the operating the year for the first time, driven by an increase in PSVs experienced some offhire before successfully the Company, considering both financial and result and margins. The Group businesses again Brazilian exports and empty container movements. contracting with Petrobras for a further two years. sustainability measures. demonstrated their fundamental strengths and We continue to look to develop and improve our The PSV Mandrião, built in an international shipyard quality with key operational indicators remaining container terminal business, and are continuing and delivered in 2014, has now been registered on Reaffirming our focus on the search for sustainable robust at our container terminal, towage and negotiations with the relevant authorities to expand the Brazilian special register and is available in the business development, we prioritize seven themes: offshore support vessel businesses. the Tecon Salvador terminal further. Our towage Brazilian spot market. safety; attracting talent, training, succession and business had a successful year aided by the high retention of talent; new competitive scenario; proportion of revenue linked to the USD, which Group Results environmental management; technology and provides a natural hedge against the depreciating innovation; expansion of requirements; energy BRL. Towage special operations performed well Operating profit for the year increased by US$20.0 efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions. Over the aided by ongoing support for the Port of Açu in Rio million from US$94.9 million to US$114.9 million due following pages we present our achievements and Operating % de Janeiro state and fire fighting support in the port to higher operating margins which improved from challenges for each. volumes 2015 2014 Change of Santos. We continue to invest in our tugboat 15% in the prior year to 23% in 2015, principally due fleet with the most powerful tugboat operating in to the weaker BRL and a lower depreciation charge. We take this opportunity to ratify our commitment Brazil, WS Titan (84 tons bollard pull), built at the The improved operating profit was reflected in strong for the Global Compact, to which we are signatories CONTAINER Wilson Sons shipyards in Guarujá, São Paulo state, cash generation with net cash flows from operating since 2009. Our organizational culture, corporate TERMINALS 1,035.2 975.1 6.2 (container movements delivered in 2015. activities for the period of US$154.5 million compared governance and business strategy are integrated with in TEU ‘000) to US$118.0 million in 2014. The higher operating profit the ten principles of the Global Compact preserving We remain the towage market leader in Brazil was offset mainly by an increase in exchange losses human rights, labour rights, the environment and operating a fleet of seventy-six tugboats, significantly on foreign currency borrowings and an increase in combating corruption in all its forms. TOWAGE larger than our nearest competitor. In addition to exchange losses from monetary items so that Group (number of harbour manoeuvres 58,620 58,543 0.1 WS Titan, our shipyards successfully delivered to profit before tax for the year was US$1.0 million lower Solid Results in a Challenging performed) third parties the first Remotely Operated Vehicle than prior year at US$71.1 million (2014: US$72.1 Economic Environment Support Vessel (ROVSV) built in Brazil and an Oil million). Profit per share based on ordinary activities Spill Recovery Vessel (OSRV). Construction work after taxation and non-controlling interests was 42.4 Wilson Sons completed 2015 with solid results in OFFSHORE also progressed on two new platform supply vessels cents (2014: 40.2 cents). In addition to the impact a challenging moment for the Brazilian economy. VESSELS 6,585 6,683 -1.5 (PSVs) to be delivered in 2016 to our offshore joint (operating days own on operating margins and bottom line earnings the The highlights of our two largest businesses included vessels) venture, Wilson Sons Ultratug Offshore. Wilson Sons depreciation of the BRL against the USD negatively record EBITDA for our towage business, and over 1 Ultratug Offshore performed well in difficult market affected revenue in the year. Although Group revenue million TEU handled in our container terminals. The conditions. The joint venture operates a fleet of grew 13% in BRL terms, in USD terms revenue was Group produced another solid operating performance nineteen PSVs of which eighteen are under long20% lower at US$508.9 million (2014: US$633.5 with strong improvements in both operating profit and million). cash flow together with a reduction in our CAPEX. The 47% devaluation of the Brazilian Real “BRL” 2 3 Dividend Culture of safety The Board is recommending an increased dividend The Group continues to invest in the development In addition to the economic hurdles of Brazil in 2015, parties signed contracts for two additional tugboats of 50 cents per share (2014: 0.408 cents per share) of the culture of safety. The WS+ safety programme the substantial reduction in the oil price impacted to be constructed in our shipyards with options for to be paid on 11 May 2016, to shareholders of the implemented in conjunction with DuPont in 2011 exploration activity worldwide. The fall in oil prices a further four vessels. Demand for harbour towage Company as of the close of business on 28 April to promote improved safety throughout the Group and uncertainty surrounding the Brazilian oil and gas services is softer with volumes in the first two months 2016. This represents an increase of the dividend to continues to operate effectively. The programme industry continue to dampen demand for the offshore of the year lower than the 2014 comparables. shareholders for the year by 23%, which reflects the trains Company employees to promote a safety support services of Brasco, our onshore support base strong operating performance of the Company and a oriented environment and culture. In 2015 for the provider faces some headwind in filling its expanded In this environment, we will need to be even more desire to increase dividend payments to shareholders fourth consecutive year, the Group was among the capacity. However we remain optimistic regarding the disciplined and relentless in the pursuit of efficiency following completion of the current investment cycle. winners of the DuPont prize for Health and Safety long-term prospects for this business. throughout the Company. Continued attention to In the last five years, the Company dividend per Management in Brazil. the opportunities for utilisation of our assets and share has increased by 97%, from 25 cents per share For the offshore vessels business, Wilson Sons technical capacity of those who work with us are to 50 cents per share, with a total of US$127 million Ultratug Offshore, although the market is very fundamental to maximising the service, safety and Outlook distributed to shareholders in this period. challenging, significant contract coverage and value in solutions we provide for our clients. With economists forecasting a further contraction brazilian flagged vessel priority continue to The Wilson Sons dividend policy is to distribute in the Brazilian economy this year and an uncertain differentiate performance of our OSV business Stakeholders an amount of no less than 50% of our Company’s political environment, the outlook for Brazil in compared to international market peers. The Company net profit, provided that the dividend policy will not 2016 remains poor. However we remain confident is due to receive two PSVs constructed at We will seek to navigate the current economic compromise the policy for growth of the Company in the resilience of our Brazilian businesses international shipyards in the second half of 2016, headwinds in this way, as we have done so many whether it be, through acquisition of other companies, and the performance delivered in 2015 gives us which we expect to operate in the brazilian spot times in the previous 179 years of the Company´s or by reason of development of new business and encouragement that we are well placed to face the market and a further two constructed at our shipyard history. In doing so, we seek to strengthen our also ensuring that the board of directors considers coming challenges. Our container terminal business in Guarujá which already have long-term contracts. business, the services we provide and we are grateful that the payment of such dividend would be in the is beginning to benefit from a revival in Brazilian The shipyard orderbook is weaker than in previous for the continued support of all our stakeholders. interests of the Company and in compliance with the exports following the steep devaluation of the BRL, years, but in addition to the two PSV’s already laws to which the Company is subject. mentioned, the shipyard is forecast to complete two Jose Francisco Gouveia Vieira as evidenced by the record volumes moved in 2015, Oil Spill Recovery Vessels (OSRVs) for third parties Chairman of the Board of Directors Dividends are set in US Dollars and paid annually. although we are also seeing some weakness in import cargoes. and six tugboats for our fleet. Post year end, third BDR holders receive dividends in Brazilian Real by Cezar Baião reference to the exchange rate applicable to the USD CEO of Operations in Brazil on the transfer date of dividends to the custodian. 4 5 BUSINESS PROFILE GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS GRI G4-3/4/5/6/7/8 Group presence in Brazil Wilson Sons is one of the largest port, maritime It is controlled by Ocean Wilsons Holdings Limited, and logistics operators in Brazil offering specialised which is also a publicly listed company, and has been solutions in the areas of port terminals, maritime traded on the London Stock Exchange for over one towage, offshore support vessels, logistics, shipyards, hundred years. and shipping agency. The Company maintains longlasting relationships with over two thousand active clients including shipping companies, importers, OUR MARKETS exporters, oil and gas companies as well as other participants in more diverse sectors of the economy. Wilson Sons‘ brazilian businesses include two main segments: Port & Logistics, and Maritime Services. Wilson Sons is a publicly listed company Through these businesses the Company focuses on Head Office headquartered in Bermuda. Its shares have been two growth drivers: trade flow and the oil & gas industry. Terminals listed on the BM&F Bovespa exchange through Brazilian Depository Receipts (BDRs) since 2007. Tugboats Offshore Logistics Ocean Wilsons Holdings Limited BM&FBovespa Agency 58.25% 41.75% Shipyards Bermuda Brazil PORT & LOGISTICS SERVICES MARITIME SERVICES 6 7 PORT AND LOGISTICS SERVICES This segment comprises Wilson Sons Terminals The equipment is of the highest technology available, has made constant investment in the acquisition of equipment and personnel. In addition, the O&G and Wilson Sons Logistics. Wilson Sons Terminals including six Post-Panamax STS (ship-to-shore) new equipment, infrastructure, information systems base receives, processes, separates and disposes comprises two of Brazil’s main container terminals, cranes and 14 Rubber-Tyre Gantry (RTG) cranes, not and training. Due to the investments completed, the of residues from oil and gas platforms through the Tecon Rio Grande and Tecon Salvador, and Brasco, to mention 2,800 sockets for refrigerated containers. terminal is able to receive some of the world’s largest residue collection centre. the Company’s oil and gas support base. Wilson The terminal operates using road, waterway and container ships. Sons Logistics includes a logistics centre in Itapevi, rail transport connections. During 2015, the terminal Wilson Sons Logistics SP, a logistics centre in Suape, PE, and bonded served ships moving 742,983 TEU. Brasco Wilson Sons Logistics has its business model based warehouses, in Santo Andre, SP and in Suape, PE. Founded in 1999, Brasco is one of the largest private on the development of integrated logistics solutions Tecon Salvador port terminals devoted to upstream support of the for each client segment. The Company is active Wilson Sons Terminals Operated by Wilson Sons since 2000, Tecon Salvador oil and gas industry in Brazil. Its two units, in Niterói in the areas of bonded warehousing and general moved 292,197 TEU in 2015. After the inauguration and Rio de Janeiro, are strategically located within operations, stock management, distribution, transport Tecon Rio Grande of the terminal’s expansion, in November 2012, the Guanabara Bay, and have the capacity to support management, and solutions for foreign trade. Wilson Sons has contributed to the creation of a terminal possesses 118,000 square metres of area, activities in the Campos and Santos petroleum with a principle berth of 377 metres and 15 metres of basins. In addition, Brasco has the experience and Wilson Sons Logistics manages EADI Santo André, new panorama for this segment, operating the Tecon which is the largest dry port in São Paulo, operating Rio Grande unit since 1997 with the first publicly bid draft, and a secondary berth of 240 metres in length has qualified personnel for the establishment of with 12 metres of draft dedicated to cabotage and bases along the whole of the Brazilian and South in full integration with the Logistic Centre at Itapevi privatisation of a container terminal in the country. and transport options. EADI Suape also operates Tecon Rio Grande is located in Rio Grande, RS, project cargo. The terminal also has three Super American coastline, having already operated in São Post Panamax ship-to shore cranes, and another Luís (Maranhão), Belém (Pará), Salvador (Bahia), integrated solutions, with the Logistic Centre and 320km (200 miles) from Porto Alegre, the capital of transport options. the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The terminal has a three Panamax ship-to-shore cranes, as well as eight Fortaleza (Ceará) and Vitória (Espírito Santo). total area of 670,000 square metres and 900 metres RTGs, of which six are fully electric. Brasco´s operations include storage and handling Wilson Sons also controls Allink, a Non Vessel of continuous berth, with draught of 42 feet (15m) and This terminal offers services such as container of supplies for maritime platforms, including parts, Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC), specializing an annual capacity of 1.035 million TEU1. movement, storage of empty containers, container equipment, drilling mud, cement, chemical products, in consolidation of international maritime cargo. packing and unpacking, as well as project cargo with food and water. The oil and gas support bases also special sizes or weights. Since the start, the Company offer aggregated services for the industry, including 1 Unit of measurement equivalent to one 20´ container. 8 9 MARITIME SERVICES The maritime services segment consists of Wilson Sons In 2015, one new tugboat, WS Titan, was launched for OceanPact, two Platform Supply Vessels (PSVs) For 2016, WSUT will receive two PSV´s of 3,500 Towage, Shipyard, and Shipping Agency. Also part of and five additional vessels are scheduled in 2016. for Wilson Sons Ultratug Offshore and the completion deadweight tons being built by an international the maritime services is our 50% joint venture, Wilson The towage business enjoys funding through the of one Oil Spill Recovery Vessel (OSRV) for SIEM shipyard, together with 2 other PSVs of 5,000 Sons Ultratug Offshore Vessels, that offers support to Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Consub. Post year end, third parties signed contracts deadweight tons that already have operating the oil and gas exploration and production platforms. Social (BNDES), and Banco do Brasil, as agents for for two additional tugboats to be constructed in our contracts and are being built in the Wilson Sons the Merchant Marine Fund (FMM), with attractive shipyards with options for a further four vessels. Guaruja Shipyard. Wilson Sons Towage interest rates and extended amortization. Wilson Sons Towage has the largest and most Wilson Sons Ultratug Offshore Vessel Wilson Sons Agency modern fleet of tugboats in Brazil. Over 86% of Wilson Sons Shipyards Joint Venture Wilson Sons Agency began operations in 1837 as the the fleet have azimuth propulsion for superior Located in Guarujá (SP), the combined 39,000 Wilson Sons Ultratug Offshore (WSUT) has one of Company’s first business. It is the largest independent manoeuvrability, safety and speed to operations. square metre shipyard complex is designed for the the largest and most modern fleets of brazilian flag shipping agency in the country, operating in Brazil’s Wilson Sons Towage is the market leader in the construction, maintenance and repair of small and offshore support vessels. The WSUT vessels provide main ports. It provides services and commercial segment of harbour manoeuvres in Brazil, and is medium sized vessels, mainly for the offshore and maritime support to platforms for the exploration, representation for shipowners, and has exclusive active in port and ocean towage services. port support. The Guarujá Shipyards are strategically development and production of oil and gas. The representatives in Europe and the U.S. in addition located close to the Santos (SP) and Campos (RJ) main activity of the vessels is that of supporting the to the Company´s own office in Shanghai, China. The company has over 76 tugboats and the oil basins, two of Brazil’s most important. logistics and supply of equipment and other products construction of new tugboats is part of the strategy to such as drilling mud, pipes, food, cement, residues, Shipping Agency manages equipment logistics, increase and renovate the fleet to serve the demand With the conclusion of the Guarujá II expansion and other materials between offshore platforms and boarding documents and the scheduling of regular driven by growth in the oil and gas industry and trade works, in April 2013, the capacity more than doubled support bases. (liner) and non-regular (tramp) ships. Its expertise flow. In addition to towing services, the business from 4,500 tons of steel processing per year to 10,000 extends to preparing documents related to sea offers special operations, including salvatage, fire tons per year. In December 2015, the shipyards transport, logistical management of containers and fighting, ocean towage, support to the construction counted on an orderbook of five tugboats for Wilson demurrage (time required for container return) control. of platforms and FPSOs (floating production, storage Sons Tugboats and three Offshore Support Vessels and offloading vessels). (OSVs) being, one Oil Spill Recovery Vessel (OSRV) 10 11 HISTORY Wilson Sons is one of the most traditional companies in Brazil, with over 179 years of history. Its trajectory of solidity, ethics and business diversification made the Company one of the largest integrated operators of port and maritime logistics services in Brazil. A few of the Company’s milestones are illustrated below: Inauguration of the 1928 Acquisition of 1973 Wilson, Sons & Company largest covered Guarujá shipyard, Offshore operations begin 1837 2003 was founded in Salvador (BA) warehouse in initiating shipbuilding with the launch of first providing shipping agency Latin America, activities. Platform Supply Vessel Expansion of Tecon Salvador 2012 services and trading coal in São Cristóvão (RJ). (PSV) vessel –Albatroz almost doubling the terminal’s internationally. – built by Wilson Sons capacity. Wilson Sons celebrates Shipyards. 175 years since the Company foundation and Tecon Rio Grande celebrates 15 years in operation for the Company. The solidity of the 1873 Company is reflected Change of Company Commencement of towage 1964 2014 in its participation in name from Rio de Construction of the operations in the Amazonian the coal trade as well 2008 Janeiro Lighterage Third Birth in Tecon state of Pará, with seven tugs as in the importation Company (subsidiary Rio Grande, resulting attending the port of Belém, as of products such as of WS Co, Ltd) to in Brazil’s largest well as the Vila do Conde terminal cotton, wool, linen Foundation of Brasco, an 1999 Companhia de Saveiros container terminal in in Barcarena and Trombetas in and silk, the most offshore logistics company. do Rio de Janeiro. retro-area. Oriximiná. profitable businesses of that time. Logistics operations Acquisition of begin with the institution Rio de Janeiro of Wilson Sons Logistics. Conclusion of the Guarujá II shipyard increasing Camuyrano Serviços 2000 Lighterage Acquisition of the Salvador Wilson Sons the Company’s naval construction capacity from Marítimos which Company Limited Container Terminal becomes 4,500 tons to 10,000 tons of steel per year. doubles the size and (John Mackenzie – through public auction. a publicly listed Through the Brasco Logística Offshore Ltda, importance of the Trustee) and Wilson company, with Wilson Sons concludes the acquisition of the fleet. Saveiros and 1911 2007 2013 Sons &Company 1966 Camuyrano begin to shares traded on total share capital of Bric Brazilian Intermodal Limited sign a BM&FBovespa in Complex S/A (“Briclog”), base for the support of operate as associated merger agreement. the form of BDRs. the offshore oil and gas industry. companies. Participation in the most Wilson Sons ambitious construction Port terminal operations begin with container terminals Beginning of towage 1997 projects of the period achieved a record 1936 operations, with the the successful bid which privatised such as the Brazilian the container terminal of Rio Grande 1,035 million TEU 1869 Great Western Railroad acquisition of Rio de Janeiro in 2015 increasing Lighterage Company. – Tecon Rio Grande. (currently part of the 6.2% over 2014 with 2015 Federal Railroad Network). exports, cabotage and transshipment all increasing. 2010 Acquisition of the remaining 25% of Brasco, bringing Wilson Sons control to 100% of the asset. 12 13 COMPANY PHILOSOPHY AND Strategy Strengthening our position as the leading provider Increasing economies of scale and productivity, of towage services in the brazilian market. realisation of potential synergies and cost COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES To grow on the basis of the Companies skills and/or We intend to continue to modernise and expand our savings across our business segments. We existing assets, strengthening the businesses and fleet of tugboats in order to provide consistently highcontinuously seek to optimise our operations GRI G4-56 looking for new opportunities, focusing on Brazil and quality service to our customers and consolidate our and productivity and reduce our costs through opened to projects in Latin America. leading position in the brazilian towage market. We synergies and the exchange of know-how among Wilson Sons established its future vision targeting regularly review our fleet deployment to optimise our businesses and administrative areas. We are and The Wilson Sons Strategy is to: strategy to 2022. To achieve its objectives, it is efficiency, and to seek out new niches in the market will continue to focus on integrating similar activities essential to define the values, the culture and the Continue to consolidate our position in all the where we may be able to provide additional services in order to realise savings in administrative and backskills that the company expects of its employees. segments in which we operate, maximising or increase our geographical footprint of towage office areas, especially in our branch offices. We seek economies and efficiency, quality and the range services to new ports in Brazil. to achieve economies of scale and reduce costs Mission of our services we provide to customers. wherever possible. We demand that the managers Maximising potential of our shipyard facilities of our different divisions continually develop new Develop and provide high value-added solutions for Fulfilling capacity in our expanded port terminals. through a mix of in-house and third-party vessel strategies that may improve our operations and our clients in port, maritime and logistic activities, in In order to meet demand from domestic and construction, repair, maintenance and dry docking explore new businesses. a sustainable and innovative way, while, at the same international trade, we have expanded our two services to meet the demand of national and time, valuing the career development of our employees. container terminals since the inception of the international vessel owners in Brazil. Health, safety and the environment are a priority concessions. By maximising utilisation of this installed for the execution of our overall strategy of sustainable Solidifying our offshore support vessel services ethical business. We continue programmes to promote capacity, we are best able to continue increases in Vision of future 2022 to oil and natural gas platforms. Using our best practice safety throughout the Group through productivity and service to our clients with economies knowledge and experience, we intend to continue the training of our personnel and the promotion of a To be the first choice of our employees, clients and of scale. We will diligently pursue this objective. We to consolidate our activities through the delivery safety oriented environment and culture. investors in port, maritime, and logistic segments, will evaluate new concessions and the development of contracted vessels and maintain our position growing in a bold, synergetic and sustainable way. of new terminals in other Brazilian ports and analyse amongst the leading suppliers of services to the these potential investments in light of our existing offshore oil and gas industry in Brazil. operations, and their ability to provide a strong return Values on shareholders’ equity. Exploring new opportunities and strategies ▪▪ We strive for the safety of people, preservation of to provide the best and most complete set of Maximising capacity utilization of our upstream the environment and for the communities in which services to our customers. We are always looking to oil and gas support terminals (Brasco). Additional we operate. provide new and innovative services to our customers, to our operations at Brasco Niteroi, we also have a and to anticipate their needs. We intend to continue ▪▪ We have meaningful and long-term relationships continuous 500 metres of berth at our Brasco Caju our strategy with shipping companies in order to with our customers. base to attend offshore support vessels with excellent provide a complete set of local and international access to the Campos and Santos oil producing ▪▪ We have the sense of an owner. We take the trade-related services across a nationwide network. basins. This expanded capacity positions Brasco as results personally. We also seek to make these services more efficient one of the largest offshore support base operators for ▪▪ We act ethically. and cost-effective, in order to maintain our strong the brazilian oil and gas industry. We are continuously customer base and strengthen our relationships with ▪▪ We put our employees first. monitoring offshore operations along the brazilian those customers. coast to meet the demand for such services. 14 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Intangible Competitive Advantages Synergy of the businesses Ethics and transparency Wilson Sons has consolidated differentials which The complementary interaction between the business offered across the most important ports in Brazil, with Wilson Sons employs best practices in governance, distinguish its services amongst other market players units is one of the keys to its sustainable growth. exclusive representatives in Europe and the United and the sustainability of its businesses and and strengthens the Company’s business. These Evidence of this is that 70% of the Company´s top ten States, and its own office in Shanghai, China. The business relationships via principles of clear roles, differentials therefore help add value to the Company. clients receive services from three or more business Company’s container terminals are located in states transparency and ethics. Its shares are listed on units of the Company. of great economic importance – Rio Grande do Sul the BM&F Bovespa exchange through Brazilian Brand Strength and Bahia. Depositary Receipts (BDRs), but the Company additionally continues to, where possible strive to Portfolio of services The solid image Wilson Sons enjoys in the market meet standards of the Novo Mercado and benefits Pioneering Spirit contributes to a close and long-term relationship The Company’s complete range of services from the experience of its controlling company, Ocean with clients and other business partners. We are strengthens its image as one of the largest operators The Company was the first of its sector in Brazil to Wilsons Holdings Limited, which has been listed on recognised and trusted for the know-how acquired in port terminals, logistics and maritime services in use azimuth propulsion on its tugboats, the first to the London Stock Exchange for over a century. throughout more than 179 years of delivering high Brazil. The portfolio includes specialised solutions in operate in a publically auctioned private container quality service to the most demanding clients. The Company´s Code of Ethical Conduct expresses the areas of port terminal, towage, logistics, shipping terminal in country, as well as the first company to the values that guide corporate governance and agency, offshore support vessels for the oil and gas receive certification of quality in the shipbuilding relations with all stakeholders. Employees confirm Human and intellectual capital industry, and shipbuilding. sector. The Company has long innovated with local their knowledge and understanding of the document. producers to increase local content in the vessels it Our employees are committed to the quality of produces and in recognition won the award for the Wilson Sons has an internal audit department Strategic location of assets services delivered and are aligned with the values best shipyard for local content by Syndarma in 2013. responsible for reviewing internal procedures and and principles that guide Wilson Sons’ vision. The The Company is present in Brazil’s main port identification and prevention of major risks related personal and professional potential of each employee terminals. The location of its shipyards in Guarujá to potential fraud or diversion from controls. Committed to the environment is maximised through holistic process of people (SP) and oil and gas support bases in Niterói and In addition, the Company has a channel for complaints management, which includes training and actions for Caju (RJ) are strategically positioned to support This commitment is expressed in the Company’s (comitê.wsetica@wilsonsons.com.br) in which continuous exchange of experiences, with the purpose vessels for the oil and gas market. Wilson Sons also principles, resulting in practical actions that are part employees and other stakeholders may record of maintaining intellectual capital in constant evolution. distinguishes itself with its shipping agency coverage, of day-to-day operations. situations and unethical conduct. The Company does not make political donations. 16 17 In 2015 Anticorruption guide and committee of MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE ethics and anticorruption GRI G4 34/48 GRI G4-SO4 the Company also The Anticorruption Guide of Wilson Sons was participated in Board of Directors 6 released to the entire company in 2015. Its purpose is to guide and establish the Company’s corporate Wilson Sons’ Board of Directors is comprised of terms of office of up to three years, with the right guidelines regarding the vehement fight against non-deal professionals with solid experience in different to re-election. Currently, there is one independent road shows corruption, setting standards of behaviour and fields and focuses on promoting long-term returns to director within a total of seven directors, all of ethical conduct of employees in situations that shareholders. The Board´s responsibility is to define which have been appointed for term ending at the can characterize any type of bribery or corruption. individual or group meetings Company strategy and bring independent judgement Ordinary General Meeting (AGO) of 2017. Board The guide also considers aspects of legislation, with investors on issues of performance and risk, while supervising meetings are conducted once every three months, as well as guidelines for conduct and monitoring the Corporate Officers’ actions through approval of and extraordinarily when convened by any member possible deviations involving public agencies. The (9 in 2014) projects and assessment of results. Additionally, the of the Board. rules of this document complement the guidelines Board approves each of the quarterly and full-year The number of meetings of the Company’s Board of 4 established by the Code of ethical conduct. financial results and dividend announcements. Directors and of each board committee held during Investor Relations site visits Company bylaws allow for the formation of the Board of Directors, composed of at least five members, with the year, and the number of meetings attended by each Director were: visits to group operations Transparency is the guiding principal for Investor with investors Board Meeting Audit Commitee Meetting Relations at Wilson Sons. In addition to meeting mandatory compliance requirements for companies (7 in 2014) Meetings Number of Number of listed on the stock exchange, the Wilsons Sons Attended Attended of Board/Commitees Meetings Meetings dedicates special attention to communication with this strategic audience, constantly investing in service as well as meeting with individual José Francisco Gouvêa Vieira 5 5 4 4 8 channel upgrades. and small groups of analysts at 5 5 4 4 conferences Every quarter Investor Relations organises the William Henry Salomon dissemination of results, hosting a public teleconference that provides investors an opportunity to communicate Banks and investment Cezar Baião 5 5 NA NA directly with the Company’s chief officers. funds were contacted in Another communication channel is the Wilson Sons these events. Felipe Gutterres 5 5 NA NA ``Meet the Management Day´´, a public meeting with the company´s top management to facilitate (12 in 2014) Claudio Marote 5 5 4 4 communication with individual investors, bank representatives and investment fund representatives. Andres Rozental 4 5 4 4 Paulo Fernando Fleury 1 1 1 1 1 Claudio Frischtak 2 3 4 3 3 (1) Resigned April 2015 (2) Appointed April 2015 18 19 Members Hansa Trust PLC and Hanseatic Asset Management to assume a new challenge. The board would consultancy firm, Rozental & Asociados that works LBG. In addition Mr Salomon is Deputy Chairman of like to thank Mr Felipe Gutterres for his important with major multinational corporations on their Latin José Francisco Gouvêa Vieira Ocean Wilsons Holdings Limited (OWH), the company contribution to the construction of the history of American strategies. Currently, he is Chairman of the Chairman which holds the controlling interest in Wilson Sons. Wilson Sons along 18 years of service. Board of Directors of ArcelorMittal Mexico and is an Independent Director with Ocean Wilsons Holdings Mr. Gouvea Vieira received a Law Degree from Cezar Baião Claudio Marote and Director of Wilson Sons. He is a member of the Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro in 1972. Board Member Board Member the Board of HSBC Bank in Mexico and serves as He holds a Masters degree in Law from Columbia Mr. Cezar Baião graduated in Economics from the Mr. Marote earned a law degree from Faculty of an advisor to Airbus de México, Toyota de México, University, New York (1978). He has been a Partner Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC/RJ). Law of Curitiba (FDC). He also holds diplomas from Brookfield Asset management and APCO Worldwide with Gouvea Vieira Advogados since 1971 and has Having joined Wilson Sons in 1994 as CFO, he the following institutions: International Maritime in Washington. He is a member of the Trilateral been with the Company since 1991. He has served currently acts as the CEO of operations in Brazil. Law from Lloyds of London, England; Executive Commission, a Senior Policy Advisor at Chatham as Chairman of the Board (1997) and Director of From 1982 to 1989, he served as Money Market Development Programme of the Kellogg Institute House (London) and a Board member of Canada’s Wilson, Sons de Administração e Comércio(1992), Manager at JP Morgan and also as Finance Director from Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, Center for International Governance Innovation. Ocean Wilsons Holdings Limited (1997) and of Ocean Wilsons (Investments) Limited (1997). He of Grupo Lachmann Agência Marítima, between 1989 U.S.A.; Structures and Economic Systems FDC, and 1994. He is a member of the board of directors Paraná; and in Brazilian Policies and Strategies Claudio Frischtak is member of the Board of Directors of various companies, including Banco PSA Finance Brasil S.A. of the Brazilian Association of Public-Use Container from the Association of Graduates of the Higher Independent Board Member appointed by minority shareholders (1999), PSA Finance S.A. Arrendamento Mercantil Terminals (Abratec). Mr. Baião is also member of the War College, in Santos, São Paulo. He joined the (1999), Concremat – Engenharia e Tecnologia S.A Oil & Gas production Committee at the São Paulo Company in 1964 and has held various executive Mr. Claudio Frischtak is the head of Inter.B – (2008) and Cetip Educational (2008). He was a Industry Federation (COMPETRO FIESP) and positions, from branch manager to regional director, Consultoria Internacional de Negócios, a financial member of the Corporate Governance Committee Business Counsellor of Infrastructure at the Rio de to superintendent-director. He began his professional and economic consulting firm based in Rio de of the American Chamber of Commerce – Sao Janeiro Industry Federation (FIRJAN). career in 1956 at Agência Marítima Intermares Ltda., Janeiro, Brazil, Country Director for Mozambique of Paulo (2005) and honorary consul to the Kingdom a subsidiary of the Bunge Born Group. He is currently the International Growth Center (London School of of Morocco in Rio de Janeiro (2007). Felipe Gutterres a Director of the Company and a Partner at CMMR Economics and University of Oxford), and a member Board Member – Intermediacao Commercial Ltda. of the TT-20 Group of the Brookings Institution. Mr. William Henry Salomon Frischtak was formerly a Principal Economist at the Mr. Gutterres holds a Harvard Business School diploma Deputy Chairman Andrés Rozental World Bank where he worked from 1984 to 1991. in General Management and an MBA from COPPEAD, Board Member Mr. Frischtak’s graduate work in economics was Mr. William Henry Salomon Graduated in Law from having previously graduated in Economics from the undertaken at the University of Campinas, Brazil and Magdalene College Cambridge as an undergraduate Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. He joined the Mr. Rozental has a Bachelor Degree in International at Stanford University (1980-84). While at the World and postgraduate and then qualified at the English Company in 1998 and currently serves as the CFO of Relations from the University of the Americas in Bank he was an Adjunct Professor at the Department Bar. He was Managing Director of Finsbury Asset the Brazilian Subsidiary and Investor Relations. From Mexico, and a MSc. in International Economics of Economics at Georgetown University (1987-1990). Management and Chairman of Rea Brothers. When 1994 to1998, Mr. Gutterres held corporate and finance from the University of Pennsylvania. He was a He has published over 100 academic papers and Close Brothers acquired Rea Brothers Group he planning positions at Shell Brasil S.A. career diplomat for more than 35 years with the books, and has worked extensively on issues related became Deputy Chairman of the investment division. Mexican Foreign Ministry holding a number of On 22 March 2016, Mr. Felipe Gutterres, CFO of to infrastructure, industrial and regulatory policy, In 1999 Mr Salomon established Hansa Capital, senior diplomatic posts. He is the author of four operations in Brazil, Investor Relations and member innovation, and international. where he is the Senior Partner. He is a Director of books on Mexican foreign policy and of numerous various UK listed companies as well as Director of of the Board of Directors, resigned from his position articles on international affairs. He founded his own 20 21 Corporate officers of the Brazilian subsidiary CAPITAL MARKETS Responsible for establishing management policies, daily operations and are involved in the decision including sustainability, operation policies and making and execution of strategy set by the Board corporate posture in business, in addition to of Directors to meet the interest of stakeholders. Stock achieving the goals set by the Board of Directors. They bring a wide range of skills and experiences Wilson Sons is a publicly listed company with The board of Corporate Officers is composed of contributing to the Company’s objectives and needs. Brazilian Depositary Receipts (BDRs) traded on the qualified professionals responsible for establishing The executive committee includes the CEO and CFO, BM&FBovespa. It is controlled by Ocean Wilsons management and operation policies and meeting and two COOs: one responsible for port terminals Holding Limited, a UK based company listed on the goals established by the Board of Directors. The and logistics, and one for towage, offshore, shipping London Stock Exchange. members of this board take part in the Company’s agency and shipyard businesses. In 2015, Wilson Sons BDRs (ticker: WSON33) ended the year at R$32.99, an increase of 3.0%. During the same period, the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange Index Statement of added value on 31 December 2015 and 2014 (Ibovespa) recorded a devaluation of 13.2%. (In thousands of U.S. Dollars) Generation of added value 2015 2014 Revenue 553,102 694,244 Amount of shares/BDRs (ordinary) Sales of services 552,265 687,625 Allowance for doubtful debts (341) (783) Other revenues 1,178 7,402 Consumable from third-parties (147,498) (234,320) Ocean Wilsons Holdings Limted 41,444,000 58.3% Service costs (104,065) (168,065) Maintenance (15,923) (23,461) Energy, oil and services hired (19,159) (28,003) Other costs and expenses (8,351) (14,791) Added value, gross 405,604 459,924 Depreciation and amortization expenses (53,213) (65,119) Other (free float ) 29,700,000 41.7% Added value, net 352,391 394,805 Received from third-parties 19,173 19,918 Share of results of joint venture 4,843 7,090 Finance income 14,330 12,828 Added value for distribution 371,564 414,723 Total Capital 71,144,000 100% Distribution of the added value 2015 2014 Payroll 139,791 185,814 Salaries & wages 102,614 140,357 Benefit plans 28,928 34,281 Remuneration of shareholders FGTS 8,249 11,176 In the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on 28 Taxes 91,491 106,669 April 2016 the payment of a gross distribution in the Federal tax 72,488 84,218 amount of US$35.57 million equivalent to US$0.50 State tax 891 1,142 per share was declared for shareholders of record as Municipal tax 18,112 21,309 at 29 April 2015. The gross amount to be paid in Reais will be converted at the exchange rate on 5 May 2016. Third-party capital remuneration 108,902 92,110 Rents 47,133 50,261 Interest 61,769 41,849 Remuneration of own capital 31,380 30,129 Owners of the Company 30,185 28,603 Non controlling interests 1,195 1,526 Added value, distributed 371,564 414,723 22 23 RISK MANAGEMENT Operations Risks Certifications Wilson Sons has an Internal Audit team to coordinate policies, such as port operator’s civil responsibility, Some areas are subject to working conditions that For Wilson Sons, certifications are important instruments the identification, evaluation and classification of vehicles, property, shipping hulls and builder risks expose employees to physical risk. Consequently, for the improvement of processes and quality different risks intrinsic to the Company´s businesses. are contracted with leading insurers and are renewed a large part of operational risk is related to the management, as well as demonstrating the high level The group is also responsible for developing periodically. The main risks are divided into the environment and to safety. Additionally, the Company of leadership present in the Company. As a result, all solutions to avoid exposure to each potential risk, following categories. is exposed to operational risks from suppliers, IT businesses have been granted ISO 9001 certifications, and to verify if proposed actions are being correctly and processes. Actions related to sustainability, which establish requirements for quality management. adopted. This includes a team for Information environmental impact and social responsibility are Strategic Risks In addition to ISO 9001, there are other certifications Security, responsible for identifying risks related to described in their respective sections of this report. corporate systems linked to business units, in order The Company is exposed to various unavoidable granted to certain business units or separately, either to attest for confidentiality, integrity, availability and strategic risks. These include political risk, industrial by nature of the activity that has a specific standard Regulatory Risks authenticity of information. risk, market risk, and risk related to social and or the process development stage where the unit or environmental responsibility. In certain situations, it Wilson Sons operates in different brazilian states, business division is. Wilson Son Ultratug Offshore, The Company also has risk management software also includes material risks related to the acquisition each having its own unique regulations. This exposes which has been certified by the International that allows managers to follow the application of of fixed assets. This is due to long construction the Company to a variety of legal and tax risks and Safety Management Code (part of the International mitigation processes for financial and operational periods and life cycle of assets we typically operate those related to government penalties varying with Convention for Safety at Sea), which represents an risks. Every model used is supported by the in the market. the regulations of each state. international standard for the management and safe Enterprise Risk Management methodology exploration of vessels, pollution prevention and the (ERM), adopted by the Committee of Sponsoring The Company has an organizational structure designed safeguard of workers at sea. Financial Risks to identify, monitor and manage the most significant Organizations (COSO), an international organization dedicated to the establishment and dissemination of risks, employing best practices when conducting Concerning Environmental Issues, the Brasco unit Financial risks include market, credit and liquidity at Niteroi (RJ) has the ISO 14001 certification, which best practices in business conduct. As for Information business. Risk management is independently risks. The Company has a market risk committee defines guidance to establish an effective environment Security, the method is based on COBIT (Control conducted by the business units taking into account in place in order to apply standards, policies and management system targeting the balance between Objectives for Information and related Technology) the nature of their operation. Additionally, the Board guidelines specific to market risk. The agenda profitability and environmental impact reduction. which consists of a set of guidelines, indicators, of Corporate Officers and the Board of Directors includes: definition of the criteria, scope of the Since 2013, Brasco has received the OHSAS 18001 processes and best practices for the management periodically evaluate the most significant risks and criteria, methodology to measure and track identified certification, which attests the quality of the company’s and governance of information systems. implement appropriate risk management initiatives. exposures, risk prevention and impact reduction occupational health and safety. This achievement is tools. In light of this agenda, the committee seeks another step for Brasco in the search for excellence Wilson Sons maintains an insurance portfolio for to take actions to minimize the impact of market in Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), one of the prevention of and protection from risks intrinsic to variables such as exchange and interest rates on the core pillars of its activity. operations, concerning primarily the risks to the Company’s cash flow. Other financial risks, such as assets of our clients, our facilities and equipment credit and liquidity risk are continuously identified and and continuity of operations. These insurance mitigated by the Finance Department in accordance with standards and procedures set by management. 24 25 1. Health and Safety 2. T  alent attraction, qualification, sucession and retation of + talents 10 4 Vision of 3. New competitive scenario relevance 4. Environmental management 9 5. New business and occupation of assets 3 6. Technology and innovation 15 1 Economic Social 7. Accelerated growth of vessels 18 growth responsibility 8. Integration / synergy between businesses 6 12 2 External vision 9. Increasing demands 10. Energy efficiency and emissions Sustainable development 7 11. Complex institutional environment 21 20 12. Operational Efficiency 16 14 5 13. Tradition and solidity of Wilson Sons Group 14. Integrated vision of supply chain and partnerships 15. Transparency Internal 8 vision 13 11 16. Water management Environmental 18. Waste management responsibility 20. Impact on the environment and Community relations 21. Climate change and extreme events The size of the circles is proportional to the relation with Internal vision + the strategic map of the Company. Issues addressed Highlighted points Weak signals Sustainability management Materiality matrix Material themes Vision of sustainability GRI G4-19 Material aspects are those that reflect the significant which can contribute to the better management of 1 Safety 2 Wilson Sons believes in sustainability as a comprehensive concept, which must permeate economic, environmental and social impacts of risks and opportunities, interviewed stakeholders Talent attraction, qualification, the organization or influence considerably the (customers, regulators, service providers, investors succession and retention of talent the organisation in the economic, social and environmental dimensions (which form the tripod of sustainability or triple bottom line), as responsible evaluations and decisions of stakeholders. In the materiality matrix of a company, these priority themes and professors), its Board of Executive Directors and executives of all their segments on relevant issues 3 New competitive scenario 4 management, with focus on long-lasting results for are graphically represented. to the Company. the Company and for society. Environmental management In 2014, Wilson Sons defined that its material The issues raised were cross checked with the items themes were those that will guide the look and performance of the Company over the coming on the strategic map and the vision of future of Wilson Sons for 2022. The Board of Executive Directors 5 Technology and innovation years. From available studies, global trends were identified that could influence the business model and elected seven priority material themes. 6 Increase of demands 7 growth, raised aspects of the sustainability agenda The material issues are being followed closely by the responsible technicians of each agenda. Power efficiency and emissions 28 29 Main forms of relationship with our stakeholders Communication channels are kept with the Company’s main stakeholders to ensure that the demands can reach the Company whenever necessary. As part of the routine, various interaction opportunities are promoted throughout the year. Accesses in Public Action Channel Public Contents 31/12/2015 Website, alert email service for reports and relevant facts, site visits, Information about Wilson Sons, its Investors Annual Integrated Report, Reference Form, Operating data, WS Day. Linkedin Employees professionals and markets in which the Group operates. 25,690 followers Responding to press demands and sending press releases, Communication Media interviews and meetings. Twitter Investors Financial and operating results. Information about Wilson Sons. 650 followers Regulatory agencies, government, Systematic follow-up through contacts and meetings, participation class associations, unions in industry forums, sponsorship and events. Facebook Employees Daily information, information about Wilson Sons, its professionals and 7,550 markets in which the Group operates. followers Intranet, internal newspaper “WS in Focus”, campaigns and actions Employees of internal relationship, engagement survey, daily HSE dialogues. Youtube Public opinion/ Investors/ Audiovisual content 185 Satisfaction survey, customer service channels, New,s (magazine), Employees followers Clients website. Sector companies Participation in forums and associations Instagram Public opinion/ Investors/ Pictures of business of Wilson Sons 180 (e.g. ABRATEC committees) Employees followers 30 31 Safety LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIF) AND FATAL INJURIES Safer Operations Continuous improvement GRI G4-LA6 2010 – 2015 Wilson Sons manages Occupational Health, In 2015, Wilson Sons achieved a reduction in the The decrease in the rate of accidents causing work Safety, and Environment (HSE) in a strategic and rate of lost time accidents in its operations for absence in Wilson Sons is directly connected to WS+ responsible way. It is of fundamental importance for the fifth consecutive year. Between 2010 and 2015, program, implemented in 2011 in partnership with the development of sustainable business. the decrease in that rate was 79%. Considering only DuPont. In 2014, the program was expanded to all 2015, the “Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIF) the Company’s businesses. Now, the objective is to Recently the Group has further strengthened the was 15% lower. expand it to all operations by the end of 2017. strategic vision of HSE in Wilson Sons by incorporating zeal for the people´s safety, the environment and ▪▪ For every 1 million hours worked in 2010, the In practice, the WS+ program corresponds to a communities in the Group´s corporate values. Company registered 7.14 accidents. transformation of culture in SMS. The programme is ▪▪ In 2015, the index fell to 1.53 accidents per 1 based on the establishment and revision of processes For Wilson Sons Group, HSE is the responsibility and procedure, operational discipline, management of all employees. HSE currently counts on over one million hours worked. of deviations, responsibility of the organisation, hundred and twenty dedicated people, as well as ▪▪ The objective is to reach 0.5 accidents by 2022, behavioural approach and engagement of leadership. many different management tools which include achieving the world-class level of safety. policies, procedures, awareness programmes, The programme was first implemented in the audits and process reviews. The drivers for HSE 7,14 Company’s Shipyard in 2011, and was expanded to are based on the following concepts: continuous Program WS+ the main offices, Tecon Rio Grande, Tecon Salvador, improvement, relationship with interested parties, Brasco, Logistics, Offshore Vessels, Towage and emergency resolution, risk management, training, Safety behavioural change Shipping Agency. legal compliance, leadership and responsibility. Wilson Sons has demonstrated significant improvement 4,68 In qualitative terms, the goal of WS+ is to achieve a Currently, HSE management is part of the in safety with accident indicators dropping to the culture of interdependent HSE management, where Organizational Development department. Also, lowest levels in recent years despite the growth of the all professionals are aware of HSE agenda, even if there is HSE management in all business units. In Company during the same period. The graph below 3,18 they do not belong to the HSE area. In quantitative addition, a formal HSE agenda with the Executive describes the drop in accidents in relative terms and the terms, the principal goal of the project is to reduce the 2,37* frequency and severity accident rates, implement and Committee was established (CEO, vice presidents number of fatal accidents, emphasizing that there has 1,80* and some directors), with meetings held every month not been registered occurrences with employees and 1,53* maintain routines of behavioural observation for HSE to deal exclusively with issues related to the topic. permanent third party contractors in the past five years. practices, among other indicators of performance. This governance structure, in turn, flows through to Results derived from the WS+ programme confirm other committees and subcommittees ending in the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 its effectiveness: as exemplified in the graph above, departments of the company’s business units. in Wilson Sons the frequency of accidents dropped LTIF Employees approximately 79% between 2010 and 2015. Employee and permanent third party contractor fatal accidents LTIF # accidents of employees x 1.000.000/Total hours of risk exposure From 2013, the LTIF considers employees and permanent third party contractors. 32 33 External recognition Excellence Awards in HSE Environmental Commitment A highlight of 2015 was the recognition for the The focus on safety has earned the recognition of The year of 2015 was characterised by the expansion of the first companies in the naval and port sector fourth time in five editions of the DuPont Award Wilson Sons´ customers. In 2015, Brasco received of the discussions on the sustainability agenda. The in Brazil to adopt the methodology and publish its for Management of Workers´ Health and Safety, the Aiming High Company of the Year award, that management commitment the environmental agenda own inventory, Wilson Sons commenced the first one of the most important HSE awards in Brazil. recognised the efforts and performance in safety has been developed and strengthened through step in establishing a climate change policy. Some While competing with large companies from various implemented in 2014. The award, given by Statoil, continued actions, such as voluntary publication actions are already being constantly pursued by national industries, Wilson Sons achieved 2nd one of its main customers, confirms the quality of of the Corporate Inventory of Greenhouse Gases the Company, such as the introduction of lower place for its case on the perennial continuity of the the intensive work that has been done to guarantee and effort to implement energy efficiency projects environmental impact technologies. WS+ Programme in the Group, which defined the safety in Brasco´s operations. In the same year, to reduce costs and environmental impacts on methodology to maintain and improve the program. Wilson Sons Logistics received the gold seal from operations and utilise equipment emitting lower During 2015, approximately 66 thousand tonnes Braskem for its performance in Health, Safety and volumes of greenhouse gases (GHG). of CO2 equivalent were emitted by companies of ▪▪ The methodology for perennial continuity was first Environment (HSE) in 2014. The result was based the Group. applied in February 2013. on the results obtained in audits about index of Also, in 2015 the environmental agenda was rethought prevention, accident rate, incidents and medical. with a vision of longevity, punctuating important The type of operations in Towage and Terminals require ▪▪ By the end of 2015, the Company had carried out steps to ensure and respect the environment and heavy consumption of electricity and combustion of about 100 internal audits. the communities where we are present over time. fuel products and they are responsible for the majority ▪▪ Adherence rate of units in the program increased Você 100% Programme of the emissions registered in the inventories published from 60% in 2013 to 85% in 2015. With focus on employee health and operational by the Group. In turn, the business that registered the Inventory lowest emission was Shipping Agency. Aware of the continuous improvement of WS+ safety, Wilson Sons has developed a drug and alcohol program, Wilson Sons monitors every month the prevention programme, based on assumptions such GRI G4-EN15/EN19 More than just report the emissions, the Company is safety parameters of each unit. Once a semester, as transparency, confidentiality, reliability, equality also increasingly adopting advanced technologies to and discipline. Management of carbon emissions in Wilson Sons is an audit is performed to measure the adherence to the lower environmental impacts. Some examples are: an agenda that has been developed with dedication the program by assigning notes to the units. The The programme begins with the awareness of to identify opportunities to reduce emissions, ▪▪ The advanced motorisation of offshore support third step of the perennial methodology consists to participants and leadership training, toxicology benchmark performance and induce continuous vessels, which replaced the conventional present, to the Company’s Board, the performance tests are applied in various forms: randomly; after improvement in energy efficiency. propulsion systems with diesel-electric systems of the safety units. accidents; before high risk operations; as followresulting in better performance in the use of the ups on first-time positive test results; and through In 2015, the landmark was the publication of the Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the “silver generated energy, reducing up to 11% of carbon manager referral, if there is behavioral change of the dioxide emissions. employee. In cases of positive tests the participant is seal” category of the GHG Protocol Program, referred for medical treatment, receiving a warning. In the level characterised by the highest level of ▪▪ The acquisition of electric RTGs (Rubber tyred case of repeat incidents, employees are dismissed. disclosure. The continued practice of quantifying gantry cranes) in Tecon Salvador, which represents the emissions of gases increasingly stimulates the a technology with lower environmental impact culture of development and transparency through the compared to conventional diesel equipment, publication in the Public Register of Emissions. One reducing emissions by about 2,500 tons of CO2 equivalent per year. 34 35 ▪▪ The reactivation of a preferential space in Tecon ▪▪ Water catchment form of refuge and habitat for the marine environment, ▪▪ Information on the ecological aspects (behaviour, Salvador, to impel cabotage, a more sustainable enabling the establishment of a food chain, also reproduction and feeding) of associated species In Wilson Sons Logistics, the EADI Santo André that inhabit the structures. means of transportation because it represents being a place for reproduction, nursery and shelter unit has a system that allows it to collect, filter, a very efficient alternative to road transport of for juvenile stages of marine life, and becoming an ▪▪ Impact assessment of diving activities and store and provide rainwater for use in cleaning the cargoes between Brazilian ports, providing a inexhaustible source of biological research. It is also underwater ecotourism on marine local fauna. warehouse floor, resulting in estimated savings of drastic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. possible to note the constant increase in activities 530 cubic meters of water per year. related to the small-scale fishing and sport fishing Social ▪▪ In the towage segment, the commencement of ▪▪ Water reuse and underwater ecotourism. the Operations Centre has contributed to a steady reduction in fuel consumption with a proportional ▪▪ Development of activities related to diving and In Brasco Niteroi, the system of water reuse Authorized by the Brazilian navy, Ibama and reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases. underwater ecotourism. generates savings estimated at 1,300 cubic meters CPRH State Environmental Agency, the Project of Through the Operations Centre, movement of per year. Sustainable Sinking is supported by the guidance ▪▪ Increase of small-scale fishing related to the growth vessels is planned, to take advantage of the proximity staff of the Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, of the marine fauna. of vessels to ships and navigation velocity reduced. in combined action with the Oceanography Fishing ▪▪ Another example of an initiative is the installation Laboratory and the support of the Diving Companies Economic Sustainable Reef development Association in the State of Pernambuco. of quay cranes for containers with a regenerative ▪▪ Economic benefit for the local community, the city system, which allows the generation of power during Wilson Sons has donated deactivated tugboats of Recife and the state of Pernambuco. The project unload, reducing the net consumption of electricity. to the Association of Scuba Diving Companies Project benefits include the following encourages the flow of divers to the city, which ▪▪ Still in the energy area, the Company uses in of Pernambuco that help in the recuperation of increases tourist activity and associated services Tecon Rio Grande an electrical power management marine ecosystems, serving as a living laboratory Scientific and suppliers. system, which also allows a reduction in the for biological study. This initiative was recognised in consumption of this source. 2014, with the receipt of the Top Social-Environmental ▪▪ Study of the colonisation process of vessels after and HR Award in 2014 by the Pernambuco sinking. At first, the tugboat is closed to tourist Actions for efficient utilisation of water resources Association of Sales and Marketing. diving, being reserved only for visits of biologists include the following initiatives: and other researchers. An artificial reef structure is a structure placed on ▪▪ Reutilisation ▪▪ Inventory and cataloging of species, biodiversity the sea floor in order to imitate some of the natural measurement, frequency, vertical distribution and In both terminals there is water reutilisation, but reef characteristics. The basic principle is to provoke food chain relationships. the system in Tecon Rio Grande allows reusing changes in currents that provoke proliferation of up to 80% of the water and this system must be marine life. These structures provide substrate in the replicated to other Company units. 36 37 PROFESSIONALS OF THE GROUP Education Area 2015 2015 Attracting, training, succession and 4% 8% retention Master´s, post graduate degree Some Elementary School 76% Operational GRI G4 10/LA1 6% 18% Elementary School (complete) Our goal is to be the first choice for employees. This responsible for promoting opportunities, recognition Graduate is our constant challenge and it is an important guide and development and to define and implement 5% Some High School for the Human and Organizational Development strategies aligned with the organizational culture, 24% Department, which manages people in the Company. working with the business managers who focus on Administrative The Organizational Development Department is the specifics of their respective segments. 10% Undergraduate Principle Staff Indicators 49% Number of workers 5.687>5.271>4.729 High School (complete) Recruitment Age range 2015 2015 4% 2013 2014 2015 618 up to 60 years 87% 13% Excluding the segment of Offshore Support Vessels, in which the Company operates through joint venture 8% 18 to 25 years Years with the Company 538 80 2015 24% 46 to 60 years Gender 8% up to 1 year 2015 50% 1 to 5 years 83.5% Men 20% 5 to 10 years 64% 18% 10 to 20 years 26 to 45 years 16.5% Women 3% 20 to 30 years 1% more than 30 years 38 39 Succession Wilson Sons organisational values are designed to questions that identify the degree of alignment All key positions of senior leadership in Wilson Sons Wilson Sons also works with other measures align with the desired culture, the mission, the vision between personal values and corporate culture. are mapped, with potential successors identified to encourage further engagement of all employees. and the Company’s strategy. for each key position. In addition, according to An example is the programme “Reconheço Você”, Qualification the competence of the developer leadership, all created to highlight the positive attitudes and results The organisational skill priorities of Wilson Sons are: Company managers are encouraged to develop their which are in line with the values of the Company. GRI G4 LA9/LA10/LA11 teams and prepare their own successors. ▪▪ Identification with Wilson Sons. In the “Reconheço Você” program, employees use the ▪▪ Together we are better In Wilson Sons, the policy to incentivise education is intranet to recognise colleagues that show behaviours Retention defined and well-structured. Employees who wish to aligned with the Company’s values. The most ▪▪ Responsibility for results qualify can request a scholarship and the Company recognised during the month receive a differentiated GRI G4 LA1 ▪▪ Customer focus may pay up to 60% of tuition fee for graduate identification. At the end of the year, the employee programs (specializations, MBAs and masters), and The total Company turnover registered significant who received the highest number of recognitions from ▪▪ Maturity in stakeholder relationships 70% for language courses. decrease of 8.2 percentage points between 2014 his colleagues during that period receives a tribute ▪▪ Efficiency at work and 2015, impacted by the current economic from the Company. Every year, all employees of Wilson Sons undergo scenario and by the evolution of people management in a performance evaluation. And in the case of practices at Wilson Sons. Retention actions taken In addition of being an instrument for peers and For managers we also defined the following additional leadership (starting with supervisors), this result is by Wilson Sons combine fair remuneration and nonsuperiors to honor talent in the Company, the skills: validated by a Committee of Performance. From financial recognition. program is also an important allie in the assimilation ▪▪ Mobilising leadership this information, Individual Development Plans are of values by employees, bringing to the day to day generated which outline the gaps that each employee For the management of its jobs and salaries something which could been seen as theoretical. ▪▪ Developing leadership must bridge throughout the year. platform, Wilson Sons has adopted, since 2004, a methodology recognized in the market, targeting both The “Reconheço Você” programme won the first place Wilson Sons is recognised in theory and in practice In addition, Wilson Sons´ businesses have their the internal balance of remuneration for positions in the “Ser Humano” prize in 2015, organised by the as a company that offers development opportunities own training maps with technical training that are and the external balance of remuneration in relation Brazilian Association of Human Resources (ABRH-RJ). to all its employees. An evidence of this were the 290 necessary to meet the knowledge required for each to the market. Our programme competed in the category of medium promotions effected in 2015, without considering the function. In 2015, there were more than 152 thousand and large companies. segment of offshore support vessels. hours of training for Company employees. They In the category of variable compensation, the also undergo qualification on demand according to company offers profit sharing in specific formats Another highlight is the “Conversa de Carreira”, which Attracting talent research of necessities identified by their managers. for managers, administrative and operational happens every two years and involves supervisors, The leadership of Wilson Sons participates annually professionals. The program is based on profit targets coordinators, managers, directors and executives. To align the strategy to select and recruit people to To develop a sense of purpose, the programme in the Management Development Program to develop and the annual results. its values, Wilson Sons evaluated what is the ideal consists of individualised conversation between the and improve behavioural skills. type of professional to help the Company to achieve subordinated area and head of HR, taking the leader its goals. Today candidates for a job opening answer to think of his/her contributions and his/her legacy to Wilson Sons. 40 41 TURNOVER Employee engagement survey Wilson Sons prioritise the engagement of its employees because the Company believes that 24.0 % this behavior is critical to the results and the good General working environment. In 2014, the Company held its turnover 2014 second engagement survey to evaluate the evolution 15.8 % in relation to the previous survey and define the General guidelines for the next engagement actions. The next turnover 2015 survey is scheduled to take place in 2017. Manager turnover 13.7 % 2015 Non Manager turnover 16.0 % 2015 Voluntary turnover 5.7 % 2014 4.729 employees in Brazil Voluntary turnover 3.5 % 2015 290 promotions Turnover 23.7 % 2014 100% of all workers submitted to the performance evaluation Turnover 16.1 % 2015 42 43 The principles of the Global Compact Increase of demands 1 Sofupport The social commitment of Wilson Sons is aligned and respect the protection With the increase of the demands of the regulatory The New Business and Competitive Intelligence team with the awareness of its role as inducer of good internationally recognized human rights. and competitive environments observed in recent conducts studies, and provides market information practices and sustainable development of business years the Company expects demands in the long to support the possible actions and decisions of 2 Minake and the communities in which it is inserted. Wilson sure they are not complicit term which can come in the form of regulation or the Company, such as improvements in existing Sons was the first company of its segment to become human rights abuses. new requirements of customers. Examples are the businesses and search for new opportunities. signatory of the Global Compact, a United Nations 3 Srecognition increase of the demand for quality in the service (UN) initiative for the adoption of social responsibility upport the freedom of association and the effective provision and mitigation of environmental impacts, policies. Known for its contribution to the legitimate of the right to collective bargaining. more safety for employees and assets. Technology and Innovation interests of society, the Global Compact sets ten Wilson Sons has structured areas for monitoring the legal obligations and the demands of the market. The theme is handled directly by the businesses. principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and fight against corruption. 4 Tofheforced elimination of all forms or compulsory labour. They have autonomy to develop projects in 5 Effectively abolish child labour. The Institutional Relations Team is responsible for the accordance with their long term business plans. The Company is also a founder member of the relationship with regulatory and governmental spheres, Brazilian Business Volunteers Board (CBVE), and monitors the expansion of the legal requirements. coordinated today by the Integrated Centre of Global Compact Studies and Programs of Sustainable Development (Cieds), and integrates the Social Responsibility of 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment. New competitive scenario GRI G4-15 the Brazilian Institute of Oil, Gas and Biofuels (IBP). In addition to maintaining the focus on increasing Wilson Sons values guarantee of human rights, As a member of the working group on Business and Human Rights, created by the Ethos Institute, Wilson 7 Stoupport a precautionary approach environmental challenges. competitiveness in operations, aimed at providing environmental protection and the fight against corruption Sons acts to contribute to the elaboration of a positive better services to customers and giving priority to the use of its installed capacity, Wilson Sons has and encourages improvement of business practices. agenda on human rights and the promotion of decent work, with the improvement of business practices, 8 Dgreater evelop initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. a structured management to monitor the market. 9 Eofncourage public policies and governmental actions. the development and diffusion The Company is always attentive to issues such as environmentally friendly technologies. changes in national and international infrastructure, The initiative aims to enhance the diversity, fighting the concentration of competitors and customers, and slave labour, promoting decent work and contributing market growth. to the development of mechanisms for complaint and dialogue. 10 Fincluding ight corruption in all its forms, extortion and bribes. To learn more, visit www.pactoglobal.org.br 44 45 Main Indicators 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 2014 2013 FINANCIALS AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS Consolidated Results (US$ M) 2015 Net Revenue Net Revenue 508.9 633.5 660.1 Inputs and Raw Material (55.8) (100.6) (-90.8) The Group’s revenue declined 20% to US$508.9 Personnel Expenses (142.6) (194.9) 208.5 million (2014: US$633.5 million) when we analyse the 11% US$ 508.9M Shipyard Other Operations Expenses (141.1) (178.3) (-187.9) results in US Dollars due to the weaker Real impacting Profit (Loss) on Disposal or Impairment (1.3) 0.3 10.0 port terminal´s revenues, reduced orderbook in the EBITDA 168.1 160.1 182.8 Shipyard and fewer dedicated operations in logistics. Depreciation and Amortisation (53.2) (65.1) -58.7 However, if we look at the revenues in Reais, the EBIT 114.9 95.0 124.1 Company’s revenue increased 13% in 2015, totalling Financial Results (48.6) (29.9) (-40.2) 1,6821 million (2014: 1,486 million). The demand for Income Tax Expense (39.7) (42.0) (-42.3) towage services is still significant and was in line with 44% Share of Result of Subsidiary1 4.8 7.1 2.4 the previous year, with the number of harbour towage Port Terminals Net Income 31.4 30.1 44.0 & Logistics manoeuvres in the year increasing 0.1% to 58.620 Margins (%) EBITDA Margins 33.0% 25.3% 27.7% from 58.583 in 2014. Towage revenue increased 1% EBIT Margins 22.6% 15.0% 18.8% in 2015 to US$213.8 million (2014: US$211.0 million). Net Margins 6.2% 4.8% 6.7% Towage volumes benefited from increased special Financial Indicators (US$ M) operations performed during 2015, as in the case of 45% Towage & Shipping Agency Total Assets 953.2 1.057.4 1.078.8 fire fighting in the Port of Santos and operations in the Equity 434.0 513.3 516.5 Port of Açu. Our shipping agency business continued Net Debt 235.4 290.3 247.8 to suffer from the industry trend for liner operators Net Debt/ EBITDA 1.4 x 1.8 x 1.4 x to insource this activity with revenue falling 10% to Return on Equity (ROE) 7.2% 5.9% 8.5%t US$15.4 million (2014: US$17.1 million). Shipyard Investments CAPEX 69.9 111.2 136.9 third party revenue decreased 48% to US$53.9 In addition to third party revenue recognised in the Market Indicators million (2014: US$103.4 million), mainly due to the income statement the shipyard invoiced US$49.1 Share Price Variation WSON (%) 3.0% 3.5% -3.3% reduced orderbook in the Shipyard during the year, million of intercompany sales in the year (2014: Dividends Paid (US$ M) 29.0 27.0 18.1 as mentioned before. US$45.6 million). Number of Shares 71,144,000 71,144,000 71,144,000 Market Capitalization (US$ M) 593.6 859.8 931.9 Operations Indicators Port Terminals Total number of TEUs (‘000) 1,035.1 975.1 937.5 Towage Number of Maneuvers 58,620 58,543 53,869 Offshore Number of Owned PSVs 19 19 18 Productivity Indicators Own Emploees2 4,729 5,265 5,687 Net Income per employee (US$ M) 6.6 5.7 7.7 Assets per employee (US$ M) 201.6 200.8 189.7 INDICATORS OF MATERIAL ISSUES Lost time accidents in every 1 million hours worked 1.53 1.80 Emissions of a thousand tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2) 66 66 Employees undergoing performance evaluation % 100 100 General turnover % 16.1 24.1 1 Corresponding to Wilson Sons 50% participation in Wilson Sons Ultratug Offshore (“WSUT”) 2 Excluding Wilson Sons Ultratug Offshore (“WSUT”) 46 47 The shipyard orderbook for 2016 consists of six US$44.8 million lower at US$55.8 million (2014: Finance costs tugboats for Wilson Sons and four Offshore Support US$100.6 million) principally due to operating The Group´s finance charge for the year increased Vessels for third party. Revenue at our terminal and material, denominated in BRL, being impacted by 2015 2014 to US$45.4 million (2014: US$23.6 million), mainly logistics business fell 25% to US$225.9 million (2014: Dollar appreciation, reduced shipyard activities due to the increase in foreign exchange losses on US$302.0 million). Logistics revenue declined 32% for third-parties and implementation of monitoring loans, in the total of US$32.6 million (2014: US$8,0 to US$49.9 million (2014: US$73.4 million). Terminal improvements. The decrease in logistics margins was million). The exchange rate effect is related to loans Exchange losses on revenue at US$176.0 million was US$52.6 million lower mainly attributable to restructuring costs associated 15.8 16.7 of subsidiaries in Dollars that have BRL as functional monetary items (i) than prior year (2014: US$228.6 million). Revenue at with the closing of some in-house logistic operations currency. Other costs are related mainly to interest Brasco, our offshore oil and gas support base, fell as such as labor-related contingencies and write-off of expenses on bank loans of US$11.8 million (2014: a result of the impact of the higher average USD/BRL assets. We continue to increase our market share Exchange loss on US$12.5 million), which decreased due to the decline exchange rate, which directly contributed to weaker position for the bonded warehousing and other foreign currency 32.6 8.0 in the debt amount. results in US dollars. During the year, two important operations despite the overall market contraction borrowings operations were completed and vessel turnarounds (lower import volume, higher exchange rate) and reduced 33%. Container terminal revenue declined competition predatory prices. Employee expenses Foreign exchange losses on monetary items Deferred tax on due to the higher average USD/BRL exchange were US$52.3 million lower at US$142.6 million retranslation of fixed 27.0 15.9 Exchange losses on monetary items of US$15.8 assets (ii) rate and a less favourable sales mix despite higher (2014: US$194.9 million) mainly due to a reduced million (2014: US$16.7 million) arise from the Group’s container volumes handled at Tecon Rio Grande and headcount, mostly in the cases of Logistics, Brasco foreign currency monetary items and principally Tecon Salvador, increasing 6% to 1.035.180 TEU’s and Terminals and the positive impact of the higher Deferred tax on reflect the depreciation of the BRL against the USD exchange variance on -25.0 -8.0 (2014: 975.116 TEU’s). All Group revenue is derived average USD/BRL exchange rate when converting during the period. The depreciation of the BRL of loans (iii) from Wilson Sons operations in Brazil. BRL expenses into USD. Other operating expenses 47% during the year was above the previous year, in fell from US$178.3 million to US$141.1 million in which the devaluation was 13%. Exchange losses on Operating profit 2015 mainly as a result of lower freights, rentals and outsourced services mainly due to the discontinuation monetary items were lower in 2015 largely due to the Total 50.4 32.6 decrease in our net exposure to BRL denominated Operating profit at US$114.9 million was US$ 19.9 of Logistics clients in-house operations. assets and the exchange rate fluctuations that million higher than prior year (2014: US$95.0 occurred in the year. million), benefited by the Dollar appreciation and the Share of results of joint ventures consequent impact generated in costs and expenses. Group operating margins for the year increased to The share of results of joint ventures is Wilson Sons’ Exchange rates 22.6% (2014: 15%). The rise in operating margins 50% share of net profit for the period mainly from The Group reports in USD and has revenue, costs, was principally due to lower depreciation and our offshore joint venture, which declined US$2.3 assets and liabilities in both BRL and USD. Therefore amortisation expense in the period, declined raw million from US$7.1 million in 2014 to US$4.8 million movements in the USD/BRL exchange rate can material consumption and reduced orderbook in in the current year, due to the reduction of 1.5% in impact the Group both positively and negatively from the shipyard and the reduction in the Company´s the number of days in operation with own vessels year to year. During 2015 the BRL depreciated 47% headcount. Depreciation and amortisation decreased and mainly due to 4 days in which our vessels against the USD from R$2.66 at 1 January 2015 to US$11.9 million to US$53.2 million from US$65.1 were offhire in the end of 2015. During the period, R$3.90 at the year end (2014: 13% depreciation). million in 2014 as a result of a larger asset base the offshore joint venture repaid US$3.5 million in The principal effects from the depreciation of the BRL offset and by R$ exchange rate devaluation. Raw intergroup loans. against the USD on the income statement are: materials and consumables used in the year were 48 49 These impacts are related to: (i) result of Balance Sheet translations of R$ denominated Net Monetary Assets, Cash flow Debt Profile and Cash By Term such as net accounts receivable and payable, cash & Net cash inflow from operating activities for the year Position 12% cash equivalents; (ii) negative impact on deferred taxes at US$154.5 million is significantly higher than 2014, Short Term principally a result of the Company’s Fixed Assets US$117.9 million. Capital expenditure of US$68.0 and US$ loans. When the R$ appreciates, net future million was lower than the prior year (2014: US$107.5 Net debt and financing tax deduction allowable for net assets and loans will million) when we had investments made in the All debt at the year-end was held in the subsidiaries represent a greater amount when converted to the expansion of the Brasco Caju oil and gas support of Wilson Sons Limited Group and has no recourse US$ reporting currency; (iii) negative FX impact on terminal and the expansion of the warehouse at Tecon to the parent company, Wilson Sons Limited. The 88% investments and loans due to US$ denominated debt Salvador. New loans to finance capital expenditure Group’s borrowings are long-term with defined Long Term in subsidiaries with R$ reporting currency. of US$31.9 million were raised in the period (2014: repayment schedules repayable over different US$64.1 million) and capital repayments of US$49.9 periods up to 18 years. At 31 December 2015, 92% million (2014: US$38.1 million) made on existing Taxation of the Group’s borrowings are USD denominated loans. At 31 December 2015 the Group had US$131.1 or linked to the USD with a favourable weighted Income tax expense for the year at US$39.7 million million in cash and cash equivalents including short average interest rate of 3.0%. A significant portion of was in line with prior year (2014: US$42.0 million) and term investments (2014: US$109.5 million) of which the Group’s pricing is denominated in US Dollars and this represents an effective tax rate for the period of US$83.3 million was denominated in Brazilian Real acts as a natural hedge to our long-term exchange 56% (2014: 58%). The corporate tax rate prevailing in (2014: US$70.3 million). By Currency rate exposure. At 31 December 2015, 88% of our Brazil is 34%. The difference in the effective tax rate is debt was non-current. At 31 December 2015, the due to expenses that are not included in determining Balance sheet Group had net debt of US$235.4 million (2014: taxable profit (principally foreign exchange losses US$290.3 million). on monetary items) and deferred tax of US$1.6 At 31 December 2015 the equity attributable to 8% million during this period (2014: US$9.1 million). In shareholders was US$432.9 million, a decrease The Group’s borrowings are used principally to BRL Denomineted the consolidated financial statements, a tax loss of of US$77.6 million from 2014 (US$510.5 million). finance vessel construction and the development of one entity in the Group cannot be offset against a The principal movements in the year were profits our terminal business. The Group’s main sources of tax liability of another entity in the Group as there is for the period of US$30.2 million, less dividends financing are the Fundo da Marinha Mercante “FMM”, no legally enforceable right to offset tax assets and paid of US$29.0 million and a negative currency a Brazilian Government fund dedicated to funding liabilities between Group companies. translation adjustment of US$52.3 million. vessel construction in Brazil and the International The currency translation adjustment arises from Finance Corporation. The FMM is funded by a levy on exchange differences on the translation of operations inbound freight to Brazil and the BNDES and Banco Profit for the year with a functional currency other than USD. do Brasil act as lending agents for the FMM. The After deducting profit attributable to non-controlling Group’s reported borrowings do not include US$262.2 interests of US$1.20 million (2014: US$1.5 million), CAPEX million of debt from the Company’s 50% share of profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is borrowings in our offshore vessel joint venture. US$30.2 million (2014: US$28.6 million). Investments totalled US$69.9 in 2015 against US$111.2 million in 2014. The IFRS CAPEX in 2015 is 92% 37.1% lower as the comparative includes investment USD Denominated Earnings per share for the expansion of the Brasco Caju oil & gas terminal Basic earnings per share for the year were 42.43 and Tecon Salvador warehouse expansion, described cents (2014: 40.21 cents) and Diluted earnings per previously. New towage vessels and port terminals share were 40.74 cents (2014: 38.67 cents). equipment were the principal CAPEX items in 2015. 50 51 Social responsibility Through donations and voluntary actions, Wilson In 2015, the voluntary actions mobilised the and locals, the mission of the brigade is to preserve Estúdio Escola de Animação Sons participates in projects aimed at the respect participation of 342 employees in actions directed to nature and make people aware of the importance of School of Animation Studio (EEA) is a training project and appreciation of life, as well as the preservation children, youth and the elderly. Today, the volunteer taking care of the place. on animation language for students of the public of corporate history and the history of the sectors in programme is present in Rio Grande (RS), São network that is in its 4th Edition. The project aims to which it operates. Francisco do Sul, Paranaguá (PR), Santo André Escola de Gente spark the interest of young people in the language (SP), Rio de Janeiro (RJ), Niterói (RJ) and Salvador www.escoladegente.org.br of animation, either as form of public expression or Corporate History (BA). The beneficiaries of the voluntary initiatives Located in Barra da Tijuca, in Rio de Janeiro, acts as a field of professional performance. totalled 2,117 people last year. for the inclusion of vulnerable groups in society, The Company maintains a Corporate History Centre, especially people with special needs. Their actions Brasil de Tuhú with documents and records related to over 179 years involve courses for companies and institutions, Brazil of Tuhu is a program for music education that of trajectory of the organisation. The Corporate History Support and sponsorship enabling young people and making them multipliers aims, through different platforms, to be reference of content to be worked in the classroom, especially for Centre was officially opened in 2006 and has already of the concept and practice of social inclusion. supported and supports publications that preserves De Peito Aberto public school educators. the history of the international trade sector. www.depeitoaberto.com.br Passaporte da Cidadania www.pastoraldomenor.com.br Grupo de Trabalho de Direitos Conceived by a group of professional athletes and Humanos Ethos The iconographic and documentary collection sports enthusiasts, the Open Heart Incentive to Project linked the Pastoral of the Child, with a focus on consists of approximately of 6000 catalogued This working group has as focus of performance Sport (De Peito Aberto Incentivo ao Esporte) is a children and young people involved with drugs. It is a items, which serve as a source of information for improvement and sharing of good business practices, civil society organization of public interest (OSCIP) mobile service platform comprised of a bus adapted employees, students and researchers in general. as well as its spreading to the entire market, the non-profit organization, which was created in order to and equipped to receive young people. production of materials and reference guides to The content can be accessed by staff through an internal meet the need to contribute to the sport, education, support the companies activities, the spread of Sonhar Acordado portal or in person at the offices of Wilson Sons in Rio health and culture, promoting the integration of public these contents in workshops and seminars and the The NGO Daydreaming is an international, non-profit de Janeiro. The Corporate History Centre is also open and private institutions, conceptualizing new ideas, influence on public policies, through dialogue and organization that works with institutions, orphanages, to the public. To have access for information just send establishing professional relationships and making cooperation with the Government. homes and hospitals, and that seeks to transform the request to centro.memoria@wilsonsons.com.br. athletes aware. Wilson Sons sponsors the Sport the lives of children through a friendship with and Citizenship Salvador Project coordinated by this Comissão de Responsabilidade Social youth volunteering. entity, serving 100 children and adolescents from 7 do IBP to 17 years who are enrolled in regular school. The Commission has as activities and tasks the Volunteers Instituto Reação exchange, dissemination, implementation and The Institute Reaction is a non-governmental Brigada Mirim da Ilha Grande consolidation of concepts, methodologies, techniques, Wilson Sons, aware of the importance of corporate organisation that promotes human development www.brigadamirim.org.br experiences and practices aimed at promoting Social volunteering and the need for communication with the and social inclusion through sport and education, communities in which it operates, keeps a program Founded in 1989 on the initiative of residents of by promoting Judo from the sports initiation through Responsibility Management as a path for sustainable called Criando Laços. The initiative has a Steering Ilha Grande, off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, the to high performance. The proposal is to use the development within the oil and gas industry. Committee and Work Groups at branch offices and organization provides work, health, education and sport as an instrument of social and educational financial support from the Company. citizenship for the youth. Operating between tourists transformation, forming black belts on and off the mat. 52 53 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index This panorama presents standard content guidelines for GRI Sustainability Report. These contents are distributed as follows. GRI Chapter Page GRI Chapter Page GENERAL CONTENT SPECIFIC CONTENT Strategy and analysis Category: Environment G4-1 Message from the Board 2 Aspect: Emissions Organisational G4-EN15/EN19 Enviromental Commitment 35 G4-3/4/5/6/7/8 Business Profile 6 Category: Social G4-10 Professionals of the Group 38 Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work G4-I5 Global Compact 44 Identified material aspects and limits Aspect: Employment G4-19 Sustainability Management 28 G4-LA1 Professionals of the Group 38 and 41 Report profile Aspect: Health and safety at work G4-LA6 Safety 32 Governance Aspect: Training and education G4-34/38 Management Structure 19 G4-LA9/LA10/LA11 Professionals of the Group 40 Ethics and integrity Subcategory: Society Company Philosophy G4-56 14 and Competitive Advantages Aspect: Fighting corruption Anticorruption Guide and Committee G4-SO4 18 of Ethics and Anticorruption 54 55
