SUPERIOR PROFITABILITY AND FINANCIAL STABILITY DONGBU INSURANCE INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ABOUT THIS REPORT SUPERIOR PROFITABILITY This sixth sustainability report was published to transparently report AND FINANCIAL STABILITY on Dongbu Insurance’s financial and non-financial performance for 2015 to all stakeholders. Also, this is the first Integrated Report that reflects the Guiding Principles and Content Elements set out Contents by the<IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Overview Reporting Period and Cycle CEO Message 04 Dongbu Insurance publishes an Integrated Report every year since 2015. This report covers from January 1, 2015 to December 31, About Dongbu Insurance 06 2015, although the activities and performance for 2016 relating to Business Model 08 core issues are included in order to provide stakeholders with the Products and Services 12 most recent information. Reporting Principles Business Section This report was written in accordance with the Global Reporting Corporate Vision 16 Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the GRI Strategy 18 Financial Service Sector Supplement, and prepared in accordance Strengthening Competitiveness of Insurance Industry 18 with the GRI G4 Core option. Also, this report reflects the InternaAsset Management 20 tional <IR> Framework, and reported on the Company’s activities Innovation Management 22 and performance based on the ten principles in an annual Communication on Progress as a member of the UN Global Compact. The Expansion of Global Business 24 financial data is in accordance with K-IFRS. Any change of content from the previous report is noted separately in this report. Sustainability Section Reporting Scope Customers 28 This report covers the performance of Dongbu Insurance’s HeadEmployees 36 quarters and domestic business sites, including Regional Head Partners 42 Offices and Service Centers, excluding the subsidiary companies, Local Communities 46 while also containing some data in relation to the Company’s overseas branches and offices. The environmental data includes inforCorporate Governance mation on Dongbu Insurance’s nine buildings and leased offices, excluding the Company’s overseas branches and offices. Corporate Governance 52 Ethics Management 56 Risk Management 60 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report 64 Key Management Performances 65 Financial Statements 66 Operations Evaluation Report of Internal Accounting Manager 70 Non-financial Performances 71 Appendix Stakeholder Engagement 80 Materiality Assessment 81 GRI G4 Index 82 Third Party’s Assurance 84 Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas (Ghg) Inventory 86 As Korea’s leading insurance company, CONTACT UN Global Compact 87 Dongbu Insurance aims to become Name | Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. a global insurance financial group by making Memberships in Associations and Organizations 88 Address | Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran-ro, Gangnam, Seoul, S.Korea further changes and meeting challenges Dongbu Insurance History 89 to create differentiated customer value, while Contact Information | Tel. 1588-0100 also contributing in sustainable future growth. Website | http://www.idongbu.com Major Accolades 90 CEO Message About Dongbu Insurance Overview Business Model Products and Services CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, Insurance strives to enhance the Company’s structure of operating We would like to sincerely thank you all for the support you have shown expenses and explore new high-yield investment markets, thereby to Dongbu Insurance. Despite the difficult business environment in securing stable profits in the mid to long term. 2015, including a prolonged period of global economic slowdown, low growth, low interest rates, low returns and the stagnation in Korean Second, Dongbu Insurance will strengthen the Company’s manpower, insurance market, the Company has achieved outstanding results through systems and processes to gain competitive advantage through new its sustainable management, such as company-wide efforts to improve product development in response to the deregulation of the insurance loss ratios and enhance the efficiency of operating expenses, as well as industry. In addition to offering better quality to Dongbu Insurance’s maintaining comparative advantage in return on asset ratio. customers, the Company will establish a long-term management system based on customer value through new market expansion, while also Externally, Dongbu Insurance’s direct premiums recorded KRW 11,487.9 enhancing customer satisfaction and reinforcing consumer protection billion, an increase of 7.2% compared with the previous year. The Company’s through process innovations at customer MOT. Since the sale of online market share has grown 0.3%p to achieve 16.1%, while the net profit products will begin in 2016, Dongbu Insurance will make utmost efforts to amounted to KRW 412.7 billion, an increase of 3.1% in profit and loss stabilize the CM business mainly through car insurances. The Company compared to the previous year. will pursue overseas business opportunities by focusing on improving the profitability of the Americas, as well as launching new business models for In particular, Dongbu Insurance has improved the Company’s sustainable the emerging markets like Southeast Asia. management strategies by having company-wide task forces participating mainly through the Sustainability Management Administrative Committee. Third, Dongbu Insurance will establish a corporate culture of passion The Company has established new mid to long-term business strategies, and commitment. The future of the insurance industry will be determined for 2016. Through these efforts, Dongbu Insurance has strengthened its by the genuineness of the response to customer and market demands. position as a global insurance financial group, including being the first in the In the end, it will depend on whether the insurance company can fully Korean financial industry to receive a presidential citation at the Korea National commit to their duties with an ownership mind and passion. In a time Quality Award (KNQA), listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for of rapid change, the Company aims to create a corporate culture that three consecutive years, and acquiring the Customer Centered Management embodies the ownership spirit, passion and commitment as its own. (CCM) certification hosted by the Korea Fair Trade Commission. Lastly, Dongbu Insurance will continuously expand the efforts to fulfill The difficult business environment is projected to continue in 2016, the Company’s social responsibility. Dongbu Insurance aims to carry while the market condition is expected to rapidly change. Unlike the out various activities, including strengthening operational efficiency and stronger soundness regulation like adopting the International Financial execution through reorganizing the Company’s sustainable management Reporting Standards (IFRS) 4 phase II, regulations on insurance companies governance; extending risk management to non-financial areas; implementing have been greatly eased, including abolishing the current prior reporting strategic social contribution activities according to different life cycle phases; system and the standard terms and conditions, and giving insurance and expanding global social contribution activities. In particular, the Company companies more autonomy in developing insurance products and asset will become a global leading company in sustainable management by management. Also, it will be the first year when the insurance industry supporting and participating in the ten principles of the UN Global Compact undergo fundamental structural changes due to IT innovations. (UNGC) and the global climate change initiative Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as a member. In response to rapidly changing business environment, Dongbu Insurance strives to increase the Company’s corporate value through Dongbu Insurance was able to grow into Korea’s leading general insurance reforming profit structure and expanding growth engines, by company by being well prepared to market changes and never satisfied focusing on implementing the four assignments for sustainable with past performance. Based on ownership mind and passion, the management as follows. Company will carefully develop strategies and make bold execution to turn the uncertain future into new opportunities. First, in order to proactively respond to rapidly changing business environment, Dongbu Insurance will remove the causes of Thank you. inefficiency found in the Company’s business areas, including May 2016 work processes and manpower structure, while also establishing Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. a profit-oriented decision-making structure. Dongbu Insurance will President & CEO Kim, Jeong-Nam continue to improve the Company’s loss ratios by expanding a product portfolio optimizing profitability, applying optimal rates for each product and upgrading the Company’s underwriting capabilities. Also, Dongbu 04 05 CEO Message About Dongbu Insurance Overview Business Model Products and Services About Dongbu Insurance A Global Insurance Financial Group which Pursues a Happy Society Direct Premiums (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Equity Capital (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Net Profit (Unit: KRW in 100 million) with Customers Since Dongbu Insurance’s founding in 1962 as the first car insurance company in Korea, the 114,879 36,827 Dongbu Insurance has grown into Korea’s leading general insurance company based on the Company’s management philosophy of prioritizing customer satisfaction and having a sound 107,142 33,630 4,003 4,127 financial structure. 76,427 27,032 3,060 Based on the Company’s profit-oriented management, optimal loss ratios, and the industry’s highest ROE and ROA, Dongbu Insurance has gained profits for over 20 years to strengthen the growth foundation, allowing Dongbu Insurance to fulfill the Company’s social responsibility as a good corporate citizen and achieve sustainable growth in the society. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Overseas Expansion Retained Customers (Unit: 10,000 persons) Sustainability Assessment After establishing the first overseas branch in Guam in 1984, Dongbu Insurance has been expanding the Company’s overseas network to realize a growth of more than 90 times from KRW 2.2 billion to KRW 200 billion as of 2015. Dongbu Insurance is expanding the Company’s overseas operation by focusing mostly on the Americas, China and Asia, aiming to increase profitability through market 780 DJSI World entry strategies for each region instead of focusing only on external growth. As of December of 2015 (included three consecutive years) (As of March in 2016: 792) Overseas Network Employees and Partners (Unit: persons) Credit Rating Branch Representative Office Joint Venture Overseas Subsidiary 28,118 S&P A(stable) A.M.Best A (Excellent) (including 23,396 sales partners) Organization Structure and Subsidiaries Dongbu Insurance’s headquarters comprises of 58 departments and 22 teams under 12 divisions in 3 offices (4 divisions in each office), which sets the London vision and strategies for the entire company and establishes policies for each business segment. The Company has 34 branch offices, 58 business units under 8 nation-wide head offices, and 3 Customer Service Centers (20 teams dispatched) in operation. In addition, 13 nationwide Claim Service Centers, Beijing California New York Qingdao 12 Claim Adjustment Departments, and Claim Support Centers and Customer Service Centers to deal with customer claims and services. Chongqing Hawaii Subsidiaries Hanoi Yangon (Unit: KRW in million, %) Ho Chi Minh Guam Company Date of Establishment Major Business Capital Ownership Dongbu Car Claim Adjustment 1984. 02. 29 Car insurance 10,983 100 Jarkarta Dongbu CAS * 2011. 03. 17 Claims adjustment for casualty and illness insurance 4,736 100 Dongbu CNS ** 2011. 03. 17 Claims adjustment and other financial support services 7,668 100 Dongbu CSI *** 2011. 03. 17 Claim survey and claims adjustment 2,426 100 Dongbu MnS **** 2013. 02. 22 Insurance agency and brokerage 9,738 100 Dongbu Life Insurance 1989. 04. 14 Life Insurance 8,136,476 99.8 Dongbu Capital 1995. 12. 08 Credit finance business 97,501 60.0 Dongbu Securities 1982. 12. 20 Financial Investment 6,490,287 19.9 Dongbu Financial Services ***** 2014. 01. 13 Insurance agency and brokerage 5,868 100 * Dongbu Claim Adjustment & Settlement ** Dongbu Customer & Network Service *** Dongbu Claim Survey & Investigation **** Dongbu Marketing & Service ***** Subsidiary of subsidiary of Dongbu MnS 06 07 CEO Message About Dongbu Insurance Overview Business Model Products and Services Business Model Six Capitals Sharing Values with Stakeholders Financial Capital Dongbu Insurance shares the Company’s value with stakeholders by creating financial performance. Sales increase results in increased claim paid, and improves loss ratios led to a discount on premiums. Increase of the net profit before tax resulted in increasing dividends Dongbu Insurance raises finance to cover claim paid, operating expenses and operational funds with premium for shareholders to improve their satisfaction, while extending additional customer services and increasing the fee payment to partners. incomes from selling policies to the Company’s customers. Therefore, in order to manage customers’ assets Also, the Dongbu Insurance creates profits for diverse stakeholders through better performance, including increasing the profits of safely and create high profits, the Company makes strategic investments and aims to expand socially responsible shareholders and investors through boosting stock prices resulting from the Company’s value rising. investment. Manufacturing Capital Individuals and institutions that are the purchasers or potential purchasers of Dongbu Insurance’s products Dongbu Insurance manages businesses based on the Company’s manufacturing capital, including computer system and Data Center. The Company establishes a disaster and emergency response system to take •Customer review group measures required to provide services safely. •External Customer Satisfaction Survey (KCSI, KS-SQI, NCSI) •Dongbu Insurance Customer Satisfaction Index (DCSI) •Voice of Customer •Understanding customers Intellectual Capital Claim paid (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Due to the rapid changes in products and services resulting from external factors like low birth rates, an aging 39,348 Individuals and institutions that are directly and indirectly affected where population and a prolonged period of low growth, Dongbu Insurance subdivides the Company’s customers Dongbu Insurance operates into groups through customer research and big data analysis, so that differentiated values are provided by identifying their specific needs and developing customer-oriented products. Individuals and institutions that provide capital •Social contribution activities to Dongbu Insurance for profit gain •Sports sponsorship •Public benefit activities •Investment relations activities Customer •Investor Relations Participants of social contribution activity Human Capital •Public disclosure (electronic disclosure system (Unit: KRW in 100 million) and website) Due to the nature of the insurance industry, talented people are the core to Dongbu Insurance’s competShareholders Stakeholders Local 6,938 Dividends (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Communities itiveness from product development to sale. In order to maximize its performance through its employees’ Investment in social contribution advanced professional skills, the Company has introduced a new education system that is designed to foster 981 (Unit: KRW in 100 million) the industry’s most talented specialists. 2,312 Partners Employees Social and Relation Capital Individuals and institutions that provide Dongbu Insurance’s Group of people who receive wages in exchange for products and services to customers promptly and accurately their labor or service as employees of Dongbu Insurance Dongbu Insurance aims to improve customer satisfaction by pursuing a happy society with customers and •Communication channel with PA in field •Dongbu People Plaza providing optimal products and services for the Company’s customers. Also, the Company is actively partic•Sales Partner TV •Suggestion system ipating in government policies by taking into consideration that non-life insurance industry is operated under •DBRT (Dongbu Round Table) Seminar •Open meeting the government and supervisory institution’s strong regulations. •Car Repair shop Partnership Conference •Dynamic Leaders Conference •Meeting with DP (Dongbu Partner) •Meeting with the CEO •Medical consulting network •Monthly management briefings (Promy TV) •Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) Number of cases handled per partner company Environmental Capital (Unit: cases) 360 Employment costs (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Dongbu Insurance’s nine domestic office buildings, 548 leased offices across the nation and Data Center proCommissions paid for insurance sales 3,270 duce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from heating and air-conditioning equipment. The Company strives (Unit: KRW in 100 million) 3,379 for environmental capital management by establishing an environmental guideline, acquiring the Environment Management System (ISO 14001) certification and the Green Management System (KSI 7001/7002) certifications, and adopting the Weather Management System. * Six capitals and core concepts defined by the <IR> Framework 08 09 CEO Message About Dongbu Insurance Business Model Products and Services Value Chain Development of Products and Services Delivery of Products and Services Sharing Products and Services Creating differentiated value through development of Delivering best customer experience through Sharing customer value through operation of specialized products and services for customers operating various sales channels that meet support system and nationwide claim adjustment network different customers’ needs for expansion of customers’ assets Exclusive Asset Products Channels Management PA (Prime Agent) Exclusive insurance planners who have the right to only sell Dongbu Insurance’s products Long-term Insurance Car Insurance General Insurance Loan Business for Domestic and Foreign Investments Branches Accident/disease/nursing, etc Human damage/material damage Fire/marine/liability/technology/rights/ Building dedicated asset management organization storm and flood damage/environmental Branches that signed an exclusive contract to based on midto long-term perspectives pollution/reinsurance, etc. have the right to only sell Dongbu Insurance’s products Freelance Claim AdServices Channel justment GA (General Agency) Freelance branches that can sell insurance products of all insurance companies Damage adjustment Auto care service Promy health care service Risk management service Emergency dispatch service Cross Planner Promy car service Funeral partnership service Court support service On-site dispatch service Car care service Will management service Consulting for retirement planning An exclusive life insurance planner who have the right to sell both life and non-life insurance Damage investigation Damage claim products (long-term, automotive, general) 10 11 CEO Message About Dongbu Insurance Overview Business Model Products and Services Products and Services Products and Services Development Process Developing Customer-Oriented Products Dongbu Insurance operates a planning process for products and services in the order of ‘EstabDongbu Insurance offers differentiated products and services to customers through identifying spelishing product operation strategy through data collection and analysis’, ‘Developing marketing cific needs of segmented customer groups and implementing diversified analysis on external environplans and products/services based on the social and environmental needs’, and ‘Giving feedment, including the society’s demographic changes and the trends of market economy. The Company backs and maintaining sales performance’. Also, the Company is thoroughly reviewing the social has improved the effectiveness of customer contact management, such as subdividing customers and environmental impacts and reflecting them by further dividing the process into five phases. through big data analysis and customer researches, developing products and services and diversifying communication channels according to each customer group. In addition, Dongbu Insurance strives to develop a product portfolio that focuses on customer value, including matching products and designing products with specific coverage, by taking into consideration of the insurance entrance period and Product operation strategy set up for each customer, the life cycle according to diversified needs of customers according to different life cycles. channel and product group Establishing product operation strategy Verification of sale tendency in comparison to the Product planning’s validity verification plan and strengthening of continued sale (market needs, competitiveness, etc.) Providing differentiated customer values by Providing performance Planning products and feedback analyzing changes in external environment and Development gathering opinions taking into consideration of customers’ needs Process New Technology & IT Infrastructure Competition Customer Law and Regulation •Expansion of new sales channels via IT •Increase of new market entrants through •Diversification and complexification of •Collapse of life insurance and non-life technology diverse means customer needs insurance barriers and allow cross selling Operation of a company-wide support system Risk verification and strengthening of •Accumulation and sharing of customer •Intensify competition in the insurance •Increase of the needs for customized •Spread of total directional competition in (products, marketing, training) Finalizing development systems Preparing sale/ information (big data) and increasing industry for the same customer base products and services the financial industry due to the plan /Getting product analytical skills •Increase of the needs for customers’ one deregulation for economic stimulation Beginning sale approval •Increase customer data collection stop shopping capability resulting in intense competition between similar financial products Expanding Prosocial Products and Services Dongbu Insurance is actively developing prosocial products and services that utilize the nature of the insurance industry in order to effectively fulfill the Company’s social responsibility as a corporate Positioning of products based on customer’s life cycle citizen. Dongbu Insurance has taken the lead in promoting prosocial insurance services, including meeting the insurance needs of geographically disadvantaged people who are financially underprivInsurance entrance Insurance experience Maximum purchasing Increasing retiree’s Customer needs ileged by providing insurance service via a local office dispatched in islands and mountainous areas period period insurance period needs period where accessibility of financial services is difficult, and creating a donation culture through donating claim paid. Also, the Company offers various prosocial products for the vulnerable social group, including insurance products exclusively for patients who generally find it difficult to obtain insurance, Nursing and discounted insurance products for disadvantaged groups. In addition, Dongbu Insurance has Specific Family Guarantee Responding developed prosocial products in cooperation with external institutions and strengthened the Comguarantee Gold Life to aging society Family Livelihood pany’s effectiveness, such as insurances for the children of low-income earners with Smile micro bank and support for childbirth congratulatory insurances in cooperation with local governments. Injury My First Accident Insurance Cost Cancer Drivers SpEcial issue My First Insurance 20s~30s Major Developing the Usage Based Insurance (UBI) My Family’s Health Disease Dongbu Insurance has developed car insurance called the Usage Based Insurance (UBI) for the first time Comprehensive Children in the insurance industry which gives discounts on premiums according to the information on a customer’s coverage All Comprehensive Coverage Type driving habits. It is a new eco-friendly insurance product that gives discounts on premiums according to Risk customers’ safe driving skills for driving certain distances through an embedded smartphone navigation application, allowing them to save on car insurance financially as well as promoting safe and eco-friendly driving socially to have the effect of reducing social costs. Life cycle Single Married·raising children Raising student children Preparing retirement·Retired 12 13 More Investment in the Future Dongbu Insurance aims to become a global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with customers. We innovate our revenue structure and expand growth engines by analyzing changes in business environment and responding to them preemptively. Dongbu Insurance is also making efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of insurance business, innovative management, expansion of global business and asset management considering both profitability and stability. We believe that through these efforts, sharing sustainable shareholder value and business outcome with all stakeholders is social responsibility of Dongbu Insurance. Business Section Corporate Vision Strategy Strengthening Competitiveness of Insurance Industry Asset Management Innovation Management 14 15 Expansion of Global Business Corporate Vision Strategy Business Section Strengthening Competitiveness of Insurance Industry Asset Management Innovation Management Expansion of Global Business Corporate Vision Vision Building a Strategy for Sustainable Management The management philosophy of Dongbu Insurance is to be a “good company”. The philosophy Dongbu Insurance pushed forward with a project to improve competitiveness in sustainable manGlobal Insurance Financial Group is based on the foundation spirit that provides excellent products and services to customers, agement with CSR Secretariat and corporate task force team, which led the project to improve provides performance-based compensation and a pleasant working environment to employees sustainable management system and secure global competitiveness in 2015. 27 employees from and delivers the highest profit ratio to shareholders, thereby contributing to national and social 24 departments took part in the six-month-long project, established strategic tasks for corporate development. social responsibility and identified measures and tasks regarding global sustainable management. With Customers Happy Society Pursuing a Happy Society with Customers Implementing customer-oriented Sincerely carrying out basic tasks win-win management and fulfilling social responsiblities This is the core philosophy of Dongbu Insurance that includes the concept of pursuing ‘people’s happiness and company’s sustainable growth’ Global Insurance Financial Group Expanding global social Implementing social responsibility Global Insurance Financial Group Global Insurance Financial Group responsibilities in line with its goal to activities related to This is the future direction of the company where it becomes a global company and be one of the Global Top 20 business characteristics turns itself from non-life insurance company to insurance financial group Which Pursues a Happy Society with Customers Core Value of Sustainable Management Dongbu Insurance selected four core values of sustainable development, which are the criteria Corporate Mission for sustainable management activities and decision-making. Dongbu Insurance offers the best value to make people happy and company enjoy sustainable growth by having people and companies prepare against possible human and material risks. Considering strategic connections with business in sustainable management Value Management activities with focus on areas where business value corresponds to social value Purpose (Why) Making people happy and companies enjoy sustainable growth Pushing forward with human-oriented sustainable management activities and Win-Win Management Top 1 ‘Competition System’ within Insurance conducting them with employees and various stakeholders Method (How) Making people and companies prepare against possible human and material risks Business by strengthening foundation for quantitative and qualitative growth Actively pushing ahead with global sustainable management activities related to Global Management Values and Standards Providing the best value global business Opportunity Expanding possibilities of sustainable growth by building system which preempManagement tively responds to opportunities and risks in business, society and environment Organizing sustainable Core Strategic Task management system that is connected to In the short-term, we plan to build policy and system where sustainable management activities are business strategy 14 core strategic tasks in 7 areas are Securing differentiated customer loyalty Strengthening basic insurance commonly conducted. In the mid-to long-term, we will enhance both corporate and social value and asset management competitiveness identified and pursued to realize 2020 through social responsibility activities connected to brand, sales and business. mid-to long-term goals. Along with this, Improving P/F of profitability-based products Building platform for new overseas business Sustainable the goal of establishing ‘Top 1 competiManagement Organizing sustainable management system that is connected to business strategy | Optimizing market-leading channel P/F Advancing information asset infrastructure Strategy Governance, non-financial risk and stakeholder engagement tion system’ was set. Reinforcing analysis and utilization of U/W Introducing Upgrading social Upgrading social contribution activities | and claim adjustment information global sustainable contribution activities Development and operation of social contribution programs related to business characteristics management Introducing global sustainable management | Fulfilling social responsibilities by the nation which Dongbu Insurance runs its business 16 17 Corporate Vision Strategy Business Section Strengthening Competitiveness of Insurance Industry Asset Management Innovation Management Expansion of Global Business Strategy ▶ Change in Regulations Strengthening the Competitiveness of Insurance Industry Asset Management A paradigm is shifted from quantitative competition focusing on sales Dongbu Insurance is making proactive efforts to reIn preparation against adverse parity risk, Dongbu Insurchannel to qualitative competition focusing on products and services spond to changing needs of customers and market ance is making efforts including the enhancement of asset due to the deregulation of domestic insurance products and asset to strengthen its competitiveness in market changes management specialties, the reinforcement of risk manageManagement management. such as matured insurance market and diversificament and the expansion of overseas networks. By doing Focus in 2016 •Key issues: Strengthening RBC regulations/change in insurance regulations/deregulation of asset management tion of customer needs. so, the company is conducting asset management considering both profitability and stability. Increasing corporate value •Innovation of customer experience management focusing on long-term relationship based on trust •Operation of specialized asset management organization and strengthening via revenue structure ▶ Change in Social Environment •Securing distinguished status within market through Product expertise of the organization innovation and expansion Leadership •Expansion of overseas asset management network of growth engines The emergence of the fin-tech era requires preemptive responses to •Enhancement of information asset management infrastructure •Boosting socially responsible investment what insurance companies did not go through or changes in the business environment such as analog-style regulation improvement and moral hazard risks like excessive medical service and insurance frauds. •Key issues: Fin-tech era, growing importance of new sales channels and Innovation Management Expansion of Global Business expansion of moral hazards Dongbu Insurance is moving ahead with strategic We are making entry into strategic overseas markets of each innovation such as the business structure innovaregion considering the characteristics of each market such tion and the expansion of new growth engines in as taking over an overseas insurance company for the first ▶ Economic Recession Home and Abroad order to proactively respond to the changing busitime as Korean non-life insurance company, direct retailing in Global Insurance Financial Group The saturation of the domestic insurance market and the global econess environment. the US and strategic alliance with local insurance company nomic downturn are making Dongbu Insurance face an unprecedent•Conducting Mega Project for business structure innovation in China, which is a big market. ed crisis of low growth, low interest rates and low income. •Establishing CRM processes of non-face-to-face channel •Increasing profitability in existing markets •Dramatically improving customer experience of retained customers •Creating a new business model in newly developed overseas markets •Key issues: Adverse parity risk, consumption cliff, aging population Strengthening Innovation of Customer Experience Management Focusing on Long-term Relationship based on Trust Enhancement of Information Asset Management Infrastructure With growing importance of retained customers, securing good-quality data and an advanced Competitiveness of In an era of eight million retained customers, Dongbu Insurance is striving to reinforce a customer data analysis capability are becoming the core competitiveness of future business. Hence, Dongbu Insurance is making endeavors to secure differentiated competitiveness by upgrading capaInsurance Industry experience management system and improve satisfaction of customers. For this, we are breaking away from a past sales-oriented customer management method and moving toward customer bilities for the management and analysis of customer information collected through sales and experience management focusing on establishing a long-term relationship based on trust. We claim adjustments from the integrated perspective. In 2015, we advanced information asset manare bolstering company-led customer management system with a view to deal with the maturing agement infrastructure that can integrate, manage and analyze company-wide data and provide domestic insurance market and changes in customer needs. At the same time, we are expandcustomized analysis information for product development in a timely manner. A five-month-long ing aggressive customer management activities by building a management system optimized project for the corporate informatization strategy enabled us to identify companywide informatizafor customer needs while making endeavors to secure loyalty via the reinforcement of a good tion strategy, five strategic directions and eleven strategic tasks. We are implementing thirty-sevrelationship with customers. We will reinforce the management of customer groups difficult to en implementation tasks with a goal of competing the tasks in 2019. Moreover, we have been manage in the field by making an improvement in customer management quality and building a running a committee to review the implementation tasks of corporate informatization strategy to company-led customer management system to improve differences in customer management increase implementation level since June, 2016. quality depending on different sales organizations’ capabilities and motivation levels. Companywide Informatization Strategy Securing Distinguished Status within Market through Vision Creation of future IT value that is in line with growth engines of business Product Leadership Dongbu Insurance is pursuing innovation and differentiation of its product by reflecting market Reinforcing Efficient competitiveness Laying foundation changes preemptively escaping from product development strategy focusing only on profitability management of Expansion of Optimization of IT Strategy of channels focusfor Digital ing on customer companywide analytics utilization operation and growth. In addition, the company preemptively grasps and copes with changes in customInsurance experience architecture er needs and builds balanced product development capabilities. We are strengthening product competitiveness via product segmentation at the customer level, the expansion of service-linked products and the adoption of customer participation process in product development. 18 19 Corporate Vision Strategy Business Section Strengthening Competitiveness of Insurance Industry Asset Management Innovation Management Expansion of Global Business Asset Management Total Assets under Management Securing Global-Level Asset Management Capabilities Return on Investment (Unit: KRW in billion,%) Balanced Asset Management Considering both Profitability Prolonged low growth and low interest rates and fiercer competition in the industry made asset and Stability FY13 539.1 3.99 management capabilities emerge as companies’ core competence. In 2011, Dongbu Insurance Achieving the Highest ROI among Big Four Non-Life Insurance Companies established a long-term asset management plan in preparation against adverse parity risk ignited FY14 893.8 4.37 in Korea 26.2 by low interest rates and low growth. We have been making efforts to prevent our running yield from falling by covering traditional investment areas such as stocks and bonds, but alternative FY15 978.5 4.11 Dongbu Insurance recorded the highest ROI among major non-life insurance companies by postKRW trillion investment areas such as foreign bonds, real estate and infrastructure assets. Professional examing KRW 978.5 billion in profit from asset management and return on investment of 4.11 %. We *As of Jan. 2016 Profit from asset management ination competence has been strengthened for the purpose of strengthening risk management. secure funds to stably pay insurance benefits to customers by reducing the share of stocks with Return on investment These steady efforts for strengthening core capabilities have been the driving force behind Donghigh credit risks and maintaining the share of earning assets with stable interest and dividend bu Insurance’s record being the No. 1 in return on investment in the industry. income at more than 87%. Specialized Asset Management Organization Expansion of Overseas Asset Management Networks Dongbu Insurance has an industry-leading asset management and examination organization Dongbu Insurance is pursuing strengthening of global networks including strategic partnership consisting of certified public accountants, chartered financial analysts and financial risk managwith overseas leading insurance companies and asset management companies. The company ers. We elevated our capabilities to examine various investment assets and our post-investment is scaling up joint investment in global real estate, infrastructure and overseas corporate bonds management specialty by separating the Financial Examination Team as an independent unit. by signing an MOU with the number one insurance company in North America. These activities empowered us to expand overseas investment deal sourcing channel and obtain investment knowhow by sharing and internalizing core capabilities. Asset Management Division Moreover, we opened an overseas investment office in Manhattan, New York to establish a close network with financial institutions and obtain quality global investment information and latest investment trend. Overseas offices are contributing to discovering excellent assets and asset Investment Division Financing Division Financial Planning Team Financial Audit Team management firms by removing spatial and time limitations on overseas investment. They are expected to reinforce the post-investment management of investment assets as they enable Dongbu Insurance to conduct the quick and precise due diligence of local assets. In the future, General Account General Account Corporate Finance Dept Investment Support part Financing Review Part we will continue to strengthen access to our global networks and investment assets by expandManagement Part 1 Management Part 2 Special Account ing overseas bases. Pension Plan Dept Financing Dept Financial Strategy Part Investment Review Part Management Dept Socially Responsible Investments Socially Responsible Investment Asset Management Checking Framework Strengthening Specialty of Asset Management (Unit: KRW in 100 million, %) Dongbu Insurance establishes investment strategies from the sustainable growth perspective Dongbu Insurance is making multi-facet efforts such as fostering internal experts and hiring exScale of Rate of and considers its environmental and social impact. In particular, we make an investment in comRevenue return Asset management guidelines and regulations operation panies, which are found to be ethical, transparent and eco-friendly based on our internal review perts from the outside to reinforce asset management capabilities of our employees. The Friday New and Study Program makes all employees in the asset management sector study investment themes renewable energy 1,664 82 4.9 standard. We exclude unethical companies which are involved in gambling and sales of Tabaco Making strategies or alcohol or involved in corruption from our investment target. in each sector. They have studied 120 themes in total since 2014. Moreover, the company proPower generation 4,968 226 4.6 vides training at overseas leading insurance companies and asset management companies to In 2015, Dongbu Insurance steadily expanded its investment in the development of social infraAsset management process SOC 7,245 320 4.4 excellent employees so that they can share and learn investment knowhow. We are planning to structure such as the renewable energy business and the SOC business which were profitable and Management planning Total 13,877 629 4.5 internalize core capabilities by establishing an internal asset management education program and stable. In 2015, the return on the company’s socially responsible investment was 4.5% which is * As of Dec. 2015 0.4%p higher than its return on investment of 4.1%. Dongbu Insurance will continuously expand Management execution developing excellent employees as an in-house lecturer in 2016. its socially responsible investment to create stable investment profit from the midto long-term Management support perspective. Building ALM (Asset Liability Management)-Based Asset Management System Monitoring management In 2014, Dongbu Insurance developed an asset management model that is suitable for the size and characteristics of insurance business by reviewing its asset management level thoroughly IT systems and benchmarking leading companies by hiring global consulting firm. In 2015, we established midto long-term asset management strategy in preparation for ‘all assets under management Recruitment, training, retention KRW 50 trillion by 2020’ and plan to establish ‘Asset Liability Management(AML)-based asset management system’ in response to changing insurance and asset management market. Based on these efforts, we are making an effort to secure enough funds to pay insurance benefits promised to our customers. 20 21 Corporate Vision Strategy Business Section Strengthening Competitiveness of Insurance Industry Asset Management Innovation Management Expansion of Global Business Innovation Management Innovative Management for Bigger Future Value Thorough Management of Innovative Performance The driving force behind Dongbu Insurance’s achievement of 20-year-long surplus earning is Dongbu Insurance manages the performance of tasks improved through the business innovation project its efforts for innovation to pursue something new and something different. In the 1980s, we for one year. The Strategic Performance System is managed systematically in computer system. With Roadmap for Innovative Management pursued management rationalization to solve a problem with cumulative loss. In the 1990s, we the aim of securing the reliability of performance measurement, the company created a group of FEA promoted Self-Innovation such as customer satisfaction management via service innovation. Six (Financial Effect Analyst) consisting of in-house accounting specialists and is running the group as an Sigma and PI (Process Innovation) were introduced by Dongbu Insurance for the first time in the independent unit. Performance measurement and assessment target direct effects that can be proven ~2001 Korean non-life insurance industry in the 2000s, which resulted in successful establishment of a objectively. They are conducted based on increases in profit such as an increase in new contracts that Self-Innovation scientific innovation system. In 2010, under the goal of ‘Top1 Competition System within Insurcontribute to an increase in profit in financial statements within one year and an improvement in renewal • management rationalization ance by strengthening foundation for quantitative and qualitative growth’, we went forward with rates and cost reduction such as decreases in accident rates and a reduction in paid insurance benefits. • Customer satisfaction companywide business structure innovation via midto long-term revamping. We will continue management our advanced and steady innovation according to our innovation slogan of ‘Dynamic Dongbu’ Establishment of Innovation Culture that is oriented toward dynamic changes. Dongbu Insurance is running a wide variety of systems to develop and establish innovative management as a companywide work culture. The company is putting in place fast problem solving Innovative Management System and a creative corporate culture by leading the spread of knowledge across the board such 2002~2009 Scientific Innovation as holding in-house excellent case contests twice a year, giving prizes to excellent cases and Reinforcing Foundation for Innovation • 6 Sigma Introduction spreading a culture of innovation via companywide sharing. Besides, the CEO examines com• Removing inefficiencies factors Dongbu Insurance is pursuing companywide innovative management to achieve management efpanywide innovation tasks by himself through the Innovation Committee and provides comment • Establishing Innovative ficiency. The operation of the Innovation Committee presided by the CEO gives the company exefor more than 100 hours a year. All executives are bolstering the execution power of innovaSystems cution power such as the establishment and implementation of companywide innovation strategy, tion management by realizing innovation leadership as they take the initiative and set examples the management of tasks and innovation HR development. At the same time, we established an CEO’s Coaching at Companywide Innovation through innovative projects. Besides, middle managers in the field are actively making a change Briefing Session organizational system to build an innovation culture such as the operation of a separate and dedicatin customer contacts by implementing field innovation tasks. ed organization where management innovation is integrated into strategic functions. The quarterly 2010~present Companywide Innovation Briefing Session is held with the participation of the CEO and executives Strategic Innovation Outcomes of Innovative Management and boosting employees’ participation. Moreover, under the leadership of executives, we are work• Business structure innovation ing on multi-dimensional innovation such as PI for the innovation of the current business structure, First Financial Company to Win National Quality Grand Prize • Expansion of new growth engines Six Sigma for enhancing process capabilities and work efficiency enhancement to increase process Dongbu Insurance won the National Quality Management Prize in 2005, the National Quality efficiency. Notably, our work process is managed based on its manual to link tasks completed via an Innovation Prize in 2008 and the National Quality Grand Prize (Presidential Citation) in 2015 at innovation project to annual performance management and structural outcomes. the National Quality Competition which is the renowned prize in quality management in Korea. The Grand Prize is also called ‘Korea’s Malcolm Baldrige’. The grand prize was given to Dongbu Companywide Innovation System Insurance for the first time not only in the Korean service industry but in the Korean financial industry. Top Down Bottom Up Category PI Six Sigma Work efficiency Suggestion Achievements of Innovative Projects Scope of Business structure innovation Customer-oriented, process Unit work innovation Companywide work 2,216 cases of the Innovative projects have been implemented since 2004 the measurement of its Innovations (Biz Model) innovation improvement Competitiveness Quality Efficiency Efficiency performances was begun. The cumulative amount of financial performances arrived at KRW 1,539 Goal (significant elevation of level) (reduction of dispersion) (expediting work) (work improvement) billion. In terms of innovation capabilities, we are establishing innovation as a companywide work Desired outcomes Outcome of strategy Outcomes of operation culture by fostering 1,210 BB (Black Belt) and GB (Green Belt) holders. PJT owner Executives, team leaders Champions, process owners Department heads Employees, partners Roles of Expansion of Champion project Executives and team leaders Executives and team leaders FOCUS Executives and team leaders push verify appropriateness of Monitor selection and executives and take lead in partial forward with one or more GB project improvement plan and check check execution team leaders crossover-type work per person ahead of others its execution Innovation Case Mega Project for Business Structure Innovation Creating Customer Value via Establishment of Non-Face-to-Face Channel’s CRM Process Dongbu Insurance has conducted the Mega Project which comprehensively innovate its business Dongbu Insurance recognizes three million customers of the non-face-to-face channel as a new growth engine and is creating new customer value structure for sustainable growth by overcoming changes in the business environment since 2014. The through new customer management. project has two pillars: innovation of business structure and expansion of growth engines. In the innoCategory Before improvement After improvement Results vation of the business structure, we identified and implemented a task to improve efficient sales and claim adjustment business structure by way of the reorganization of the companywide organizational •Online channel customers are recognized as customers •Found online channel customers’ new characteristics such as Customers who favor low premiums over anything else avoidance of face-to-face channels and preference for convenience structure based on customer-service (product)-channel strategy. In addition, we designated retained No. of customers who bought 2 customers and overseas markets as new growth engines to expand our business. A customer-ori•Product portfolio lopsided toward low priced insurance •Discovering additional customer needs and developing Products or more insurance product easy to sell products and specialized plans that meet needs ented restructuring of the customer management process and the construction of a non-face-to-face 280,000 → 440,000 CRM process enhanced customer value. At the same time, we are developing overseas markets, •Lack of regular customer contacts in terms of customer •Building company-led customer management system such as Channel management offering information every quarter going beyond the saturated domestic market. As a result, Dongbu Insurance stands out in sales of coverage insurance, claim adjustment processing efficiency and customer satisfaction. 22 23 Corporate Vision Strategy Business Section Strengthening Competitiveness of Insurance Industry Asset Management Innovation Management Expansion of Global Business Expansion of Global Business Reinforcement of Entry into Global Market for Market Expansion into North American Financial Market Expansion The U.S. is the country where Dongbu Insurance can learn advanced financial skills and sales skills in an overseas market as the US is the world’s largest financial market. In addition, the Dongbu Insurance has been moving ahead with active overseas entry since the establishment of its market has low barriers such as regulations on and discrimination against foreign insurance comGuam Branch in 1984. The company is expanding its markets mostly in North America, China and pany. These facts make the US market an attractive overseas market. With the goal of founding Southeast Asia. We are becoming a more global company through advancement strategies by regions. a second Dongbu Insurance, we are expanding our business via a sales channel and overseas business strategy based on local branches in earnest since the beginning of the 2000s. At the Profitability-Based Overseas Advancement by Regions same time, we are moving forward with a differentiated business strategy on local residents. Dongbu Insurance is enhancing profitability in its existing markets, in particular, the US, China and Southeast Asia and by launching a new business model, stably moving forward with overseas Guam•Dongbu Insurance has been enjoying high profitability based on its speedy service based business. We are pursuing qualitative growth by concentrating on profitability-based sales activion the trust of local communities and a 30-plus-year-long amicable relationship with local agenties rather than quantitative expansion such as the expansion of branches and offices and focus cies since the establishment of a branch in Guam. For example, Typhoon Bongseonhwa dealt energy into minimizing risk elements and enhancing our understanding of the market. a big blow to Guam, forcing many non-life insurers to leave Guam in 2002. But we earned trust from local communities with fast and accurate claim adjustment and insurance money payment. This propelled Dongbu Insurance to market dominance with a market share of 22%* in the Guam Making Entry into Asian Market and Expansion of Advancement market. Despite the limited market, we are realizing steady growth and enjoying high profitability. The Chinese and Southeast Asian markets have shortcomings such as difficulties in building local * Excluding group injury insurance of Tokio Marine sales network including infrastructure and high access barriers despite its characteristics such as high growth potential and emerging markets. Overcoming these shortcomings, Dongbu InsurHawaii•Quick service and work and the launch of localized products make it possible for us to ance is making inroads into the local markets by way of the opening of offices, the acquisition of stably make a foray into the market and a high annual growth rate of 10%. Despite the fact that equities in local insurance companies and the operation of joint ventures among others. frequent natural disasters drive up a loss ratio in Hawaii the launch of products meeting the needs of local customers such as Hurricane insurance fueled the growth of our business. Moreover, to ⊙4 branches ■5 offices ●4 JVs (Unit: USD Million) increase our profitability, we attracted the seventh-ranked agency in 2015 after the first to sixth 1984 2006 2009 2011~2013 2014~ 2015 agencies in terms of market shares. At the same time, an IT system is under improvement to ⊙Guam ⊙Hawaii ⊙CA* ●Qingdao (2011.3) ■Yangon ●Vietnam PTI expand customer service and market control. (1984.10) (2006.1) (2009.11) ■Ho Chi Minh City (2011.6) (2014.12) (2015.1) ■Beijing ■London (2012.11) ●Laos California•Sophisticated localization strategy has enabled Dongbu Insurance to secure various Overseas (2006.7) ⊙New York (2011.5) Lanexang** Expansion ■Jakarta (2011.7) (2015.1) sales channels not only with Korean residents but all other residents. Our products are com●Ancheong Property & patible with customer-oriented IT systems and customer needs. At the same time, our quick Casualty Insurance (2013.4) contracting information service is rewarded with a higher market share. We are also working on building a long-term cooperation culture based on mutual trust with local sales channels. Import P 2.0 26.9 47.6 87.5 181.0 188.8*** * California Branch (in LA) ** Firm Vietnam PTI invested in *** Excluding firms newly included in 2015 New York•Dongbu Insurance is targeting the New York market with D&O and general liability package insurance for easily accessible small business owners. We introduced general house China•Dongbu Insurance aims to be the top-ranked foreign insurance company in the Chinese fire insurance for general residents and enhance access to customers in New York in 2013. Since market which is one of the world’s biggest markets and has a culture similar to Korea. The company then, we have been increasing our control over the insurance market of the eastern US. entered the Chinese market not via sales activities by establishing branches but via the opening of offices and the joint venture by acquiring equities in consideration of high barriers in an early Branches in US stage of market entry. We established its Beijing Office in 2006 and took over equities of insurance brokerage firm in Qingdao in 2011. In 2013, Dongbu Insurance acquired shares of a local Chinese Category Unit Guam Hawaii California New York insurance company. With this, Dongbu Insurance is enhancing its competitiveness within the ChiStart of business Year 1984 2006 2009 2011 nese market. Specifically, we are laying the groundwork for spurring our business in the Chinese No. of employees Persons 6 (3) 22 (17) 18 (12) 18 (13) market such as securing local business capabilities such as participation in the management of a (locally hired employees) local Chinese insurance company with a right to cover entire China and joint insurance business. Proportion of local products* % 73 96 83 85 Size USD 1 million 38.8 62.3 45.1 42.6 Southeast Asia •Dongbu Insurance is striving to position as a leading company in newly emerging markets by making good use of Southeast Asia’s substantial growth potential and oppor* Proportion of sales to local residents except for Korean residents and companies ※ Based on the Korea Financial Supervisory Service’s data on the business performances of overseas branches in 2015 tunities in the market. The company opened offices in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam and Jakarta, Indonesia in 2011 and an office in Yangon, a first for a Korean non-life insurance company in 2014 to enter the Southeast Asian market and make a plan for step-by-step advancement into the market. The acquisition of Vietnam PTI allowed Dongbu Insurance to lay the foundation for local business and expanding business in Indo-China. Since then, we have been offering differentiated services in the local markets such as introducing the Korean-type bancassurance to Vietnam via a joint project with Shinhan Bank and PTI for the first time in Vietnam. 24 25 More Sustainable Growth Dongbu Insurance pursues a happy future to co-exist with diverse stakeholders. The company is making efforts to carry out sustainable management that goes beyond short-term profit generation to achieve true growth where the company can co-exist with customers, employees, partners and community. Dongbu Insurance continues to pursue customer-oriented products and services, support for stronger capabilities of employees and partners, joint growth with the community. Through such activities, Dongbu Insurance tries to fulfill its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Sustainability Section Customers Employees Partners Local Communities 26 27 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities ISSUE 01 Customers Customer Value Management System Strategy of Customer Value Creation By forming sound insurance culture based on trust, Dongbu Insurance is trying to maximize customer values. The company develops products and services to satisfy customer needs by establishing As internal and external regulations become stricter and strategies of systematic customer satisfaction management and is leading the efforts to create a unstable market conditions continue, it is crucial to make society to make customers happy by carrying out more through consumer protection activities. a solid foundation through maximizing value of customStructure of Customer Satisfaction Management Strategy ers who are core stakeholders. By developing products that satisfy different needs of customers and establishCustomer Satisfaction Consumer Protection Goal of ing a thorough consumer protection system, Dongbu InGeneral insurance company with Strategy Financial company with surance aims to be ‘a global insurance financial group the highest customer value the best consumer protection in the industry which pursues a happy society with customers’. •Enhancing communication and execution •Advancing the consumer protection system Direction •Establishing service standard •Strengthening management of potential complaints •Collecting and enhancing customer VOC of Strategy •Stabilizing complete sales atmosphere •Raising awareness of consumer protection Advancing CPC(Customer-Product-Channel) Marketing Process To achieve customer happiness at the all MOTs with customers, Dongbu Insurance is advancing CPC marketing process. By operating an integrated customer system, the company collects, Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Method and Future Direction Major Activities in 2015 manages and analyzes customer handling activities generated from different channels so that it can use such data for presenting product and channel strategies that are suitable to different customer characteristics. Dongbu perceives 8 million retained customers as new growth •Building the MOT service management system and impleengines and intends to dramatically enhance customer expementing evaluation of customer experiences for each MOT Emblem of Service Identity riences. To respond to changes in quality demands by cus•Implementing internal inspection of incomplete sales to fulfill Establishing Service Identity (Promise for Happiness 365) tomers, MOT(Moment Of Truth) is being re-defined and service product responsibilities Dongbu Insurance has established service identity ‘Promise for Happiness 365’ which signifies standardization is in the process. In addition, compared to the •Operating integrated security control and internal security the company’s commitment to customers’ happiness for 365 days a year. To achieve the goal, audit for protecting and managing customer information existing satisfaction surveys, much more in-depth DMIS(Dongsix specific guidelines were drawn for six different promises for customers. Through ‘Promise for bu MOT Service Index) was developed to enhance quality of •Strengthening the brand management system by developHappiness 365’, Dongbu is trying to help employees recognize core values of customer services ing a new brand character services. and experience them to increase customer satisfaction. Promise for Happiness Happiness Happiness of Customers Happiness of Company Happiness of Society (3) It means ‘Happiness of customers turns into happiness of the company and extends to that of overall society’. ❶ Customer Handling ❷ Buying an Insurance Policy ❸ Customer Management Highlights in 2015 We always handle customers We always realize customer We always provide useful inforPromises with friendly attitude. benefits through complete sales. mation and communicate with with customers. KS-SQI Customer Satisfaction Survey Complete Sales Ratio Customers ❹ Claim Adjustment ❺ Emergency Dispatch ❻ Complaints Handling (6) We always protect customer with We are always stand-by and We are always with the customers accurate Claim adjustment. 1 99.2 quickly depart for services. through perfect resolution of complaints. st in the Long-term insurance % SPEED SMILE SMART SPECIAL STEADY •Keyword: •Keyword: •Keyword: •Keyword: •Keyword: Number of Services Provided for Customer Calls Number of Employees Educated with Information Protection 5S Speed Friendliness Accuracy Specialty Continuation (5) •Reducing lead time •Strengthening basic •fundamental Inno•Differentiated •Continuous of customer MOT CS capability of vation of services customer manageimplementation of 1,098,941 5,218 process employees (complete sale, Claim ment by Dongbu Dongbu STD 365 adjustment etc.) Insurance Monthly average of cases persons 28 29 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities Customer Satisfaction Service Communication with Customers Customer Satisfaction Survey (Unit: points) Customer Service Management System Monthly Average of e-Services (Unit: 1,000 cases) Expanding Online Communication Channels 75.0 Through operation of the consumer policy committee which consists of CCO and executives, Dongbu Insurance is raising the level of understanding of customer lifestyles and interests, and 74.8 2013 867 73.3 Dongbu Insurance is implementing deliberation and improvement activities of key policies that are strengthening customer MOT relations through a variety of online communication channels. The 73.0 73.0 72.3 72.3 related to consumer protection. By holding consumer policy consultative meetings each month 2014 1,159 company is operating different channels such as its official blog, Love for My Car blog, Love for My 71.8 71.9 that deal with onsite inspection and monitoring of complete sales to facilitate service manageChild blog and Facebook. As of 2015, the number of blog visitors had grown dramatically to reach 2015 1,426 ment. In 2015, to increase quality of customer MOT services, a consumer policy unit was created 3.7 million. Considering increase in influence of mobile channels, Dongbu Insurance is strengthening to implement roles of integrated MOT Service Control Tower such as integrated management and mobile web based communication such as opening a kakao story and operating a ‘smart zone’ for analysis of customer experiences, monitoring of enterprise MOT customer experience index so customers. In 2016, through four step renewal process of ‘smart zone’, more convenient e-service NCSI* KS-SQI KCSI that service management system can be strengthened. environment is about to be provided. Through such efforts, the company received grand prizes from 2013 2014 2015 ‘2015 8th Korea Social Media Award’ and ‘App Award Korea 2015’ for nonlife insurance sector • NCS (National Customer Satisfaction Index of Korea Productivity Center) Expanding Mobile Service Provision • KS-SQI (Korean Standard-Service Quality Index of Dongbu Insurance continues to expand mobile services suitable to customer trends. In 2015, the Korean Standards Association) company introduced a mobile service for complete sales monitoring and switched the service • KCS (Korean Customer Satisfaction Index of Korea Management Association) satisfaction survey for each customer MOT into a mobile LMS survey to enhance customer con* It was corrected due to errors of 2013 and 2014 data. venience. In addition, by opening a mobile notice talk service with cooperation with Kakao Corp., it increased level of customer satisfaction for information provision. Customer Satisfaction Survey of Customer Service Center* Enhancing Service Satisfaction Monitoring Official blog Facebook (Unit: points) To analyze and manage service quality of each customer MOT, Dongbu is conducting satisfac2013 94.1 tion survey on six different customer MOTs defined by ‘Promise for Happiness 365’. Along with 2014 94.4 regular satisfaction surveys conducted by an independent and specialized organization for every MOT, an internal and real-time monitoring and feedback system is being operated such as online Monthly Average of Call Services (Unit: cases) Customer Oriented Services 2015 95.4 surveys through mobile apps and LMS and phone surveys through a monitoring office of the Dongbu Insurance promptly responds to customer complaints through a variety of service channels * It is based on KSQI of Korea Management Association. 2013 945,799 customer service center. such as customer service center, ARS service and homepage. There are three customer service 2014 1,009,318 centers (Seoul, Jeonju and Wonju) and two telecommuting centers for monitoring of complete sales, accident reporting and other services for 365 days a year. Customer services continue to expand 2015 1,098,941 with focus on most frequently used channels. In 2015, 13.6% of total service inquires was handled through ARS services. Customer Buying an Customer Claim Adjustment Emergency Dispatch Complaint Handling Handling Insurance Policy Management Actively Operating Consumer Evaluators •Monitoring call service •Monitoring complete •Customer management •Claim adjustment •Satisfaction of •VOC handling •Call service satisfaction sales satisfaction satisfaction emergency and onsite satisfaction Since 2010, Dongbu Insurance has been operating the consumer evaluator group to objectively •Face-to face handling dispatch diagnose level of service quality and draw improvement ideas. By reflecting opinions of the evalusatisfaction ators, the company identifies customer needs and provides feedback to suggestions on products and services to enhance service quality. As of the end of 2015, 161 customers of 10 consumer review groups have participated and 502 ideas were selected out of 665 suggestions in total (75.5% Operating an Evaluation System of Customer Experience Management was chosen). Dongbu Insurance provides 27 services per customer on average each year (190 million services in annual total). To increase service competitiveness and customer satisfaction, the company developed Dongbu MOT Service Index which is an evaluation system for customer experience management. Through the efforts, service level of each MOT can be measured and key improvement activities can be conducted for issues that are drawn, leading to enhanced service quality FOCUS and effective customer experience management. Consumer Day Event Clear Understanding of Customers On the Consumer Day, December 3, 2015, Dongbu Insurance invited customers who have For the purpose of enhancing customer value through internalization of customer-oriented thinkparticipated in consumer evaluating activities to express gratitude to their efforts for raising ing, the company is carrying out a campaign for clear understanding of customers in which all level of corporate services. Through the event, purpose of running a consumer evaluation members of the company go visit customers in person to listen customers’ opinion. In 2015, the group which is a symbol of beautiful partnership between customers and the company was company enhanced customer satisfaction level through protection of rights of financial consumreminded. It was a meaningful opportunity to closely communicate with customers. ers by paying dormant claims, expressing gratitude to loyal customers and inspecting contracts of long-term property insurance. 30 31 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities VOC Management (Unit: %) Enhancing VOC(Voice of Customer) System Fulfillment of Product Responsibilities Dongbu Insurance runs a prompt VOC system by collecting voices of customers through online 90.8 91.5 Establishing the System for Complete Sale 85.6 and offline channels to respond to customers within an hour and complete inquires within 24 64.8 hours. According to the internal criteria, voices of customers are divided into three levels and they Since its product sale in 2007, Dongbu Insurance has implemented activities for complete sales for the 56.3 57.4 57.0 56.7 are systematically managed within the VOC system from reporting to completion. In addition, purpose of consumer right protection and sustainable risk reduction, as complete sales related mat52.2 problems, lessons and solutions of VOC processing are shared through ‘VOC sharing’ which ters had caused conflicts with customers. The company has now entered into the stabilization phase. is an intranet for in-house sharing and participation leading to more attention of employees to customer complaints. Complaints are resolved by actively sharing cases and responding early. Mid to Long Term Roadmap for Complete Sales Initial handling Passing-through Completion within 24 hours Promy brand From February 2015 to the end of the year, there were 27 cases in total and 3,770 employees on character average participated in each case, showing 74.2% of participation rate. In addition, for the first Beginning (2007-2011) Expansion (2011-2013) Stabilization (2013-Now) 2013 2014 2015 time in the industry, the company enhanced awareness of customer-oriented process by opening • Establishing a unit for complete sales • Expanding year-round inspection by • Conducting special inspection on a VOC experience center, targeting all employees and executives including CEO, subsidiaries and • Implementing periodic onsite Korea Non-Life Insurance Association contract of fee-for-service medical incomplete sales units. In 2015, CEO, all executives and department heads completed hands-on inspection and restrictions • Strengthening restriction criteria of costs • Establishing monitoring process incomplete sales • Changing monitoring process training, and year-round training sessions were operated for all members of Dongbu Insurance • Writing a pledge about incomplete sales • Reflecting incomplete sales ratio of • Strengthening restriction on monitoring and 827 salespeople and employees experienced a variety of demands of customers. • Revising restriction criteria of onsite inspection into MBO of sales • Increasing monitoring of TM quality of incomplete sales managers call handling Boosting CS Mindset of All Employees To realize customer-oriented management for customer happiness, Dongbu Insurance tries to Operation of Dispute Mediation Committee instill CS mindset to employees by strengthening the structure of CS training such as onsite CS By operating the dispute mediation committee participated by the consumer protection unit, key activities and CS training for employees and PAs. In addition, by operating the monthly or quardepartments, doctors and lawyers each week, consumer complaints can be resolved through terly CS excellence award system named with CCM award for excellent CS departments and fairer and more legitimate standard. In 2015, monthly average of 158 customer complaints were employees in 2015. Meaning and importance of consumer oriented management were shared handled through the committee and customer acceptance for deliberation of dispute mediation company-wide by including consumer index in the evaluation. has risen to 96.6%. Promy Brand Character Facilitating Brand Management Complete Sale Trend (Unit: points, %) Establishing the System for Fulfilling Product Responsibilities ‘Promy’ which is Dongbu Insurance’s brand name is abbreviation of promise, showing the comDongbu Insurance complies with four basic rules such as policyholders’ signing their name in person CY2013 83.6 97.6 pany’s determination to keep promises with customers. Dongbu Insurance carries out its inwhen buying a policy, delivery of policy provisions, delivery of a copy of the subscription form and surance philosophy to protect customers’ lives based on the integrated brand structure of car policy instructions, and the company conducts continuous onsite inspection and call monitoring in CY2014 84.6 98.5 insurance brand of ‘Promy Car’ and long-term insurance brand of ‘Promy Life’. To overcome the order to actively fulfill product responsibilities. In addition, the company enhances implementation rigid image of an insurance company and to be closer to customers, character of Promy was CY2015 85.4 99.2 of complete sale by establishing company-wide strategies of complete sales and tries to eradinewly invented in 2016. This character is showing the little finger just like making a promise to cate incomplete sales through restrictions on overall incomplete sales practices such as cancelled DCSI* score project the image of a promise keeping and trustworthy company and to express it would protect contracts and suspension in underwriting of incomplete sales related VOC. Through such efforts, Perfect sale ratio customers under whatever circumstances. * Customer satisfaction survey by Dongbu Insurance complete sale ratio of Dongbu Insurance had risen to 99.2% in 2015, up by 0.7%p year-on-year. More education and consulting for raising awareness of complete sales Structure of Promy Brands Differentiated management of complete sale for each channel Achieving 100% of Company-wide and more sophisticated process Complete Sales Strengthening feedback on the result of complete sale Restrictions through Internal Inspection of Incomplete Sales  (Unit: persons) Onsite Inspection (Individuals) Onsite Inspection (TM) Monitoring 3,614 739 1,603 659 705 964 458 391 350 320 44 171 137 22 Suspension in sales Warning Suspension in sales Warning Suspension in sales Warning 2013 2014 2015 32 33 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities Customer Information Protection Prevention of Insurance Fraud Operating the Specialized Unit of Information Protection Insurance Fraud Management Process Fostering Insurance Fraud Analysis Experts For effective implementation of internal control that is related to customer information protection SIU (Special Investigation Unit) is a specialized unit that prevents and detects insurance frauds. Strengthening the System and strict response to cyber crimes, Dongbu Insurance appointed CISO (Chief Information Security It handles a three step process such as prevention of insurance frauds, investigation, follow-up •Re-establishing the structure of Officer) and has been operating an Information Protection Team composed of security experts. In utilizing insurance fraud information management and prevention of recurrence. Since 2007, for the first time in the industry, Dongbu addition, the company is building a multifaceted system to safely manage valuable information of •Building permanent management Insurance has been analyzing trend of Big Data that is related to insurance frauds and identifying Prevention system of high loss claim customers by operating the information protection Committee that administers revisions of compapatterns of such frauds by internally training analysis experts. nywide information management policy and information protection management. Facilitating Reports Building Internal and External Structure for Insurance Crime Prevention Information Protection Management Unit •Enhancing MR investigation To prevent insurance crimes through stronger internal control, ‘Insurance crime prevention comcapabilities mittee’ of Dongbu Insurance manages insurance crime prevention rules that stipulate basic policEstablishing and implementing information protection plans and building CISO information protection system •Facilitating operation of insurance crime prevention unit (scheduled es and restrictions on offenders of such crimes. By defining insurance frauds as key risks, setting Investigation Information Protection Analyzing weaknesses of information & technology, Handling computer for 2016) measurement index and target value, selecting innovation tasks for fraud reduction and operating Committee security problems and violators curriculum of insurance fraud prevention, the company is making efforts to more strictly respond to insurance frauds. Information Protection Team Managing enterprise information, Carrying out security related obligations Operating Recurrence Prevention System Head of Strategic Marketing Team In charge of collecting, using, providing and destroying customer information •Prevention system Including Insurance Fraud Items into Performance Index •Follow-up analysis system Follow-up Management/ •Prevention by using detection To protect valuable asset of customers by reducing insurance fraud, Dongbu Insurance includes Head of IT Support Team Handling IT defects, system errors and hacking information Prevention of performance related to fraud prevention in the corporate performance index. The company is Recurrence Head of General Affairs Team Managing documented information and facility security taking actual measures to prevent insurance fraud by setting sum of long-term, car and general insurance fraud detection amounts as KPI for leadership performance index and including the Building Internal Management System of Information Protection number of reported insurance fraud in the performance index of compliance monitoring unit. Dongbu Insurance is keenly responding to any possible leak of customer information to others based on the MB model-oriented management system through innovative tasks of building an information Strengthen Prevention of Insurance Premium Leaks protection system and by implementing actual information protection policies such as network division, To generate stable business profits and protect customers, Dongbu Insurance is trying hard to PC virtualization and USB blocking. In addition, for real-time monitoring of infiltration from the outside prevent any leaks of insurance premium with the goal of fundamental resolution of insurance frauds. and prompt response to an accident, the integrated security control is being operated for 24 hours a By operating IFDS(Insurance Fraud Detection System), the company scientifically analyzes signs of day. The company continues to find problems and make improvements through internal security audits frauds and prevents causes of the leaks through periodic monitoring. In addition, Dongbu insurance of IT environment and conducts website inspection through external experts at least semi-annually. prevent insurance frauds effectively through improvement of working ways based on frauds cases detected in the past and multifaceted cooperation with other organizations. Internal IT Security Audit Process Establishing Security Audit Plan Implementing Security Audit Reporting Security Audit Result Follow-up Management Facilitated Reporting of Insurance Fraud To raise awareness of insurance crimes among internal and external stakeholders, Dongbu In•Establishing audit plans and •Notifying and scheduling •Reporting and notifying •Coming up with corrective obtaining approval from CISO audit plans result of security audits measures and reporting the surance is operating reporting channels and reward system. The company is making efforts to •Conducing audits correction results •Confirming implementation strengthen effects of reporting channels by improving the reward system for external sources and of corrective measures raising awareness about reporting channels through sales members. Number of Members Educated with Raising Employees’ Awareness of Information Protection Information Protection (Unit: persons) Due to characteristics of the insurance industry that handles sensitive information on illnesses, accident history or financial status, it is crucial that employees have a clear understanding of 2013 5,319 FOCUS information protection. Thus, Dongbu Insurance established guidelines of information protection 2014 5,117 and conducts training of information protection each year. Insurance Fraud Detection 2015 5,218 Obtaining Certificate of Information Protection In March 2015, a Dongbu insurance policy-holder’s car had collided with the rear of Lamborghini. As there were mixed statements of the two drivers and some doubts were raised about the accident, the SIU Dongbu Insurance obtained ISO27001 certificate (Feb. 2009) which is a certificate for international team conducted thorough investigations and revealed it was an insurance fraud that was premeditated standard information protection by diagnosing and inspecting the enterprise information protection to illegitimately receive insurance benefits. With the accident, the company was able to raise awareness system and continuously improving problems. In 2014, through ISMS(Information Security Manof needs for subscribing to high value property damage coverage and improve brand image and expand agement System) certification by Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, excellence in insales capabilities. Dongbu Insurance will continue to strongly respond to insurance crimes and form formation security and information protection measures was recognized internally and externally. sound insurance culture. Between 2013 and 2015, there was no violation when it comes to customer information leaks. 34 35 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities ISSUE 02 Employees HR Management HR Management System Dongbu Insurance nurtures financial talent with global competitiveness. The company is running an organized HR management system to create the “best workplace where talented people want Quality human resources are one of the core competito work” which is its HR development vision. In addition, the company leads employees to put tiveness of the Dongbu Insurance. Sustainable growth is into practice the CEO’s management principles of open communication, pursuing facts, and autonomous management. We are operating a new training system and a performance-based comachieved despite various changes in internal and external pensation system focusing on high performance and high compensation to foster global financial business environments and fiercer market competition talent based on the concept of the ideal employee reflecting the core value of the company. by creating a corporate culture of passion and immersion based on strong communication within the organization Vision Global Insurance Group which Pursues Happy Society with Customers in addition to a performance-based system aiming at the Core Value System 3 spirits and 3 attitudes·CEO’s management principles·Key driver midto long-term HR development. HR Vision Best workplace where talented people want to work Strategic directions Globalization Specialization Added value Long-term HR Advancement of Securing excellent Development of strategy tasks overseas business directions core personnel performance-based system Acceptance of Development system Compensation Working Environment human resources Basic policy New training system Performance-based personnel Field-based personnel GWP management system management Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Method and Future Direction Major Activities in 2015 Operating principles SDP CDP Individual evaluation Promotion Recruitment Placement Salaries Welfare and benefits HR directions Self-regulatory personnel management at worksites Respecting employees’ opinions Dongbu Insurance is operating a self-initiated training system through the New •Operating the Company Culture Association Training System, a multi-dimensional human capability development program Council to build healthy corporate culture based on positions, tasks and innovation capabilities. It is purposed to provide •Establishing the New Training System and operating the Occupational Expert Academy Building Communication-Centric Corporate Culture steady supports for all employees so that they can grow into the core talent of the company by building up the sense of ownership and increasing professionalism. •Enhancing employee satisfaction through Organizational Communication measuring the level of improvements of the Also, various employee welfare benefit plans have been provided for all employDongbu Insurance runs a wide array of communication channels for strong communication within working environment ees to create a better working environment where they can focus on their tasks. its organization. Company’s key issues and changes are informed to all employees in a timely •Introducing new HR Management System At the same, a supple communication culture across the entire company has manner through Internal bulletin boards, office documents and participatory events. Communifor fair performance evaluation and combeen established through the friendly management of the CEO. pensation cation opportunities across the entire organization are being increased through various methods such as sharing information on GWP activities between departments via Dongbu People Plaza on the intranet and operating communities (study clubs) by departments. Moreover, through the steady operation and development of such communication channels, we are striving to provide cross benchmarking opportunities and build a bright and active corporate culture such as proHighlights in 2015 moting opinion exchanges among employees by organizing clubs in various sectors. Channels of Communication Promotion No. of Employees who Participated in CCE Program No. of Employees who Made Self-diagnosis and Self-development Plans Classification Main Contents Targets Electronic company newsletter serving as venue of free communications based on Management, 5,735 2,488 e-Promy Plaza the intranet em-ployeesandpartners persons persons In-house TV broadcasting through which employees share monthly sales results, Management and Promy TV progress and management’s requests employees In-house TV watching for putting Promises for Happiness into practice and Dynamic Day daily activity programs such as study clubs Within Employee Satisfaction Survey Welfare and Benefit Cost per Employee Boasting Our departments Intranet through which employees share activities of their departments Departments 15.2 Intranet that shows employees’ thoughts via fun and simple electronic 82.5 Happy Poll questionnaires Among KRW million points departments Dongbu People Intranet through which employees share various GWP programs by departments Plaza 36 37 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities Establishment of the Organization Culture Association Council Development of Employees’ Capabilities Dongbu Insurance shares the state of its business and collects employees’ grievances through Establishment of the New Training System the operation of the Organization Culture Association Council, a standing consultative body. We are creating a mutually beneficial corporate culture between labor and management by applying Dongbu Insurance is striving to offer the best service to customers and discover new growth the voices of employees to management activities. The voices are collected through meetings in engines by fostering internal talent into the industry’s top-class specialists. The New Training Systhe first and second half of each year and monthly activities. tem, a multi-dimensional human capability development program based on positions, jobs and innovation capabilities, was established a self-directed training system through which employees can draw up their own plans to supplement their capabilities. Through this system, education No. of Employees who Operation of Creation, Communication, and Empathy (CCE) Program plans are built and carried out by comparing required capabilities set by the heads of departParticipated in CCE Program (Unit: persons) The Creation, Communication, and Empathy (CCE) Program has been letting employees obtain ments and self-diagnosis results of an individual employee and considering self-development 31 5 5 knowledge about the humanities and social science since 2009. The program is divided into a semwithin current duties and midto long-term career development. inar named ‘Invitation to the Humanities and Art’ led by the company and programs of employees’ choices. Via this program, the company helps employees so that they become able to creatively Characteristics of •Human service industry 621 Declaring new think and develop their capabilities and supports a performance creation culture to spread. Insurance Business •Complexity of and change in work HR development 945 5,735 •People with global capabilities revolution Vision Strategy Status of Two-Way Communication •Talent with expertise 3,022 Establishing new Management’s •Core values are foundation for success 1,106 training system Management↔Employees Among ranks Experience •Importance of innovation capability • Meeting with CEO •Junior Board, mentoring ● Writing review ● Outside education • Innovation briefing sessions Building Dynamic •Internal clubs, etc. Occupational Expert Academy ● Study ●O utside qualification Dongbu Corporate Culture ● Special lectures on certificates with Strong To foster the industry’s best specialists, Dongbu Insurance is running three academies. The InIndustry’s Best humanities ● External clubs Among departments Communications novation Academy is nurturing innovation specialists with management innovation spirit and IT ● Internal clubs Within departments Expert Academies •Various councils, suggestion system, capabilities who can take the lead in going forward with a project through various educational workout •Dynamic Day activities • Internal Customer Satisfaction Index •CS learning clubs, study groups courses such as technologies of change and leader communications. The Marketing Academy (ICSI) surveys improves the marketing capabilities of the sales forces and help new branch managers to quickly get acclimatized to sales and corporate cultures The courses of the Actuary Academy consist Innovation Academy Fostering best innovation specialists of an advanced actuarial course and ASA study groups designed to help employees acquire Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) (Unit: points) Employee Satisfaction Survey professional actuarial qualifications. Currently, small number of selected employees are receiving Marketing Academy Fostering best sales specialists 2013 81.4 The Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) survey is conducted once a year to monitor employees’ supports from the company to take the education courses of the Korea Insurance Institute. satisfaction and devise systematic improvement measures across the company. The analysis is Actuary Academy Fostering best actuaries 2014 81.2 carried out on various levels such as by the ranks, sectors, departments, occupational groups 2015 82.5 Hierarchical Training System (by gender) and results of the analysis are used to create a better working environment by giving 2020 goals 85 feedbacks and improving the systems. Dongbu Insurance runs common hierarchical leadership training courses to empower all employees to cultivate leaders’ qualities required by the hierarchy. The company gives support to employees so that they will be able to strengthen not only job skills but also leaders’ capabilities through the common hierarchical leadership training courses and a course provided for employees on the promotion list. FOCUS Hierarchical Curriculum System Core Value Professional Capability New predecessor/ CEO’s Magnanimous and Folksy Management Executive Knowledge Forum sales predecessor course The CEO participates in the Meeting with the CEO by visiting business sites in person to promote communications between labor and management. New Head of Senior managers DMA course Innovation Academy At the viewpoints of employees, customers and families, the CEO meets various stakeholders, listens to their voices, encourages them and utilizes department course acquired information as materials for decision making. Besides, the company helps employees understand the CEO’s thoughts via various media and Promotion course Team leadership Coaching Influential leadership In-house qualification & Insurance certifications support Cyber&Reading communication course Domestic Master course support Mentoring Junior managers DVP: Advance level (Coaching) Departmental education system Corporate division education system New business division education system Claim adjustment service education system meetings, making efforts to pave the way for a high-performance organization based on communications. Change leadership Decision Strategic Thinking DVP: intermediate Communication and Conflict Performance management Actuary Academy Assistant level management Cases of CEO’s Communication Channel managers Dynamic Promotion course Dongbu person CNA course MGT skill Conflict management (Leadership) course/ Cycle Classification Main Content becoming DVP: beginner’s Promotion course Problem solving Planning skill/ Persuasion skill New Year’s message and Sharing information on management policies and status, Field leader Dongbu person Annual level (Fellowship course) Planning skill Problem solving Creative program leader conference conference Management strategy meeting Semiannual management strategy meeting of executives and department heads DVP: Frontier Half of year Time/ JE/SE1 Various briefing sessions Company-wide innovation briefing session and in-house best practice contest Company Promotion course JE/SE1 Junior assistant Work Task Emotion Division managers/ introduction process (Communication) Stress MA introduction course Visiting worksites and checking state of management Sharing emotions Smart ManageManagemanagement On-site management Meeting staff members Group ment ment Monthly via various events. Sharing marketing strategy of sales headquarter and Jump-up Course with CEO Marketing strategy Introduction process Attached encouraging employees Promotion course (customer communication) Partnership When necessary Various forums Sharing management strategy directions, business results and issues BA business efficiency course Company Introduction course 38 39 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities Diagnosis of Employees’ Capabilities Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensation via Revision The evaluation of employees’ capabilities is conducted on three criteria; basic, task behavior of HR Management System and professional skill capabilities. On the basis of evaluation results, along with employees, the In 2015, Dongbu Insurance introduced a new HR management system to cope with delayed procompany maps out long-term career development programs, self-development programs and, motions and run a fair evaluation system. The new system simplifies the rank system according to various self-development plans such as education plans and plans to achieve the qualification employees’ occupational capabilities and encourages employees to generate high performances certificate to enhance the task capabilities, book study and study clubs, etc. via strong communications within the organization. The capabilities in organization management were increased and fair evaluations were realized by strengthening the functions of the Personnel Strengthening Organization Leadership Committee in evaluation for promotions and assessing capacities of employees not only as an Dongbu Insurance recognizes the importance of the leadership and prepares systematic leaderindividual but as a leader. ship basis. Based on the 4 qualities of the leadership defined by the company such as the performance-centric motivation, the steady management of change, performance-centric work and Performance Evaluation and Fair Evaluation sophisticated organization management, the leadership area is divided into work, innovation, CS With a view to helping employees devote themselves to work and have more satisfaction, Dongbu and dynamic leadership. Also, through the Core leadership I~IV course, the company provides an Insurance includes a goal agreement system, a monthly evaluation agreement system, a self-deeffective educational system to enable employees to strengthen their quality as a leader. velopment plan system and career development plan system into the Performance Management System to allow employees to set their own goals and evaluate the results. The utilization of the Recruitment and Placement of New Employees BSC (Balance Score Card) segments viewpoints on employees’ performance evaluation. At the Securing excellent talent for the future of the company is contingent on securing excellent new same time, the distribution of the company’s strategies and goals as KPIs by units and individemployees. Therefore, Dongbu Insurance established an investment-like recruitment system in acuals increase the morale of the workers. Also, the company has made an effort to realize the cordance with a ten-year long new employee training plan in order to hire talented people with fair performance evaluation such as conducting evaluation by the occupational group and tasks required capabilities to realize the company’s core values of three spirits and three attitudes. After considering the characteristics of each tasks even within a single department. the completion of a recruitment procedures, the problems identified in the course of the recruitment procedure are corrected and reflected to the next recruitment plan. Evaluation Objection System (Unit: cases, %) Establishment of the Evaluation Objection System To ensure the transparency and fairness of evaluations, the Evaluation Objection System has Ideal Talented people with global competitiveness to complete their missions with creativity and 9 34 26 been operated. Employees are free to raise objections to the assessment results on their proEmployee enterprising spirit and create a better future 2013 fessional and personal competence and performance. In such cases, the Personnel Committee 14 32 44 seeks the opinions of evaluators and relevant departments to ascertain the validity of the assessNew Employee Recruitment Strategy 2014 ment. In 2015, 28 objections were filed and eight cases among them were accepted, the results 8 28 29 Reinforcing the basis to recruiting Securing New Recruits suitable for Systematic training of those accepted cases were re-adjusted. excellent new employees characteristics of Insurance business and maintenance 2015 No. of applications •Building basic interview system to recruit •Recruitment differentiation according •Running mentoring program about new employees with college degrees to duties jobs and mentality No. of acceptances Rational Compensation System •Dissertation contest for college students •Interview method differentiation based •Operating training program for newly Acceptance rate and graduate students on characteristics of duties hired college graduates Dongbu Insurance is making compensations given to employees in accordance with performanc•Intern programs for college students and •Giving priority to local job seekers •Global Human Resource Development es by running a wage system based on duties and positions. Wages are decided based largely graduate students System (GVC) on basic salaries and performance-based bonuses. The ratios of the two are subject to duties so the system guarantees the rationality of the compensation system. At Dongbu Insurance, duties and positions make differences in salaries but not gender. FOCUS Performance Evaluation & Compensation Reflux System Employee Consciousness Innovation Course Performance and capability evaluation Core values, learning and attitude Dongbu Insurance selected mentality change as its business topic for 2015 and exerted itself to create a corporate culture of passion and immersion based on ownership. All employees including executives took part in the mentality change process a total of 55 times and through this process, underPerformance Evaluation Competency Evaluation Core values Learning and attitude stood changes in the business environment and the state of the company’s business operation. Also, they established and have shared the principles Field Departments at Head of the Staff in Dongbu Guinness departments headquarters department charge for action on ownership, passion and immersion and have applied them to work. Monthly and annual Departments, employees that made Basic skills Basic skills Work dynamic Dongbu employee excellent suggestions management Job Revamping to set trends after veering away from Individual MBO Leaders’ competence Achievement and role model prizes Innovation specialists competence catching up with others Personal KPI Dynamic departments with excellent Bonus for qualification certificates, Dynamic Day activities •Changes in management •Standard management plan New training New training Specialized Excellent Dynamic Promise works Long Service Award system system Specialized technical strategy •Organizational restructuring technical competence Strategic Strategic competence Volunteer activities Excellent CS departments, •Changes in the organization •Next-generation system contribution contribution and Heart Fund, etc. CS stars and etc. •Changes in system •Changes in Leadership Employee Consciousness •Changes in consciousness Innovation Course 40 41 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities ISSUE 03 Partners Partner Expert Fostering Education A differentiated training program is being run to adapt to the diversifying market environment and nurture consulting experts with competitiveness. The consulting capabilities of the sales organization has been beefed up by implementing a customized education program according to the characteristics by the service years and the wage. Every year, Dongbu Insurance spends over KRW Sales and claim adjustment partners that provide Dong1.3 billion on training programs for 30,000 insurance planners. In 2015, the education program bu Insurance’s products and service at customer conto enhance consulting capabilities of each customers on theme-based products was conducted tact points are the company’s core growth engines through reflecting the market trends every month. In addition, the support for immediate manifestation of the effects of education was provided by building up fieldcentered education system. and partners. Moreover, laws and regulation related to shared growth are being strengthened and social interPartner Training Investment (Unit: KRW in 100 million) Providing Various Content and Activity Tools for Sales Partner Activity est is on the rise. Thus, Dongbu Insurance is creating In order to help enhancement of the sales competitiveness and income of the sales partners, FORsynergies with sales and claim adjustment partners by 2013 13 EVERLIST, a sales and customer management tool, is used to expand the market and establish making improvements to systems and programs for the differentiated activity strategies by the customer. Moreover, various contents are provided to help 2014 12 stable growth of partners. the sales organization enhance product education capabilities and support their sales activities 2015 13 such as the BSPs (Business Sales Plans), proposals by industrial sectors and checklists. In particular, through the BSP, the habituation of the visit activities and strengthening of the sales process are realized. And the result of this, Dongbu Insurance has been achieving the business goal. Sales Partner Activity Promotion Contents Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Method and Future Direction Major Activities in 2015 Dongbu Insurance is making various efforts for sustainable winwin •Education to enhance consulting capabilities by cusgrowth with sales and claim adjustment partners who are a core tomers based on theme-based products contact point on its value chain. We give support to partners for •Reorganization that befits sales partner specialization by enhancement of work efficiency and professional capabilities by sales partners overhauling the work management system and running various •Field-completion claim adjustment service based on mobile e-claim system educational courses. At the same time, we collect and apply the •Expansion of communications with field PAs via PA PK Qualification Certification (Unit: persons) Fostering the Insurance Specialists opinions of those in the field via various communication channels. suggestion system Dongbu Insurance has been providing opportunities for sales organizations to improve their com2013 30,242 petitiveness through the PK (PA Knowledge) Certificate Program since 2006. The PK Qualification 2014 33,530 System are composed of seven sectors; long-term Insurance, car insurance, CS, general insurance, consulting, long-term claim adjustment and car claim adjustment. In 2015, qualification 2015 35,199 to improve the consulting and work capabilities of the staffs including sales team leaders and training coaches was added and a total of 35,199 PAs acquired the PK certification as of DeHighlights in 2015 cember 2015. In 2016, it is planned to bolster the competitive edge of the company by providing differentiated knowledge and information through a mobile PK qualification system. Number of Employees with PK Qualification Certificates Satisfaction about Emergency Dispatch Service Specialization Education for Freelance Channels Dongbu Insurance is putting in efforts to help GAs secure their competitiveness such as supporting GA education and activities by fostering experienced employees in the field into trainers. At 35,199 persons 93.7 points the same time, we are providing contents of sales activities by way of cross planner training for life insurance planners and bolstering our product capabilities. Partner Training Investment Family Satisfaction Index (FSI) KRW1.3 billion 72.2 points 42 43 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities Reinforcing Sales Competitiveness Support System Partner Communication Differentiated Commission System Operation of the Communication Channel with PAs in Field The sales partner commission system is reflecting the company policies and it is important for The PA Suggestion System is invigorating communication between Dongbu Insurance and prime sales partners to understand the commission system. Therefore, when changes are made in agents. Dongbu Insurance is listening to the voices of employees in the field such as contents its commission system, such changes are communicated via various channels including sales registered in the suggestion system are directly sent to the headquarters and relevant departmanager training and sales partner TV broadcasting. Our commission system supports stable ments, and also selected contents are reflected to the policies and systems of the company. growth by offering the systematic commission structures for shared growth with sales partners. Above this, various channels to communicate with sales partners are provided such as the DBRT The limit of the performance-based commissions such as long-term employee support fee and (Dongbu Round Table) seminar, the cross-selling team leader course, the GA trainer course and settlement support commissions was adjusted upward. And an institutional mechanism to enthe mentor course, the training coach course and the excellent FC seminar course. courage stable settlement of new PAs and increase their income was established through extension of the supporting period and increase of the supporting amount of the child support fees. In Family Satisfaction Index (FSI) (Unit: points) Reinforcement of Sales Partner Management System addition, the income system for mutual growth with PAs has been being operated such as the Dongbu Insurance holds an annual award ceremony for excellent PAs based on the results of the perreorganization of the mobile service charge support system in accordance with a change in the 2013 69.8 formance evaluation such as performances, customer satisfaction and retention rates. The company mobile market and the adoption of the differentiated commission system by the numbers of PAs’ 2014 70.4 is reinforcing partnership with sales partners such as boosting their satisfaction and pride by honoring children which is the industry-first system. as members of the DBRT Hall of Fame PAs who become role models and made contributions to 2015 72.2 the growth of Dongbu Insurance in light of the insurer’s core purposes and values. Moreover, 2,209 Efficient Work Supports by Channels (Excellent Certificate) PAs and 39 (Blue Ribbon) PAs of the Dongbu Insurance were selected by the In order to contrive to realize the efficient growth of sales partners, the branch composition was Excellence Certification System* and the Blue Ribbon System** run by the Korean Non-Life Insurance segmented into standard, TC, general and specialized branches in 2015 and the organizational Association and such achievements contribute to enhancement of the image of the insurance indusstructure was reshuffled according to the characteristics of each channel. At the same time, try and the complete sales rate. shared growth has been pursued by providing efficient support for work through re-establishing * The Excellent Sales Planner award is based on an evaluation of overall performance including employment period, the 13th & 25th retained contract signed, retention rates, and the number of completed sales. the roles and functions of the staff organization. ** The Blue Ribbon award is given to insurance planners who have received four Excellent Sales Planner awards. Standards General •Strengthen support for aged PAs’ retention of customers Branch •Training of PA consulting elite Branch and work Reinforcing Cooperation with Claim Adjustment Partners Dongbu Insurance selects and manages excellent claim adjustment partners in order to pro•Discovering new channels and expanding channels’ •Strengthening total consulting Specialized vide the finest service to customers. At the same time, the company is steadily endeavoring for TC Branch competitiveness •Fostering future PA leaders Branch •Support for staff organizations’ work steady communication such as the collection of opinions for improvements by running various communication programs for partners. The Annual Partnership Conference is held to increase Diversification of the Sales Channels maintenance partners’ pride and loyalty. In 2015, the conference welcomed a total of 83 firms (61 excellent car repair shop, 11 auto parts suppliers and 11 rent-a-cars. They received ethical Diversification of the insurance sales channels which has been pursued by the company aims management education and BPs and shared win-win growth strategies with Dongbu Insurance. to cope with changes in sales environments and various customer needs. For example, in order In addition, DP (Dongbu Partner) meeting with the participation of about 60 maintenance partners to provide detailed consultation services, the TC (Total Consulting) channel including telephone from around the country was also held to share directions for shared growth such as win-win consultation and additional visiting consultation has been expanded across the nation and spegrowth plans, customer service education and discussions about an automobile maintenance cialized female sales partners with high educational background and less work experience have culture among others. been fostered through the LD (Life Design) Center which was newly opened in 2014. Moreover, various supports to help reemployed female sales partners who suspended their careers due to childbirth and childcare to become a specialized sales partner has been provided such as offering FOCUS a retained customer DB and an opportunity to take an elite fostering course. Case of Handling Insurance Fraud Related to Faulty Auto Repair Shop Smartpad Distribution Ratio (Unit: %) Mobile Contract System An Auto Repair Shop conspired and contrived fake accidents with insured people. An on-site mobile insurance purchasing system was introduced in 2012. The system enhances Details of Case 2013 29.7 The insured people received estimated car repair expenses and used it to take care of the exteriors of their cars. PAs’ work efficiency through a one-stop mobile sales system. Product information, finance consult2014 43.7 ing and contracting are provided through the system under the motto of ‘Any-Time, AnyWhere’. ▼ Meeting of those in charge of property damages to cars in Jan. 2015 In 2014, the system was upgraded to provide better services for customers so that customers can ▼ Warranty for seizure was enforced to seize evidence at five shops in May 2015 44.3 pay insurance premiums and ask for emergency dispatches via a mobile application. As of DecemProgress ▼ 4 representatives of Auto Repair Shop were summoned and admitted their crime and 150 car owner are under investigation in July ▼ Agreed to recover KRW 43 million from company and received money in Mar. 2016. ber 2015, 44.3% of PAs are using 7,148 mobile devices. The smart sales education course teaches ▼ At the moment, Dongbu Insurance is working on recovering KRW 45 million from individual car owners them how to use smart pads and sales skills, which strengthens professionalism in mobile sales. •The issue will be brought up for discussion at the MR Control Association for an improvement in systems. Results •Expected swindled money: KRW 80 million from Dongbu Insurance 44 45 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities ISSUE 04 Local Communities Value Creation Strategy for Social Contributions Vision of Social Contributions Dongbu Insurance makes every effort to be a global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with customers through sharing warmth for value creation of stakeholders. As corporate social responsibility and ethical consumerism receiving attention across the globe, the importance Vison: Global Insurance Financial Group which Pursues a Happy Society with Customers of fulfilling responsibility to the public as a corporate citSlogan: Shared Happiness! Shared Future! izen is being emphasized. Keeping up with this trend, Dongbu Insurance is making every effort to realize its Sharing with Participation of Insurance Business-based Social slogan of “Shared Happiness! Shared Future!” through Contribution Communities Employees its business nature based social contribution programs Diversified social supports for bodily and Fund raising and operation of volunteer corps through Providing continued campaign, education, and support where employees actively participate. mentally healthy Korean society voluntary participation of employees activities featuring the non-life insurance business •Promy volunteer corps activities •Establishment of proper traffic culture •Supporting cultural & sports activities •Raising Promy Heart Fund •Risk diagnosis on welfare facilities •Dongbu Promy Basketball team •Volunteering social club activities •Promoting customer’s donation through e-service •Support for the hearing-impaired •Designation of the company social contribution day •Financial training & global finance tour program •Eco-friendly campaign Dongbu Insurance’s Approach Method and Future Direction Major Activities in 2015 Task Force for Social Contributions In 2006, Dongbu Insurance launched Promy Social Contribution Corps for more systematic soIn an effort to raise employee’s awareness of social contribution, Dongbu Insurance as •Extended employee’s participation cial contribution activities. Led by CEO as the head, the Corps comprises of 29 local bases and a whole extends its social contribution activities at every level of organization from dein social contribution & reflection of subdivides the activity into department-level so as to encourage employee’s voluntary service and partmental volunteer service to subsidiaries’. By running task force in 2015 to establish the performance to share warmth with neighbors in need. a strategical social contribution policy, it analyzed attributes of activities performed and •Financial business based social reviewed the programs operated. These efforts enable Dongbu Insurance to improve its contribution activities such as social contribution system and to develop lifecycle factored in social contribution portfolios financial education for youth Promy Volunteer Corps •Head: CEO along with eight new programs, which will be phased-in in 2016. Dongbu Insurance also •Operation of global financial tour programs for fostering young talent Secretariat: HR Team expands its global commitment in overseas countries along with its growing international operation. Local Promy Volunteers Local Promy Volunteers Local Promy Volunteers •Local units are led by head of private •3,516 Members in total •29 Bases business division and project chief Volunteer Service Detail Highlights in 2015 Briquette Donation Briquette delivery to senior citizens living alone and low income familes Rice Donation Rice and necessaries donation to low income families and local support centers Investment in Social Contribution Promy Heart Fund Youth Support Volunteer service for socially & physically disadvantaged children Eco-activity Environmental clean-ups and preservation activities in tourism destinations Multicultural Family Support Support for commemorating family events, family trip, and residential environment improvement KRW 2,312 billion KRW 318 million Corporate-wide Guidelines for Social Contributions In accordance with the social contribution guidelines presented in 2011, Dongbu Insurance forms Participants in Social Contribution Participants in Youth Financial Education corporate-wide strategies to implement social contributions linked with the non-life insurance business. The company as a whole also makes efforts to create synergies between fulfilling corEmployees 6,938 persons Planners 1,710 persons 1,058 persons porate social responsibility and performing non-life insurance business. (20 participating schools) 46 47 Customers Employees Sustainability Section Partners Local Communities Sharing with Local Communities Expanded Emplyee Participation in Social Contributions Sponsoring Cultural & Sports Activities Dongbu Insurance’s Social Contribution Day Dongbu Insurance is a proud sponsor of diverse sporting events in order to promote sound use Dongbu Insurance appoints one day in every October as its “Social Contribution Day” and enof leisure time and sports development. Dongbu Insurance holds golf tournaments, such as the gages in various nationwide volunteer activities with employees and prime agents. On the fourth Dongbu Insurance Promy Open KPGA Champions Invitational and the Match Play Championanniversary of the social contribution day in 2015, three thousand employees and sales reps ship. The tournaments feature a charity program named “Loving Birdies” where the company conducted around 100 love sharing events including helping the disadvantaged, local vacation makes donations of 50,000 KRW for every birdie made during the tournaments. land clean-ups, welfare center visits, necessaries donation, volunteering at sports games for the disabled, etc. Dongbu Promy Professional Basketball Team Established in 2005, Dongbu Promy professional basketball team has been receiving much love Reflection of Performance Evaluation of Social Contribution Activities from fans for its high quality of game contents and outstanding sportsmanship. In return for To encourage corporate-wide interest and participation in social contribution activities in 2014, fan’s love, the Team actively participates in providing basketball posts, supporting cataract and Dongbu Insurance introduced volunteer activity time into the employee competency developLasik surgery, donating rice, and others social contributions. In every July, the Team renders help ment system and allocated 10 volunteering hours in personal MBO assessment. Also, in attempt together with the Promy Volunteer Corps in enhancing multicultural family’s residential environto securing qualitative social commitment, the number of employees participated in social contriments in Wonju city as part of a campaign for multicultural family’s stable settlement and concord. bution is appointed as one of the core KPIs for more objective measurement of social contribution In 2015, the Team made an agreement with the Gangwon Arts and Culture Foundation to invite performance. the Munhwa Nuri Card holders, who have financial, social, or geographic difficulties in attending Invitation of Munwha Nuri Card Holders cultural events, to home games and to provide them with uniforms. to Basketball Game Social Contribution through In-house Club Activities Employees of Dongbu Insurance voluntarily and actively engage in social contribution for local Invitation to “Dream Plus” Support for local Support for Activity Basketball posts communities through company club activities such as cultural asset conservation, environmental home games campaign basketball team eye surgery clean-ups, book reading program for children, box lunch preparation for the neighbors in need, Donation KRW 20 million 419 persons 7,250 Briquettes KRW 16.7 million KRW 10 million and others. made (10 posts at 5 schools) (KRW 11,313 million) Support for the Hearing-impaired Students Employee Talent Donation Dongbu Insurance effectively carries out social commitment by utilizing the expertise of employSince the sponsorship agreement with Choogjoo Sungsim School for the hearing-impaired was ees and its business nature. The Company’s risk analysis & management research center have made in 2013, Dongbu Insurance has been endeavoring to raise social concerns and to improve its specialists pay visit to local welfare facilities, give a diagnosis on safety, and provide proper treatments for the disabled. The Company arranges friendly matches for Sungsim baseball team, emergency SOPs according to the diagnosis by installing fire extinguishers and fire detectors. the nation’s first hearing-impaired baseball team, and trainings coached by Promy professional basketball team. It also provides many other hands-in experience to support the physically challenged students’ passion and struggles. Promy Heart Fund Raised (Unit: KRW in thousand) Promy Heart Fund Promy Heart is a matching grant fund whereby around three thousand employees annually 2013 214,830 Environmental Campaigns and voluntarily donate a certain amount of their salaries and Dongbu Insurance grants in equal 2014 291,660 amount of employee contribution to the Fund. Employees’ participation is highly encouraged by Dongbu Insurance engages in various pro-environmental campaigns to raise community awareness designating a Heart Fund participation ratio as one of the KPIs. Raised Promy Heart Fund is used of environment preservation: MOU signing for a model eco-school operation and co-host of the 2015 317,969 by Dongbu Insurance to practice love for neighbors in need and other charities. A total of KRW “Children’s Painting Competition on the Environment” with the Ministry of Environment and the Korea 317,969 million was raised in 2015. Climate and Environment Network since 2010. FOCUS “Love Your Family” Campaign As family dissolution has recently emerged as a social issue, Dongbu Insurance conducts Love Your Family campaigns to form a social consensus on the importance of family. It hosts “Love Letter to My Family” event to send hand written letters to family and produces animated cartoons inspired by stories from the letters. It also designed “Family Loving Index” to see how close family members are. The animation has especially been resonant to the public rating 2 million views on YouTube. 48 49 Sustainability Section Social Contribution Specialized in Business Characteristics Global Financial Tour Program The Dongbu Cultural Foundation holds ‘Dongbu Financial Essay Competition’ in order to nurture the next generation’s financial talent whereby college and graduate students compete for their creative and practical financial ideas. Winners are given a wide range of benefits such as scholarships, a free pass for the application review of Dongbu Insurance’s open recruitment, and an opportunity to visit leading financial institutions and prestigious colleges in the US. Corporate Governance The 5th Global Finance Tour Financial Education for Youth Dongbu Insurance aims to be a global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with customers. customers. In this regard, Dongbu Insurance makes the best use of its infrastructure and resources to disseminate financial knowledge; Since July 2015, the Company has provided elementary and middle school students with financial education courses designed to inculcate with sound consciousness towards finance. One local branch-on-one school matching system helps to deepen students’ understanding on finance and insurance related knowledge. Financial Education by Anyang Branch Promotion of Customer’s Donation through e-Service Dongbu Insurance promotes carbon footprint reduction and encourages its customers to participate. Customers are able to donate through e-service on Dongbu Insurance’s website. By saving-up certain amount of each donation, the Company supports surgery expenses for rare and intractable diseases. In 2015, a matching grant fund was raised in proportion to the number of child insurance policy holders. Education on Traffic Safety To raise people’s awareness of traffic safety and accident prevention, Dongbu Insurance regularly provides traffic safety education based on its expertise in insurance business. The company also conducts car accident prevention activities and provides free vehicle checkup service at major expressway rest area across the nation. In the mean time the Company plans to install Yellow Carpets* in a total of 100 school zones in ten districts of Seoul in 2016 as part of efforts to make a safer town for children. Since not just Dongbu Volunteer Corps but also local residents, community groups, and school authorities join in location selection and installation of Yellow Carpet, this campaign is expected to apprise of better understanding of traffic safety. * Yellow Carpet: Yellow-painted pavement area at traffic lights where children can safely wait for the light to change and where drivers can easily recognize them 50 51 Corporate Governance Ethics Management Corporate Governance Risk Management Corporate Governance Board of Directors (BOD) Outside Director Appointment Process Conditions and Procedures to Appoint BOD Members The Board of Directors (BOD), the highest decision making body in the Company, makes importThe BOD screens and recommends inside director candidates who satisfy conditions set forth The Outside Director ant managerial decisions, keeps the management in check and monitors the management of the in relevant laws and regulations. Outside director candidates are recommended by the Outside Nomination Committee company. For quick decision making and responsible management, the CEO chairs the BOD. Director Nomination Committee after screening them for expertise, work fairness, ethics and One senior outside director is appointed to reinforce the BOD’s check and balance functions. Kim responsibility, etc. Recommended candidates are finally appointed through resolutions at a BOD Seong-guk was newly appointed as an outside director via a resolution at the general shareholdmeeting and the general shareholders meeting. Recommend candidates ers meeting in 2016. Park Sang-yong and Ahn Jong-tae were reappointed as outside directors while Ahn Hyung-jun as an inside director. Expertise of the BOD BOD Outside director candidates are recommended after fair verification process in accordance with Operation of the BOD Operation of BOD the regulations of the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee and relevant The BOD shall meet on a quarterly basis but emergency meetings can also be convened if an imlaws. The Company makes efforts to bring in experts with vast knowledge about not only the Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 portant business issue occurs. The BOD resolves issues related to general shareholders meetings, Recommend/nominate candidates financial industry but also relevant fields including economy, law, accounting and journalism. No. of meetings held times 11 15 13 the Company’s management and financial status, directors and executives as set forth in relevant Submitted issues cases 21 29 26 laws and the regulations of the Board of Directors. Social and environmental factors and corporate General Shareholders Independence of the BOD governance issues are considered during all decision-making processes. During resolution, at least Meeting Attendance rate % 100 100 95.4 Dongbu Insurance prohibits the appointment of the largest shareholder, those who have special half of the directors must be present and at least half of the present directors must agree in principle. relations with the largest shareholder, major shareholders and their spouses and lineal ascendant Additional matters backed by relevant laws are subject to the BOD’s weighted resolution. Moreover, and descendant as outside directors in accordance with Article 25-2 in the Articles of Incorporavoting rights are limited in order to prevent interventions by parties who have a stake in the Company. Elect director tion. At the same time, the Company abides by Articles 382 (qualifications of outside directors) Shareholders may propose to the BOD agenda items for the general shareholders meeting. Then, and 542-8 (outside director appointment) of the Commercial Act. they may ask questions or demand explanations about the agenda items during the general shareAnnouncement holders meeting. Diversity of the BOD The BOD promotes the diversity of its composition by appointing directors with specialized Soundness of Corporate Governance knowledge about relevant sectors such as non-life insurance, financial industry regulators, fair Notify result Dongbu Insurance adopted the “Charter of Corporate Governance” in an effort to earn trust of society trade, personnel/labor management. In addition, director candidates are not discriminated by and promote transparency and efficiency in business management, and all members of the Company reason of race, disability and gender. abide by the Charter in order to fulfill social responsibilities armed with the strong sense of ethics. In addition, the corporate governance report is published every year, which elaborates on the goverCommittees within the BOD nance structure and activities related to corporate governance. In accordance with relevant laws and the Articles of Incorporation, six committees are operated under the BOD for the purpose of making quick deliberation and resolutions on matters which Regulation on the Succession the CEO require a decision; the Internal Trading Committee, the Audit Committee, the Outside Director In December 2015, the Company established the Regulation on the Succession of the CEO by Nomination Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Management Committee and the a BOD resolution, which stipulates candidates’ eligibilities and the organization of a candidate Compensation Committee. Each committee reviews and makes decisions on key issues with the group for the succession of the position of CEO that is an internal Director, CEO succession authority delegated by the BOD. procedures, and contingency plans. Committees within the BOD and Their Roles Standards on Conditions for Directors’ Independence Category Responsibility Composition Chairman Requirement Composition of the Board of Directors Summon and conduct shareholder’s meeting, Inside Directors 2 Jeongnam Kim • Individuals who relevance to any of the following in BOD approve financial statements, establish busiMore than half must be outside directors Outside Directors 3 (Inside Director) ness plans and other business related matters Jeong-nam Kim Hyeong-jun Ahn Insurance Act article 13 clause 1 and/or article 15 clause 4 sub clause 6 and/or sub clause 10 More than 3 directors, more than 2/3 BOD Chairman, CEO Full-time auditor Audit Conduct independent accounting and audit, Inside Director 1 Sangyong Park must be outside directors, at least one • Persons under any Enforcement Decree of the Committee status of sales and capital, evaluate external Outside Directors 2 (Outside Director) of the members must be specialized in Former) Vice Present of Dongbu Insurance Former) Insurance Supervisory Service, audit management support division Insurance Bureau at the Ministry Insur-ance Business Act, Article 19 Clauses 4 to 6. accounting or finance Former) Vice Present of Dongbu Insurance of Finance •The largest shareholder The Outside In accordance with related laws and regulations new business division Former) Director of Seoul Guarantee • Persons affiliated with the largest shareholders Seongguk Kim More than 2 directors, more than 2/3 Director Nominato given independency, select Outside Director Outside Directors 3 Former) Vice Present of Dongbu Insurance Insurance (Outside Director) must be outside directors • Major shareholders and his or her spouse and lineal tion Committee candidates through fair recruitment process Individual business division Former) Full-time auditor of Ergodaum Insurance ascendants and descendants More than 2 directors, more than one of Risk ManageSupervision of business risk efficiency, Inside Director 1 Jeongnam Kim • Outside director, director of financial company other the members have working experience in ment Committee implement policy and establish risk limits Outside Directors 2 (Inside Director) finance, accounting, banking than its subsidiary company or parent company Sang-yong Park Jong-tae Ahn Seong-guk Kim Management Resolution of general issues which are Jeongnam Kim Inside Directors 2 More than 2 directors Senior outside director, Outside Director outside director, member of the Committee urgent or frequently occur, with BOD support (Inside Director) Member of the audit committee Audit Committee More than 3 Directors, more than one of Former) President of Korean Corporation Former) Officer of Senior Secretary to the Former) Insurance Bureau at the Ministry Review of management and particularly the members are members of the Risk Management Association president for economic affairs of Finance The Compensaemployees’ performance compensation system Inside Director 1 Jongtae Ahn Management Committee More than one of Former) President of Korea management Former) Secretary General of fair trade Former) Member of Public Fund tion Committee and legal compliance inspection and Outside Directors 2 (Outside Director) the members have working experience in academy committee Management Committee reporting of outcomes finance, accounting, banking President’s Present) Kangwon University Business Present) Advisor of Law firm Yulchon Former) President of IBK Credit committee member is restricted professor Preliminary review of transactions with any Internal Trade Inside Director 1 Hyeongjun Ahn More than 3 directors, more than 2/3 must subsidiaries such as outsourcing contracts, Committee Outside Directors 2 (Inside Director) be outside directors * As of June, 2016 asset purchases and other matters 52 53 Corporate Governance Ethics Management Corporate Governance Risk Management Ratio of Employees’ Salaries (Unit: KRW in million, %) Compensation Standards for Management Sustainable Management Governance The Compensation Committee which operates independently from the management evaluates All pays for Median of Sustainability Management Committee Ratio of pays the performances of the management and employees and decides compensations for them. The CEO pays for employees The Sustainability Management Committee of Dongbu Insurance is composed of executives Compensation Committee enhances fairness and transparency in the performance evaluation 672 51 13.2 and compensation system for the management through annual reviews of compensation for unand chaired by the CEO. Convened every quarter, the Committee established the companywide used annual leaves, business performance and financial risks associated with the compensation sustainability management strategy for 2015 and also deliberates and makes decisions on key * The pays include performance-based bonuses system. Reward for the management is based on the Compensation Committee’s evaluation of issues of sustainability management. The Committee’s activities and key decisions are reported progress on business plans, performances in sustainability management and social and environto the BOD once a year. In 2015, major reported items were related to an overhaul of the susmental contributions. After deliberation by the Compensation Committee, the compensation of tainability management strategy and the Company’s evaluation by outside organizations such as the management is approved with a resolution at the general shareholders meeting. the DJSI and the CDP. Sustainability Management Committee Assessment of Directors’ Performances Chairman: CEO The performance of outside directors are evaluated once a year in the form of self-evaluation, CSR office Members: Heads of offices and department and Report evaluation by the BOD and evaluation by employees. The contents and results of the evaluation leader of Personnel Management Team (once a year) Supervisor and 2 Officers Manager: Head of Strategy Innovation Team are publicly disclosed in the annual corporate governance report of the Company. Sustainability Management 3 workers from responsiBOD Administrative Committee ble departments Power Salaries Paid to Directors relegation (Unit: KRW in million) Environment Economy Society Category Amount of total salaries Average per-capita salary Remark (Risk management (Management planning) (HR management) research center) Registered director 672 672 Inside director 1 Outside director 41 41 Outside Director 1 Sustainability Management Operation Organization Audit Committee member or Inside director 1, 255 85 auditor Outside Directors 2 The Sustainability Management Administrative Committee is run under the Sustainability ManageTotal 968 194 ment Committee in order to facilitate the activities of the latter and actively push forward with sustainability management tasks. The Sustainability Management Administrative Committee consists of three divisions—economy, environment and society—each of which identifies key issues surrounding Protection of Shareholders’ Rights and Interest Dongbu Insurance’s business and develop countermeasures, by conducting environment analysis, Dongbu Insurance is putting forth efforts to protect the rights and interest of stakeholders and benchmarking and review of stakeholders-related issues. Issues and countermeasures identified by shareholders in compliance with disclosed information management regulations, management inthe Sustainability Management Administrative Committee are reflected companywide strategies via a formation disclosure standards and product disclosure standards. A dedicated organization transresolution of the Sustainability Management Committee. parently discloses information on matters related to the protection of stakeholders’ rights and inSustainability Management Committee’s Assignments terest such as business status, business performances, stock price, press releases via the website (including product disclosures) and the disclosure system. At the same time, decisions on matters Overall sustainability •Advancing sustainability management strategies management •Establishing working groups and management system for sustainability management affecting the protection of their rights and interest are subject to the disclosure items notification •Reinforcing independence and transparency of BOD system which immediately reflects such decisions by interlocking the electronic payment systems •Strengthening responsibilities for sustainability management •Reinforcing transparency in measures of ethical codes and the electronic disclosure system (http://drat.fss.or.kr/). Economy •Raising customer retention rate, Strengthening consumer protection •Strengthening brand value evaluation •Building integrated stakeholder management system Major Shareholders •Reinforcement of Stakeholder Issue Analysis and Sharing System •Establishing environmental management policies, strengthening management of environmental KPIs (Unit: shares, %) •Formulating carbon-neutral plan, building environmental risk recognition system Environment •Developing products and services No. of shares/stake •Social responsibility-based asset management •Advancing social contribution strategies Name Relation Kinds of stocks End of term •Advocating human rights and diversity, strengthening safety and health management •Strengthening external cooperation and network No. of shares Stake Society •Advancing management of social contribution performances Kim Nam-ho Himself Common stocks 6,379,520 9.01 •Introducing supplier guideline, reinforcing business partner management •Expanding responsibility on the marginalized, tackling aging population issues Kim Jun-ki Relative Common stocks 4,208,500 5.94 Kim Ju-won Relative Common stocks 2,229,640 3.15 Increasing Sustainability Management’s Competitiveness Dongbu Cultural Foundation Other groups Common stocks 3,539,070 5.00 In 2015, Dongbu Insurance organized a taskforce led by the Sustainability Management AdministraKim Jeong-nam Executive Common stocks 73,000 0.10 tive Committee and implemented a project to make tangible improvement on its sustainability manTreasury stocks Common stocks 7,501,660 10.60 agement and expand global business, After nine months of project implementation, the Company Total Common stocks 23,931,390 28.80 established tasks to supplement the sustainability strategy system and develop midto long-term measures for improvement on the basis of research on global trends, sustainability management * As of December of 2015 regulations and the needs of stakeholders. 54 55 Corporate Governance Ethics Management Corporate Governance Risk Management Ethics Management Laying Foundation for Ethics Management Reinforcing Ethics Management System Ethics Management System Compliance Score (Unit: points) Compliance System Dongbu Insurance makes utmost efforts to become a respected company fulfilling corporate 2013 90.3 Dongbu Insurance runs a compliance assessment system that measures the level of ethics at the social responsibilities. To that end, we cultivated firm belief and philosophies of ethics manageHeadquarters, the Claim Adjustment Division and the Sales Division, so as to assess the com2014 87.8 ment, and actively abide by the code of ethics and guidelines as the guiding principles of right mon parameters of ethics management in a systematic manner across the Company, such as judgment and behaviors. 2015 91.7 work ethics, outside audit result, violations of the Code of Ethics and compliance activity reports. 2016 Goals 90 Ethics index evaluation items are continued to be improved to make sure the culture of ethics Organization for Ethics Management Sustainable Growth management takes roots across the Company and reinforce the ethical mindset of all executives and employees. CEO World Best Quality Moreover, we pay keen attention to the management of insurance products guide materials by using only such materials approved by the Financial Supervisory Service. Those produced by Compliance Officer individual planners shall be approved by an internal procedure before use. As a result, there were Company recognized by Best company which employees and Company respected by no violations reported, such as exaggerated or fake advertisements, in 2015. Compliance officer shareholders sales partners want to work for customers [Fair trade compliance (company regulation)] Transparent company Clean organization Trusted company Compliance Part Legal Risk Management Part General management of Company-wide legal risk Headquarters internal control system management ‘Fair’ management based Building organizational culture of Fulfillment of social responsibilities on transparency cleanness and trust based on altruism Financial reports, Compliance and internal control Compliance Program Operation of Internal monitoring financial reporting internal control and anti-money laundering system Sales Compliance Managers (head office and worksites) Ethics Management Implementation Organization Work ethics Fair sales, Dongbu Insurance guarantees the independence of legal compliance management by appointing Complete sales Support for compliance officer CP activities the Compliance Officer under the direct control of the CEO, and enhances work efficiency and Anti-money laundering expertise by clearly defining the roles and responsibilities among the Legal Compliance Part, the Legal Risk Management Part and the Compliance Officer. Claim Adjustment Abide by the process Education for Promotion of Ethical Culture A wide array of ethics education courses are provided to executives and employees so as to instill the right mindset of ethics. Ethics was added as a compulsory subject to introductory courses for newly hired office workers. In addition, an on-line ethics course is provide to existing employees and officers. For more systematic education, the Company selected employees to serve as inVoluntary Compliance with Fair Trade Regulations house ethics instructors and put them through a group education program to cultivate in-house In 2003, Dongbu Insurance established the Regulation on Voluntary Compliance with Fair Trade instructors on ethics management. In addition ethics management was added also to the basic and introduced the voluntary fair trade compliance program. As such, we laid the foundation for education program for executives and employees at subsidiaries, including new recruits. Thanks fair and ethical trade and competition and reinforced employees’ capacity of ethical behaviors. to such efforts, there were no violations of the Code of Conduct and the Anti-corruption and The Compliance Officer was designated as voluntary compliance manager to check the program bribery regulations in 2015. on a regular basis, to ensure its steady and smooth implementation. Also training courses are provided to all executives and employees at least once a year. In 2015, Dongbu Insurance sent notices to all executives and employees, subsidiaries and busiWritten Pledges (Unit: Persons, %) Expanding Ethics Pledges ness partners calling for cooperation on the promotion of ethics culture in order to check on the Every year, all executives and employees at Dongbu Insurance make voluntary pledges of ethics Category 2013 2014 2015 status of voluntary compliance with fair trade regulations and the Code of Ethics. 19 trading part& legal compliance on-line in order to fulfill social responsibilities and implement ethical manageners were selected on the basis of concentrated trade, contract termination, decreased trade, Number of ment as a corporate citizen. The Company also makes sure executives and employees at its 4,855 5,413 4,489 Written Participants customer complaints and new contracts, and received inspection on unfair business practices Pledges Participation subsidiaries make written pledges of ethics and legal compliance tailored to the characteristics and field due diligence. As a follow-up, we actively conducted improvement activities to satisfy 92.5 95.7 91.5 of their respective businesses, in an effort to diffuse our ethics management philosophies and Rate the demands of trading partners gathered through the collection of their voices (VOC), such as culture. The subsidiaries include Dongbu Car Claim Adjustment, Dongbu CAS, Dongbu CSI, making a full payment to a rental car agency which had not received the payment due to changed Dongbu CNS and Dongbu MnS. business registration number. In 2016, we will reinforce these activities by expanding the scope of trading partners and due diligence periods and areas. 56 57 Corporate Governance Ethics Management Corporate Governance Risk Management Internal Monitoring Management System Money-Laundering Prevention System With a view to effectively prevent money laundering and enhance expertise, Dongbu Insurance Creation of Whistle-Blowing System appointed a money laundering watchman in the Compliance Team. In addition, about 200 comAnyone can report financial accidents and violations of internal control to the website of the Fipliance managers conduct constant monitoring of concerned organizations every month and nancial Irregularities Report Center of Dongbu Insurance without a membership registration. Such report trades suspected of involving money laundering to the Compliance Team. At the same reports are consistently followed up by the Compliance Officer. At the same time, a whistle-blowtime, we report to the Financial Intelligence Unit via the AML (Anti-Money Laundering) system ing system on the corporate intranet encourages employees to blow whistles on violations and established in September 2009. raise their awareness of irregularities. In case a disciplinary action is taken, the Company shares relevant information with all members, including who received the disciplinary action and why and provides education to prevent similar cases. Taxation Policy Management Dongbu Insurance complies with tax laws and regulations across all worksites at home and Status of Internal Control abroad. In 2015, the Company established global tax policies to be implemented on all domestic (Unit: cases) Internal Control System for Financial Reporting and overseas worksites, and related matters are disclosed via its homepage (http://ir.idongbu. Dongbu Insurance systematically manages the design, operation and evaluation of its internal com/lib/download/dongbu_global_tax_reporting.PDF). Reviewed by outside auditors at the end Category 2013 2014 2015 accounting management system through the internal control system for financial reporting esof every quarter and year, corporation tax, deferred corporate tax, effective tax rate, etc. are disInternal Process 77 94 94 tablished in accordance with the Act on External Audit for Corporations. Issues found in annual closed in our financial statements which are available at the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer control Control activities 1,380 1,433 649 inspection are reported to the management and collect feedback on improvement measures. System (HYPERLINK “http://www.dart.fss.or.kr” www.dart.fss.or.kr). The Company rigorously Continuous improvement is made on control activities in the 94 processes and 649 sub-profulfill the duty of tax payment by actively cooperating with tax offices on tax investigations and cesses of the system that impact financial statements. In 2015, we overhauled control activities other demands. based on revised laws and regulations. The overhaul reduced the number of control activities but boosted their effectiveness. Donations to Political Parties & Sponsor Groups Response to Legal Risk No donations were made by Dongbu Insurance to political parties or their sponsor groups during the reporting period. Our Code of Ethics clearly stipulates that the Company shall not engage in For the prevention of legal risk, Dongbu Insurance operates the Legal Risk Management Part any political activities. The employees are advised to ensure that their personal political views are which provides education and information to prevent legal risks, handles business lawsuits and not be mistaken as representing that of the Company. non-insurance lawsuits and provides legal advice. A specialized team of in-house counsels and legal experts is actively responding to overall legal issues, including revisions of laws, personnel management and promotions among others. Legal Risk Review (Unit: cases) 2013 2014 2015 Questions Questions Questions Questions Questions Questions Questions Questions Questions from the from the from the from the from the from the from the from the from the sales declaims desales declaims desales declaims deheadquarters headquarters headquarters partments partments partments partments partments partments 668 154 88 778 295 102 733 230 96 910 1,175 1,059 Status of Public Disclosure Violations (Unit: cases) Management of Public Disclosure Violations Public disclosure managers check matters subject to public disclosure regularly daily, weekly, Category 2013 2014 2015 and monthly—and any issues are immediately notified to relevant departments. In addition, the Occurrence of Public public disclosures 84 108 87 employees have followed a company regulation which defines all public disclosure guidelines disclosure Number of violations violations 0 0 0 such as public disclosure work, procedures and management since 2009. Gift & Valuable Reporting Center Employees who received a gift or valuables which are difficult to return as their senders are not known can report the cases to the Compliance Officers through the gift & valuable reporting system established in February 2006. As of the end of 2015, a total of KRW 2,555,571 was collected through the system and was donated to social welfare groups such as the Korea Disabled People Association and the in-house ‘Heart Fund’. 58 59 Corporate Governance Ethics Management Corporate Governance Risk Management Risk Management Companywide Risk Management Risk Management Process Risk Management System Dongbu Insurance pushed forward with the ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) project in order Risk Policies and Strategies to support risk control such as risk volume calculation, stress tests and the formulation of riskRisks classified into four types and Dongbu Insurance is laying the groundwork for strategic risk management for the purpose of actively Recognizing based management plans. This project put in place companywide risk management governance, managed; insurance risk, interest rate responding to the diversifying global insurance market and tightening business regulations, thereby risk risk, market risk and credit risk individual risks management system and a risk data warehouse (RDW*), making sure more efficreating a stable foundation for profit. The Company carries out strict monitoring and controlling activcient risk management. ities in accordance with risk management strategy guidelines established in 2015. Every year, the Risk * RDW=Risk Data Warehouse Management Committee approves risk management strategy related to the establishment of midto Measure and evaluate credit risk, long-term management strategy and business plans. In addition, risky capital is evenly allocated to Measuring and evaluating risk liquidity risk, and operational risk Asset Soundness and Limit-Setting Management each risk category, so as to make sure the overall risk is managed at a proper level compared to available capital. At the same time, by grasping the causes, scale and appropriateness of risks in advance, With the aim of maintaining stable capital adequacy, the Company evaluates the soundness of we minimize the burden of risk. owner’s equity based on the RBC System set by the supervising authorities in 2009. Our RBC ratio stood at 211% as of December 2015. Moreover, we allocate required capital by risks based Detailed Strategies for Risk Management Observing Constantly/daily/weekly/monthly on the RBC standard and set allowed limits in risk after an approval by the Risk Management risk monitoring Committee. These facts are regularly reported to the Committee and the management and relatRisk appetites such as company’s total amount of risk and target RBC ratio ed matters are strictly managed through constant monitoring. Allocating each risk capital by utilizing RBC (risk-based capital) Analysis of Risk Factor Sensitivity Establish/implement emergency Limits in risk in consideration of optimal asset portfolios (Var/Exposure/Loss/Loss cut/Concentration limits) Controlling The asset sensitivity analysis is conducted as a means to preemptively respond to any negative plans and hold the Risk Management and guidelines risk Administrative Committee impact on the value of capital and profit associated with various risk factors in the market. We ALM strategy for interest rate risk management (guidelines on average collection periods and guidelines on analyze various emergency situations by utilizing scenarios of our own production and standard expected interest rates) scenarios produced by regulators. As the result of these efforts, the RBC ratio never fell below Reinsurance operation strategy including limits in possession of insurance risk 130% even in emergencies. Risk Management Organization Dongbu Insurance is operating the Risk Management Committee and the Risk Management Administrative Committee under the BOD. The Risk Management Administrative Committee has the Insurance Risk Team and the Asset Risk Team to enhance work expertise. The Risk Management Committee, the top management unit of risk, is engaged in general operation and supervision including the establishment of policies. In response to the growing demand for flexibility in coping with the rapidly changing financial market environment and risk management strategies, the Risk Management Administrative Committee, led by the CFO, was established to assist the Risk Management Committee. In January2016, the Risk Management Team was made an independent unit to reinforce its expertise, and a preemptive response system was introduced to deal with laws related to toughening corporate governance regulations (mandatory appointment of CRO*) in the future. * CRO = Chief Risk Officer FOCUS •Risk supervision and establishment of policies Risk Management Types Risk Management Committee •General risk management We calculate RBC ratios by separately managing financial and non-financial risk types and using RBC observance and internal models suggested Setting allowed limits in risk, efficient supervision of risk that by a supervising organization can occur due to corporate management and establishment of policies among others Category Risk Explanation Risk Management Administrative •Being in charge of all risk management work such as Insurance Risk •Premiums and reserves risk caused by difference between expected and actual premiums, reserves Committee risk measurement, management, control and report •Support for Risk Management Committee •Risk of loss caused by decreases in the Company’s net asset value in the event of changes in interests rates, triggered by discordance Interest Rate Risk between asset and debt maturity and interest structures Financial Risk Market Risk •Risk of price volatility caused by changes in interest rates, stock prices, exchange rates, etc. Insurance Sector Investment and ALM Sector •Management of details of risk •Trading partner’s default Insurance Risk Management Specialty Asset Risk Management Specialty •Management of allowed limits in risk and Credit risk •Borrower’s Default, change of asset value due to credit rating Division (insurance RM part) Division (asset RM part) report of results •Reinsurance credit risk: re-assurer’s default •Implementation of items resolved by Interest rate Operational NonFinancial Risk Operational Risk •Risks in overall business management including administration, sales, and legal affairs Insurance risk Market risk Credit risk committee and report of results risk risk 60 61 Corporate Governance Risk Management to Overcome Financial Crisis Dongbu Insurance estimates the impact of risk factors on its financial status and identifies interactions among risk factors and countermeasures through scenario analyses. Additionally, preparations are made for possible implications on balance sheets and income statements, solvency rates, liquidity, asset/liability value, economic gain/loss, economic value of capital, shareholder value, etc. Both macroand micro-economic factors are taken into consideration in production of scenarios. •Considering risks according to historical scenarios such as IMF bailout during financial Analysis of Situations crisis, September 11th Terrorist Attack and financial crisis in 2008 among others during Huge Disasters •Making and reviewing scenarios about plausible cases Formulation of •Mapping out contingency plan by dividing emergencies such as a drop in direct Contingency Plan premiums and IT system paralysis except normal risk management into three stages (attentions, alarms and emergency measures Financial & Risk of Insurance Industry and Dongbu Insurance’s Responses Dongbu Insurance is making strategic responses through the operation of a risk model, with the aim of steady monitoring and analysis of risk factors emerging from the ever-changing insurance Non-Financial business environment. Major Risks Explanation Main Changes and Potential Risks Efforts to Respond •Responding to toughening of regulations Statements Slackening of asset management in advance by building system to Reinforcing management of and insurance sales activities integrate affiliates’ RBC Toughening RBC management risk in due to financial soundness •Preventing credit risk from rising by Regulations accordance with changes in regulations toughened through decreasing proportion of high risk RBC System tougher RBC system assets and optimizing efficiency of profit compared to risk •Building ALM-based asset management Drop in profit from asset Expansion of second adverse system in consideration of debt structure Adverse Parity management weakens parity due to prolonged low •Pursuing additional profit by securing Risk profitability, fueling concern interest rates stable profit-making structure and about adverse parity market opportunities Business Continuity Management in Times of Disasters Dongbu Insurance mapped out a BCP (Business Continuity Plan) to prepare against typhoons, heavy rains, earthquakes, terror attacks, union strikes, IT system paralysis and suppliers’ services among other things at its business properties including the HQ building in Deachi-dong, Seoul and major business sites in other areas. Moreover, we enhanced the service reliability of major air conditioning facilities such as cooling towers and humidifiers for thermohygrostat and major electric power facilities including faucets, transformers and power generators by building a data center and a disaster recovery center to secure dual or stand-by units. Business Continuity Management System Establishment of strategies Risk management Formulation of plan Ordinary Analysis of Preparing replacement times business effect business sites Establishment Drill Monitoring and education Emergency Response Plan Prevention of expansion of disasters and minimization of damage Occurrence Business Resumption Plan Quick resumption of main work of disaster Disaster Recovery Plan Recovery of key business sites and normalization of work 62 63 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report Key Management Performances Domestic economy has been downturn in accordance with low growth, low interest rates. And uncertainty in the global financial market is expanding due to a slowdown in the growth of the Chinese economy and roller-coasting major currencies such as US dollars and the Japanese yen. It is forecast To the shareholders and Board of Directors of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. that deregulation led by regulators and IT-based technological innovation will make a steady change in the structure of the domestic insurance industry. In 2015, Dongbu Insurance got a results KRW 11,487.9 billion in premiums, a year-on-year increase of 7.2% and market share inched up 0.3%p to We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. which comprise the consolidated 16.1% from the previous year. These facts show the company realized sound growth despite a low-growth environment. In terms of profit and loss, statements of financial position as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive Dongbu Insurance posted KRW 412.7 billion in net profit, up 3.1% from the previous year, thanks to companywide efforts to improve loss ratios and income, changes in equity and cash flow for the years then ended. make business expenses efficient and steady competitive edge in rates of return on investment. Looking ahead, Dongbu Insurance will solidify the foundation for sustainable management via preemptive responses to market changes and management innovation. Accountability of the Top Management on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unit: KRW 100 million, %) The top management is eligible to write these consolidated financial statements and indicate them fairly according to the Korean International Category 2015 2014 2013 Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). It is also accountable for internal control necessary to write the consolidated financial statements Original premiums 114,879 107,142 100,882 with no critical misstatements resulting from irregularities or errors. Growth rate 7.2 6.2 5.5 Loss amount 90,809 86,351 78,772 Accountability of Auditors Loss ratio 86.0 86.8 84.0 Our accountability is to express our opinions on the consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in conNet expenses 18,655 17,023 16,813 formity with K-IFRS, which is a standard that requires us to comply with ethical requirements and to gain rational confidence on possible Expense ratio 17.7 17.1 17.9 presence of distorted indications of criticality on the consolidated financial statements. Combined ratio 103.6 103.9 101.9 The audit includes the implementation of a procedure to collect evidence for auditing on the amounts and disclosure of the consolidated Insurance sales profit △3,811 △3,885 △1,824 financial statements. The procedure might vary depending on the judgments of auditors including assessment on distorted indication risks of criticality in the consolidated financial statements resulting from irregularities or errors. We consider internal control on the corporate writing Investment business profit 9,785 8,938 7,147 on the consolidated financial statements and fair indication to design an adequate auditing procedure to assess such risks. However, this is Return on investment 4.1 4.4 4.0 not to indicate opinions on the effectiveness of internal control. Our audit includes not only the assessment over overall indication in the conNon-operating/extraordinary profit △587 △104 △197 solidated financial statements but also the adequacy of the accounting policy adopted by the top management and rationality of accounting Pre-tax profit 5,387 4,950 5,126 estimates devised by the top management. We believe that the auditing evidence we collected is sufficient and adequate as grounds for Income tax expense 1,260 947 1,239 auditing opinions. Net profit 4,127 4,003 3,886 Total assets 305,628 268,096 231,850 Auditors’ Opinions Assets under management 259,816 226,586 191,602 In our opinions, the companies’ consolidated financial statements fairly indicate financial performance and cash flows in the criticality aspect Equity capital 36,827 33,610 27,032 of K-IFRS during both of the reporting periods ending on December 31, 2014 and 2015, respectively as well as the current financial status Market capitalization 49,772 38,940 39,790 for Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. PBR 1.4 1.2 1.5 RBC 210.9 224.2 238.1 ROE 11.7 13.2 14.8 Han-young accounting firm ROA 1.4 1.6 1.8 111 Yeoidokongwornro, Youngdeungpo-gu Seoul President Seo, Jin-Seok Securing Sustainable Profit Base March 10, 2016 Dongbu Insurance is moving forward with stabilityand efficiency-centric sustainable growth strategy. The company have been realizing the solidest business performances in the insurance industry such as ranking first in terms of sustainable profit creation-oriented indicators, for example, a business ratio (17.7%), an ROI (4.1%), an ROE (11.7%) and an ROA (1.4%) in 2015. Embedded Value Embedded Value (EV) is a way of measuring the creatable value of existing long-term insurance based on its characteristics that influence the company’s long-term profit and loss. Dongbu Insurance calculates and publishes Embedded Value annually, with the calculation methods and results This report is effective as of the auditors’ report date (March 18, 2015). Certain subsequent events or circumstances that could significantly affect the verified externally. The Company’s EV in 2015 amounted to 6,115 billion won, an increase of 7.3% compared with the previous year. More details are accompanying consolidated financial statements may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. This may result in modifications to the auditors’ report. available on Dongbu Insurance’s homepage. (http://www.idongbu.com/lib/download/fy15_EVReport_Korean.pdf) 64 65 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Financial Statements The 49 th As of December 31, 2015 The 49 th As of December 31, 2015 Statement of Financial Position The 48 th As of December 31, 2014 The 48 th As of December 31, 2014 The 47 th As of December 31, 2013 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income The 47 th As of December 31, 2013 (Unit: KRW) (Unit: KRW) Account December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Account December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Assets Operating revenue 13,690,360,509,893 12,500,523,824,577 8,963,035,814,036 1. Premium income 11,447,416,033,232 10,668,115,238,518 7,625,793,230,727 1. Cash and deposits 1,333,205,572,076 1,068,935,566,776 1,090,247,081,576 2. Net reinsurance income 439,251,882,144 400,030,261,540 247,618,513,341 2. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 913,500,220,892 674,799,703,425 505,839,585,272 3. Compensation income 1,905,214,538 3. Available-for-sale financial assets 12,683,119,871,988 10,991,904,829,025 9,201,153,552,198 4. Interest income 686,330,786,167 658,770,326,156 450,279,419,936 4. Held-to-maturity financial assets 2,068,688,708,560 1,702,931,191,681 1,415,409,966,152 5. Investment income from financial instruments 394,535,745,074 261,794,328,971 444,221,210,321 5. Loans and receivables 7,914,282,187,960 7,258,702,839,512 6,142,544,336,365 6. Allowance for bad debts 354,457,428 7. Gain on foreign currency transaction 254,849,768,855 125,908,012,294 23,726,805,365 6. Derivative financial assets designated as hedges 5,780,295,553 17,585,443,598 75,331,081,678 8. Commission received 9,988,075,544 8,173,890,303 8,669,175,290 7. Investments in subsidiaries and associates 609,139,722,115 541,660,899,235 359,674,215,935 9. Dividend income 244,307,661,037 170,126,545,976 17,662,993,742 8. Property, plant and equipment 334,405,820,235 328,536,389,443 399,516,827,082 10. Other operating revenues 171,887,641,820 170,416,783,894 118,137,954,315 9. Investment real estate 837,257,201,348 822,465,655,201 687,630,274,891 11. Separate accounts income 41,792,916,020 36,833,979,497 25,021,296,461 Operating expenses 13,130,192,150,051 12,007,161,510,514 8,543,616,479,635 10. Intangible assets 146,984,025,924 217,412,427,011 68,493,364,276 1. Provision for insurance contract liability 2,661,439,847,362 2,763,796,752,419 2,075,071,684,272 11. Reinsurance assets 752,773,714,192 510,961,340,478 464,304,936,811 2. Insurance claims expenses 3,934,753,175,339 3,539,593,671,993 2,339,893,460,601 12. Other assets 1,843,390,930,057 1,841,331,084,814 1,904,086,188,360 3. Refund paid 2,818,302,805,945 2,581,002,877,022 1,714,176,401,873 13. Separate account assets 1,120,269,587,306 824,183,783,192 823,088,528,333 4. Dividend paid 3,210,947,941 3,072,105,830 2,128,883,136 5. Claim handling expenses 260,110,997,197 240,825,906,420 175,652,989,495 Total assets 30,562,797,858,206 26,801,411,153,391 23,137,319,938,929 6. Reinsurance expenses 722,252,871,320 625,962,401,517 455,557,672,386 Liabilities 7. Operating and administrative expenses 1,144,776,656,000 1,073,136,442,285 751,522,272,814 1. Insurance contract liability 24,460,478,362,649 21,567,426,734,087 18,766,292,156,670 8. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 835,325,688,707 754,660,999,185 553,887,667,027 2. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 3,948,120,000 2,503,934,075 138,051,042 9. Compensation expenses 2,171,833,626 107,691,104 3. Derivative financial liabilities designated as hedges 133,297,476,302 79,563,168,499 6,446,204,379 10. Interest expenses 1,719,999,614 2,496,233,739 5,392,672,408 11. Investment expense from financial instruments 517,379,185,218 274,700,641,876 236,930,644,732 4. Retirement benefits 14,988,728,443 20,305,285,092 12,698,100,299 12. Allowances for possible loss 14,664,038,420 12,490,476,369 5. Other liabilities 597,928,436,503 549,263,540,930 600,045,282,703 13. Loss on foreign currency transaction 30,543,513,752 16,289,090,968 123,035,721,599 6. Deferred tax liabilities 290,412,172,385 264,626,398,664 161,322,892,215 14. Property management expenses 59,484,918,944 51,952,016,502 40,596,460,001 7. Current tax liabilities 34,446,401,731 26,017,720,370 32,734,616,045 15. Real estate management expenses 14,203,350,208 16,257,695,882 13,808,234,902 16. Other operating expenses 68,059,404,438 26,473,004,275 18,449,941,559 8. Separate account liabilities 1,344,647,214,919 928,679,871,206 856,568,581,139 17. Separate accounts expenses 41,792,916,020 36,833,979,497 25,021,296,461 Total liabilities 26,880,146,912,932 23,438,386,652,923 20,436,245,884,492 Operating profit 560,168,359,842 493,362,314,063 419,419,334,401 Equity Other non-operating income 3,298,130,022 17,072,586,796 3,284,721,060 1. Capital stock 35,400,000,000 35,400,000,000 35,400,000,000 Other non-operating expenses 24,798,441,326 15,457,677,777 28,900,953,321 Net income before income tax expense 538,668,048,538 494,977,223,082 393,803,102,140 2. Capital surplus 37,912,781,518 37,912,781,518 37,912,781,518 Income tax expense 125,996,172,553 94,668,907,096 97,070,806,313 3. Capital adjustments (29,655,475,800) (29,655,475,800) (29,655,475,800) Net income 412,671,875,985 400,308,315,986 296,732,295,827 4. Accumulated other comprehensive income 608,237,132,466 609,499,970,645 284,559,500,600 Other comprehensive income (loss) (1,262,838,179) 324,940,470,045 (270,432,396,342) 5. Retained earnings 3,030,756,507,090 2,709,867,224,105 2,372,857,248,119 1. Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (Additional bad debt reserve) (33,643,566,068) (27,893,189,718) (35,517,592,663) Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (15,322,379,267) 298,704,430,536 (285,467,601,174) (Additional catastrophe reserve) (642,073,297,158) (587,798,178,558) (548,203,830,202) Gain on valuation of derivative instruments designated as hedges (451,434,015) 7,541,137,093 8,814,334,981 Gain (Loss) on overseas operations translation credit 18,862,530,371 3,239,948,303 (7,153,931,697) (Planned bad debt reserve) (7,139,785,711) (5,750,376,350) 7,624,402,945 Other comprehensive income on separate accounts 963,605,678 19,076,892,796 (Planned catastrophe reserve) (59,991,024,609) (54,275,118,600) (39,594,348,356) 2. Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Total equity 3,682,650,945,274 3,363,024,500,468 2,701,074,054,437 Re-measurement on defined benefit plans (5,315,160,946) (3,621,938,683) 13,374,801,548 Total liabilities and equity 30,562,797,858,206 26,801,411,153,391 23,137,319,938,929 Total comprehensive income 411,409,037,806 725,248,786,031 26,299,899,485 Basic and diluted earnings per share 6,519 6,324 4,688 66 67 Financial & Non-Financial Statements The 49 th As of December 31, 2015 The 49 th As of December 31, 2015 The 48 th As of December 31, 2014 The 48 th As of December 31, 2014 Statement of Changes in Equity The 47 th As of December 31, 2013 Separate Statements of Cash Flows The 47 th As of December 31, 2013 (Unit: KRW) (Unit: KRW) Accumulated Account December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Category Capital Capital Capital other Retained earnings Total equity stock surplus adjustments comprehensive Cash flows from operating activities 2,423,994,082,147 2,001,275,433,114 1,099,624,548,022 income Net income before income tax expense 538,668,048,538 494,977,223,082 393,803,102,140 As of April 1, 2013 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 577,096,506,751 2,133,108,429,352 2,753,862,241,821 Cumulative effect of changes Adjustment 2,624,007,393,387 2,695,409,391,728 2,158,949,917,639 (22,104,609,809) 22,139,447,940 34,838,131 in accounting policies Changes in operating assets and (1,597,214,202,689) (1,899,030,728,764) (1,785,902,145,920) As of April 1, 2013 (Rewrite) 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 554,991,896,942 2,155,247,877,292 2,753,897,079,952 liabilities Total comprehensive income (loss) Receipt of interest income 704,680,626,073 641,324,818,216 449,447,940,388 Net income 296,732,295,827 296,732,295,827 Payment of interest expense (116,402,272) (529,069,046) (4,019,323,296) Loss on valuation of availablefor-sale (285,467,601,174) (285,467,601,174) Receipt of dividend income 247,697,383,347 168,596,761,057 29,351,029,020 inancial assets Gain on valuation of derivative instruments Payment of income tax (93,728,764,237) (99,472,963,159) (142,005,971,949) 8,814,334,981 8,814,334,981 designated as hedges Cash flows from investing activities (2,079,272,575,492) (1,830,311,734,061) (1,054,636,849,483) Exchange differences on translations of (7,153,931,697) (7,153,931,697) foreign operations Acquisition of available for-sale (5,949,002,611,597) (5,351,847,822,649) (3,379,616,725,935) Re-measurement on defined benefit plans 13,374,801,548 13,374,801,548 financial assets Total (270,432,396,342) 296,732,295,827 26,299,899,485 Proceeds from available for-sale 4,481,760,605,625 4,072,172,159,178 3,299,720,759,473 financial assets Deal with shareholder directly reflected to capital Acquisition of held-to-maturity (361,782,584,377) (441,987,631,707) (943,885,910,373) Dividend (79,122,925,000) (79,122,925,000) financial assets As of December 31, 2013 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 284,559,500,600 2,372,857,248,119 2,701,074,054,437 Collection of held-to-maturity 13,820,077,690 172,278,260,520 13,706,613,087 As of January 1, 2014 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 284,559,500,600 2,372,857,248,119 2,701,074,054,437 financial assets Total comprehensive income (loss) Accounting of hedging derivatives (138,496,631,444) 60,512,069,757 26,506,428,896 Net income 400,308,315,986 400,308,315,986 Acquisition of subsidiaries and (66,948,519,780) (182,639,168,000) (37,678,505,340) Gain on valuation of availablefor-sale associates Investments 298,704,430,536 298,704,430,536 financial assets Acquisition of Property, plant and Gain on valuation of derivative instruments (49,769,921,017) (46,050,270,981) (20,956,653,883) 7,541,137,093 7,541,137,093 equipment designated as hedges Proceeds of Property, plant and Exchange differences on translations of 1,940,454,293 54,825,576 3,239,948,303 3,239,948,303 equipment foreign operations Other comprehensive income Acquisition of investment properties (75,580,583,840) (25,226,252) 19,076,892,796 19,076,892,796 on separate accounts Proceeds of investment properties 27,633,522,648 Re-measurement on defined (3,621,938,683) (3,621,938,683) benefit plans Acquisition of Intangible assets (4,898,702,981) (68,619,145,601) (13,740,266,504) Total 324,940,470,045 400,308,315,986 725,248,786,031 Proceeds of Intangible assets 93,500,000 1,772,283,580 Deal with shareholder directly reflected to capital Increase in guarantee deposits on (14,093,287,382) (9,407,705,274) (5,696,864,386) leases Dividend (63,298,340,000) (63,298,340,000) Decrease in guarantee deposits on As of December 31, 2014 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 609,499,970,645 2,709,867,224,105 3,363,024,500,468 10,268,271,371 9,664,152,085 7,085,804,308 leases As of January 1, 2015 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 609,499,970,645 2,709,867,224,105 3,363,024,500,468 Outflow of cash due to restoration work (222,771,600) (152,308,070) (111,128,150) Total comprehensive income (loss) Cash flows from financing activities (85,640,206,852) (142,165,934,855) (14,261,270,810) Net income 412,671,875,985 412,671,875,985 Gain on valuation of availablefor-sale Net increase (decrease) in debt loan (70,000,000,000) 70,000,000,000 (15,322,379,267) (15,322,379,267) financial assets Increase in security deposit 10,022,475,908 5,480,617,419 6,291,195,691 Gain on valuation of derivative instruments (451,434,015) (451,434,015) Decrease in security deposit (3,880,089,760) (14,348,212,274) (11,429,541,501) designated as hedges Exchange differences on translations of Dividends paid (91,782,593,000) (63,298,340,000) (79,122,925,000) 18,862,530,371 18,862,530,371 foreign operations Net increase in cash and cash Other comprehensive income on separate 259,081,299,803 28,797,764,198 30,726,427,729 963,605,678 963,605,678 equivalents accounts Net foreign exchange difference 4,557,665,664 2,610,350,758 (2,475,328,919) Re-measurement on defined benefit plans (5,315,160,946) (5,315,160,946) Total (1,262,838,179) 412,671,875,985 411,409,037,806 Cash and cash equivalents at the 160,657,369,365 129,249,254,409 100,998,155,599 beginning of the year Deal with shareholder directly reflected to capital Cash and cash equivalents at the 424,296,334,832 160,657,369,365 129,249,254,409 end of the year Dividend (91,782,593,000) (91,782,593,000) As of December 31, 2015 35,400,000,000 37,912,781,518 (29,655,475,800) 608,237,132,466 3,030,756,507,090 3,682,650,945,274 68 69 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Operations Evaluation Report of Internal Accounting Manager Non-financial Performances Employees Status of Employees Promy Loving Child Kindergarten As of the end of December in 2015, a total of 4,722 employees were workTo enable employees to focus on their work without worrying about their To the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. ing for Dongbu Insurance. Among them, 38 were executives and 4,684 children, Dongbu Insurance operates an in-house kindergarten the Promy were employees. The Company turned 1,660 TM consultant contractors Loving Child Kindergarten at its Dongja building since 2014. As of March, I, as the Internal Accounting Control Officer (“IACO”) of Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. (the “Company”), have assessed the status of the design into regular employees in 2012 in an effort to enhance job security and has 2016 the kindergarten was looking after 39 children. In order to provide and operations of the Company’s internal accounting control system (“IACS”) as of December 31, 2015. since steadily turned contractors into regular employees. In addition, we are quality education and care, the Puruni Child Care Foundation was hired as working on creating great work places via an improvement in working envithe operator of Dongbu Insurance’s in-house kindergarten, given its proven The Company’s management, including IACO, is responsible for the design and operation of its IACS. I, as the IACO, have assessed whether ronments. Prior to the effectuation of the Irregular Workers Act, the Compaexpertise and experience. the IACS has been effectively designed and is operating to prevent and detect any error or fraud which may cause any misstatement of ny has made continuous efforts to give a regular employment status to conthe financial statements, for the purpose of establishing the reliability of financial statement preparation and presentation for external uses. tracted workers, As a result, the percentage of the percentage of temporary Family Friendly Management Program workers is 3.1% as of the end of March, 2015. Program Details I, as the IACO, applied the IACS Standards established by the IACS Operations Committee for the assessment of the design and operation of the IACS. Based on this assessment, the Company’s IACS has been effectively designed and is operating effectively as of December 31, Guarantee of Equal Opportunities Provides congratulatory bonus (KRW 0.2 million) to promote birthrate Childbirth congratulatory Provides KRW 1 million of congratulatory bonus for the birth of a third 2015, in all material respects, in accordance with the IACS Standards issued by the IACS Operations Committee. Dongbu Insurance is implementing various systems to offer employees system child and onwards in line with the nation’s childbirth promotion policy equal opportunities. By running the MA program, a course to foster professional sales managers, the Company provides PA (Prime Agent) including Sponsoring program for Provides all educational fees and preferential hiring to surviving children female employees and employees in non-sales sectors with opportunities surviving dependents of employees who worked for Dongbu for three or more years to cultivate capabilities to manage branches so that they can grow into sales management experts by working as branch managers or the heads Holiday for spouse Offers an employee a paid half-day off on his/her spouse’s birthday of sales teams after finishing the course. In addition, Dongbu Insurance has birthday conducted a separate performance evaluation between male and female employees since 2010 in consideration of the fact that female workers may Offers children of employees (elementary and middle school students) Dongbu family summer suffer a disadvantage in evaluation processes. As such, female employees’ English and science education programs at the Company’s training camp institute during summer vacations working environment has been gradually improved and female workers’ promotion rate surpassed that of male workers. A paid half-day leave system for prenatal checkups has been managed Fetus diagnosis leave for the health of female workers and their babies since July, 2009 Respecting Employee Diversity Dongbu Insurance’s recruitment policy (Section 6: Employment Opportunity) Infancy part-time work Employee in infancy may apply to work part time for a year system states that “when the Company recruits and hires individuals, the Company shall not discriminate on the basis of gender, age, religion, social status, hometowns, educational background, status of marriage, pregnancy, child Offering long-service employees family trip opportunities as rewards Family support leave for their service and incentives to boost their pride and encourage birth, or histories of illness without any logical reasons”, which is to respect refreshment employee diversity and eradicate discrimination based on irrational reasons. The Company also offers equal opportunities in compensations for employees. As of the end of 2015, female employees accounted for 56.9% of the Improvement of Telecommuting Environment February. 17. 2016 entire workforce. Dongbu Insurance has implemented a new system that employees of the consulting and other service divisions can work at home. As of December, Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence 2015, 36 women employees (including 29 re-joined employees) were workPresident & CEO Kim Jeong-nam Dongbu Insurance provides training sessions on sexual violence and haing from home. Internal Accounting Officer Kim Young-man rassment, via an online portal to all employees once a year. Materials are available on the intranet so that employees can use them and enhance Results of Homeworking awareness of sexual misconduct. Success rate of monitoring No. of successful cases of complete sale monitoring (Unit: %) per hour (Unit: cases) Maternity Leave and Child Care Leave Women employees can take 90 days of ‘preand post-natal leave’. Since 96 11.4 95.8 7.5 2011, all employees who took the leaves have returned to work. Also, Dongbu Insurance provides full financial support for childbirth and in the event of 0.2%p↑ 52%↑ stillbirth or abortion to enhance employee satisfaction. Also, the employees can take child care leaves so that they can help the emotional stability of 2014 2015 2014 2015 employees’ children in their early years and fulfill duty as parents. 70 71 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Performance Promotion of Employees’ Health Measurement of Working Environments Indicator Unit 2013 2014 2015 Remark Various health policies and programs are implemented to help the employees Dongbu Insurance manages the operation of various programs for employees Status of employees stay healthy and active at Dongbu Insurance. We make efforts to reinforce and financial resources of such programs and satisfaction degrees among Executives Persons 38 38 companywide readiness against health risks, by offering the employees and others as indicators and applies the data to making an improvement to workEmployees Persons 4,954 4,684 their annual health checkups. Also, consulting desk workers are provided with ing environments. We are steadily elevating the level of employee satisfaction Total Persons 4,992 4,722 massage care programs along with a survey on their musculoskeletal diseasand employee welfare and benefit such as resulting in rises in related indicaStatus by rank and gender es. A collective insurance program on injury and disease covers not only emtors via an improvement in working environments and the implementation of Senior managers/ Males Persons 508 475 ployees but also lineal ascendants, thus mitigates economic burden of health health and cultural programs based on annual employee satisfaction surveys junior managers Females Persons 6 6 care. Besides, the employees can use a wide array of health service programs and employees’ suggestions. Males Persons 459 457 such as psychological counseling by specialists and a health fund program. Assistant managers Females Persons 38 44 Indicators Performance Target level Ground Junior assistant managers/ Males Persons 788 746 Organization of Industrial Safety Committee Average Industrial hazard rate (%) 0.02 0.02 Industry average staff members Females Persons 1,272 1,217 The Industrial Safety Committee established in 2014 sets up safety and Employee welfare and benefit expenses Males Persons 301 307 15.2 Specialists/consultants per person (KRW in million) Females Persons 1,582 1,432 health matters such as industrial disaster prevention plans. At the same time, the Committee conducts a wide range of activities for the promotion of Employee satisfaction (points) 82.5 85 Industry average Total Persons 4,954 4,684 employees’ safety and health such as safety and health education for emInternal Communication Setting Status of recruitment 84.0 85.0 ployees, working environment inspections and investigation into the causes Promotion Index (points) internal goal College graduates Persons 123 76 74 of major disasters among others. Moreover, we are putting systematic safety Experience workers Persons 740 354 163 measures in place by appointing a safety and health management manager White-collar female workers Persons 70 41 58 and operating the Industrial Safety and Health Committee consisting of three Employees’ Human Rights Protection and Grievance System Total Persons 933 471 295 members from the labor and three from the management. According to research results, rudeness and inhuman treatment at workRecruitment of female workers places give rise to unpleasant feelings and stress, a decrease in loyalty to Total employees Persons 933 471 295 organizations and low work performances. This impedes ethics manageFemale employees Persons 650 314 178 Selective Welfare and Benefit Program ment at work and has a negative impact on customer service. In this regard, High school-educated female employees Persons 292 141 59 A wide array of welfare and benefit programs are offered to encourage emDongbu Insurance will establish a regulation in 2016 to prevent rudeness Locally hired employees in overseas countries Persons 31 42 45 ployees to immerse themselves in work with a sense of pride based on and inhuman treatment with a view to protecting employees’ human rights Conversion into regular workers Persons 36 20 52 trust in the company in a nice working environment. An innovative selecand establishing a GWP (Great Place to Work) culture. Grievance consultaMales % 54.3 46.6 43.2 tive welfare and benefit system allows individuals to select their own welfare Promotion rate tions (hot line) and psychological and legal consultations have been impleprograms and level of benefits according to their preferences and needs, Females % 50.3 46.0 43.2 mented as part of the human resources management system so as to let the realizing the best customized welfare and benefits for employees. Since the Total education hours Hours 377,733 456,835 370,246 employees freely express their grievances and remedy them. In particular, a start of 2016, we have been enhancing employees’ capabilities, productivity Per-capita education hours Hours 72.6 90.9 77.9 female lawyer was appointed for female workers, which has been effective and quality of life by extending the retirement age from 55 to 60 and introTotal education cost KRW in million 4,326 5,193 5,478 in resolving issues specific to women at work ducing the wage peak system to respond to the government’s policies and Per-capita education cost KRW in million 0.83 1.03 1.15 preemptively establishing or improving our welfare and benefit programs to Major results of education secure capabilities for business plans in the short to long term. Operation of Retirement Pension System Obtained qualification certificates Persons 3,152 3,121 3,280 Dongbu Insurance introduced a defined benefits (DB) pension plan and Employees with insurance qualification certificates Persons 695 859 931 Program Details a defined contribution (DC) pension plan, both of which make retirement Insurance qualification ratio % 23.6 28.2 30.1 Based on full-time workers Giving scholarships to employees for their graduate school programs pension management stable. The operation of the pension fund is comEmployees taking part in study groups Persons 2,107 2,210 1,438 Including employees at affiliates and their children missioned to multiple financial institutions, including Dongbu Life Insurance, ESI satisfaction about employee education and training Points 80.2 79.1 81.4 Based on full-time workers Scholarships *Children education expenses: middle and high schools, Korea Investment & Securities, Hyundai Marine and Fire Insurance, SamNo. of employees who diagnosed their Persons 2,306 2,713 2,488 colleges and kindergartens sung Life Insurance, Hana Bank, Shinhan Bank, and Suhyup Bank, in a bid capabilities and made self development plans Company houses and to minimize risks. The Company observes legal standards that stipulate the Per-capita productivity KRW 100 million 32.5 33.8 35.9 Providing company houses and supplementary living allowances to supplementary living Total welfare and benefit expenses KRW 100 million 348 476 483 allowance those who do not have their families or relatives where he/she works provision of over one month’s wage in severance pay to individuals who have worked for the Company for one year. Per-capita welfare and benefit expenses KRW in million 11.2 15.1 15.2 Based on full-time workers Provide transportation expense for employees who do not have their Transportation Status of maternity leave use families or relatives where he/she works, to visit hometown (monthly expense support No. of leave users before and after childbirth Persons 129 131 141 3 times) Re-Employment System for Retirees Loans for buying or Giving financial support to employees who need to buy or rent a house No. of childcare leave users Persons 73 134 118 renting houses The Company provides high-performer retirees with opportunities to be Males % 100 *End of FY15: house (KRW 2.8 billion), renting (KRW 8.43 billion) No. of employees who returned Based on those who returned to re-employed by relevant business units or subsidiaries. This is a win-win from childcare leaves Females % 75.3 73.7 70.3 work in the same year Holiday homes for Operating free holiday houses for summer vacation for employees and summer their families welfare program whereby the Company can take advantage of retirees’ Males Persons 135 106 112 work expertise and retirees can find a job as a source of stable income even No. of seperation Offering long-service employees family trip opportunities as rewards Females Persons 50 53 39 Overseas travelling for after retirement. for their service and incentives to boost their pride and encourage Employment separation rates % 5.9 5.1 4.7 long-term employees refreshment Layoffs Persons 0 0 0 72 73 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Partner Performance Status of Partners Mobile Claim Adjustment System Indicator Unit 2013 2014 2015 Remark Dongbu Insurance delivers its value by way of sales partners who sell prodDongbu Insurance offers customized claim adjustment services based on Sales partners ucts and services and claim adjustment partner in charge of claim adjust225 claim adjustment departments, 147 claim adjustment centers and ments for accidents covered by insurance. In addition, the Company is about 1,500 claim adjustment specialists across the nation. Moreover, the Prime agent Persons 15,379 14,079 13,694 growing while recognizing sales and claim adjustment partner as its valuable Company built a field-oriented mobile claim adjustment system by utilizing a Cross planner Persons 9,741 9,825 9,702 asset and a core link in its value chain. Sales partners are classified into mobile e-claim system with an eye towards providing more advanced claim exclusive and freelance channels. The exclusive channel consists of Prime adjustment service. This system supports major work by stages of handling Authorized agency Agency 4,127 3,818 3,325 Agents (PAs) and their branches. The Freelance channel is comprised of an accident from the reception of an accident to the payment of insurance Branch Agency 1,992 2,010 1,776 General Agencies (GAs) and cross planners who have the right to sell both money and enables the completion of one-stop service not only at offices life and non-life insurance. Claim adjustments partners are hospitals, auto but also any other places. Financial institutions Agency 38 39 39 repair shops and claim adjustment companies for smooth claim adjustment Claim adjustment partners for customers among others. In addition to traditional face-to-face and TM Building Quick On-site Dispatch System (tele-marketing) channels, we are diversifying strategic channels by characEmergency dispatch network Agency 480 469 459 teristics such as TC (Total Consulting) and LD (Life Design)* channels. Dongbu Insurance enhanced customer satisfaction a great deal by building * LD: Sales channel for mostly highly-educated females with short careers a GPS-based LBS (Local Based Service) system to dispatch our service On-site dispatch network Agency 526 526 505 personnel to accident sites in 10 minutes and reducing customers’ call waitMaintenance network Agency 619 619 629 ing time through the development of a system-centric innovation model. PA Who have only right to sell Dongbu Insurance’s insurance products Accident investigation & adjustment partners Agency 9 11 11 This made Dongbu Insurance the first company in the Korean insurance Exclusive channel Which have signed a exclusive contract to sell Dongbu Insurindustry to apply for a patent on an automated emergency dispatch service Branches Sale partner satisfaction survey (FSI) Points 69.8 70.4 72.2 and acquired the ISO 9001 certificate on automobile dispatch service. Sales partner ance’s insurance products 13 months persistency rate % 80.6 83.0 84.3 Non-exclusive insurance agencies and financial institutions that GA Enhancing Partners’ ethics Emergency dispatch service satisfaction Points 93.3 93.6 93.7 are allowed to sell all insurers’ insurance products Freelance channel Dongbu Insurance selects and manages hospitals and doctors which score Ratio of electronic contracts of long-term insurance % 19.4 23.9 Cross Life insurance agents whose primary business is life insurance the highest levels of customer satisfaction and cooperation. We recommend planner sales, with permission to handle non-life insurance products PK qualification certification Persons 30,242 33,530 35,199 Cumulative number of people by years these hospitals and doctors to its customers ensuring they receive the best Accident quality medical services. We encourage mutual cooperation to prevent false Companies which investigate accidents covered by auto, longSmart pad penetration rate % 29.7 43.7 44.3 investigation/claim or excessive medical treatment by ensuring hospitals make objective and term and general insurance and claim adjustment firms Claim adjustment partner adjustment accurate diagnoses. Also, to ensure accurate claim adjustment for events Maintenance factories’ accounted case1) Case 335 314 360 Organizations which offers medical services in connection with incovered, Dongbu Insurance manages medical advisors (specialists) netHospitals Amount of reported insurance frauds1) KRW 100 million 822 974 1,186 surance-covered accidents and investigate medical conflict issues works, thereby eradicating unethical acts of abusive or excessive claiming. Moreover, Moreover, we are putting forth efforts through various organiza1) The numbers of maintenance factories’ accounted case and the amounts of insurance frauds of 2013 and 2014 were revised based on data by the Financial Supervisory Commission. Onsite dispatches/ Companies which dispatch staff members to car accident scenes emergency tions such as the customer protection part and the SIU part to prevent insurand for emergencies such as car troubles dispatches ance frauds and insincere sales activities. Punishment standards on moral Network of excellent auto repair shops approved by Dongbu risk and incomplete sales are toughened every year and regular education Promy Network Insurance across nation is given to improve a sales culture to satisfy customers. At the same time, sales partners enhance their ethical awareness by signing written oaths to honor ethical rules and laws. Cross Selling Marketing Support System Since cross marketing was allowed between life and non-life insurance companies in 2008, Dongbu Insurance has supported cross planners’ cross marketing activities in many ways. Exclusive call center for cross marketing (1577-7654), insurance products only for cross marketing, cross marketing team leaders and various fee systems were introduced to help increase the profitability of cross marketing planners. Also to improve the efficiency of cross marketing branches, systematic support is provided, such as opening/ expanding dedicated branches in areas where life insurance companies cluster. 74 75 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Environment Environmental Management System Disaster Response System Energy Eco-friendly Insurance Products Dongbu Insurance’s Environmental Management Strategy Building Disaster Recovery System Dongbu Insurance purchases electric power from Korea Electric Power CorDongbu Insurance leads the low carbon green growth of the insurance indusand Principles Dongbu Insurance built a next-generation disaster recovery system for the poration (KEPCO) and use it as its main energy. Its other energy sources are try by actively responding to environmental issues while meeting social needs With a view to growing into a global green financial company, Dongbu Finance purpose of building up internal response to emergencies and securing the fossil fuels (LNG, diesel and petrol) for heating and emergency power genercreated by environmental changes. The Company vitalizes the development of picked out detailed tasks on the basis of three principles of its environmental continuity of customer service in 2014. In 2015, we expanded the system’s ators. Energy consumption was calculated in accordance with energy calorie eco-friendly financial products by expanding eco-friendly insurance products management. We are also working on making resources recycling in considwork and branch/IT systems and carried out steady management and inconversion standards in an attached table of the Domestic Energy Act revised and service areas. Through these efforts, we support the green industry and eration of environmental effects possible by establishing environmental manspection of the system. Moreover, regular disaster recovery and failure reon December 30, 2011. The Company acknowledges the importance of using improve the employees’ awareness of the environment. In 2015, UBI Car Inagement guidelines for sustainable resources recycling based on the Environsponse drills are carried out to prevent any problems from occurring in the renewable energy including bio fuels, solar energy and fuel cells. But we have surance was launched as part of such activities. Going forward, we will steadily mental Management System and applying them to management activities. work system. not yet introduced power generation facilities in consideration of the current sitdevelop one or more customized green financial products in accordance with uation of the domestic renewable energy market. We will strategically consider climate change and customer needs a year. Environment management leading company by 2020 Certification Contents Cycle introducing such facilities to our major buildings based on the maturity of the domestic market and changing prices of power generation facilities. Insurance Details 5% carbon emission reduction by 2020 compared to the current level •Reviewing effectiveness of early responses, emergency Mock BCP drill responses, work resumption, disaster recovery plans and The special contract for earthquake risk indemnifies for fire caused by 1. Enforced research on 4. Minimization of environmental 8.  Supply of eco-friendly products (IT sector) environmental risk 2. Make international cooperation effect from company 5.  Encourage partner companies and services 9. Investment and asset management drawing matters for improvement Energy Saving Efforts earthquake or eruption or losses incurred by burn damage, collapse, •Detecting and blocking mock attacks on open servers breakage, being buried, loss prevention, and emergency evacuation. The system to cooperate in green business Drill to combat open Dongbu Insurance strives to improve energy use efficiency and minimize Fire Insurance 3. Expanding stakeholders 6. Actions to decrease greenhouse gas 10.  Support of green management such as web and email servers after scan of the servers special contract for storm and flood damage compensates for a typhoon, participation 7. Broaden range of environmental for client web server hacking tornado, storm, rainstorm, flood, tsunami, inundation, and similar typhoon or index for weaknesses Once a year GHG emissions per space unit by taking into account the fact that its overall torrential rain damage. Drill to cope with •Detecting, blocking and removing malicious codes after energy consumption has increased due to the continuous expansion of ofExpansion of malicious codes spreading emails with imaginational malicious codes to fice buildings. To this end, the Company set concrete goals on energy use This insurance product is developed to quickly restore substantial damage Specialization in Minimization of Storm and green finance and and email email accounts of employees when property loss occurs due to storm and flood damage, such as a managing environmental and measures energy consumption at its nine office buildings including the Flood Damage environmental typhoon, flood, torrential rain, tsunami, strong wind, wind wave, and heavy environmental risk footprints •Emergency responses to electronic infiltration such as Insurance business Anti-DDoS drill headquarters and leased offices across the nation. GHG emissions are snowfalls. hacking and DoS (denial of service) attacks estimated by applying coefficient set forth in the IPCC GL 2006. GHG emis•Establish business continuity plan in emergency events This insurance product is developed to address management anxiety factors Environmental Management Certification sions from sales branches and overseas offices are not included. of farmers and help stabilize their income. The contract mainly covers a Disaster/accident •Verify propriety of recovery system operation/recovery restoration process and system transition Crop Insurance typhoon, hail, and localized torrential rain, and special contracts, which can We have the Environmental Management System in place to realize green simulation training •Verify maintenance state of emergency contact system be selected by farmers, involve damage from various causes, such as frost management to fulfill our environmental responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Biannual Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) – Gas and Fuel in spring and autumn and unusually cold temperatures. via surprise drills Dongbu Insurance received the Environment Management System ISO 14001 •Verify propriety of backup system operation and backup Dongbu Insurance designates air-conditioners and heating boilers, absorpThis insurance product, which prepares riders for unexpected accidents, is certification and Green Management System KSI 7001/7002 certifications to Backup outcome developed to encourage the use of bikes by ensuring the safety of citizens, recovery plan tion-type water cooler and heaters, emergency generators and corporate Bike Insurance simulation training and to strengthen environment protection by helping to increase the tackle accelerated climate change. We also introduced Weather Management •Verify backup data’s recovery time and integrity vehicles as items that directly emit GHGs. At the same times, the Company number of bike riders. System certification to minimize damage by natural disasters. Obstacle •Verify resuming of business after mock obstacle event Quarterly is making endeavors to slash direct GHG emissions such as the steady imsimulation training Dongbu Insurance provides various products that reduce greenhouse plementation of activities to set limits on temperatures by cooling and heating gas emissions, such as returning part of repair cost or offering premium Certification Contents machines. Car Insurance discounts when special offers (using remanufactured parts for car repair, In 2009, Dongbu Insurance acquired the ISO Environmental Management System Environmental in the risk management sector. In addition, we fostered environmental experts participating in the Carless Day campaign, driving within agreed mileage, Management such as ISO 14001 Environment Management System Auditor and implemented Diffusion of Eco-friendly Work Culture receiving car insurance email, etc.) are purchased. System climate change risk innovation tasks such as the management of heavy rains Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission (Scope 2) – Electricity (ISO14001) and carried out consulting for customers in an effort to carry out eco-friendly Company-wide Bulk Purchase System of Eco-friendly Paper management in terms of society. In 2014, the Company established the companywide paper purchase system The Company have been carried out activities to cut indirect GHGs includSpEcial issue Green Management In 2013, Dongbu received Green Management System KSI 7001/7002 certification whereby paper is purchased through electronic procedures in bulk to coving setting a limit on cooling/heating temperature and turning off lights during System for the first time in the insurance industry in recognition of its efforts to effectively non-business hours, and office lightings, the major sources of electric power er companywide paper requirements rather than individual teams making a (KSI 7001) manage resources and energy and minimize greenhouse gas emissions and pollution. loads, are replaced with LED. Environmental Pollution Liability Insurance Weather Management Dongbu Insurance obtained a Weather Management System certificate by purchase of their own. Low-carbon, eco-friendly paper is purchased through Through close collaboration with the Ministry of Environment, DongSystem Certification utilizing weather information to minimize economic damage by natural disasters. the system so that the company can save cost, monitor paper consumpbu Insurance developed the environmental pollution liability insurance tion trend, set up a plan to cut paper use, reinforce eco-friendly, sustainability Wastes Management policy for the first time in the industry. This product covers liability for Research on Environmental Management and Offering Related management and better manage detailed indexes for eco-friendly business damages inflicted on third parties in case pollution accidents occur Most of the wastes generated from our office buildings are papers and old Information management. Cost saving effect has been tallied since 2015 and more details at business sites subject to mandatory insurance purchases (about office supplies. The Company encourages the employees to cut back on Dongbu Insurance will develop an insurance product to cover damage caused on this system is explained on page 78 of this report. 8,800 firms) and those not subject to mandatory insurance purchases unnecessary print outs, reuse printed papers and office supplies, etc. Also, by pollution in order to actively respond to the government’s policies related to (about 4,500 firms) according to the Act on Liability for Environmenthe electronic approval system was introduced for the purpose of substantial environmental management such as the effectuation of the Chemical Material Eco-friendly Transportation Means tal Damages and Relief enacted by the Ministry of Environment. The reduction of wastes generation in the office environment. Recyclable wasters product is slated to hit the market in July 2016. Management Act and the Act on Liability for Compensation for Damage Caused Dongbu Insurance is creating a culture encouraging the use of public transare separated from wastes for land-fill, so as to reduce wastes in a more by Pollution and Relief from Damage. For the same reason, the Company will portation aimed to prune gas emissions from cars which is one of the main systematic manner. launch consulting on the external effects of leaks of hazardous chemicals at culprits of air pollution. Moreover, the Company encourages employees to use customers’ worksites in 2016. Besides, steady R&D activities on the risk of natthe mass transit system by giving benefits such as public transportation exural disasters such as heavy rains and typhoons are enhancing Dongbu Insurpenses to employees who use public transport means for their business trips. ance’s preemptive risk management in its management activities. Harnessing this, by offering customers consulting on natural disaster risk, we are boosting the effectiveness of environmental management. 76 77 Financial & Non-Financial Statements Performance Indicator Unit 2013 2014 2015 Remark Goal for 2020: Reducing energy use Energy consumption 1) by 5% compared to 2015 Electric power MWh 54,114 53,134 52,637 Gas m3 1,195,902 1,117,856 1,172,983 Kerosene m3 139,874 97,843 103,204 Tap water m 3 437,614 391,638 384,771 Goal for 2020: Reducing Greenhouse gas GHG emission intensity map emission by 5% compared to 2015 Appendix All business sites (9 corporate buildings Direct CO2 emissions (gas and kerosene) tonCO2eq 3,148 2,884 3,034 and leased offices in Korea) All business sites (9 corporate buildings Indirect CO2 emissions (electricity) 2) tonCO2eq 22,342 22,114 21,750 and leased offices in Korea) All business sites (9 corporate buildings Total floor area m2 376,775 379,883 373,917 and leased offices in Korea) Waste management 2) Discharge of landfill waste ton 991 1,025 947 Discharge of recycling waste ton 1,144 1,115 1,101 Promotion of efficient business trips Domestic business trips Km 2,908,878 3,200,193 2,927,952 1) In the case of energy consumption and waste management data, we recalculated the data of 2013 and 2014 by changing the scope of collection from whole buildings to sizes of buildings’ actually used floors. 2) In the case of indirect CO2 emissions, we recalculated the data of 2013 and 2014 by changing the conversion factor. Indicator Unit Purchase cost per box Saving per box Total savings Remark General paper purchase cost: Reduction in paper purchase cost KRW 20,250 Eco-friendly copy paper purchased in bulk (75g) KRW won 13,960 6,290 49,238,120 Purchase volume: 7,828 boxes Eco-friendly copy paper purchased in bulk (80g) KRW won 14,840 5,410 185,141,020 Purchase volume: 34,222 boxes 11,574 boxes in terms of general paper Total KRW won 234,379,140 Cost-cutting effects 78 Appendix Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Communication System Materiality Assessment Process Dongbu Insurance divides core stakeholders who have direct or indirect influence over the company into customers, shareholders, investors, Through importance evaluation, Dongbu Insurance identifies core issues that have impact on stakeholders and report them in a transparent manner partners and community for definition. Dongbu Insurance looks into key demands of stakeholders to reflect them to decision making process and so that they can be reflected to business activities. Importance evaluation process is conducted based on four steps such as identifying important management strategies. Decisions made by the corporate decision making system are disclosed through a variety of channels that are suitable to issues, collecting opinions from stakeholders, selecting core issues, reviewing validity and reporting. And issues to be reported were selected based characteristics of different stakeholders. Monitoring is also conducted through direct surveys such as internal and external customer satisfaction inon different needs of stakeholders and business relevance. dex(CSI), employee satisfaction survey, family satisfaction index(FSI), online reputation survey system and indirect surveys such as sales performance of newly launched products and stock price movements. The result of monitoring is reflected to the management’s decision making for continuous STEP 1. STEP 2. STEP 3. STEP 4. improvement. Identifying important issues Collecting opinions from stakeholders Selecting core issues Reviewing validity and reporting Gathering all the internal issues Internal stakeholders Business connectivity Reflecting internal opinions Communication Process for Decision Making •Issues in a chronological order •Employee survey •Finance/Insurance industry connectivity •Cross departments cooperation •Internal document review •Employee interview •Alignment with short-/long-term vision •Reviewing sustainable management council Gathering all the external issues External stakeholders Interests of stakeholders Reporting core issues •Detailed report of activities and •Identifying stakeholders and group division •International guideline (GRI G4, ISO 26000) •External export survey •Issues that interest stakeholders performance to core issues •Industrial characterization index (GRI industri•Collecting issues from different channels of •Trend of social issues Defining Customers, employees, partners, shareholders, local communities, Reporting potential issues al index, DJSI) stakeholders •Compliance with laws and regulations stakeholders financial authority, etc. •Other issue analysis (media, benchmarking) •Reporting on the issues continuously and separately managed by the company •Collecting opinions from stakeholders and improving response monitoring Matrix of Materiality Interest of stakeholders ▶ -C  ustomer satisfaction survey, employee •Identifying core demands of Area of potential issues Area of core issues satisfaction survey, partner satisfaction survey, Assessment stakeholders Enhancing stock prices, performance of new product, company-wide reputation survey Follow-up Communication VOC, customer review group, employee integrated risk Conducting education management system programs for strengthening monitoring with stakeholders councils and surveys, suggestion systems, Supporting for strengthening partner capabilities employee capabilities Developing environment friendly products and conferences, IR, Korea Non-life Association, services for environment preservation social contribution activities, etc. Building fair performance Maintaining customers through satisfactory customer services evaluation system Conducting strategic social Establishing risk management system for climate change Enhancing brand and corporate image contribution activities Providing efficient working culture and comfortable Establishing risk management Stabilizing management Increasing access to fiancé working environment system for climate change performance Advancing into global markets and expanding branches Decision making Management personal information of Decisions result financial consumers •Communicating vision, core value, management by the •Reflecting demands of stakeholders communications Banning unfair trade and complying with regulations goal and strategies management into decision making Expanding investment for environment protection Strengthening employee welfare system Banning employee discrimination -N  ewly launched products, customer instructions, Board, management conference body, etc. (gender, age, minority, race, etc.) Providing correct information broadcasting media, homepage, financial statements, Managing energy consumption and renewable energy regarding products and services shareholders’ meeting, etc. Allowing joining a labor union Coming up with measures for anti-corruption Expanding employment and achieving employment security Strengthening retiree capabilities and facilitating financial support Developing products of public good for Developing products and services by Enhancing strategies, policies social contribution considering public health and safety and system of environment of customers Decision Making Process of the Management management Making efforts for eradicating insurance fraud Maximizing profits through asset management Dongbu Insurance makes decisions for important or urgent management issues through the board, committees and management conference body. Securing investment risk management system The company facilitates decision making process through the electronic payment system, and the outcome is shared transparently through the Evaluating sustainability of partner Enhancing workplace safety and preventing accidents company’s portal system where employees can view the information anytime they want. Dongbu Insurance continues to make efforts to enhance its selection Securing independence of appointment of operation system according to changes in management environment and strategies. board and it sub-committee members Reducing greenhouse gases and responding to emissions trading system Business relevance ▶ Area Issues GRI items Reporting key activities and performance 1. Enhancing enterprise integrated risk management system Economic performances 60-62 2. Conducting education programs for strengthening employee capabilities Training and education 39-40 3. Developing environment friendly products and services for environment preservation Product portfolio 12-13 Core 4. Maintaining customers through satisfactory customer services Product and service labeling 28-32 issues 5. Stabilizing management performance Economic performances 16-23 6. Advancing into global markets and expanding branches Market position 24-25 7. Conducting strategic social contribution activities Community and indirect economic effects 46-50 8. Supporting for strengthening partner capabilities Training and education 42-44 * Reporting scope: Dongbu Insurance 80 81 Appendix GRI G4 Index G4 General & Specific Standard Disclosures Full List GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Additional Additional Aspect Aspect Description Pages Information Aspect Aspect Description Pages Information G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 05 DMA 76 Strategy and Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 05, 18 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 77-78 G4-3 Report the name of the organization About This Report Emissions EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 77-78 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 12-13 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) 77-78 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 77-78 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters About This Report EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 77-78 G4-6 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 06 Products and Services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 12, 77 Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI Index No punishment G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 02, 54 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 06, 24-25 Transport EN30 members of the workforce 76, 78 G4-9 Scale of the organization 06-07 Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 47 G4-10 The total number of employees 07, 73 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 73 Organizational Profile Employment LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 71-73 All employees except for regG4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI Index istered directors according to LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 71, 73 employment regulations Labor/Management Relations LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 37-38 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 09-10, 42-45 LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on 72 Occupational Health and occupational health and safety programs G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 07 Safety LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 72 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 60-62 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 72 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organiza05, 55, 87 CDP, UNGC DMA 36 tion subscribes or endorses LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 39-40, 73 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which Training and Education G4-16 88 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 72 the organization LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 41 G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents About This Report Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 80-81 Opportunity LA12 membership, and other indicators of diversity 52, 73 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 81 Equal remuneration for women and men LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 41 Identified Material Aspects G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 81 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 72 And Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 81 Included relevant DMA 56 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements GRI Index information Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human Investment HR1 rights screening 56 None Significant G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries GRI Index changes Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, HR2 including the percentage of employees trained 45, 56 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 80 Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI Index No discrimination G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 80 Freedom of Association and Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at Stakeholder Engagement Collective Bargaining HR4 significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights 37-38 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 80 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded 80 Child Labor HR5 87 abolition of child labor to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided About This Report Forced of Compulsory Labor HR6 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 87 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About This Report Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 56-58 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) About This Report Human Rights Grievance Report Profile Mechanisms HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 72 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About This Report DMA 46 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen About This Report Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 46-50 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 84-85 SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 46-50 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 52-55 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 56 Anti-corruption Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 56-59 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 58 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE DMA 56 Anti-competitive Behavior Additional SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 57 Aspect Indicator Description Pages Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI Index No punishment Information EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Grievance Mechanisms for 07, 64-69 Impacts on Society SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 72 Economic Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 62, 76-78 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 72 Customer Health and Safety PR2 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes GRI Index No violation incident EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 41 DMA 33 Market Presence Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentEC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 73 PR3 33 Product and Service age of significant products and services subject to such information requirements DMA 46 Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by Indirect Economic Impact EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 46-50 PR4 type of outcomes GRI Index No violation incident EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 46-50 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 30 DMA 42 PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products GRI Index No relevant product Procurement Practices Marketing EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 75 Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, PR7 promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes GRI Index No violation incident EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 78 Materials DMA 34 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 76, 78 Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI Index No complaint DMA 76 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services GRI Index No violation incident EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 77-78 DMA 12 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 77-78 Product FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a spexific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose 12 Energy EN5 Energy intensity 78 Portfolio FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose 77 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 77-78 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 21 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 77-78 82 83 Appendix Third Party’s Assurance Introduction Opinion and Observation Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Dongbu Insurance”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (hereinafter On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the referred to as “DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the ‘Dongbu Insurance Integrated Report 2016’ (the “RePrinciples for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherport”). The directors of Dongbu Insurance have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the ence to the following Principles are made below; assurance work is to the management of Dongbu Insurance in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Dongbu Insurance has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customer, Shareholder & Investors, Employees, Business partners and Local Communities. The Report presents the stakeholder engagement process. Continuous monitoring the stakeholders’ opinion has been carScope of Assurance ried out using the direct and indirect methods such as stakeholder satisfaction survey and new product sales performance. Dongbu Insurance has The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st January to 31st December identified key issues and impacts on each other, through various channels with stakeholder at company and business unit levels. 2015. This included: •Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 Sustainability Context •Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines G4 (Core option) (Verification on aggregated level Dongbu Insurance implemented the project for improving sustainability competitive advantage in 2015 based on the management vision and strateof data and activities that refers to the period between January and December in 2015) gies and established the medium and long term (2015~2020) sustainability management roadmap. Performances on the material issues are reported •Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for in the sustainability context under the medium and long term sustainability strategy. It is recommended to report how the specific outcomes from the generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. strategic tasks contribute more to sustainability. Materiality Basis of Our Opinion The Report presents the materiality assessment process. The relevant issue pool was formed from internal (last year issues and internal documents, We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, international assuretc.) and external sources (GRI guideline, industry specific index (GRI sector supplement and DJSI survey questionnaire), media research and analysis ance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The of industry peer group report), and material issues were prioritized by combining the business impact and stakeholders interest. The audit team has audit was carried out in May 2016. The site visits were made to Dongbu Insurance Head office. We undertook the following activities as part of the reviewed and confirmed that the material issues determined from the materiality assessment process have been included in the report. assurance process: Completeness •Challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management The Report covers sustainability aspects of economic, environmental and social impacts. Dongbu Insurance discloses information on its activities and system, information flow and controls; decisions on the material sustainability issues for the reporting period. The audit team has not observed that the material information is intentionally •Interviewed representatives from the various departments; omitted that may influence the decision making process of stakeholders. However, the principle of completeness could be improved by reporting •Conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system and associated reporting meaningful data fit for purpose of the Report rather than reporting as many as environmental indicators. systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; •Reviewed the outcomes the materiality assessment report. Accuracy and Reliability Any errors and misstatements identified during the engagement were corrected prior to the Report being published. The audit team observed that data and information in the report were accurate and reliable in general. Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Dongbu Insurance’s associated companies, Competence and Independence subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as Dongbu assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation Insurance’s website (http://www.idongbu.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. 10 June 2016 Seoul, Korea Country Representative In Kyoon Ahn DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html 84 85 Appendix Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas (Ghg) Inventory UN Global Compact No.: AS_PRJC-537817-2015-AST-KOR Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. Introduction Dongbu Insurance officially disclosed its will to honor the UNGC’s ten principles and vowed to put them into practice by becoming a member of the DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”) was commissioned by Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. (“Dongbu Insurance”) to verify the Dongbu UN Global Compact in November 2011. Insurance’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2015 (“the report”) based upon a limited level of assurance. Dongbu Insurance is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol: 2004 and the principles set Classification Principle Activities out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of Dongbu Insurance only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed • Championing human rights protection by joining UNGC human rights. upon this assurance statement. Human Rights Human Rights • Internal control activities Scope of Assurance 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Human rights and ethical education for employees The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1) and Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2) from the Dongbu • Reinforcement of customer information safeguard Insurance boundary of the report; •GHG emissions under verification : GHG emissions from 2015 •Organizational boundary for reporting : Dongbu Insurance’s 9 office building (Financial Center, Dongjadong, Chodong, Data center, Yeoju, Dong3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the • Holding Dynamic Leader Conference nae, Daegu, Gwangju, Masan) and leased offices right to collective bargaining. • Meeting with CEO Verification Approach 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. • Ban on forced labor The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from May through June 2016 and performed in accordance with the verification principles and Labor tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable verification opinion with 5% materiality level, concerning the completeness of the emission 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. • Ban on child labor inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process: •We have reviewed and verified the Dongbu Insurance’s Greenhouse gas inventory tool 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment • Operation of grievance system •We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data and occupation. • Operation of fair evaluation system Conclusions • Donation to environmental model school Based on the above verification core elements, it is DNV GL opinion that the data and the information reported in the GHG assertion are free of errors, omissions and misrepresentations providing a fair and balanced quantification, in compliance to the above reported verification criteria. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Establishment of environmental guidelines • Participation in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The GHG Emissions of Dongbu Insurance for the year 2015 were confirmed as below; Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Dongbu Insurance from Yr 2015 • Spearheading energy saving campaign (Unit: ton CO2 equivalent) Environment 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Participation in green sports movement Dongbu Insurance Direct emissions (Scope 1) Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Total emissions • Use of recycled toners and goods Year 2015 3,035 21,750 24,785 ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2. • Development of Special Evergreen Car Insurance Policy ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly • Development of special contract involving use of eco-friendly technologies. parts in car insurance 10th June 2016 • Development of carless day special contract in car insurance Lead Verifier Se-Hee Park • All employees sign pledges of ethical & legal conduct Country Manager In-Kyoon Ahn 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption • Operation of Love Auction Program including extortion and bribery. • Operation of whistle-blowing system DNV GL Business Assurance Korea This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (10th June 2016). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Dongbu Insurance is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 86 87 Appendix Memberships in Associations and Organizations Dongbu Insurance History 1962 1995 2010 2016 National Quality Award (NQA) Winners Korean Association of Business Ethics 1962. 03 Founded Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company 2010. 01 Completed the construction of the Jukjeon Data Center Builds a network of companies which won world-class national quality Shares examples of excellent ethical management 1968. 11 Dissolved Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company 2010. 01 Certified as ‘2010 Excellent Company in Customer Complaint prizes Benchmarks global standards and established Public Automobile Insurance Co. Management System (CCMS)’ by Fair Trade Committee 1976. 05 Introduced, for the first time in Korea, unlimited coverage 2010. 02 Completed construction of its Risk Based Capital (RBC) system liability insurance for car owner indemnity, a precursor of 2010. 10 Announced a new slogan, ‘Dynamic Dongbu’ current automobile insurance 2011. 05 Approved to start business in New York Federation of Korean Industries BEST Forum 1983. 05 Dongbu Group acquired the managerial right of the company 2011. 09 Established office in Vietnam Exchanges of opinions and networking among companies Shares examples of excellent ethical management and conducts re1984. 02 Began selling all lines of non-life insurance products except 2011. 10 Opened New York branch search on sustainable management for guarantee insurance 2011. 11 Joined UN Global Compact 1984. 10 Opened a branch in Guam 2012. 01 Certified CCM (Customer Centered Management) 1995. 10 Renamed to Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. 2012. 09 Made a green consuming agreement with the Department of the Environment Korean Non-Life Insurance Association (KNIA) Korean Insurance Academic Society 2012. 10 Total asset reached KRW 20 trillion 2001 2009 Deals with industry issues and pushes for joint projects for public good Studies theories, laws, regulations, and actual operations of the insur2002. 09 Adopted PROMY as its auto insurance brand 2012. 10 Announced new vision, “A global insurance finance group ance industry/collects and applies research data 2004. 02 Launched motorbike-based “PROMY SOS Speed Service” which pursues happy society with the customers” 2012. 10 Selected as ‘the Best Industry Company in Korea of Dow Jones (the industry’s first) Sustainability Index’ for 4 consecutive years. 2004. 07 Sales of direct automobile insurance commenced Korean Fire Protection Association Korea Management Association First in the nation to be selected as Asia-Pacific Index as a strategic alliance with Tesco Homeplus 2013. 03 Certified with Green Management System KSI 7001/7002 2005. 01 Launched Best Life Accident Insurance through Prevents fires, checks fire warning facilities, offers research and eduExchanges information for management innovation and stronger com(First in the domestic insurance industry) Hyundai Home Shopping cation on fire-related issues petitiveness 2013. 04 Reached KOSPI 200 2005. 10 Established the Dongbu Promy Basketball Team 2013. 06 Rated Aby S&P 2006. 04 Opened the Hawaiian branch 2013. 07 Certified with WA (Web Approach) in relation to banning 2006. 05 Introduced Promy Life, a long-term insurance brand CFO Forum Korea Employers Federation discrimination on the disabled 2006. 07 Established an office in China 2013. 09 Selected to be in the World Index by Dow Jones Sustainability Builds global CFO networks, suggests opinions on company Exchanges opinions on major issues including labor relations 2007. 01 Opened Call Center in Jeonju Index (First in the domestic insurance industry) management and capital market, implements ethical management 2007. 12 Acquired patent of BM (Business Method) in claim handling 2014. 01 Selected as a global leader group, “Bronze Class” by SAM for 2008. 01 Rated ‘BBB+’ by S&P for two consecutive years and Rating 3 consecutive years Outlook was adjusted upward from ‘Stable’ to ‘Positive’ 2014. 05 Established ‘Dongbu financial services 2008. 01 Certified of ‘Excellence in Consumer Complaints Korea Personnel Improvement Associate Financial Security Agency Management System, CCMS’ for H2, 2007 2014. 09 Selected to be in the World Index by Dow Jones Sustainability Index Builds networks to share information on personnel and education and Exchanges various information protection activities such as preventing 2008. 08 Took over Dongbu Securities as a subsidiary for 2 consecutive years (First in the domestic insurance industry) training issues and coping with financial security accidents 2008. 09 The Risk Management Research Center obtained an ISO 14001 2015. 04 First tier in ‘civil complaint occurrence’ evaluation by FSS certificate, a first for an insurance company in the world 2015. 07 Won Grand Prize at Korea Service Awards of Korea Standards 2008. 12 Rated A (Excellent) by A.M.Best Association for 6 consecutive years 2009. 01 Certified as ‘the Best Financial Company with Outstanding Association of Listed Firms in Korea Korea Financial Information Protection Council 2015. 09 Included in World Class of Dow Jones Sustainability Index for Consumer Protection Program’ by FSS Exchanges opinions and protects rights and interests Exchange opinions with financial institutions and supervising organiza3 years running for first time as Korean non-life insurer 2009. 02 Won an ISO 27001 certificate tions to protect information 2015. 11 Won Presidential Citation at National Quality Competition for 2009. 04 Rated First Grade of Customer Complaints Handling by FSS first time in financial industry for five consecutive years 2009. 04 Dongbu commercial claims handling service acquired ISO 9001 certification, a first for a Korean non-life insurance company 2009. 08 The Risk Management Research Center acquired OHSAS 18001 certification, a first for the risk management area in the world insurance industry 2009. 09 Included as a member of the 70 companies in the SRI of the Korea Stock Exchange 2009. 12 Opened the LA branch 88 89 Appendix Major Accolades Won Grand Prize (Presidential Citation) at National Quality Competition for First Time in Financial Industry Korea Standards Association The Grand Prize at the National Quality Competition has the highest authority in Korea and is given to groups which contributed to the enhancement of the government’s projects via quality management innovation activities. Dongbu Insurance was honored with the Grand Prize for the first time not only in the Korean service industry but in the Korean financial industry at the 2015 National Quality Competition. Enlisted in Dow Jones Sustainability Index for Three Straight Years for First Time as Korean Non-life Insurer S&P, Dow Jones and RobecoSaM The Dow Jones Index of the US and SAM, a sustainability management evaluation organization in Switzerland select global standard enterprises in the DJSI World by assessing overall management activities of 2,495 companies around the world in terms of corporate governance, economy, society and the environment among others. The DJSI World is the most objective index about sustainability management. Dongbu Insurance was included in the DJSI World of the 2015 Dow Jones Korea Sustainability Index evaluation, which means that the non-life insurer was enlisted three years in a row for the first time in the Korean non-life insurance industry. Prize of FSC at 4th MTN’s Financial Awards in Era of 2016 Consumer-Centric Management (CCM) certificate Living to 100 Years of Age Grand Prize in Non-life Insurance Category at Korea Grand Prize in Non-life Insurance Category at 2015 App Social Media Awards Award Korea 2015 Grand Prize in Consumer Rights Protection Category Grand Prize in General Category at Korea Service Awards at Asia Today Financial Awards (6 straight years) First-Place Prize in Long-term Insurance Category of Best Company in Terms of Customer Complaints by 2015 Korea Service Quality Index FSC in 2014 Korea’s Best Call Center in 2015 KSQI Best ARS Service Operation Organization Minister of Employment and Labor’s Equal Opportunity Number-one in Customer Satisfaction in Car Insurance Employer Prize in 2014 90 91 06194 Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran-ro, Gangnam, Seoul, S.Korea Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. www.idongbu.com
