DONG Energy in society Sustainability report 2015 2015: 55% 2006: 15% Today, 55% of our heat and power generation is green. In 2006, it was 15%. ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE 2015 Power distribution Gas distribution Leased gas storage facility Heat and power generation* Power generation, gas-fired power station Wind power in operation Wind power under construction DONG Energy office; sale of gas and/or power Producing oil/gas field. DONG Energy is the license operator Producing oil/gas field. DONG Energy is a license partner Oil/gas field under development Marulk Gas pipeline owned by DONG Energy Gas pipeline partly owned by DONG Energy Alve Gas pipeline owned by third parties Oil pipeline owned by DONG Energy Ormen Lange * Nine central power stations in Denmark Glenlivet Edradour Laggan-Tormore Ula Tambar Gothenburg Oselvar Siri area Anholt Gyda Trym Hejre * Syd Arne Copenhagen Walney Extension Horns Rev 1+2 Walney 1+2 Gode Wind 1+2 Nysted West of Duddon Sands Barrow Westermost Rough Borkum Hornsea 1 Riffgrund 1 Etzel Hamburg Burbo Bank Extension Lincs Racebank Burbo Bank Gunfleet Sands 1+2 Gunfleet Sands Demo Enecogen London London Array 1 2 DONG Energy ACTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE 2015 DONG Energy is one of the leading energy groups in Northern Europe, headquartered in Denmark. Around 6,700 ambitious employees are engaged in developing, constructing and operating offshore wind farms; generating power and heat from our power stations; providing energy to residential and business customers on a daily basis; and producing oil and gas. Revenue Gross investments 9.5 EUR bn 2.5 EUR bn Omsætning Wind Power 2,212 EURBruttoinvesteringer m Wind Power 1,366 EUR m Bioenergy & Thermal Power 694 EUR m Bioenergy & Thermal Power 163 EUR m Distribution & Customer Solutions 6,628 EUR m Distribution & Customer Solutions 149 EUR m Oil & Gas 1,712 EUR m Oil & Gas 802 EUR m Other / eliminations -1,750 EUR m Other / eliminations 26 EUR m Operating profit (EBITDA) Employees 2.5 EUR bn 6,700 Driftsindtjening (EBITDA) Wind Power 825 EURMedarbejdere m Wind Power 2,358 Bioenergy & Thermal Power 38 EUR m Bioenergy & Thermal Power 797 Distribution & Customer Solutions 291 EUR m Distribution & Customer Solutions 1,496 Oil & Gas 1,308 EUR m Oil & Gas 727 Other / eliminations 16 EUR m Group 1,296 This report ensures DONG Energy’s compliance with the Danish Financial Statements Act’s section 99a which requires us to report on the company’s policies, strategies, activities and results related to corporate social responsibility. Sustainability report 3 FOREWORD BY OUR CEO Green energy must be cheaper than black energy We want to contribute to creating a world with 100% independent, green energy. A world where people have a good and healthy life, and opportunities to develop without having to worry about their energy consumption damaging the planet. In order to get there, green energy needs to be cheaper than black energy, so that the sustainable solution is the natural and rational choice. Offshore wind needs a lower cost Today, power generated by onshore wind turbines is cheaper than power generated by coal-fired and gas-fired power stations. Our objective is that offshore wind should follow the same development. Within the next decade, we aim to make green energy from offshore wind cheaper than fossil fuel alternatives, when taking into account the cost of climate-damaging effects of CO2 emissions. We are therefore encouraged that COP21 resulted in a politically binding agreement, setting a common, global direction for continued green transformation and reduction of CO2 emissions. Our strategic direction Our mission is to develop and enable energy systems that are green, independent and economically viable by deploying offshore wind, converting our power stations to sustainable biomass, and helping our customers obtain higher energy efficiency. We have strong competences within these areas, and we use them to create value and help make society greener. While we transition to green energy, we continue to produce oil and gas to supply society with the energy it needs. This also decreases Europe’s dependence on fossil fuel imports. We go to work every day to contribute to preserving a habitable planet with a well-functioning ecosystem for the benefit of future generations. The human and financial costs of CO2 emissions are already serious. Action, innovation and scalable solutions are necessary. We would like to contribute to this. In this report, you can read about how we work with sustainability. Our work is based on and seeks to advance the principles of the UN Global Compact on respecting human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Henrik Poulsen CEO, DONG Energy 4 DONG Energy TABLE OF CONTENT Activities and performance 2015 2 Foreword by our CEO 4 Our approach to sustainability 6 Our foundation 7 Dialogue gives us insight 7 From risks and opportunities to strategy 8 How we ensure progress 12 Discover our sustainability work 13 Reliable energy 14 Programme overview 15 Deployment of offshore wind 15 Reducing the cost of offshore wind 15 Greener power stations 15 Modernising the grid 15 Customer satisfaction 15 Programmes in focus 16 Climate and environmental impact 18 Programme overview 19 Green transformation 19 Sourcing of sustainable biomass 19 Energy savings 19 Oil and gas impacts 19 Waste recycling 19 Programmes in focus 20 People matter 22 Programme overview 23 Workplace safety 23 Employee health 23 Performance and development 23 Employee satisfaction and motivation 23 Employee diversity 23 Programmes in focus 24 Sustainable communities 26 Programme overview 27 Responsible business partners 27 Local engagement 27 Good business conduct 27 Responsible tax management 27 Better reputation 27 Programmes in focus 28 UN Global Compact 30 Leading the way on CO2 reduction 31 Consolidated data and accounting principles: ‘Sustainability Performance 2015 ‘ at dongenergy.com Sustainability report 5 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability As a company, we are dependent on a variety of resources that are valuable to society, and that we rely on to run a business that creates long-term value. For this reason, we find it important to contribute to preserving and developing these resources. To this end, we have integrated a number of sustainability programmes in our business, organised under four priority areas: ‘Reliable energy’, ‘Climate and environmental impact’, ‘People matter’ and ‘Sustainable communities’. In this chapter, we describe how we work with sustainability. Our approach to sustainability is divided into five phases, which we will expand on in the following section. 1 Foundation 2 Dialogue 3 Strategy 4 Performance 5 Reporting and communication The DONG Energy Way, the We have ongoing and Focus on the topics that are Focus on ambitious targets Communication of targets, UN Global Compact and our systematic dialogues with of great importance to our and performance ensures results, activities, challenges responsibility policy our stakeholders, including: stakeholders and to progress. and future plans through constitute our values: DONG Energy. channels such as: The DONG Energy Way: • Authorities The four priority areas: Programmes • Annual report • Integrity • Customers • Quarterly reports • Passion • Employees • Sustainability report • Team • Experts • Meetings with stakeholders • Results • Industry associations • Media Reliable People • Safety • Investors • Web Governance Performance energy matter • Local communities • Intranet Targets The UN Global Compact • Media • Social media • NGOs Responsibility policy • Politicians • Suppliers Sustainable Climate and • Think tanks communities environmental Business model impact See page 7 See page 7 See page 8 See page 12 See page 13 6 DONG Energy interessenter · Power og miljø · Lavere CO2 udledning · Heat · Bæredygtig biomasse · Services · Share of assets OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY · Mennesker i centrum · Sikker arbejdsplads · Sund arbejdsplads · Mangfoldig arbejdsstyrke 1. Our foundation · Bæredygtige samfund · Ansvarlige forretningspartnere · Lokalt engagement ‘The DONG Energy Way’ is our value base, describing our mission, vision integrated these principles into our responsibility policy, · Bidrag til which is økonimisk værdiskabelse and guiding principles. Our mission is to develop and enable energy anchored in the Board of Directors. · Omdømme systems that are green, independent and economically viable. Our vision is to lead the energy transformation. The way we work is based In line with us being a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we also see Resultater sikrer tilgængeligheden af nøgleressourcer on five guiding principles: Integrity, passion, team, results and safety. ourselves as having a responsibility to contribute to preserve and develop those resources that are valuable to society and important to our long-term To us, integrity means having high ethical standards and operating value creation. These resources are natural resources, human resources, our business sustainably. Since 2006, we have therefore been part intellectual capital, tangible assets, financial capital and stakeholder of the UN Global Compact, supporting its ten principles on human support. To sustain these resources, we have integrated a number of rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. We have sustainability programmes in our business. The programmes are organised under four priority areas, which make up our sustainability strategy. Business model Key resources Core activities Priority areas Key outcomes • Natural resources Develop and construct Operate and maintain Sell and optimise Reliable energy • More offshore wind • Cheaper offshore wind • Human resources • Intellectual capital • Power Climate and • More green energy and • Tangible assets • Heat environmental impact lower CO2 emissions • Sustainable biomass • Financial capital • Gas • Stakeholder support • Oil People matter • A safe and healthy • Services workplace • Employee diversity Sustainable • Responsible business communities partners • Tax payments Contribution to economic value creation and reputation Contributes to safeguarding and developing key resources 2. Dialogue gives us insight Dialogue with stakeholders is key to understanding the need to adapt • Employees: How do we ensure that DONG Energy continues to be an and renew the sustainability strategy. Through our stakeholders, we attractive place to work? gain better insight into how our activities impact the societies that we • Customers: Are our customers satisfied with the products and serare a part of. The opinions and expectations of our stakeholders also vices we provide? play a key role in the development of the framework conditions for energy • Politicians: How can our activities best support the green transforgeneration, supply and trading. mation? • Authorities: How do legislation and regulation support suitable deIn our day-to-day work, we gain a better understanding of our stakevelopment of the energy industry? holders’ expectations through one-on-one meetings, social media, • Industry associations: How can the energy industry transition to roundtable discussions, public events and our own research. Some of green energy production most efficiently? the many questions that we engage in with our stakeholders are: • NGOs: How do we ensure that the biomass we use at power stations is sustainable? • Trade unions: How do we ensure that the work at our Danish construction sites is carried out under Danish salary and working conditions? Sustainability report 7 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 3. From risks and opportunities to strategy We use the insights we gain from our stakeholders ‘Importance to stakeholders’ (y-axis) reflects the degree to which the to carry out a semi-annual assessment of the most issue is critical to our stakeholders. important sustainability risks and opportunities that ‘Importance to DONG Energy’ (x-axis) reflects the degree to which the we are facing. We call them sustainability issues. An issue is critical in realising our strategy. issue is of significant importance to both our stakeholders and to us. Thus, the score indicates the level of our stakeholders’ interest in a specific issue and to which degree an issue can affect our strategy and We use the sustainability issues in our business strategy planning, as activities, positively or negatively. If the score is more than 5 on both the issues provide a useful outlook for how the framework for operating axes, the issue is important enough for us to address it through a susan energy company like DONG Energy will develop over time. We tainability programme. A programme may, for example, contribute to identify the issues by following up on the topics continuously discussed expanding a market, strengthening the robustness of the business or with our stakeholders in our main footprint countries. We determine the reducing costs. Issues are reported to the Sustainability Committee, the importance of each issue by assessing it on a scale from 1 to 10 on two axes: Audit and Risk Committee and the Board of Directors. An issue may often begin as a risk, but develop into an opportunity. For example, we viewed the focus on climate change and CO2 emissions as a risk when DONG Energy was established as the result of a merger of six energy companies in 2006. Today, the transition to green energy and reduction of CO2 emissions is one of the most important drivers of our business model. Sustainability issues 2015 Increase in importance compared to 2014 Cost of the green transformation Climate change Very high 10 Personal safety 9 Business integrity Security Importance to stakeholders Business partner conduct of supply Tax practices Community impact 8 Customer experience High Discrimination 7 Environmental Talent Sustainability impacts management of biomass 6 Energy efficiency Reputation in Denmark Medium 5 0 5 6 7 8 9 10 Very low Medium High Very high Importance to DONG Energy 8 DONG Energy OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Development of issues in 2015 Changes to programmes in 2015 In 2015, for the third year in a row, we assessed the most important This year we have 20 programmes, all of which are linked to a sustainasustainability issues. This is the first time we have published the results bility issue and organised under the four priority areas. Compared with of that assessment. By doing so, we hope to make it clear why our susour sustainability report 2014, the most important change is the additainability report contains these particular programmes. tion of four new programmes. The most significant conclusions are: New programmes • ‘Climate change’, ‘Cost of the green transformation’ and ‘Personal • Employee diversity – to increase focus on the importance of diversity safety’ are still very important issues. in the bid to attract and retain talented employees. • As competition in the power market has intensified, ‘Customer expe• Employee health – because energy and well-being are vital for emrience’ has become an even greater priority for us. ployee satisfaction and motivation. • The discussion about corporate ‘Tax practices’ has intensified. • Reputation in Denmark – to highlight the importance of lifting our • There is an ever-increasing focus on companies’ responsibility for reputation. ‘Business partner conduct’. • Waste management – to increase focus on reducing and recycling • ‘Discrimination’ at work is becoming an increasingly important issue. limited resources. In 2015, we also carried out our first systematic screening of human The next pages show an overview of each sustainability issue with corrights in DONG Energy. Since our existing programme ‘Responsible responding programmes, key stakeholders, as well as the importance business partners’ promotes human rights in our supply chain, we of the issue to stakeholders and to DONG Energy, respectively. focused on human rights in our own organisation and among suppliers at our sites. This gave us a better insight into possible human rights risks, viewed in the light of our business operations. In 2016, we will analyse whether we have specific challenges within the identified areas and assess whether this should prompt us to launch new initiatives. From the overview of sustainability issues, we assess whether we need to add or discontinue programmes in the sustainability strategy. Therefore, in 2015, we went from five to four priority areas to better reflect the new programme composition. Our four priority areas ‘Reliable energy’. Maintaining and developing the energy system is the foundation for our business and helps to provide our customers with reliable energy. ‘Climate and environmental impact’. When we work to reduce our environmental impact and convert to green energy, we help to protect the environment and avoid serious climate change. ‘People matter’. By advancing the safety, motivation and development of our employees, we are better able to attract and retain talented people. ‘Sustainable communities’. When we seek to contribute positively to the communities we are a part of, we help generate the necessary support from our stakeholders. Together, these four priority areas make up our sustainability strategy that we review on an ongoing basis. Sustainability report 9 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability issues and programmes The overview shows the most important sustainability issues and the programmes launched to address the issues. The issues are ranked according to the level of our stakeholders’ interest in a specific issue and to which degree an issue can affect our strategy and activities, positively or negatively. KEY IMPORTANCE TO IMPORTANCE TO ISSUE PROGRAMME STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS DONG ENERGY 1. Cost of the · R educing the cost · P oliticians Focus on the need to reduce the price The cost of offshore wind must be green transof offshore wind · Industry of green energy to avoid excessive reduced if the offshore wind marassociations costs when creating a greener energy ket is to continue its growth. formation · Customers system. 2. Climate · G reen · N GOs Increasing focus on climate change, Significant reduction of our CO2 change transformation · Politicians most recently around COP21. Scepemissions gives us a strong · Investors ticism of fossil fuels and expectation position in the market for green that companies reduce their CO2 energy technologies. This attracts emissions. competences and capital to our business. 3. Personal · Workplace safety · E  mployees Accidents at the workplace are We never compromise on safety safety · Trade unions always unacceptable. standards because a safe work· NGOs place is paramount. · Investors 4. Business · G ood business · C  ustomers Expectation that companies have High integrity is fundamental to integrity conduct · Citizens high ethical standards. us and ensures quality and value · Investors for the business. 5. Customer · C ustomer · P  rivate and Customers expect to receive good No business can exist without experience satisfaction business service when they are in contact with satisfied customers. Positive customers in a company. customer experiences strengthen Denmark and maintain our position in the · Consumer market. organisations 6. Tax · R esponsible tax · C  itizens Expectation that we apply responA responsible approach to tax is practices management · NGOs sible tax practices and handle any essential to the long-term sustain· Authorities tax-related grey areas in a responability of our business. sible way. 7. Sustainabil· S ourcing of sus· N  GOs Focus on how to ensure that the When we use sustainable biomass, ity of biomass tainable biomass · Industry biomass we use is sustainable and we help develop a new market for associations CO2-neutral. green energy and strengthen the · Authorities supply chain for wood pellets and wood chips. 8. Security of · Modernising  · C  ustomers Expectation that there will always be Providing a secure energy supply supply the grid · Politicians power in the outlet, heating in the is fundamental to our strategic · Deployment of · Industry radiator and petrol for the car. transition towards green, indepenoffshore wind associations dent and cost-effective energy. · Greener power stations 10 DONG Energy OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY KEY IMPORTANCE TO IMPORTANCE TO ISSUE PROGRAMME STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS DONG ENERGY 9. Community · Local engagement · C ivic associaExpectation that our investments When we engage locally, it helps impact tions contribute to local development, build strong local supply chains · Local politicians growth and employment, and that and support. we minimise any nuisances from our local activities. 10. Business · R esponsible business · N GOs Focus on the business partners, Engaging with business partners partner conduct partners · Citizens including suppliers, respecting improves our relationships and · Trade unions laws, regulations and guidelines gives us a more reliable supply for human and labour rights, the chain with less risk of unforeseen environment and anti-corruption. and costly delays. 11. Talent · P erformance and · C urrent and Talented employees will go elseWe need to be able to attract and management development potential emwhere if they are not sufficiently retain the best people to ensure · Employee satisfaction ployees satisfied and motivated. that we have the competences it and motivation · Investors takes to be at the forefront of an · Employee health ever evolving market. 12. Envi· O il and gas impacts ·  GOs N Expectation that we will avoid Our business depends on natural ronmental · Waste recycling · Politicians negative environmental impacts resources, and it is important to us · Authorities and minimise them where impacts to look after them. impacts · Citizens cannot be avoided. 13. Discrimi· Employee diversity · E  mployees Expectation that the workforce of a Diversity increases our ability to be nation · Politicians company reflects society’s populainnovative and makes our compation fit for work. ny a more attractive place to work. 14. Reputation · Better reputation · T  he Danish Expectation that companies act It is important to us to have our in Denmark population responsibly. stakeholders see us as a positive · Investors corporate citizen in the society that we are a part of. 15. Energy · Energy savings · P  oliticians Expectation that we as an energy Strengthens our customer relaefficiency · NGOs company is energy efficient and tions and supports our strategic · Customers help our customers save energy. focus on reducing CO2 emissions. · Authorities Sustainability report 11 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 4. How we ensure progress Each sustainability programme describes our approach Our policies to a sustainability issue and contains specific actions Some of the programmes are supported by policies that underpin our and indicators. In order to ensure progress, we set a work. We formulate and publish policies in areas where it is necessary. target for each individual programme to the extent In some cases, a policy is required by law. In other cases, a policy is possible. necessary for business partners to understand how we work and what we expect. Finally, a policy can ensure a common approach to certain DONG Energy’s Sustainability Committee reviews the progress of topics across DONG Energy. each sustainability programme on a quarterly basis. The Sustainability Committee also prepares the sustainability strategy and is responPolicies and guidelines sible for non-financial data and reporting. The Committee was estab• Code of conduct for business partners lished in 2015 to strengthen management processes with regard to • Local community engagement policy our work on sustainability. At the same time, we implemented signifi• Policy on good business conduct cant optimisation and quality assurance of the way in which we collect non-financial data and follow up on the results. We have done so for • QHSE policy example by mapping our data collection processes and establishing • Responsibility policy control mechanisms where errors may occur. • Stakeholder engagement policy • Tax policy Sustainability governance Board of Directors Audit and Risk Committee Approves responsibility policy and receives annual Supervises the integrity of sustainability reporting, the report about the most important sustainability issues. presentation hereof in the financial annual report and the internal control system for non-financial data. Chairman: Chairman: Thomas Thune Andersen Benny Loft, Member of the Board Group Executive Management Handles and proposes material regarding sustainability to the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board of Directors and is involved in sustainability topics when required. Chairman: CEO Henrik Poulsen Sustainability Committee Compliance Committee Decides on new initiatives and oversees sustainability Monitors that we comply with laws, rules and standards performance and results at five annual meetings. that apply to our area, including within sustainability, at two annual meetings. Chairman: Chairman: CFO Marianne Wiinholt CEO Henrik Poulsen 12 DONG Energy Read more: Our policies are available at dongenergy.com OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 5. Discover our sustainability work You can find information on our sustainability In our financial annual report, we present how DONG Energy creates value and ensures a sustainable business through our business model work through various sources. In this report, and the sustainability programmes that are part of the 2020 strategy. you can read about how we work with sustainability and view the performance within all The data for our performance management and reporting has been gathered in the document: ‘Sustainability Performance 2015’. The our sustainability programmes. We expand on document includes more than 170 sustainability indicators with five years the programmes and present cases on topics of historical data for each indicator. In addition, we have signed up for the where we have experienced significant internal Carbon Disclosure Project, and going forward we will annually report our environmental and climate data to this database. or external interest during the year. During the year, we communicate about sustainability in DONG Energy through various channels, such as social media, dongenergy.com and events. For example, on Twitter we tell about our efforts to develop green energy, and at dongenergy.com you can download all our reports and follow our sustainability work. Sustainability report 13 PRIORITY: RELIABLE ENERGY Reliable energy How do we continuously renew the energy supply? Many power stations in Europe are ageing and will reach the end of their lifetimes within the next two decades. Europe must therefore focus its efforts on renewing its energy supply. As we in DONG Energy construct offshore wind farms and convert our power stations from coal and gas to sustainable biomass, we contribute to society’s transition from black to green energy while we maintain a high security of supply for our customers. While society transitions from black to green energy, oil and gas keep the wheels turning and contribute to financing the green transformation. 14 DONG Energy PROGRAMME OVERVIEW : RELIABLE ENERGY Deployment of offshore wind We help Europe transition to a greener Installed offshore wind capacity By 2020, our target is to have installed 6.5GW society by constructing offshore wind farms. offshore wind. That is enough green power for 16m 16 million Europeans. In this way, we can supply more and more 7.5m Europeans with clean and reliable power. Today, we have constructed 3GW offshore wind. 4m That corresponds to the annual power consumption of 7.5 million Europeans. 2012 2015 2020 target Reducing the cost of offshore wind We will reduce the cost of offshore wind to A lower cost Compared with 2012, we will reduce costs by make the technology competitive with fossil 35-40% for offshore wind farm projects subject to EUR 160 final investment decisions in 2020. energy sources. We have a standard model for 35-40% offshore wind farms, which also ensures that EUR 100 we have access to competitive suppliers of quality products. € 2012 2020 target Greener power stations We convert our power stations to sustainable Green power and heating We are increasing the share of sustainable biomass at our power stations. By 2020, our biomass instead of coal and gas so that we target is that at least 50% of the power and heat can provide even more customers with green generated at our power stations should be from power and heating. Biomass is a cost21% sustainable biomass. effective way to reduce CO2 emissions and 2012 30% can supplement power generation from offshore wind when the wind is low. 2015 >50% 2020 target Modernising the grid In order to minimise power cuts and ensure Fewer power cuts Our target is to make sure that our customers do a reliable supply of energy, we monitor and not experience more power cuts than the average 0.35 Danish power customer. maintain 20,000 kilometres of power cables DONG Energy 2015 in Denmark. In 2015, we had 0.35 power cuts per power customer. In comparison, the latest available data 0.40 on power cuts in Denmark indicate an average of Average in Denmark 2014 0.40 power cuts per costumer in 2014. Power cuts per customer per year Customer satisfaction Satisfied customers are loyal customers. We Happy customers We want our Danish customers to experience help our customers to reduce their energy bill Satisfaction scale 1 to 100 DONG Energy positively when they are in contact with us. and we make the bill itself easier to understand 2020 target 2020 target as this is important to customer satisfaction. In 2015, we maintained our 2020 target level 2015 2015 for business customers. We set a new target ≥80 for private customers in 2015 due to a changed 78 ≥75 75 calculation method (see note 9.2 in the annual report). We are two points from this target. Private customers Business customers Programme in focus Sustainability report 15 PROGRAMME: DEPLOYMENT OF OFFSHORE WIND Offshore wind is a cornerstone of the green transformation Offshore wind is a clean and scalable energy technology that contributes to a reliable supply and can replace energy production from coal-fired power stations. We believe that offshore wind is one of the cornerstones on Europe’s path to renewable energy. Our target is to have installed 6.5GW of offoffshore wind farms, which has attracted a 1/4 1.12 shore wind by 2020. This will be enough to range of investors. Together with our invesDONG Energy has provide more than 16 million Europeans with tors, suppliers and other business partners, we constructed around green power. We are already well on the way can continue the development of offshore wind 1/4 of the global offshore wind capacity to achieving this target. At the end of 2015, we and offer green power to even more people in had constructed 3GW – enough for 7.5 million the future. Europeans. More specifically, we have installed 991 offshore wind turbines. “AFTER ALL, WE, THE INDUSTRIALISED Our offshore wind farms contribute to the COUNTRIES, CAUSED MUCH OF GLOBAL supply of green energy to European countries, WARMING FOR MANY YEARS, AND IT which, at the same time, makes them less IS NOW OUR DUTY TO SHOW THOSE dependent on importing energy from other STILL AWAITING DEVELOPMENT MORE Crossing the Atlantic EFFICIENT TECHNOLOGIES BY CREATING regions. Over the years, DONG Energy has INNOVATIONS” constructed more offshore wind farms than Offshore wind can provide more green ANGELA MERKEL, any other company in the world. We have the FEDERAL CHANCELLOR OF GERMANY power for the Americans. In 2015, we looked skills to both construct, operate and maintain towards the coast of Massachusetts, USA, where we took over a large offshore wind development project. At the end of 2015, we had installed 991 offshore wind turbines in total. Over 90% of the world’s installed offshore wind capacity is located off the coasts of Europe. However, Europe is far from the only continent with a long coastline and good wind conditions. According to Samuel Leupold, CEO of DONG Energy Wind Power, the USA is an exciting market: “Land-based wind power dominates US growth within renewable energy. However, there are some areas of the US where meaningful renewable growth cannot be achieved with just onshore renewables. With our expertise in the field of offshore wind, we firmly believe that we can help to develop the US wind power market in a completely new direction; offshore.” The area is 24km from the coast at its closest point. In this zone, we are considering constructing a wind farm of up to 1,000MW, which would supply over 500,000 American homes with green power. The wind and seabed conditions are similar to that of the projects which we are already constructing in Northern Europe. This enables us to use existing technology and logistics, which we have already tested successfully in Europe. 16 DONG Energy PROGRAMME: REDUCING THE COST OF OFFSHORE WIND RELIABLE ENERGY Uniform design Standardised Optimal conditions components Our standard concept for offshore wind farms lowers the cost of offshore wind. Green must be cheaper than black “WE WILL NOT SUPPORT OFFSHORE WIND AT ANY COST. FURTHER SUPPORT WILL Today, energy from offshore wind is more expensive than energy from BE STRICTLY CONDITIONAL ON THE COST coal, gas and oil. By making offshore wind cheaper, we will contribute REDUCTIONS WE HAVE SEEN ALREADY ACCELERATING. THE TECHNOLOGY to green energy becoming cheaper than energy from fossil fuels. When NEEDS TO MOVE QUICKLY TO COSTthat happens, green energy will be the natural and rational choice. COMPETITIVENESS” AMBER RUDD, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR ENERGY In 2012, we set a target to reduce costs by access to high quality and reliable suppliers AND CLIMATE CHANGE, UK 35-40% for offshore wind projects getting who work with us continuously to bring down the go-ahead in 2020. In 2025, offshore wind the cost of energy from offshore wind. The must be cheaper than black energy. This restandard model is based on a uniform design The cost of offshore wind is in decline Avg. revenue per MWh over lifetime for UK wind farms quires two things: that we and the rest of the with standardised components that we inindustry reduce the cost of offshore wind, stall at locations with optimum wind speeds, Subsidy Electricity price and that energy from fossil fuels is charged distance to the coast, sea depth and seabed with a fair price for its CO2 emissions. conditions. When producers and develop173 -32% EUR/MWh 2012-price 143 1.22 ers compete on knowledge and innovation, 88 123 117 We are making offshore wind cheaper by deproducts become cheaper and the industry 75 veloping a standard model for an offshore as a whole becomes more competitive. 56 50 wind farm, and by ensuring that we have 85 68 67 68 No leaning towers in PISA the ‘Offshore Wind Accelerator’ are a great ud 2011 2014 2015 2015 do W An N example of how cross-industry collaboration n es Sa t glia G ear ao t n nd of s ith a Thinner foundations mean cheaper offshore can help solve common challenges and acst e Ra ce Ea Ba wind. But when we use less steel, we must celerate the uptake of new technology and D nk make sure that the foundations are still sedesign methodologies” said Jan Matthiesen, cure. Therefore we headed a research proDirector of Innovation, from the Carbon Trust “The results show that, in our design of founject called PISA (Pile Soil Analysis). Offshore Wind Accelerator, which the PISA dations, we’ve often been too generous with project is a part of. the steel. If the thickness or length of the founTo make offshore wind cheaper, we are workdation can be reduced by even just a small ing with suppliers of wind turbines and founAs a part of the test, 28 piles with a varying fraction, there’s a significant savings potential dations, among others, to bring down the cost. amount of steel were pulled sideways on land and a smaller environmental impact. Fewer reuntil their maximum load had been reached. sources reduce the wind turbines’ overall envi“The cost reduction that will be achieved as The soil on land simulated the seabed. Jesronmental impact, both in the consumption of a result of a collaborative project like PISA per Skov Gretlund, R&D Project Manager in steel, vessel fuel consumption when installing will benefit the whole offshore wind industry. DONG Energy, explained that traditional dethe foundations, and by enabling us to install Projects like this that we’re supporting through sign methods have been very conservative: larger wind turbines on the same foundations.” Sustainability report 17 PRIORITY: CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Climate and environmental impact How do we minimise our impact on the climate and the environment? We must respect nature in our energy generation. We reduce our CO2 emissions by building offshore wind farms and replacing coal with sustainable biomass at our power stations. However environmental impact is not only about greenhouse gas emissions. To us, it is also about improving energy efficiency, protecting biodiversity and minimising our waste. 18 DONG Energy PROGRAMME OVERVIEW: CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Green transformation We reduce CO2 emissions from our energy Reducing CO2 emissions Our target is to reduce CO2 emissions from our generation by constructing offshore wind power and heat generation with 60% between Actual 2006 and 2020. This is the most ambitious target farms and converting our power stations to 638 Target among our European peers. use stainable biomass. gCO2/KWh In 2015, we had reduced CO2 emissions by 48% compared to 2006. 260 334 2006 2015 2020 Sourcing of sustainable biomass At our power stations, we only want to use Certified biomass Our target is that at least 90% of the biomass we biomass that is sustainable. We ensure this use is certified by a third party in 2019. The last by having our suppliers of wood pellets and 10% create a flexibility to make use of otherwise unutilised residual wood from uncertified forests wood chips document their compliance with when, for example, trees fall due to heavy storm. our sustainability requirements. The first certifications were approved in 2015 and Read more: Programme for Sustainable will be registered from 2016. Biomass Sourcing at dongenergy.com 2020 target: At least 90% certified sustainable biomass. Energy savings We help our customers save energy through Together we save energy Since 2006, we have worked with our Danish our energy consultancy services and through customers to save a total of 2.8TWh. That equals climate partnerships with companies. We also almost 300,000 Danes’ annual power and heat work to limit our own energy consumption. consumption. 300,000 Oil and gas impacts We make targeted efforts to minimise the Oil and chemical spills Our target is never to have oil or chemical spills environmental impact from our oil and gas of one cubic metre or more from our oil and gas production, such as oil or chemical spills. production. In 2015, we had no significant oil or chemical 0 Oil and 0 Oil and spills and no chemical spills of one cubic metre or more. chemical chemical spills spills 2015 2020 target Waste recycling Our waste management system at office Sorting our office waste Since 2009, we have doubled the waste recycling 59% locations ensures that our employees can rate from our administrative office buildings. Our sort waste better than previously, and we are target is to achieve 70% recycling by 2020. 2015 thereby able to recycle a larger share of the In 2015, we reached 59%. Among other things, 70% waste that we produce. Our office waste is this was a result of the implementation of our new sorted into e.g. bio waste, paper, cardboard customised waste sorting system at our offices. 2020 target and other waste. recycling Programme in focus Sustainability report 19 PROGRAMME: GREEN TRANSFORMATION In 2006, the renewable energy share in our power and heat generation was 15%. In 2015, our renewable energy share was 55%. 15% 2006 2015 55% We have a responsibility to reduce CO2 emissions The world is facing an urgent need for action to combat climate change. Global warming is a fact, and it has long been clear that we as humans “WE’RE THE FIRST GENERATION TO FEEL affect climate change through the emissions of greenhouse gases. The THE IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE, AND THE LAST GENERATION THAT CAN DO energy sector accounts for around one-third of global CO2 emissions and SOMETHING ABOUT IT” is therefore the largest single contributor to increasing the concentration BARACK OBAMA, of CO2 in the atmosphere. Naturally, this places a great responsibility on PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES the sector to reduce our CO2 emissions. DONG Energy’s target is to reduce CO2 emising CO2 emissions the most among European sions from our power and heat generation by peers (see page 31). Being at the forefront in 60% from 2006 to 2020. In 2015, we emitted reducing CO2 emissions places us in a strong 48% less CO2 than in 2006. That equals the position within the green energy market. This DONG Energy accounts for more than half of Denmark’s same amount of CO2 as almost 7 million cars makes our company attractive to talented emCO2 reduction. emit in a year – which is equivalent to removployees and investors who wish to invest in ing all cars from the streets of London and renewable energy. 58.8 Rest of DK 44% Actual emissions (1,000 tonnes) New York City for almost a year and a half. 36% We have reduced our coal consumption by 74% since 2006. DONG Energy reduction 56% Since DONG Energy was formed in 2006, we have transformed from one of the most 37.7 coal-intensive utilities in Europe to a global 6.2 1.6 leader in renewable energy. We reduce our million tonnes million tonnes CO2 emissions by constructing offshore wind farms and converting our power stations from coal and gas to sustainable biomass. From 2006 to 2020, we are in the process of reduc2006 2015 2006 2014 20 DONG Energy PROGRAMME: SOURCING OF SUSTAINABLE BIOMASS CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The road to sustainable The atmosphere stores CO2 biomass Replantation Power stations fired by sustain2.21able biomass can deliver green, CO2 neutral reliable heating and flexible power cycle generation when the wind subBurning of wood pellets and Trees absorb CO2 sides. But, of course, the biomass wood chips emits CO2 from the atmosphere must be produced sustainably, to enable us to significantly reduce CO2 emissions compared with the use of coal and gas, without harmLow quality wood, residuals and thinning trees are processed into ing biodiversity and natural ecowood pellets and wood chips systems. Today, there are no internationally agreed to continually capture and store the CO2 emitted Partnership (SBP) certification system to guidelines for when biomass can be defined during the combustion of biomass. We also document that suppliers meet our requirements. as sustainable. Therefore, we have developed require the suppliers to ensure that the forests’ In 2015, the first suppliers of biomass obtained DONG Energy’s programme for sustainable ecosystems and biodiversity are protected. third-party certification which will be registered biomass. The programme means that our from 2016. The programme ensures that we have suppliers of wood pellets and wood chips The programme will be fully implemented access to a sustainable source of biomass that must comply with specific sustainability in 2019. This means that independent thirdwe need in order to continue generating green requirements. The suppliers must ensure that party auditors will have certified at least 90% power and heating. At the same time, we are the wood that they use is from forest areas where of the wood pellets and wood chips we use as helping to develop a market for climate-friendly trees are replanted. In this way, forests are able sustainable. We use the Sustainable Biomass alternatives to coaland gas-fired power stations. Can we buy sustainable From where do we source sustainable wood pellets biomass from Russia? and wood chips? The Baltic countries: 53% CM Biomass, a company that resells bioSBP-accredited auditor NEPCon carried out mass from Russia, was one of our first the certification in 2015: suppliers to be SBP-certified. With the first Denmark: 27% certifications in place, the road is now thoMichael Jakobsen, Customer Relations Manroughly paved for ensuring documentation ager in NEPCon, said: “SBP certification Russia: 9% that our suppliers meet our requirements assures companies such as DONG Energy, Portugal: 7% UK: 0.1% for sustainable biomass. authorities and other stakeholders that the Sweden: 2% USA: 2% biomass supplier has identified the risks reRussia has some of the world’s largest forest lating to forestry in areas where the biomass ”BIOMASS CAN CONTRIBUTE POSITIVELY areas, which makes it a potential large-scale is sourced, and has implemented procedures TO MITIGATING CLIMATE CHALLENGES AND supplier of wood. However, it has been docto eliminate wood from unknown sources, or WE’RE HAPPY THAT THE INDUSTRY HAS PUT umented that Russian forestry is associated forest areas where operations don’t live up REQUIREMENTS ON SUSTAINABILITY. IT’S with several sustainability risks, for example to SBP requirements.” A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION. BUT IT’S ALSO IMPORTANT THAT ONE STARTS TO trade of wood from vulnerable forest areas INCLUDE INDIRECT LAND USE CHANGE, SO and deforestation. In order to guarantee The certification of CM Biomass, among others, CALLED ILUC, AND THAT REQUIREMENTS that the Russian biomass we buy from CM brings us a step closer to our target of being able TO FORESTRY ARE STRENGTHENED” Biomass is sustainable, we engaged in a to provide documentation that at least 90% of CHRISTIAN EGE, dialogue with CM Biomass on how best to the biomass we use is sustainable. HEAD OF SECRETARIAT, DANISH ECOLOGICAL COUNCIL ensure sustainability. Together, we agreed to use the Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP) for certification of the biomass. Read more: Programme for Sustainable Biomass Sourcing at dongenergy.com Sustainability report 21 PRIORITY: PEOPLE MATTER People matter How do we promote safety, the right competences and a motivating and diverse working environment? As an energy company, many of our employees will work with large structures and machines – sometimes at sea where strong forces of nature are at play. We need to ensure that everyone returns home safely every day. We focus on maintaining a healthy and diverse working environment at DONG Energy that motivates and helps our employees to develop their competences. 22 DONG Energy PROGRAMME OVERVIEW: PEOPLE MATTER Workplace safety Safety must be an integral part of our work. Fewer accidents Our target is an LTIF* of less than 1.5 by 2020. We We strive to strengthen the safety culture in are on the right track with a continuous reduction 10.3 Fatalities of the injury frequency since 2006. In 2015, we all areas of our business. 0 had an LTIF of 1.8 with two thirds of accidents 2015 among contractors. Read more: QHSE policy at dongenergy.com LTIF *Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) is the number 0 1.8 of accidents resulting in absence of one day <1.5 Target or more per million working hours. The figure includes both DONG Energy employees and con2006 2015 2020 tractor employees working on sites either owned target or operated by DONG Energy. Employee health We support our employees’ energy and Satisfaction with health initiatives We want our employees to be satisfied with the well-being by offering a range of health inihealth initiatives. Our target for 2017 is for our tiatives within our four focus areas: Exercise, nutrition, sleep and mental balance. 2015 76 health initiatives to receive a satisfaction score of 80 out of 100 in the annual employee survey. 80 The health initiatives were launched in 2015 and 2017 target received a score of 76. Assessment on a scale from 0 to 100. Performance and development We aim to attract, develop and retain the best Performance and development dialogue We want all employees to have an annual perforemployees. Therefore, we have firm processes mance and development dialogue (PDD) with their 96% manager. that support our employees’ performance and development. 2015 In 2015, 96% of our employees had a PDD. Employees who have not been employed for a period All of 12 months and therefore have not yet had a PDD Target are not included. Employee satisfaction employees and motivation We measure our employees’ satisfaction and Satisfied and motivated employees By 2020, our target is to achieve a score of 77 out motivation in an annual employee survey. of 100 on employee satisfaction and motivation in 2020 target our annual employee survey. Each department will follow up on the survey 2015 results through joint action plans and indiviIn 2015, the score was 74 which is two points higher dual development dialogues. 2014 than in 2014. The positive development is primarily linked to our employees’ high ratings of their imme77 diate managers and an improved perception among 74 72 employees of DONG Energy’s reputation. Assessment on a scale from 0 to 100. Employee diversity We want to have a trusting, informal and More women in management We have set targets for women in management. diverse working environment. Therefore, we 2015 2020 target In 2015, we achieved equal representation of focus on recruiting broadly and giving all Top management current and future employees equal opportu(1-50) 15% >22% women and men in the Board of Directors. nities to develop in the organisation. Leadership Forum (51-400) 20% >25% Other managers 23% >32% Programme in focus Sustainability report 23 PROGRAMME: WORKPLACE SAFETY Safety is paramount ramme overview People matter In the energy industry, many people work with large, heavy structures and machines – often at sea and at height, where strong forces of nature are at play. Here, even the slightest mistakes can lead to serious accidents and in the worst case have fatal consequences. Whether hanging under a construction platform or sitting in the office, our employees must return home fit and healthy. Our target is to reduce our LTIF, ie the number of accidents per million working hours resulting in absence of one day or more, to less than 1.5 in 2020. We are on the right Safety culture track, and in 2015 we reduced our LTIF to 1.8, Employee survey 2015 down from 2.4 in 2014. We have not had any fatal accidents since December 2012. Also, our 87/100 annual employee survey shows that we have a well-integrated safety culture in DONG Energy. 3.11 We are constantly working to increase safety, “I react to unsafe conditions” focusing on three areas: Firstly, we are 84/100 strengthening our safety culture, including our managers’ commitment and ability to be role models for safety. Secondly, we want to improve our collection of the data providing us “My immediate superior is a good role model with the knowledge necessary to be better able in terms of demonstrating safe behaviour” to prevent accidents. And last, but not least, we work with suppliers in order to ensure a high common safety level. Everyday heroes ”THE RIGHT TO A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE IS A BASIC HUMAN RIGHT. RESPECTING THIS HUMAN RIGHT Employees who can provide first aid not “It was an extreme experience. It all went so IS AN OBLIGATION – AS WELL AS A only contribute to the safety culture at the fast from the cyclist crashing, to him turning CONDITION FOR SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC workplace, but also to the broader society completely blue, and me giving CPR. It was like DEVELOPMENT” that they are part of. I was on autopilot. In fact, the first thing you GUY RYDER, learn on a first aid course is that you can’t do DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (ILO) We offer all employees tools, courses and exeranything wrong – and it’s important to know cises in the field of safety, including first aid. All this, so that you’re not afraid to step in.”. employees who are to work offshore must also complete a two-day extended first aid course Brian’s first-aid training enabled him to act as that must be renewed every two years. The an everyday hero in an unexpected situation. first aid courses contribute to strengthening And he takes safety home with him too: competences and behaviour, which supports a safety culture – in and outside DONG Energy. “It’s important that you never just pass by. It’s all about thinking of one another. It gives me Brian Jørgensen, Technical Project Lead and a sense of security to know that I can act if a sometimes working offshore, experienced the colleague is in urgent need of help, or if my importance of first aid courses first hand when children should choke on something.” he brought a crash cyclist back to life in the autumn of 2015: 24 DONG Energy Read more: QHSE policy at dongenergy.com PROGRAMME: EMPLOYEE HEALTH PEOPLE MATTER More energy and well-being Working at a modern knowledge-based workplace like DONG Energy is demanding. Sedentary work and stress can pose a risk to our em“RESEARCHERS HAVE FOUND THAT ployees’ well-being, and it is therefore important that they feel a sense THE ACCELERATED PACE OF MODERN OFFICE LIFE IS TAKING ITS TOLL ON of mental and physical balance. This increases satisfaction and motiPRODUCTIVITY, EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT, vation as well as resilience in the face of everyday challenges, both at CREATIVITY AND WELL-BEING” work and outside of work. RASMUS HOUGAARD, AUTHOR, ONE SECOND AHEAD At the beginning of 2015, we launched a numOur approach is preventative by motivating ber of health initiatives within four focus areas: and helping our employees to take care of Exercise, nutrition, sleep and mental balance. their physical and mental well-being. It has to Are you sleeping well? Our target is that by 2017 our employees be easy to make healthy choices. So we have should give a score of at least 80 out of 100 organised our health initiatives under one umSleep is important to us because our emin the annual employee survey when asked brella called ‘Team DONG Energy’ – a volunployees need energy and strength to make whether they are satisfied with the health initary community open to all employees. 45% the right and safe choices in the course of tiatives. We aim to maintain this level towards of our 6,700 employees had signed up by the their working day. 2020. We can see that we are already well on end of 2015. This tells us that the initiatives the way as the score was 76 out of 100 in 2015. are appreciated. Sleep is the body’s most important restitution mechanism. Sleep deprivation therefore has adverse effects on the immune system, memory and concentration. For example, if you sleep just one and a half hours less than usual, your ability to focus during the daytime hours may be reduced by up to 32%. We offer our employees an app that contains Sleep useful tips and specific tools to improve their sleep. In the summer of 2015, we invited one of the world’s leading sleep experts, Dr Breus from the USA, to give a number of presentations with useful sleep tips to our employees. 45% Our employees’ energy and well-being are also on the agenda at some of our internal courses. of all employees Kasper Kjøller Lou, Senior Manager at DONG Energy, reflected on his energy and well-being signed up for Mental in connection with a course: “One of the rules Nutrition Team DONG Energy balance I’ve started to live by is to go to bed no later in 2015 than 22:30 every day. I can feel that this has given me more energy in everyday life.” But is it really okay for a company to take such an interest in employees’ sleep habits? Hanne Blume, Head of People & Development in DONG Energy, said: “It’s important to emphasise that this isn’t about invading the employees’ privacy or bedrooms. The various Exercise events and initiatives are voluntary and are meant as an offer to those who want to learn how to improve their sleep quality.” Sustainability report 25 PRIORITY: SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES Sustainable communities How can we be a good corporate citizen in the communities that we are a part of? We want to give something back to the communities that we are a part of and generally be a good corporate citizen. This applies to our own business conduct, but also to our business partners’ conduct. It also applies when we invest large amounts of money in energy infrastructure, because local communities naturally expect our investments to have a positive impact. 26 DONG Energy PROGRAMME OVERVIEW: SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES Responsible business partners Business partner assessments In 2015, we performed a total of 25 assessments We have more than 25,000 business partners 25 of business partners all over the world. Here, globally, mostly suppliers. Our responsible we identified a total of 33 significant or very business partner programme helps our partAssessments of business partners in 2015. significant improvement points. Of these, 18 have ners comply with our expectations that are already been addressed satisfactorily, leading to 15 based on international standards for impacts improved business partner practices. Open significant or very on people and the environment. significant improvement points. Some of the countries in which we carried out 18 business partner assessments were Denmark, Read more: Code of Conduct at Ghana, India, Poland and Russia. Significant improvement points dongenergy.com closed during 2015. Local engagement We engage with local communities where we Local presence Our local presence creates jobs and economic activity. are present and help local companies to compete in our tenders. We also offer professional Westermost Rough in the UK was one of the training for jobs in the energy industry. Jobs offshore wind farms we finished constructing in Dialogue 2015. More than 900 people worked on the project Read more: Local community engagement policy during construction with significant influence on 50 local economic activity. at dongenergy.com Economic activity Collaboration with companies Good business conduct Companies with a high level of integrity are E-learning in good business conduct All employees must complete our e-learning in 94% healthier companies. Our policy on good good business conduct. business conduct, our whistleblower hotline 2015 and Internal Audit function enable us to In 2015, 94% of our employees had completed the e-learning course. handle or completely avoid situations that All can lead to inappropriate or even illegal behaviour. Target Read more: Policy on Good Business Conduct employees at dongenergy.com Responsible tax management Our tax policy describes the principles Our tax payments In 2015, we implemented our updated tax policy guiding us in our tax work. We believe that a Taxes collected on among the employees who handle DONG Energy’s Taxes paid behalf of the state tax payments. We paid EUR 692 million in taxes. responsible approach to tax is essential to the Moreover, we collected EUR 1,979 million in long-term sustainability of our business in 11% 11% taxes on behalf of states in the countries where the countries where we operate. we operate. 692 1,979 EUR m 36% EUR m The most significant factor influencing the Read more: Tax policy at dongenergy.com 53% size of our tax payments is that we make large 89% investments in constructing and renewing energy assets. Among other things, this means that we Corporate tax Energy taxes, etc are granted tax reliefs. Other VAT, etc Personal income taxes Read more about our tax payments for 2015 in our annual report, page 96. Better reputation Through our actions, we must show that DONG DONG Energy’s reputation in Denmark We want the Danes to see us as a positive corpoEnergy is a company that can be trusted and rate citizen. Our 2020 target is a reputation score that brings value to society. More specifically, 47 ≥55 of at least 55 out of 100 in Denmark. 2015 2020 target we work with four initiatives: Ensuring high In 2015, our reputation score was 47 out of 100. integrity in our business, continuing the green tranformation, helping our customers save energy and being an attractive workplace. 0 100 Very poor Very good Programme in focus Sustainability report 27 PROGRAMME: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PARTNERS Cooperation on step-by-step improvements As a result of differences in national circumstances, not all companies live up to the international standards for human and labour rights, the “IT’S IMPORTANT THAT COMPANIES SUCH 4.41 AS DONG ENERGY HAVE SOME THOROUGH environment and anti-corruption. This is an issue that we and many DUE DILIGENCE PROCEDURES, ENSURING other companies have to deal with. We work together with our busiTHAT THEY AND THEIR BUSINESS ness partners to ensure that they, and also their partners, comply with PARTNERS RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS. IT’S ALSO IMPORTANT THAT DONG ENERGY international standards. This gives us a more reliable supply chain with SHOWS TRANSPARENCY IN THEIR WORK” reduced risk of unforeseen and costly delays. SANNE BORGES, SENIOR ADVISOR, HUMAN RIGHTS AND BUSINESS, AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL DK As part of the programme, we communicate Shopping in China our expectations through a code of conduct. We screen contracts to assess the risk of a When we involve suppliers in our ‘Responand sustainably. Our programme for responsible business partner not complying with this code sible Partner Programme’, it is important that business partners helps to ensure this.” of conduct. The risk depends on what we buy they also feel that they benefit from it. Our and where in the world we buy it. If a contract cooperation with a Chinese supplier, Rongxin On the basis of a risk screening, we decided obtains a high risk score, we visit our business Power Engineering, is a case in point. to carry out an assessment of the conditions partner so that we can assess whether they at RXPE’s offices and factories in China. Here comply with the international standards. We source more than 95% of our products and we identified a number of points, for example services from Europe. Sometimes, however, it health, safety and the perception of corrupOur approach is based on continuous may generate value for the business to buy a tion, which RXPE could improve. In cooperadialogue in good faith. Cooperation with product outside Europe – and sometimes the tion with RXPE, we prepared an improvement partners is essential, as we prefer step-byproducts we buy from European companies plan for the company. step improvements rather than terminating a are manufactured elsewhere in the world. In contract if a partner does not comply with our 2015, we signed a contract with the Chinese For Richard Cooke, Business Development code of conduct. For example, this enables us company, Rongxin Power Engineering (RXPE), Director at RXPE, the cooperation has had an to generate real change for the employees of who will deliver a power electronics system for impact on several levels: our business partner. our wind power projects. “For us, the cooperation is a seal of approval, France Bourgouin, leading the Responsible which opens up for companies with the same Partner Programme in DONG Energy, exvalues as DONG Energy to also see us as a plained: “It’s important for our business that potential business partner. The improvement our business partners are competitive and, at plan helps to reduce risks in our business and the same time, operate their businesses reliably will help make RXPE a more attractive place How we engage our business to work.” partners in the programme All business partners must We perform risk screenings to We assess business partner If business partner performance accept our ethical, social and identify mediumand high-risk performance through site falls short of our expectations, we environmental expectations. business partners. assessments or self-assessments. collaborate on the development of an improvement plan. 28 DONG Energy Read more: Code of Conduct at dongenergy.com PROGRAMME: LOCAL ENGAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES Westermost Rough 900+ 54 EUR 16m people worked on the offshore people directly employed at our offshore investment in Grimsby and the Royal construction programme (including crew construction base in Grimsby Dock (including 1.5 million grant from the transfer vessels and contractors) Regional Growth Fund) Local jobs and engagement Local citizens and businesses naturally expect that investments in their area will create value for them. We strive to create jobs and growth in the local communities in which we operate, for instance when we are constructing a wind farm or converting a power station. To us, this gives us access to qualified labour and strengthens our supply chains. We have two general initiatives to ensure that Local projects generate our activities create value in the respective local communities. Firstly, we help small local compalocal revenue nies to participate in our tenders, so that they know what it takes to submit a bid to carry out Our activities create revenue in the local local economy of involving nearby small and the task. We do this in line with the EU public area, while strengthening our supply chain medium-sized enterprises in large-scale proprocurement rules that parts of our business are with local expertise. jects. It can be challenging, but we have an subject to. Secondly, we offer training to enable engagement programme that has for instance the respective local workforces to apply for the When we buy subcomponents and services allowed Brenig, a local construction and civil jobs created by our projects. from local businesses, we contribute to ecoengineering company, to provide a good sernomic growth and development in the local vice to us and thereby to DONG Energy’s offWe also engage in a dialogue with local citarea. But it can often be a complex and reshore wind farm project.” izens and businesses so that we can reduce source-intensive task for small, local compaany nuisances caused by our work. This can nies to become suppliers to major construcBrenig has not previously delivered anything range from increased heavy traffic in the local tion projects. During the work to complete to a project of this scale, but thanks to the area to issues for the local fisheries. We listen Burbo Bank Extension Offshore Wind Farm cooperation with Balfour Beatty, Brenig delivto the local stakeholders’ requests and needs in the UK, our supplier Balfour Beatty worked ered with great success. through, for example, information meetings closely with a new sub-supplier, Brenig, in orwith local residents, one-on-one meetings der to realise a contract. Mark Parry, Operations Director at Brenig, with local politicians and civic associations explained: “It’s been a great year for our comas well as open house events. Strong relations Dr Paul Toyne, Group Head of Sustainabilipany. The Burbo Bank Extension contract and with the local communities ensure the success ty, Balfour Beatty in the UK, explained, “Our the cooperation with Balfour Beatty and ultiof our projects, whilst also adding value to the approach to sustainability and procurement mately DONG Energy have created more than local area. ensures we engage and work with local com15 new local jobs in our company. We’re very panies. We recognise the importance to the proud and grateful for this development.” Read more: Local community engagement policy at dongenergy.com Sustainability report 29 UN GLOBAL COMPACT How we work to promote the principles of the UN Global Compact WE SUPPORT Human rights We should: Examples of what we do: Page: • Support and respect the protection Workplace safety 24 of internationally proclaimed human Employee health 25 rights; and • make sure that we are not complicit in Responsible business partners 28 human rights abuses. Local community engagement 29 Employee diversity 23 Labour rights We should: Examples of what we do: Page: • Uphold the freedom of association and Workplace safety 24 the effective recognition of the right to Responsible business partners 28 collective bargaining; • eliminate all forms of forced and compulEmployee diversity 21 sory labour; and Employee satisfaction and motivation 23 • the effective abolition of child labour; and • eliminate discrimination in respect of Performance and development 23 employment and occupation. Environment We should: Examples of what we do: Page: • Support a precautionary approach to Deployment of offshore wind 16 environmental challenges; Reducing the cost of offshore wind 17 • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Green transformation 20 • encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Sourcing of sustainable biomass 21 technologies. Greener power stations 15 Energy savings 15 Waste recycling 15 Anti-corruption We should: Examples of what we do: Page: • Work against corruption in all its forms, Responsible business partners 28 including extortion and bribery. Good business conduct 27 Responsible tax management 27 Programme in focus 30 DONG Energy LEADING THE WAY ON CO2 REDUCTION Leading the way on CO2 reduction CO 2 emissions (gCO 2 pr. KWh) among large European utilities 2006 638 2014 374 -59% 2020 target 260 600 SSE 573 -50% 300 490 E.ON1 410 -35% 320 394 Centrica 154 -34% 260 319 Iberdrola2 212 -34% 211 496 Enel 3 395 -23% 380 784 RWE 745 -21% 620 390 Energie4 434 +2 399 136 EDF Group 5 102 +10% 150 107 Fortum 6 189 +87% 200 430 Vattenfall 7 421 N/A 353 Gas Natural 406 N/A 1. E.ON’s target is by 2025 and for EU only; 2006 performance is for entire E.ON Group. 2. Iberdrola has declared an additional target to reduce emission to 150gCO2/kWh by 2030, a 53% reduction from 2006. 3. Enel has set an additional target to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. 4. GDF Suez changed name to Engie in 2015. Historical data for 2006 is approximated in their reporting as GDF Suez was formed from two companies with first joint data in 2008. 5. EDF Group commits to keep emissions <150gCO2/kWh each year. 6. Fortum commits to keep emissions <200gCO2/kWh on a 5-year average. 7. Vattenfall has an absolute emissions target which corresponds to a 23.3% reduction 2006-2020. 2007 data used as 2006 data is not available. Sources: Company annual and sustainability reports as well as other publicly available information. Sustainability report 31 2006: 638 gCO2/kWh 2015: 334 gCO2/kWh 2020 target: 260 gCO2/kWh Since 2006, we have reduced CO2 emissions from our power and heat generation with 48%.
