UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 20152016 Participant since March 6th 2014 —— Transforming Magnetics —— February 11th 2016 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to communicate that HITRAN reaffirms its commitment and support to the 10 principles of Global Compact. In our second annual report, we list and explain the actions that support the 10 principles of Global Compact which are present in our tasks. Being part of a culture that cares and looks after the environment and society leaves a great satisfaction in the heart since we know we are doing good things. It is easy to be concern about the environment and society, the challenge for companies is to do something about it. We are committed to sharing our Communication on Progress with our stakeholders through the official website of HITRAN Corp. and direct media. Sincerely, Tripp Hindle President HITRAN Corporation 908-782-5225 X246 Our approach to the 10 principles At HITRAN we support the United Nations Global Compact 10 principles and on our second report we present the activities performed from February 2015 to February 2016. Our activities are based on the principles of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. COP 2015-2016 Page 3 of HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 4 of 18 Assessment, Policy and Goals At HITRAN we believe that respecting human rights should be an essential part of social responsibility, not only because it is the right way to proceed from an ethical point of view but because protecting human rights positively reverts in business and society. That is why we support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Implementation At HITRAN we have taken the following actions in order to comply with human rights principles: • Promote sports HITRAN sponsored soccer uniforms and soccer balls for the team. The parking lot free space was used to delimit space for a soccer field. With team work we built the soccer goalposts and got the soccer field running. • Promote healthcare Human Resources invited all HITRAN employees and staff to participate in the “Healthcare Week”, this event consisted on groups of people going to a place where doctors and nurses were performing general health checkups as well as complementary studies such as lipid profile, complete blood count, blood chemistry, eye examination, blood pressure, thyroid function, hormonal profile, mammography, dental check, etc. All the participants chose which study they needed or wanted to do and they got the results delivered to the company very soon. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 5 of 18 Why is it important to promote sports in the workplace? One of the many concerns of a company is the health of their workers. Many companies implement programs promoting physical exercise or sports to have an impact on maintaining and improving the health of their workers. Benefits of having employees who play sports: • Improvement in health and quality Studies show that there is a positive of life. relationship between physical exercise and work performance. • Improvement in performance and productivity. Promoting good healthcare in the • Improvement in relationships of workplace decreases absenteeism of human groups. workers and minimizes • Increase in the worker satisfaction. productivity loss. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 6 of 18 LABOR STANDARDS PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 7 of 18 Assessment, Policy and Goals At HITRAN we support the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Implementation At HITRAN we have taken the following actions in order to comply with labor standards principles: • Human Resources applies a survey to all new employees. The survey is 30 days after they are hired and they are asked about the introduction process and their experience in the first 30 days of work in HITRAN. The survey covers the following topics and/or issues: • HITRAN customers • The company • Products HITRAN manufactures • The job • Salary and benefits • How do they feel with their job • Communication with the trainer or supervisor • Cafeteria service • Labor environment • What the company expects from them —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 8 of 18 Surveys of new employees from February 2015 to February 2016 showed the following results: Introduction Process The Company The Product Knows the company Understand Don't understand Knows the product Doesn't know the company 10% 5% 90% 100 95% % Salary and Benefits Understanding the Job Rules and Disciplines Understand Understand Don't understand Understand 10% 100 90% 100 % % —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 9 of 18 Communication with The job satisfies you Cafeteria: Good/Regular supervisor/trainer Satisfied Unsatisfied Good Regular Ongoing reviews Didn't review 7% 0% 14% 100 86% 93% % Work environment Need help to improve The company expects from me Good Bad Yes No Good Performance Quality Discipline Productivity 10% 12% 7%5% 7% 90% 88% 81% Why is it important to apply this survey to our employees? Through this survey we can detect if there are areas of opportunity and improvement at various levels, whether the information is not clear to employees, the work environment is not good, services and facilities do not meet the needs of employees, there are communication failures, etc. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 10 of 18 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 11 of 18 Assessment, Policy and Goals At HITRAN we care for the environment and we look for ways to support sustainable development. It is a responsibility to all of us because both small and large actions are impacting the environment. If we can do something about it, we have to take immediate action and contribute in any way we can. Implementation At HITRAN we have taken the following actions in order to comply with environment principles: • Recycling bins for paper and cardboard Last year recycling campaign left us a very good lesson on all the paper and cardboard we throw away and can easily be placed in a recycling bin to make a difference. This year we placed bins for paper and cardboard and we posted information about the benefits of recycling these materials. Changing habits of throwing it all away can be difficult, but we are committed to making a difference with such a simple action as separating materials that we throw to the garbage. • Assume costs of contamination generated by HITRAN activities We posted information on the cost of the disposal of drums with varnish residues and disposal of various chemicals, this in order to report that we don’t throw away the drums with varnish residues and the other chemicals but we take responsibility and pay for the proper disposal in order to avoid contamination. The World Commission on Environment and Development, established by the United Nations in 1983, defined sustainable development as: “Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability to have future generations to meet their own needs”.. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 12 of 18 Top 5 reasons that show why it is important to recycle 1. We save energy and fight climate change If we recycle we reduce the work of extraction, transportation and processing of new materials, leading to a significant decrease in the use of energy needed to perform these processes. We generate less CO2 and reduce the greenhouse effect. 4. We create jobs The process of recycling needs businesses 2. We use less raw material and workers who collect different materials If we recycle glass, paper or plastic there is and classified them. The more we recycle, no need to make use of many new raw the more jobs are created. materials to manufacture products. 5. We preserve the 3. We manufacture new products environment If we recycle, the industry pollutes less air and By recycling, new products are created. decreases the amount of greenhouse gas There are daily objects that are born from emissions; we protect our soils because the recycling. These products require less waste goes to the proper place and does not water and energy and generate less accumulate in the waters of our rivers and seas. pollution during its production process. If we use organic waste for composting our gardens or crops, we avoid chemicals fertilizers. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 13 of 18 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 14 of 18 Assessment, Policy and Goals At Hitran we believe that honesty is essential and our goal is to have a company free of corruption in any form. Implementation At HITRAN we have taken the following actions in order to comply with anticorruption principles: • Code of ethics conference We invited all employees and staff to a conference about the Code of Ethics. This conference covered the following topics: Ethics • Introduction to values Discrimination/Vulnerable groups • Duty and being professional • Human Rights • Main issues when being professional • Equality • The moral problem and the moral within • Discrimination the individual • Vulnerable Groups • Properties of the human act The goal of this conference was for the participants to discuss the nature of the moral problem. They reflected on the nature and characteristics of the moral values, also they analyzed their personal situation with regard to the values put into practice daily. —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 15 of 18 Importance of Ethics in the Workplace Values and ethics are important in the workplace to help keep order, ensuring that a company runs smoothly and remains profitable. • Ethical conduct on the part of all employees also helps maintain quality and productivity. • Ethical conduct assists the organization to comply with laws and regulations. What is ethical is also legal. • Ethical conduct ensures good and proper relationships with customers and suppliers. • Ethical conduct boosts morale and promotes teamwork. When employees can trust one another and management, they can work together more harmoniously and effectively. *The above information comes from BLR’s presentation “Business Ethics: What Employees Need to Know” —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 16 of 18 Future Implementations “The best way to predict your future is to create it” Abraham Lincoln HITRAN is committed to continue to report annually to the United Nations Global Compact. Our next Communication on Progress will cover February 2016 to February 2017 —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 17 of 18 About this Report About HITRAN This document serves as At HITRAN, we have a long HITRAN second Communication history of delivering custom on Progress (COP) to the United magnetic transformers and Nations Global Compact inductors to clients worldwide. (UNGC). We take pride in devising HITRAN supports Global solutions to your most complex Compact since March 2014. requirements, and with a team of talented engineers and strict This COP presents the actions and testing standards, you get exactly implementations that were what you need – every time. conducted in compliance with the 10 principles of the United February 16, 2016 Nations Global Compact during Our homepage is: February 2015 to February 2016. www.hitrancorp.com Any questions regarding this report please contact Mariela Carrera via e-mail at mariela.carrera@hitrancorp.com Avenida Terrazas del CID y Calle Maquila Edificio #4, Parque Industrial Terrazas del CID Nogales, Sonora, México Teléfono: (631) 314-2148 362 Highway 31 Flemington, New Jersey 08822 Phone: (908) 782-5525 Fax: (908) 782-9733 Copyright © 2008-2016 HITRAN Corporation Harry HITRAN Greets You! —— Transforming Magnetics —— COP 2015-2016 Page 18 of 18
