CEO Statement September 22, 2016 To our Stakeholders, I am content to explicitly reconfirm Al Ajmi Engineering Consultants’ commitment towards the UN’s Global Compact initiative and its continued intent to embrace and act on the UN’s Global Compact “10 Principles” in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this third annual Communication on Progress, we elaborate on how we integrated the Global Compact’s principles, that we said we would meet in the last COP submitted, into our policies, philosophy and daily operations. We bind ourselves to continually share this information with all our stakeholders through any means of communication required. Yours Sincerely, Wassim Adlouni CEO Human Rights We consider the United Nation's Declaration of Human Rights as a standard of achievement at AEC and accordingly such rights remain upheld in our company at all levels. As proof of our commitment in enforcing the Human Rights policies as articulated in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, we have implemented last year a new policy section dedicated for Human Rights and have accordingly upheld and acted upon. To ensure that no one in our company breaches any of the human rights policies, we keep modifying our strict program of monitoring which is part of our ISO Certification, hence, that allows any information or action to be passed on through different levels of the company for approval from its relevant senior. Any violation would be exposed at the level once undertaken. Labor principles At AEC we were and still are keen in giving all employees their rights without prejudice, regardless of ones’ background. As proof of our commitment to providing proper labour rights, our employees have access to their rights as soon as they are employed, furthermore, we have taken measures last year by including a section dealing with labour rights in our policies and standards. Such policy remains in effect and upheld in our company. The way our operations work, especially after putting procedures previously for ISO Certification, any breach would be caught instantly. Any breach of any rights and policies would be dealt with immediately following investigating the incident. Environmental Principles Environmental protection is one of the many issues that are always raised in our company. Accordingly a section dedicated towards the environment was implemented in our policies and standards last year and remains upheld. To prove AEC's commitment towards the environment and to uphold such commitment on at all company levels, a full policy was dedicated for this section last year. Employees are always encouraged to conduct their correspondences as much as possible electronically and accordingly clients and companies we deal with are encouraged to do the same. Furthermore, we try to design and supervise the construction of environmentally friendly structures and meet LEEDS sustainability criteria. Different levels in the company have different monitoring criteria. On the administration level, going paperless is the main goal and accordingly staff with high printing would be investigated for check relevance of printing and if going paperless could be achieved. If so they would be reminded of the companies paperless initiatives. This year a printing quota and monitoring is set in place. During project design phase, specification engineers and designers work together to achieve sustainability through use of materials that emit less VOC or are made from recycled material...etc. Additionally tenders are being distributed in soft copies. During construction supervision, mainly our engineers continuously try to monitor contractor performance and make sure no material wastage is made. Anti-Corruption Anti-corruption is one of the main issues we always try to maintain in our company. Our reputation in the industry is what sets us apart. Last year, a dedicated section that deals with anti-corruption is implemented in our company to deal with bribery, perjury and all other forms of corruption possible in our industry. Regular auditing across all levels of the company by random checking as well as a yearly external audit ensures all our actions comply with the policies set forth by our company. Our track record proves our commitment by having a clean history of dealings.
