Share: MENU CEO Message Driven to Excel The business of agriculture and broader commodities markets were challenging in 2015. Crop prices fell as the world’s farmers harvested a third consecutive huge crop, and prices for farm inputs—including fertilizers —dropped along with oil, iron ore and other commodities. Tough times like these can test companies’ resolve, and they can reveal the strength of long-term commitments. At Mosaic, our resolve is strong, and our commitments will not waver. This sustainability report is my first as Mosaic’s CEO, so I want to be clear about my priorities: The momentum we have generated across our sustainability pursuits will continue. In my time leading Mosaic’s operations, we made tremendous progress on employee safety, operating efficiency and managing our environmental impact. Our new targets—to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and freshwater use by 10 percent per finished product tonne—demonstrate that we push for continuous improvement. Because at Mosaic, we are driven to excel, at everything we do. And sustainability is a part of everything we do—every action we take contributes to our ability to operate a thriving enterprise. In 2015, we were named as one of Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens for the sixth consecutive year All of us at Mosaic take great pride in our achievements. In 2015 we were once again named to the CDP Climate A List, and Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens for the sixth consecutive year. Moreover we remain committed to the United Nations Global Compact and its Food and Agriculture Business Principles. While we have earned significant recognition, validation does not drive us. What drives us is day-to-day progress, small and large. We take pride in that progress, yet we know we always have room for improvement. In 2015, our overall safety and environmental performance was strong; in fact, our recordable injury frequency rate reached an all-time low. Nevertheless, we experienced an increase in the number of serious incidents and near misses. The lessons from those incidents weren’t lost, and we have implemented new precautions to avoid similar incidents in the future. Also in 2015, we were pleased to reach settlements with federal and state environmental agencies that, when effective, will resolve long-standing claims about how the company managed certain waste materials at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We agreed to pay $8 million in fines, invest at least $200 million in capital improvement projects, and put $630 million in trust as financial assurance to support closure and long-term care of our phosphogypsum systems. Our goal is zero incidents and injuries, and we take seriously our responsibilities to keep people and the environment safe. We will maintain this strong focus. To me, innovation is a critically important pillar of sustainability. Companies that consistently deliver product, process and management innovation beat the competition—which is a true test of sustainability. Mosaic has made significant strides in innovation, and now we are working to advance even further by harnessing the power and ingenuity of our people. The nature of innovation is such that defining goals limits its potential, so I cannot predict specific outcomes, but I believe Mosaic will grow, endure and thrive in large part because of the innovation potential that exists across our company. Despite difficult business conditions, we have made bold moves for growth and earnings leverage Most of Mosaic's products are agricultural commodities. Both the commodities and agricultural industries are cyclical, which means that managing costs across the cycle—so we have the ability to succeed in good times and bad—is essential to our sustainability. We can sustain our business for the long term if we continually enhance our competitiveness, which means pushing innovation, meeting stringent safety and environmental performance goals and maintaining low-cost operations. Mosaic has made important strides in our cost controls, and we are working to drive costs even lower. Over two years ago we announced a goal to achieve $500 million in cost savings across the organization by the end of 2017. We are well ahead of schedule—and we are working to achieve additional savings. As a result of our work to optimize our performance and meaningful share repurchases, Mosaic delivered a second consecutive year of earnings per share growth in 2015—despite an approximate 35 percent drop in prices for our potash and phosphate products. Resilience during cyclical troughs equals long-term sustainability. Resilience cannot be achieved exclusively through cost-cutting; smart and timely investments for growth are also required. At Mosaic, we have done just that. Since 2013, we have invested or committed to invest approximately $12 billion to grow the company and return capital to shareholders. We are proud to maintain our commitments as good neighbors in the midst of challenging business conditions Our 2014 acquisition of CF Industries’ Florida phosphate business and Archer Daniels Midlands’ fertilizer distribution business in Brazil and Paraguay are delivering solid returns. Our joint venture to develop a phosphate enterprise in Saudi Arabia with expected annual production capacity of 3.5 million tonnes is proceeding well. Our $3 billion potash expansion at our Esterhazy, Saskatchewan facility continues on budget and on schedule. And we have returned $4.8 billion in capital to shareholders since 2013 through share repurchases and dividends. Despite difficult business conditions, we have made bold moves for growth and earnings leverage. We have also delivered on our commitments to be good neighbors in the communities where we operate, with financial support and countless volunteer hours spent by our employees. In 2015, we once again contributed more than 1 percent of the company’s net income to support a wide range of community initiatives. We are proud to have continued our community commitments in the midst of exceptionally challenging business conditions. Agricultural commodity prices, the broader malaise in commodity prices that was preceded by declines in oil, and the strong U.S. dollar against all major currencies combined to create one of the most difficult market environments in Mosaic’s time as a public company. That said, we believe demand for our products will remain strong, and we have no doubt that future demand will grow. Demand for our products is underpinned by the global demand for food—and that will only grow as the global population expands and as more families around the world ascend to the middle class. Agriculture simply cannot meet global food demand without good crop nutrition. Farmers must feed two billion additional people with production from essentially the same amount of land that is being farmed now—which means fertilizer, and the higher crop yields it drives, will remain essential. Mosaic, one of the world’s largest producers of two necessary crop nutrients—phosphate and potash—will remain essential as well. That is why all of us—at our mines and in offices, and across Brazil and China and India—are so deeply committed to sustainability in its fullest sense: we know that it is incumbent upon us to deliver value to all our stakeholders if Mosaic is going to thrive and serve its critical mission—to help the world grow the food it needs—for the long term. Best regards, James “Joc” C. O’Rourke President and Chief Executive Officer June 2016 Strategy & Performance 2015 Comparative Highlights Helping the world grow the food it needs is no easy task. Mining, producing and delivering millions of tonnes of fertilizer each year to customers around the globe is complex. It requires teams of dedicated professionals making responsible decisions each day and at every step in the production and supply chains. We’ve built a resilient, responsible, financially strong and innovative enterprise, capable of responding day by day, quarter by quarter and decade by decade to the ever-changing agriculture markets. Our recent moves to grow and become more efficient enhance the promise Mosaic holds for all of our stakeholders. Economic Highlights in Millions (except per share amounts) FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Net Sales $11,107.80 $9,974.10 $9,021.40 $9,055.80 $8,895.30 Gross Margin 3,085.00 2,760.20 2,015.40 1,926.60 1,717.90 Operating Earnings 2,611.10 2,209.60 1,339.90 1,311.80 1,278.80 Net Earnings 1,930.20 1,888.70 1,062.90 1,028.60 1,000.40 Diluted Net Earnings 4.42 4.42 2.49 2.68 2.78 Per Share Cash and Cash 3,811.00 3,697.10 5,293.10 2,374.60 1,276.30 Equivalents Total Assets 16,690.40 18,086.00 19,554.00 18,283.00 17,214.40 Total Long-term Debt 1,010.50 1,010.50 3,009.30 3,819.00 3,834.10 Total Equity 11,999.40 13,442.90 11,320.60 10,720.60 9,565.00 Net Cash Provided by 2,748.30 1,880.50 2,095.90 2,122.10 1,807.60 Operating Activities Capital Expenditures 1,639.30 1,588.30 1,426.60 929.10 1,000.30 Dividends Per Share 0.275 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.08 on Common Stock Note: Change of year end from May 31 to December 31 occurred in 2013 (from a fiscal to a calendar year); first full calendar reporting year is 2014. For more detailed financial information, please refer to our 10-K. 2013 highlights are unaudited due to change of year end from May 31 to December 31 in 2013. Environmental Highlights 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Water Withdrawals1 268,763.00 288,274.00 319,004.00 309,371.00 300,683.00 000m3 Energy Consumption2 indirect and direct energy, 92.90 97.70 97.13 105.91 105.76 million GJ Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 3.59 4.51 4.41 4.73 4.78 million tonnes CO2e Intensity Freshwater 000m3 per tonne of 4.37 5.43 5.07 4.59 4.86 finished dry product1 Energy 2.24 2.73 2.63 2.59 2.60 GJ/tonne dry product2 GHG (Scopes 1 and 2) tonnes CO2e/tonnes 0.21 0.28 0.27 0.26 0.26 finished dry product 1 Total water withdrawal metric includes once-through cooling water. Freshwater intensity metric is aligned with our sustainability targets. The intent of our freshwater intensity target is to drive water efficiency improvements across our business and to increase the use of alternative sources. Freshwater is defined as ground and surface water, and excludes reclaimed water, brine, seawater and once-through cooling water. 2 Energy consumption includes electricity, fuels and energy from waste heat consumed by Mosaic operation including mines, manufacturing plants, distribution sites, offices and agricultural operations. 2012 and 2013 figures include energy consumed in sinking the K3 mine shaft in Esterhazy and the operation of Streamsong Resort. Prior years were restated with the exclusion of steam as an energy source. Social Highlights FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Direct Economic $1.71B $1.56B $1.45B $1.75B $1.93B Impact3 Community $23.6M $22.6M $27.1M $17M $16M Investments4 Number of 8,000 8,400 8,200 8,717 8,523 Employees5 Recordable Injury 1.27 1.20 1.11 1.02 0.88 Frequency Rate Lost Time Incident 0.12 0.10 0.09 0.08 0.09 Frequency Rate Fatalities 1 0 0 1 0 United Way $475 $514 $535 $502 $435 avg. pledge per employee 3 Direct economic impact is wages and benefits + income taxes paid + Canadian resource taxes and royalties + community investment contributions. 4 Mosaic focuses its community investments in food, water, and local philanthropic or civic partnerships in areas where Mosaic has offices and operations. Figures reflect investments made in communities where targeted beneficiaries are external to the company. This may include contributions to research institutes unrelated to Mosaic’s research and development activities, funds to support community infrastructure and other philanthropic efforts. 5 This figure, which differs from the number of employees reported in our10-K, excludes long-term leaves, co-ops, seasonal and temporary employees. About This Report 2015 Sustainability Report (G4-17, G4-22, G4-23, G4-32, G4-33) Our 2015 Sustainability Report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines ‘in accordance’ option core. The content of this report has been shaped by the issues identified through a significance study, the results of which we analyze on an ongoing basis. The process is summarized in the Significant Indicators section of this site. This report primarily summarizes the activities occurring in the period of calendar year 2015. Unless otherwise noted, all data is presented on a calendar year (CY) basis. In 2013, Mosaic changed our fiscal year-end to December 31 from May 31. Accordingly, some historical data is presented on a fiscal year (FY) basis. We encourage readers to refer to our 10-K report for 2015 and our 2015 CEO Review and Outlook for additional information about Mosaic. This report covers our global operations, including entities over which Mosaic exercises majority control, including all their operations and departments that have the potential to generate significant impacts. Except for financial and select environmental data, this report does not specifically reflect equity-method investments, including joint ventures. Please see our 10-K (page F-57) for more information about those investments. In 2015, Mosaic realigned our business segments to more clearly reflect our evolving business model. Our international distribution activities, which had previously been reported in our Phosphates business segment, were moved into a separate International Distribution segment. In 2015, Mosaic realigned our business segments to more clearly reflect our evolving business model Mosaic commissioned iCompli, a division of BPA Worldwide, to provide independent third-party assurance over the sustainability content within the Mosaic 2015 GRI Indicators (the “Report,” covering activities occurring in the period of calendar year 2015). This engagement has been managed in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008) assurance standard, where the format of the engagement was structured to meet the AA1000AS Type I (Moderate) requirements. Mosaic authorized Trucost Plc to perform a third-party verification of waste, energy, water withdrawals and greenhouse gas emissions data and calculations of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions for 2015. Trucost evaluated Mosaic’s data, methodologies and calculations, and provided a statement of assurance to the AA1000AS standard. Throughout the report, tonnes refers to metric ton unit of measurement equaling approximately 2,204.6 pounds, whereas the occasional reference to tons refers to the unit of measurement equaling 2,000 pounds. References to sulfur are in long tons, which is equal to 2,240 pounds. Mosaic is committed to better understand the sustainability efforts of our supply chain partners. Many of our largest suppliers report their environmental and social impacts through their own sustainability reporting efforts; however, we recognize the importance of communicating some of the most critical information here for our stakeholders. We are currently working with a third party firm to assess and quantify environmental impacts across our value chain, and expect to complete this exercise in the second quarter of 2016.  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top Share: MENU Driven to Excel 2015 Progress by the Numbers At Mosaic, we believe in operating responsibly and sustainably. In doing so, we are managing our financial risks, pursuing growth and innovation—and driving towards greater value for our company, employees and stakeholders. Mosaic’s sustainability journey is ongoing, and we remain steadfast in our commitment to continuous improvement.  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top Share: MENU Our Progress At Mosaic, we hold ourselves accountable for the safety and wellbeing of our colleagues, our company and our natural resources. We began reporting our sustainability progress in 2009, and since then we have been inspired to push further, and accelerate our performance improvements. While safety performance has been and always will remain a critical focus for Mosaic, our company took an important step forward in 2015 by announcing three measurable 2020 Environmental Targets. We have developed and now use expanded metrics to track our performance in freshwater and energy use, and greenhouse gas emissions. Achieving these targets requires companywide support, and leadership at every level of the organization. To accelerate learning and performance, we are actively sharing innovations and best practices across our sites and business segments, and we’re working to elevate our “small wins” through strategic communications. The goal is to educate employees on how their work impacts Mosaic’s progress, and encourage companywide innovation. View our Reporting Leadership & Awards to learn more about our sustainability journey. Sustainability Targets Safety Target Target Where We Are Today What We Plan to Do Next By 2020, reduce Mosaic’s 2015 RIFR was 0.88, the Focus on achieving reductions in recordable injury lowest in our company’s history frequency of potentially serious frequency rate (RIFR) to 0.6 incidents 14% improvement in RIFR over 2014 Continue to improve hazard awareness and risk mitigation through an improved pre-job field level risk analysis and communication process Continue to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of our environmental, health and safety management system Environmental Targets Freshwater Target Where We Are Today What We Plan to Do Next By 2020, reduce 2015 freshwater* use per tonne of Finalize water balances at facilities freshwater* use by finished product was 4.86 m3 in 2015, across the company to identify 10% per tonne of finished product a 2% reduction from 2012 baseline savings opportunities Mosaic increased use of Execute projects that reduce alternative source water, freshwater consumption consuming more than 7.5 million m3 of reclaimed and industrial water in 2015 Support initiatives that curb water To reduce freshwater consumption through behavioral consumption, we partnered with change within our facilities 11 organizations in using reclaimed or industrial wastewater in 2015 *“Freshwater” is defined as groundwater and surface water withdrawals and excludes reclaimed water, brine, seawater and once-through cooling and process water withdrawn from the Mississippi River in Louisiana. Energy Target Where We Are Today What We Plan to Do Next By 2020, reduce total 2.60 GJ per tonne of finished Optimize production of waste heat energy use by 10% per product, a 5% reduction from 2012 capture and cogeneration tonne of finished product baseline Expand electrical energy distribution Set site-specific energy network to maximize internal use of reduction goals and/or projects clean, cogenerated electricity from for all North American production facilities operational waste heat capture Developed teams to identify and execute projects with energy Continue to reduce energy savings consumption across operations Emissions Target Where We Are Today What We Plan to Do Next By 2020, reduce our 0.262 tonnes CO2e per tonne of Increase cogeneration capacity in combined Scope 1 finished product, a 2% reduction from our Phosphates business segment (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (purchased 2012 baseline electricity) Expand clean energy distribution greenhouse gas (GHG) Expanded use of clean fuels in network in Florida to expand emissions by 10% per our supply chain tonne of finished consumption of clean, cogenerated Reduced GHG footprint of our product Florida mines by optimizing electricity pump energy sources, transitioning from diesel fuel to Expand clean energy initiatives in our clean electricity supply chain Waste Target Target Where We Are Today What We Plan to Do Next Reduce waste by Building better systems to measure Continue to implement standardized increasing reuse and and manage wastes measurement and management recycling of resources systems Partnered with vendors to provide tools for effective management of our Establish quantitative waste waste footprint reduction targets Executed projects in 2015 to replace Continue to identify non-hazardous hazardous substances with nonmaterials for use in operations where hazardous alternatives in operations feasible Tracking wastes by type and disposal Explore reuse opportunities for some method at all production facilities in waste streams North and South America Stakeholder Engagement Meaningful engagement of internal and external stakeholders is central to Mosaic’s long-term success. We want to hear the full range of voices in our workplaces and our communities worldwide. By demonstrating our commitment to transparency and ongoing dialogue, our goal is to earn and preserve the trust of all our stakeholders. (G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) Mosaic’s stakeholders include our employees, communities, customers, government and regulatory officials, investors, civil society, environmental organizations, suppliers, media, academia and others. We identify our stakeholders as those who are affected by our activities and whose actions have the potential to affect the outcome of our business activities. Our stakeholders help shape our strategic priorities and give meaning to our mission to help the world grow the food it needs. Stakeholder Engagement Mosaic’s Stakeholder Ways We Engage How Often Topics of Importance Academia Fund or sponsor research, Monthly to Product and process technical and industry meetings, Quarterly innovations, agronomic research site visits, in-person research and visits during growing season, development, nutrient remote meetings stewardship, product trials, regulations, and impacts of our business and the industry Civil Society Internet site, meetings with Weekly to Nutrient stewardship, Organizations organizations, local community Biannually habitat conservation, and business leaders, corporate watershed protection and communications restoration, sustainable agriculture, food security, local community investment and partnerships Customers Sales relationships, regular Weekly to Product innovations, visits, customer service surveys, Biannually agronomic research and special events, memberships in development, nutrient industry organizations stewardship, certifications, impacts of our business and the our business and the Mosaic’s Stakeholder Ways We Engage How Often industryof Importance Topics Employees, Senior Intranet sites, e-screens at plants Daily Environment, health and Leadership Team and and mines, town hall meetings, safety; company, Board of Directors engagement surveys and business segment and activities, Annual Meeting, facility performance; our committee meetings business and our industry; business conduct and ethics; professional development and training; Mosaic's strategic community investments Government and Federal, provincial/state, and Biweekly Compliance, Regulatory Officials local executive and legislative to environmental investment branch advocacy, permitting Quarterly and footprint, industry applications, tours of plants and leadership, voluntary mines, engagement in state, programs national and trade association activities Investors and Internet site, webcasts and Daily to Investments, financial Financial Markets presentations, Securities and Quarterly results, market data, Exchange Commission (SEC) operational excellence, reports, analyst meetings, press risks and opportunities, releases company and shareholder priorities Joint Ventures and Board meetings, technical and Daily to Project details, Business Partners planning sessions, site visits Biannually environment, health and safety, investments, technologies, product and process knowledge Labor Unions Employee and labor relations Daily to Safety, contract meetings, contract negotiations Annually interpretation, employee relations issues, engagement, productivity, work environment Local Communities Internet site and community Daily to Partnerships and microsites, tours of plants and Quarterly community relations, mines, community advisory corporate and charitable panels, town halls and/or open support, environmental houses, media, community investment, organization memberships, environmental footprint, economic and charitable education, local jobs, partnerships economic impact Media Press releases, interviews and Daily to Company priorities, briefings, internet site and Quarterly performance and Mosaic’s Stakeholder Ways We Engage How Often Topics of Importance community microsites, SEC products, food security, reports, tours of plants and nutrient stewardship, mines, town halls and/or open watershed restoration, houses local economic impact, partnerships and community relations, corporate and charitable support Retirees Mailings, HR Connect As Plan benefit summaries needed to and changes, investment Annually updates and disclosures Suppliers Internet site, supplier survey Weekly to Cost reduction, Biannually productivity, quality and innovation opportunities, new technologies, contract preparation, environment, health and safety evaluation, products and services provided, certifications, impacts of products and services Cross-sector and Industry Partnerships (G4-15 and G4-16) Mosaic recognizes the importance of being active in industry associations and cross-sector business forums. These common platforms help advance cutting-edge scientific research and best management practices within our company and our industry. We consider the relevance of each engagement opportunity to our business strategies, and we pursue mutually beneficial partnerships. Many of the key organizations we engage with are listed here. Cross-sector and Industry Partnerships Cross-sector Ways We Engage Involvement Organization CDP (formerly Carbon Reporter Disclosure Project) Services Member Mosaic supports CDP’s aims to improve transparency for Climate with respect to greenhouse gas emissions and develop Change and reduction strategies. We report to CDP annually. Water Water Cross-sector Ways We Engage Involvement Organization Global Reporting GOLD Initiative (GRI) As a member of these programs, Mosaic is a part of the Community and community shaping the future of sustainability and Reporting 2025 reporting. member National Association Through membership and committee participation, of Manufacturers Member Mosaic contributes to NAM’s work to create a favorable (NAM) policy climate for manufacturing in the United States. United Nations Global In 2011, Mosaic became a signatory to the UNGC, Compact (UNGC) affirming our deep commitment to operating responsibly. Signatory We communicate our progress on the UNGC's universal principles in our annual sustainability report. Industry Organization Ways We Engage Involvement Agriculture Nutrient Our membership in the ANPC allows us to be an active Policy Council (ANPC) Member stakeholder and leader in the policy process, building the industry’s technical, legal and policy capacity. Agricultural Retailers Mosaic contributes to ARA’s mission to advocate, Association (ARA) Board Level influence, educate and provide support to agricultural retailers. Associação Nacional As a member of ANDA, Mosaic promotes the value and para Difusão de Member Adubos (ANDA) correct use of fertilizers in Brazil. Fertilizer Canada Mosaic supports Fertilizer Canada’s efforts to promote (formerly Canadian Board Level the responsible, sustainable and safe production Fertilizer Institute) distribution and use of fertilizers. Conservation In 2015, Mosaic continued to partner with CTIC on Technology several initiatives that champion, promote and provide Information Center Board Level (CTIC) information on technologies and sustainable agricultural systems. Field to Market® Mosaic contributes to solutions for sustainability and Board Level continuous improvement in U.S. commodity agriculture. Global Harvest Board Level Mosaic contributes to Global Harvest Initiative’s mission Initiative (GHI) to advocate for productivity improvements throughout the agricultural value chain to sustainably meet the demands of a growing population. International Fertilizer Mosaic supports IFA’s efforts to represent, promote and Industry Association Member protect the fertilizer industry among policymakers, (IFA) regulators, farmers and society at large. International Plant Mosaic contributes to and benefits from IPNI’s Nutrition Institute Nutrition Institute Board Level information about the production, distribution and use of Industry (IPNI) Organization Ways We Engage Involvement crop nutrients, and their influence on soil fertility. Saskatchewan Mining Mosaic supports the SMA’s aims to enhance the general Association (SMA) welfare of the mining industry through technical Board Level innovations in the fields of health and safety standards, waste disposal, environmental protection, and extractive metallurgy research and development. Saskatchewan Potash Our membership in SPPA allows us to be an active Producers Board Level Association (SPPA) stakeholder in the policymaking process. The Fertilizer Institute Mosaic partners with TFI in its mission to represent, (TFI) Board Level promote and protect the fertilizer industry. Fertiliser Association Mosaic supports and partners with FAI in its objective to of India (FAI) Member ensure food security through balanced and efficient use of plant nutrients. Significant Indicators Defining What's Most Important (G4-18, G4-19, G4-26) As a global, publicly traded company, we are continually exploring what it means to be responsible and accountable to Mosaic’s diverse stakeholders. From employees, customers, shareholders and industry partners to trade unions, community organizations, government officials and academics, we seek ongoing dialogue with individuals or representatives of stakeholder organizations that impact—or are impacted by—Mosaic’s business activity. Topics and indicators that reflect Mosaic’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders are deemed by us to be significant for sustainability reporting purposes. While our stakeholders’ different perspectives occasionally harbor a potential for conflict, we aim to strengthen a broad foundation of trust, open communication and mutual understanding. In our effort to understand issues that are important to our stakeholders, we worked with a third-party auditor to analyze how Mosaic defines significant economic, environmental and social impacts, engages stakeholders, prioritizes and manages issues, and develops targets by which we measure and report our progress. AccountAbility’s AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard guided the review process that reflects our company’s commitment to more fully inform all stakeholders on matters that influence our business and society. We aim to strengthen a broad foundation of trust, open communication and mutual understanding In addition to analyzing peer sustainability reports, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines and the Mining and Metals sector supplement, as well as other reports and frameworks, our analysis included: Reviewing Mosaic’s public financial reports, sustainability reports, GRI tables, policies and commitments as well as an internally conducted survey of senior management, customers and employees Scanning media reports, social media and blogs for issues raised for public concern Engaging leaders of local, regional, national and global community organizations Comparing sustainability materiality determination practices to peer companies Cataloging issues identified by stakeholder surveys, sustainability indexes, principles of the United Nations Global Compact, regulatory and policy trends, industry associations and cross-sector partnerships Reviewing marketing research and customer satisfaction survey results Analyzing investor insights Compiling community perceptions through social media activity and brand awareness survey 5 Areas of Sustainability Focus: Food, Environment, People, Company, Community Focus Areas Our former Sustainability Steering Committee and Public Affairs team members originally evaluated the significance of more than 50 issues based on their relevancy and importance to stakeholders, the likelihood of impact and the connection to Mosaic’s business strategies and values. We monitor these issues on an ongoing basis. Significant issues are structured around and summarized in five areas of sustainability focus: Food, Environment, People, Company and Community. Continuous improvement is a cornerstone of our company culture. Our stakeholders—whether supportive or critical—voice concerns and provide suggestions that help us define and achieve our sustainability goals. Our goals and reporting will evolve as we refine our understanding and identify further material issues. Continuous improvement is a cornerstone of our company culture (G4-19) The following issues, grouped into 14 categories by sustainability focus area, stand out as the most significant to our stakeholders. Category Descriptions 1. Water Withdrawals, recycling and discharge 2. Occupational Health and Safety Injury-free workplace Promoting safe and healthy behaviors 3. Communities Local sourcing and hiring Community relations Community investment Revenue sharing and sustainable community investment Commercial, in-kind or pro bono impacts Closure plans 4. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and Energy Energy consumption, source and efficiency GHG and other significant air emissions 5. Product Stewardship, Innovation and Food Security Agricultural yields and sustainable intensification practices Agronomic and technological research and development Product innovation 4R Nutrient Stewardship 6. Government Public policy activities International fiscal or political unrest 7. Environmental Incidents Environmental releases Fines and non-monetary sanctions 8. Waste Overburden and tailings Mining wastes U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 9. Shareholders Performance, priorities and investment Market forecasting, competition and risk Market access Low-cost provider of crop nutrients 10. Supply Chain Raw materials and energy price and availability Supply chain and JV risk Data security 11. Workforce Management Recruiting, developing, demographics Labor relations Training and benefits 12. Customers Satisfaction, expectations, loyalty, requirements 13. Land Use and Biodiversity Mined, reclaimed and managed land Management plans, International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List 14. Human Rights Freedom of association and collective bargaining Indigenous rights (G4-20, G4-21) Material aspects, as well as aspect boundaries within and outside the organization, are as follows:  Food Material Category and Aspect Boundary Aspect Boundary Outside the Organization Relevant G4 Aspects Within the Organization Product Stewardship, Whole Organization Customers; Civil Society Organizations; Competitors; Innovation and Food Government and Regulatory Officials; Media; Security Product and Academia Service Labeling Products and Services Customers Whole Organization Customers; Civil Society Organizations; Competitors; Product and Government and Regulatory Officials; Media; Service Labeling Academia  Environment Material Category and Aspect Boundary Aspect Boundary Outside the Organization Relevant G4 Aspects Within the Organization Water Whole Organization Local Communities; Suppliers; Customers; Water Government and Regulatory Officials; Media Greenhouse Gas Whole Organization Local Communities; Suppliers; Customers; (GHG) Emissions and Government and Regulatory Officials; Media Energy Energy Emissions Environmental Whole Organization Local Communities; Suppliers; Customers; Incidents Government and Regulatory Officials; Media Compliance Overall Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Waste Whole Organization Local Communities; Suppliers; Customers; Effluents and Government and Regulatory Officials; Media Waste Land Use and Phosphates and Potash Local Communities; Suppliers; Customers; Biodiversity segments Government and Regulatory Officials; Media Biodiversity Supply Chain Whole Organization Local Communities; Suppliers; Customers; Transport Government and Regulatory Officials; Media Other Material Whole Organization Local Communities; Suppliers; Customers; Aspects Government and Regulatory Officials; Media Materials  People Material Category and Aspect Boundary Within Aspect Boundary Outside the Organization Relevant G4 Aspects the Organization Occupational Health Whole Organization Suppliers; Local Communities; Government and and Safety Regulatory Officials; Labor Unions Occupational Health and Safety Workforce Whole Organization Suppliers; Local Communities; Government and Management Regulatory Officials; Labor Unions Employment Labor/Management Relations Training and Education Diversity and Equal Opportunity Market Presence Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms  Company Material Category and Aspect Boundary Aspect Boundary Outside the Organization Relevant G4 Aspects Within the Organization Government Whole Investors; Suppliers and Joint Ventures; Competitors; Anti-corruption Organization Government and Regulatory Officials; Civil Society Public Policy Anti-competitive Organizations; Media behavior Shareholders Whole Investors; Suppliers and Joint Ventures; Competitors; Economic Organization Government and Regulatory Officials; Civil Society Performance Organizations; Media  Community Material Category and Aspect Boundary Within the Aspect Boundary Outside the Relevant G4 Aspects Organization Organization Communities Whole Organization Local Communities; Civil Society Market Presence Organizations Indirect Economic Impact Procurement Practices Local Community Closure Planning Resettlement Human Rights Whole Organization Local Communities; Civil Society Non-discrimination Organizations Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Child Labor Compulsory Labor Indigenous Rights Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top Share: MENU Food Today, fertilizers help produce up to 60% of all crop yields. Macronutrient and micronutrient fertilizers play a vital role in soil fertility and sustainable crop production. The United Nations estimates that world population will climb from 7 billion to 9 billion by 2050, and increasing global prosperity means more demand for meat—and for the grain to feed livestock raised for food. For that many human beings to thrive on our planet, the world’s farmers must produce more food, fuel and fiber. And they will need fertilizers to do it. By striving to produce and deliver the highest quality, most innovative crop nutrition products, we help farmers rise to the challenge. The Mosaic Company is one of the world’s largest producers and marketers of concentrated phosphates and potash crop nutrients for the global agriculture industry. Farmers around the globe use our potash and phosphate products to help nourish their crops—and to optimize the food they can grow on every acre of farmland. Mine-to-Market Value (G4-12) Mining, producing and delivering millions of tonnes of fertilizer each year to customers around the globe is complex. It requires teams of dedicated professionals working to make responsible decisions each day and at every step in the production and supply chains. % Our Products and Brands (G4-4) Through our broad crop nutrition product offering, we are a single-source supplier of phosphateand potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients to customers in approximately 40 countries. Our quality nutrients play an important role in nourishing farmers’ soil, growing healthy plants, and increasing global food security. We mine phosphate rock in Florida and process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in Saskatchewan and New Mexico. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India and Paraguay, as well as strategic equity investments in a phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region in Peru, and a joint venture to develop a phosphate rock mine and chemical complexes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our distribution operations serve the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world. Phosphate and potash are 2 of 17 essential nutrients plants need for growth and reproduction Phosphates We are the largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest producers and marketers of phosphatebased animal feed ingredients in the United States. We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. We account for approximately 14% of estimated global annual production and 79% of estimated North American annual production of concentrated phosphate nutrients. Potash We are one of the four largest potash producers in the world. We sell potash throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed ingredients. We account for approximately 13% of estimated annual global potash production and 43% of estimated North American annual potash production. International Distribution Our International Distribution segment consists of sales offices, crop nutrient blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and warehouses in Brazil, Paraguay, India and China. Our international distribution activities have the capability to supply a wide variety of crop nutrients to our customer base. Examples of Mosaic's products include: Diammonium Phosphate (DAP): DAP is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. DAP is a solid granular product. Monoammonium Phosphate (MAP): MAP is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient and the fastest growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. MAP is a solid granular product. Muriate of Potash (MOP): MOP is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry. Red MOP has traces of iron oxide. The granular and standard grade Red MOP products are well suited for direct fertilizer application and bulk blending. White MOP has a higher percent potassium oxide. White MOP, besides being well suited for the agricultural market, is used in many industrial applications. MicroEssentials®: MicroEssentials fertilizers are a line of value-added ammoniated phosphate products that are enhanced through a patented process to include micronutrients such as sulfur or zinc. These products provide for uniform nutrient distribution, resulting in improved nutrient uptake, which allows plants to maximize their yield potential. K-Mag®: K-Mag delivers potassium (K), magnesium (Mg) and sulfur (S) in a single granule, reducing the need for fertilizer blends. Nexfos®: In 2011, Mosaic unveiled Nexfos, a new animal feed-grade phosphate product that increases efficiency, enhances bioavailability and contains a higher sustainable concentration of phosphate over traditional livestock feed products. Nexfos represents the first innovation in feed-grade phosphate in more than 40 years. Nexfos also reduces purchasing, storing and handling costs for consumers, and offers significant reductions in requirements during production. Production design changes have resulted in increased water and energy efficiencies. Aspire®: Aspire is the first-of-its-kind micronutrient-enhanced potash-based fertilizer. Aspire with Boron premium potash combines potassium and boron in each granule to achieve uniform distribution and increased yields to meet the growing need for micronutrients in crops like corn, soybeans, alfalfa and cotton. SPOTLIGHT Helping Smallholder Farmers Produce More Food and Break the Poverty Cycle Since 2008, The Mosaic Villages Project in India and Guatemala has helped smallholder farmers move out of poverty and achieve greater food security through improved crop productivity. Our investment includes cash grants and the time and talents of Mosaic agronomists, who work alongside implementing partners to train local farmers on balanced crop nutrition and agricultural best management practices. As a result, crop yields have increased dramatically over traditional farming practices. In India, it is estimated that between 70 and 80 percent of farmers have landholdings of less than two hectares. In the districts of Mewat and Alwar, two of India’s most impoverished and isolated areas, Mosaic has partnered with the Sehgal Foundation to create the Krishi Jyoti Project, which means “enlightened agriculture.” Krishi Jyoti has now reached 45 villages and has been responsible for the cultivation of nearly 9,000 acres of farmland. The project has directly benefited more than 20,000 farmers. In Guatemala, where more than 56% of the population lives in poverty, the rural economy is based in agriculture with corn as the main staple crop. Unfortunately, indigenous farmers in rural areas grow only about 75% of what they need to feed their families. Mosaic’s implementing partner, HELPS International, works to increase farmers’ productivity in corn crops, improve native seed quality through seed banks and offer access to growing cash crops, corn storage technology, cook stoves and water filters. An independent evaluation by Deloitte in 2014 confirmed that average yields have reached four metric tonnes per hectare (MT/ha) compared with 0.8 MT/ha before the program began, representing a five-fold increase. Deloitte's evaluation also found that best practices from the program are spreading by word of mouth to the surrounding villages without any level of intervention by Mosaic or HELPS. In many of these neighboring villages, the doubling of average yield is being observed. Innovation At Mosaic, we foster innovation and encourage ideas that make us better. Innovation occurs across every level of our operations—from mining and manufacturing, to our product development, crop nutrition science, agronomy and nutrient stewardship. Product and Process Innovation We are constantly striving to be better, lower our costs and operate more sustainably—whether it’s by reducing our water consumption, cogenerating electricity at our facilities, or improving the safety of our plants and mines. We seek to deliver product technology that optimizes yields while helping farmers care for the environment. Our fertilizer and feed products are designed to efficiently and sustainably increase agricultural production. Commercial retailers are able to gain a differentiating edge in a competitive market by selling Mosaic’s innovative premium products, while growers who use them are able to achieve efficiency, yield gains and greater profit potential. 2015 Innovation Progress Mosaic’s premium product MicroEssentials® is the leading premium fertilizer brand in the world. It ensures uniform nutrient distribution, increased nutrient uptake, and season-long sulfur availability across a variety of crops and soil conditions. In 2015, we continued our efforts to further expand MicroEssentials production capacity. Our conversion project, set to expand our total MicroEssentials capacity to 3.5 million tonnes by 2017, is progressing well. We continue the expansion of potash capacity, with the addition of K3 shafts at our Esterhazy mine that are expected to add approximately 0.9 million tonnes to our potash operational capacity. In December 2014, our Board approved an approximate $1.5 billion investment in the K3 project over the next 10 years. The project is on track to start producing ore in 2017. Once complete, we expect that K3 will be one of the largest, most competitive potash mines in the world. Our phosphates concentrates facilities use molten sulfur to produce sulfuric acid, which is used in the phosphoric acid manufacturing process. Sulfur is an important raw material that has often been subject to volatile pricing and availability. We are constructing a sulfur melter that heats prilled sulfur to liquid form. The melter, which will have the capacity to melt approximately one million long tons of sulfur annually, will allow Mosaic to leverage economic benefits within the global sulfur marketplace. Product Responsibility Materials Stewardship Programs G4-DMA: In December 2013, Mosaic’s Belle Plaine facility received Product Stewardship Excellence certification from the International Fertilizer Association’s (IFA) Protect & Sustain Product Stewardship initiative. This certification covers the product life cycle including: management systems, product development and planning, sourcing and contracting, manufacturing techniques, and supply chain to the customer. Communications are directed up and down the value chain, such as supplier certification requirements as part of sourcing and procurement of inputs, (material) safety data sheets (M/SDS), labels, registrations, quality/traceability information, training and educational materials. Mosaic’s research and development processes include internal and external research and science-based data generation to advance product advocacy and customer results. Finally, process improvements include an Environmental Health and Safety Management System that is aligned to ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 and ANSI-10, enterprise mechanical integrity programs and contractor accountability programs. We believe Mosaic’s products are among the most responsibly sourced in the world, and we are committed to the sustainable manufacturing of our products. For example, in 2015, Mosaic developed improved raw material sourcing guidance for sulfuric acid and zinc to prevent contamination of our products with trace metals. We are similarly committed to responsible use of our products. Crop nutrients must be applied sustainably to mitigate potentially negative environmental impacts stemming from improper use. Among industry organizations to which we belong and the farmers who use our products, we encourage the adoption of the 4Rs of nutrient stewardship: Right source, Right rate, Right time and Right place. Received the “Product Steward Excellence” certification Product Responsibility (G4-PR3) Mosaic complies with safety, environmental, labeling and registration required by country and local governments where we sell and distribute fertilizer, animal feed and industrial products. Where U.S. standards are more stringent, we follow those more rigorous standards on the products that we produce both in the United States and for export. Mosaic provides the required country, state and local product documentation for all shipments. This includes detailed labels, data specification sheets and a safety data sheet (SDS) for all products. These documents provide information about proper product handling, safety precautions and guaranteed analysis. Situations requiring disposal are also addressed in the SDS. For product undergoing vessel transport, the SDS includes certification that the discharge of cargo hold rinsate is not harmful to the marine environment. Mosaic promotes customer education following the 4R Nutrient Stewardship framework of the Right nutrient source, applied at the Right rate, at the Right time and at the Right place. Our agronomists share this message worldwide. SPOTLIGHT 4R Nutrient Stewardship Certification Program – 1 MillionAcres Milestone The Mosaic Company Foundation supports the Nutrient Stewardship Council’s 4R Nutrient Stewardship Certification Program. This voluntary certification program is regionally focused on significantly reducing and preventing applied nutrients from running off fields by providing 4R nutrient recommendations or application services. By the end of 2015, the Nutrient Stewardship Council announced that it reached an important milestone: More than 1 million acres in the Western Lake Erie Basin (WLEB) are now under the guidance of nutrient service providers that have earned certification through this program. “At Mosaic, we support and promote the 4R Nutrient Stewardship framework to help farmers achieve the benefits of fertilizer while reducing nutrient loss to the environment,” said Rick McLellan, board member of The Mosaic Company Foundation and Senior Vice President – Commercial for The Mosaic Company. “We are proud to partner with the Nutrient Stewardship Council, and we look forward to ongoing collaboration that builds on this significant certification milestone.” (G4-PR4) Mosaic has automated systems to manage, track and monitor incidents related to noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. We are committed to quality and responsible labeling and we investigate all questions or claims about the labeling, quality or guaranteed analysis of our products and work with the customer and/or appropriate agency to resolve any claims that arise. Reducing the Environmental Impacts of Our Products and Services (G4-EN28) Mosaic products, predominantly fertilizer and animal feed ingredients, are used in various stages of agricultural operations with multiple steps and biological processes. To the extent possible, bulk transport is used to minimize the need for extensive packaging throughout the supply chain. Mosaic supports and helps promote The Fertilizer Institute’s (TFI) Bulk Blend Workshops and Manual, which eliminates the need for packaging of major raw materials or the final product. This process completely eliminates the need for bags as the product is transferred from dealer to farmer. Because of the sizing and blending capabilities of our bulk materials, we encourage the use of the bulk blending and delivery system in farming operations. In 2015, more than 75% of the sales volumes (tonnes) from our Phosphates, Potash and International Distribution segments were sold in bulk. We encourage the use of the bulk blending and delivery system in farming operations Agricultural operation processes are not within Mosaic’s purview to control; however, the nutrient elements of our products often are recycled into these or other agricultural systems. Examples of these systems include: Fertilizer is applied to the soil and then taken up by plants; the plants can be used for human or animal food. This food is processed and excreted by humans and animals as manure or biosolids, which may be recycled and used as nutrients similar to mineral fertilizers, depending on infrastructure (e.g., publicly-owned treatment works reuse water distribution systems). Animal feed materials are taken up by animals as food and excreted as manure. These materials may be recycled and used as nutrients similar to mineral fertilizers, depending on infrastructure (e.g., feed lot versus free-range grazing). To further encourage stewardship of our products, Mosaic has formed a product stewardship team from various disciplines and is pursuing opportunities to cooperate with supply chain and logistical partners to identify and implement stewardship enhancements on a global basis. (G4-EN27) Mosaic has a dedicated agronomy team that conducts field trials to evaluate the performance of our products and promote and support 4R Nutrient Stewardship. In 2015, we conducted 350 small-plot trials in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Canada, India, Northern Latin America (Mexico to Peru) and the United States. These trials were conducted by highly regarded private researchers and universities that follow rigorous scientific standards. In addition, more than 200 demonstration plots were conducted in the same countries via collaborations with customers and growers. In total, more than 500 plots of research were established in 2015. As another example of our research efforts, Mosaic continues its collaboration with a highly regarded crop sciences professor and researcher at the University of Illinois to develop advanced agronomic systems aimed at sustainably increasing corn and soybean productivity by combining fertilizer best management practices with other agronomic technologies. This research evaluates nutrient requirements of modern corn hybrids and soybean varieties under different field conditions. A complete understanding of field conditions is a precondition of a balanced crop nutrition program. CropNutrition.com is a digital hub of soil fertility and balanced crop nutrition information Educational Tools Mosaic supports an educational initiative to help the industry understand fertilizer best management practices as a way of reducing the impact of fertilizers on the environment. CropNutrition.com is a resource for retailers, growers and media members seeking to better understand soil science, grow healthier crops, and increase productivity and yield – sustainably. By simplifying highly technical and agronomic information, CropNutrition.com is a digestible digital hub of soil fertility and balanced crop nutrition information. Retailers and growers benefit from Mosaic sharing information that will allow them to think progressively about crop fertility. Industry Initiatives 4R Nutrient Stewardship (4Rs) is about doing everything “right” in applying fertilizer and effectively reducing agriculture’s potential for negative externalities. 4R Nutrient Stewardship encompasses science-based fertilizer best management practices to achieve specific cropping system goals, including environmental protection. To achieve those goals, the 4Rs framework promotes a focus on the Right nutrient source, at the Right rate, at the Right time, and in the Right place. The concept of 4R Nutrient Stewardship is simple, but implementation is knowledge-intensive and site-specific. Other agronomic and conservation practices, such as tillage practices and cover crops, play a valuable role in good nutrient stewardship. As a result, fertilizer best management practices are most effective when applied with other agronomic and conservation practices. Mosaic partners with the fertilizer industry to enhance understanding, adoption and promotion of 4R Nutrient Stewardship among stakeholders. The 4Rs of Nutrient Stewardship Right Source Matches fertilizer type to crop needs Right Rate Matches amount of fertilizer to crop needs Right Time Makes nutrients available when crops need them Right Place Keeps nutrients where crops can use them Partnerships Mosaic established and continues to fund the Mosaic Fertilizer Technology and Research Centre at the University of Adelaide, Australia. The centre focuses on soil chemistry and fertilizer technology, and uses the latest technology to develop innovative fertilizer formulations to improve nutrient use efficiency. Mosaic also has a long-term partnership with a globally recognized plant nutrition expert at Sabanci University in Turkey, whose research focus is balanced crop nutrition and nutrient interactions conducted through greenhouse experiments. We accepted the 2015 Research Partner Award from The University of Florida’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences for supporting and advancing its research, teaching and extension efforts. Customer Satisfaction Driven by our mission to help the world grow the food it needs, Mosaic helps improve crop yields through the science-based and efficient use of crop nutrients. Our continual focus on developing and testing new products, such as our premium product line, ensures we can help meet the unique needs of growers in every part of the world. In 2015, we proceeded with plans to further expand MicroEssentials® capacity to bring total capacity to 3.5 million tonnes by 2017. We currently have 12 potential products or product variations in various stages of development. Using more than 500 research plots around the world, we evaluate agronomic practices, test crop nutrition performance, and develop recommendations to mitigate potentially negative environmental impact stemming from improper use. Please see G4EN27 for more information. In 2014, we announced plans to further expand MicroEssentials® capacity, bringing total capacity to 3.5 million tonnes by 2017 (G4-DMA, G4-PR5) At Mosaic, customer satisfaction and loyalty are paramount to sustaining and growing our world-class organization. On an annual basis, we adhere to a trusted feedback methodology to measure satisfaction levels among our customer base. This global feedback system also allows us to monitor recent performance, identify which performance factors are likely to have the biggest impact on customer loyalty, and look for potential trends impacting our business relationships. We use the same methodology throughout Mosaic’s global operations. In 2015, Mosaic earned a score of 7.6 on a scale of 0 to 10. This score is described as “Quite Satisfied.” Our key customer loyalty metric—Net Promoter Score (NPS)—is a standard index across a variety of industries around the world. We use this metric to benchmark our results against others’, allowing us to identify and target opportunities for improvement. Year over year, we work to improve our performance by providing quality products and ensuring on-time delivery and logistical support. In 2015, Mosaic earned an NPS score of 44%. The survey results are shared across our commercial business and with key customers around the world, which serves as an opportunity to gain additional insight into the factors that contribute to the score. Further, we conduct analyses to determine how we can continue to improve our business relationships and future NPS scores. Additionally, we conduct an annual brand awareness tracking study for our premium product brands, including MicroEssentials®, K-Mag®, Aspire® and Pegasus®, which includes a product satisfaction measurement. Compared to nine other premium fertilizer products, three of four Mosaic products received the highest satisfaction rating with 85 to 91% of respondents reporting that they are highly to extremely satisfied with the product.  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top Share: MENU Environment G4-DMA: Respect for the natural environment is paramount and essential to the sustainability of our business. From our potash mines in Saskatchewan to our Florida phosphate operations and blending facilities in Brazil, we strive to optimize our production processes and reduce our environmental footprint. At Mosaic, we believe lasting success comes from making smart choices about how we manage resources. We are committing significant resources to advancing our efforts in water conservation, land reclamation, waste reduction, and producing clean energy through cogeneration in our phosphates operations. We are also committed to the responsible and sustainable use of our products. By promoting and advancing 4R Nutrient Stewardship, we are working to mitigate potentially negative environmental impacts stemming from improper use of fertilizer. This year, we have developed sustainability targets to help focus our efforts and track our progress in the areas of water, energy, greenhouse gases and waste. We are committed to achieving these targets and will work to evaluate future areas for measurement and improvement. View Our Sustainability Targets  Water Water Managing Our Water Footprint Responsible use of water is a fundamental component of Mosaic’s global sustainability efforts. Our water management programs involve facility-specific and segment-wide initiatives to reduce our water footprint. Water Withdrawals (G4-EN8) The primary sources of water for our operations are surface water, rainwater and groundwater. Secondary sources of water include water supplied by local authorities and partially treated industrial and domestic reclaimed water, also supplied by local authorities. Surface water withdrawals include once-through cooling water used by our Louisiana operations. Mosaic operations capture rainfall, a portion of which is used in the various production processes and eventually discharged through permitted outfalls. Traditionally, Mosaic has considered captured rainfall use as an “alternative water supply.” Captured rainfall is used in part to estimate recycle/reuse water usage rates at Florida concentrate and minerals operations. Global Water Withdrawals ,000m3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Groundwater 58,746 71,218 67,277 64,380 68,270 Municipal 94 118 133 781 730 Reclaimed Water 971 1,084 1,167 3,429 7,515 Surface Water 208,952 215,854 250,427 240,780 224,168 Total 268,763 288,274 319,004 309,370 300,683 Notes: Surface water figure includes once-through cooling water. Approximately 47% of Phosphates business segment surface water withdrawals are used for once-through cooling. The increase in use of reclaimed water in 2014 was largely due to our acquisition of the Florida Phosphate assets of CF Industries, Inc. In alignment with our Sustainability Targets, we have modified our water intensity reporting to reflect a freshwater intensity measurement. In setting a water target, our intent is to drive water efficiency improvements across our business and to increase the use of alternative sources. Mosaic’s freshwater withdrawals per tonne of dry product crop nutrient and animal feed production are as shown below: Freshwater Intensity m3/Tonne 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Mosaic 4.38 4.37 5.43 5.07 4.59 4.86 Notes: Intensity refers to the volume of water (m 3 ) used in making a single metric tonne of product. Production includes all crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients produced in the calendar year. Freshwater is defined as groundwater and surface water withdrawals and excludes reclaimed water, brine, seawater and once-through cooling and process water withdrawn from the Mississippi River in Louisiana. For withdrawals and total intensity broken down by business segment, please see our Environment Metrics Supplement page. (G4-EN9) Mosaic’s Central Florida fertilizer production facilities operate on approximately 90% recycled or reused water. Deep well pumping from the Floridan Aquifer, which underlies approximately 100,000 square miles including the entire state of Florida and portions of Georgia, Alabama and South Carolina, is strictly regulated, and is used by Mosaic as a supplemental water supply on an as-needed basis. Local regulations promote the use of available alternative water supplies, such as reclaimed water from municipalities, before groundwater use. Mosaic Florida sites received reclaimed water from six municipal waste water treatment plants in 2015 at an average rate of 5.2 million gallons per day (MGD). Please see G4-EN8 and G4-EN10 for additional context. Mosaic regularly evaluates and reports to the Southwest Florida Water Management District (SWFWMD) on efforts to minimize groundwater use for processing needs on an annual basis. To demonstrate the substantial results achieved through water conservation efforts over time, in 1991, Mosaic’s predecessors used approximately 1,000 gallons of water to process one ton of phosphate rock; currently water use has been reduced by approximately 50% to about 500 gallons of water per ton of phosphate rock. Mosaic’s water use permit quantities have been reduced to reflect this decrease in demand. In the Phosphates business segment, to avoid impacts on adjacent wetlands and other surface water sources, active mining areas are surrounded by a recharge ditch and berm system that assists in maintaining the groundwater elevation. Groundwater levels are monitored continuously under our SWFWMD permits to verify no impact to our adjacent properties and water resources. Today phosphate rock is processed using approximately half the amount of water that was used more than 20 years ago Water Recycling (G4-EN10) Our facilities continuously monitor and evaluate water use to ensure it is minimized, and water recycling and reuse are maximized. Recycle and reuse percentage rates for Mosaic’s Potash and Phosphate business segments are presented here. Rates and volume are based on total water used by facility, less freshwater withdrawals. Recycle and Reuse Volume Business Segment Recycle and Reuse Volume ,000m3 Phosphates 667,284 Potash 189,385 Notes: Carlsbad, N.M., South Pasture, Plant City, and South Pierce, Fla., and Faustina and Uncle Sam, La., are not included in respective business segment calculations. Belle Plaine is not included since it is a solution mine and therefore, water use and methodology for recycle/reuse rate differs from shaft mining operations. Mosaic operations capture rainfall, a portion of which is impounded and used in the various production processes, with some discharged through permitted outfalls at Phosphates facilities. Traditionally, Mosaic has considered captured rainfall use as an alternative water supply, and it is used in part to estimate recycle/reuse water usage rates at Florida concentrate and minerals operations. Effluents & Waste Water Discharges (G4-EN22, G4-EN26) Discharges from Mosaic’s Florida and Louisiana phosphate operations to downstream water bodies are highly regulated through federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits that are administered by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) and Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ). The limitations are based on the water quality standards that protect the designated uses of the receiving water body. None of the points of discharge releases water directly into a designated protected area, although discharges occur in two riverine basins upstream of Outstanding Florida Water (segment of Little Manatee River) and Florida Wild and Scenic River (segment of Myakka River) designations. As an overarching principle, water that falls within the active, operational footprint of Mosaic’s phosphate mining and fertilizer production facilities is actively managed, treated if necessary and discharged only through outfalls, whose locations are permitted through the NPDES program. Discharges are monitored, sampled and analyzed regularly by Mosaic, and reported to regulatory agencies to demonstrate ongoing compliance with the permit limitations. By maintaining compliance with all NPDES permits, Mosaic ensures that its discharges meet existing regulations and do not adversely affect water quality. In 2015, Mosaic’s Canadian potash facilities helped preserve water quality off-site by maintaining a zero-discharge approach, with the capture of surface water runoff from the sites. In certain circumstances of high precipitation events, off-site discharges of freshwater surface runoff are warranted and are approved in advance by the Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment and Saskatchewan Water Security Agency. There was one such instance in 2015. A significant percentage of the total outfall discharge from our Florida phosphate operations is collected rainwater. The discharge pattern tends to follow the rainfall pattern (e.g., more discharges occurring immediately following rainfall events) with the total discharge volume varying year to year based on precipitation. Our Florida operations are located in the following river basins: Alafia River, Hillsborough River, Little Manatee River, Myakka River and Peace River, with one fertilizer manufacturing facility’s outfalls directing water to Tampa Bay. Mosaic’s phosphates facilities in Louisiana have permitted outfalls that discharge water to the Mississippi River. The following table summarizes the total surface water discharge from our phosphates operations in Florida and Louisiana combined. Total Water Discharge of Mosaic Phosphates Business Segment 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Phosphates Annual Outfall Discharges 287,978 321,318 444,035 304,569 401,242 ,000m3 Phosphates Outfall Discharge Annual Phosphorous 1,785 2,465 2,691 2,680 2,025 Loadings Tonnes Phosphates Outfall Discharge Annual 123 115 210 278 388 Nitrogen Loadings Tonnes Note: Outfall discharge totals include once-through cooling water. Water Discharges are: The eight riverine basins in which Mosaic operates in the United States and Canada are detailed below. Riverine Basins Where Mosaic Operates Water Body/Basin Basin Size hectares River Length km Hillsborough River 175,000 95 Peace River 608,000 169 Alafia River 109,000 38 Little Manatee River 58,000 58 Myakka River 155,000 106 Mississippi River 322,500,000 3,370 Pecos River1 11,500,000 1,490 Qu’Appelle2 1,780,000 430 Note: 1 We do not discharge to the Pecos River. 2 Mosaic’s Saskatchewan facilities maintain a zero-discharge approach. When the discharge of freshwater is warranted following a high precipitation event, it is approved in advance by multiple regulatory agencies. Water discharge examples at our major facilities: All releases are subject to water constituent limitations designed to be protective of downstream biological communities. This water quality protection is particularly important as segments of the Little Manatee River and the Myakka River, downstream of Mosaic’s operations, are designated as Outstanding Florida Waters—with a portion of the Myakka River also being classified as a Florida Wild and Scenic River. In Louisiana, our Faustina and Uncle Sam plants intake and outfall to the Mississippi River. This process is highly regulated by the state to ensure that gross contaminant levels are within applicable limits. For our Canadian potash operations, we have no off-site releases of water or runoff as part of normal operations. See above for additional context. Energy & Emissions Energy Since our company’s formation in 2004, Mosaic has invested in site-specific initiatives and companywide programs aimed at reducing energy use and emissions. These efforts are resulting in operating cost savings and improvements in environmental performance. (G4-EN3) Mosaic’s worldwide total direct energy consumption in 2015 was 96.25 million gigajoules (GJ). Energy Consumption by Source Approximately 92% of Mosaic’s worldwide total direct energy consumption in 2015 was from two sources: waste heat from sulfuric acid production and natural gas. The remaining portion was made up of petroleum products and propane. Our phosphates operations require the production and consumption of sulfuric acid to liberate crop nutrients (phosphorous) from raw material inputs. The manufacture of sulfuric acid is an exothermic process, generating tremendous amounts of waste heat. Most of our finished phosphate crop nutrient manufacturing operations have installed systems to convert this waste heat into steam, used in the phosphate manufacturing facilities. In 2015, our phosphates operations used a portion of this steam energy to produce 6.2 million GJ of electricity through a process called cogeneration, approximately 85% of which was used internally. We consider the waste heat from sulfuric acid production to be a direct primary energy source for our operations. Mosaic exported approximately 1,000,000 GJ of power to the local utility grid in Florida in 2015. Energy Consumption by Business Segment Almost all of Mosaic’s worldwide total direct energy consumption is attributable to its phosphate and potash crop nutrient manufacturing operations. Specifically, approximately 81% is consumed in the production of phosphate crop nutrients while approximately 19% is consumed in the production of potash. The remaining portion—less than 1%—is consumed within Mosaic’s International Distribution business segment. Indirect Energy Consumption by Business Segment Mosaic consumes indirect energy solely through the purchase of electricity produced by third parties. Mosaic’s worldwide indirect energy consumption was 10.51 million GJ for 2015. Indirect Energy Consumption by Fuel Source Approximately 12% of Mosaic’s worldwide indirect energy consumption is from renewable sources, including hydroelectric, biomass sources and wind power. Since 2009, almost 100% of the electricity used in our Brazilian operations has come from hydroelectric sources. Mosaic looks for opportunities to improve the efficiency and output of our cogeneration assets In 2015, Mosaic’s phosphate operations produced 6.2 million GJ of electricity through the process of cogeneration. Of this 6.2 million GJ, Mosaic consumed approximately 5.3 million GJ internally, offsetting the purchase of electricity from third-party utilities. Mosaic continuously looks for opportunities to improve the efficiency and expand the electricity output of our cogeneration assets. In 2016, Mosaic plans to bring another turbo generator online that is expected to provide an additional 15 megawatts of low-GHG electrical generation capacity. Energy Consumed Outside the Organization (G4-EN4) Mosaic has engaged upstream and downstream stakeholders in our supply chain to better quantify the impacts of our business. We report GHG emissions associated with various sources in G4-EN17 and continue to collaborate with vendors and contractors to quantify impacts that occur outside the organization. We anticipate expanding the scope of our reporting for this indicator in the near future. Energy Intensity (G4-EN5) Mosaic’s three-pronged approach of energy management through cogeneration, conservation and greater efficiency aims to lead the industry in reducing the energy we use and maximizing the clean energy we generate. We are committed to evaluating alternative energy sources to satisfy our energy requirements. By 2020 we aim to reduce our total energy use by 10% per tonne of finished product. Mosaic's three-pronged approach to energy management: A portion of the electricity required in Mosaic’s operations is satisfied through internal generation of electricity. This process of waste heat recovery, called cogeneration, allows several of our plants and mines to significantly reduce the amount of thirdparty electricity required from utilities. In 2015, Mosaic produced enough electricity across its Phosphates and Potash business segments—approximately 7.3 million GJ through cogeneration—to satisfy approximately 37% of our companywide electrical demand. Over 800,000 GJ of this cogenerated electricity was used at our mines. Mosaic could have additional opportunities for harnessing emissions-free power under a more supportive regulatory construct. We advocate for a balanced renewable energy policy that incentivizes and expands the generation and consumption of existing, low-cost renewables, such as waste heat recovery, and promotes fairer pricing for third-party renewable producers when selling power back to the electrical grid. 1.1 million GJ of energy saved through energy improvements companywide Reducing Our Energy Consumption (G4-EN6) Our continuous energy improvement and sustainability process is part of a broader strategic business plan designed to help Mosaic meet or exceed production and profitability requirements. This plan includes strategies for lowering purchased energy consumption through more efficient processes and maximizing use of energy generated through the crop nutrient manufacturing process. To identify and capture potential energy opportunities, we have teams of energy representatives at our sites that investigate a number of issues, such as improvements in natural gas use (e.g., efficiencies in boilers, dryers, mine air heating and cogeneration) and improvements in electrical systems (e.g., efficiencies in cogeneration systems and slurry pumping, including extensive use of variable speed drives, air compression, and heating and lighting systems). We also pursue energy savings by improving equipment use efficiency. For example, in 2015, operating crews at our Florida mining facilities participated in an energy conservation contest—a friendly competition across shifts and locations to see which crew runs its shift using the least amount of energy. Before the start of each shift, crews use a performance scorecard to communicate energy saving successes and opportunities for improvement. The winning crews are recognized with a meal at the end of the contest. In addition, Mosaic regularly conducts energy reviews to help identify potential efficiency projects and assess major manufacturing processes such as combustion, general electrical, electric motor systems, compressed air systems and heating. We also have engineers assigned to individual facilities to help identify and execute energy efficiency initiatives. Projects are monitored and audited, and the resulting metrics are used to establish key performance indicators. These efforts reduce Mosaic’s overall energy profile, operational costs and use of indirect natural resources. Mosaic also emphasizes energy efficiency in our office facilities. Mosaic’s Florida headquarters in FishHawk maintains its ENERGY STAR certification. Mosaic’s leased Regina, Canada, offices were built to Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) standards and included the purchase of interior design elements, furniture and products, as well as other energy efficiencies associated with LEED. Similarly, Mosaic’s Colonsay mill dry building in Saskatchewan was designed and constructed according to LEED standards. The LEED certification process for both buildings is underway. We forecast savings of approximately 1.1 million GJ due to conservation and efficiency improvement projects that were executed in 2015. Several examples of energy efficiency efforts by our operations are outlined below.  Sustainability Initiatives in Action Estimated Annual Estimated Annual 2015 Activity & Outcome Energy Savings CO2e Savings Gigajoules Metric Tonnes CO2e Phosphates Business Segment South Fort Meade implemented a revised equipment use strategy that reduced washer energy use by nearly 40% 9,408 1,581 compared to 2014, saving approximately $240,000 Our Phosphates business segment transported approximately 4.5 million tonnes of product by 183,104 compressed natural gas fleet, resulting in fewer transportation emissions Our Riverview facility redesigned a turbine generator’s nozzle block, resulting in production of 5% more 48,600 8,165 cogenerated power, and saving costs and emissions associated with the purchase of power from the local grid Our Phosphates business segment replaced more than 1,500 lights with LED fixtures, resulting in energy and 5,234 879 GHG emissions savings Our Central Florida mines replaced several diesel pumps with electric pumps, saving energy costs and associated 41,667 7,000 GHG emissions Our Central Florida mines replaced halogen lighting on draglines with LED lights to improve energy use and 518 87 reduce maintenance costs Our Four Corners mining facility eliminated the use of a central screening station plant (CSS) by sending matrix directly to the washer and bypassing the CSS; this 37,318 6,269 reduced the total distance matrix travels by electric pump, saving energy and costs to operate and maintain the plant Our New Wales concentrates facility added infrastructure to transfer additional power to our Four Corners mine to run existing clay, matrix and tailing pumps; this enables 85,781 14,411 the use of more cogenerated power internally and offsets the amount of fossil fuel-based power that Four Corners the amount of fossil fuel-based power that Four Corners would otherwise have to purchase Estimated Annual Estimated Annual 2015 Activity & Outcome Energy Savings CO e Savings Our Central Florida mines purchased smaller, more Gigajoules Metric Tonnes CO e efficient sealing water pumps to decrease the amount of 854 143 power required to seal matrix pumps Phosphates Business Segment Our Wingate mine improved energy use through process efficiency improvements, including pump efficiency 41,567 6,983 initiatives and a redesign of their flotation plant Potash Segment Approximately 50 employees participate in a carpool program at our Esterhazy facility, saving fuel and avoiding 1,845 GHG emissions Our Belle Plaine facility’s agreement with an industrial partner in Saskatchewan sends water to be used in a cooling process at a nearby plant; the heated water returns to our facility for use in potash production— 657,000 35,600 allowing Mosaic to reduce the amount of energy that would have otherwise been spent on heating water while allowing the industrial partner to avoid cooling costs Our Belle Plaine facility replaced nearly 200 lights with LED fixtures, resulting in energy and GHG emissions 562 97 savings Our Potash business segment’s power factor correction projects increased the efficiency of the Esterhazy power 115,531 19,607 distribution system Our Esterhazy K2 mine implemented ventilation improvements, resulting in improved air circulation and 7,322 1,262 decreased horsepower required to operate the fans, saving energy and costs Our Carlsbad facility installed a variable frequency drive 4,320 726 control on a groundwater pump, saving energy International Distribution Our YMF bulk blending plant in China replaced highpressure sodium lights with LED lights, saving energy and 72 15 reducing maintanence costs Our QMF bulk blending plant in China saved 3,000 liters of diesel by completing preventive forklift maintenance 108 23 and rearranging warehouse materials (G4-EN7) Innovation is one of Mosaic’s guiding principles. It influences our long-term business strategy and our companywide efforts to reduce energy use and GHG emissions. Through process and product innovation, we’re driving greater value for customers and stakeholders. In addition to developing products and services that enhance customers’ productivity and positively impact their energy efficiency, Mosaic maintains active partnerships with industry-leading research centers, targeting agriculture efficiency and productivity improvements. For more information on our partnerships, please see G4-EN27. In 2015, energy efficient or renewable energy-based initiatives resulted in approximately 85,000 GJ of energy savings. Please refer to the table in G4-EN6 for additional information on our efforts to provide energy efficient or renewable energy-based products or services. Reducing Our Emissions We strive to continuously improve GHG emissions intensities in our manufacturing facilities and support functions year over year. Direct and Indirect Emissions (G4-EN15, G4-EN16) Worldwide Greenhouse Gas Emissions Million Tonnes CO2e Business Segment / 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Emission Type Phosphates 1.91 2.67 2.54 2.87 2.83 Direct Emissions 1.18 1.79 1.80 1.91 1.97 Indirect Emissions 0.73 0.88 0.73 0.96 0.86 Potash 1.65 1.74 1.80 1.80 1.90 Direct Emissions 0.94 1.04 0.93 0.95 0.95 Indirect Emissions 0.71 0.70 0.87 0.85 0.95 International 0.03 0.10 0.07 0.06 0.05 Distribution Direct Emissions 0.02 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.04 Indirect Emissions 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 Total 3.59 4.51 4.41 4.73 4.78 Notes: Direct emissions include Mosaic's consumption of natural gas, diesel, other fuels, process related activities, water treatment and refrigerants. Indirect emissions include electricity purchased from third-party utilities. Mosaic uses guidance from the CDP for calculating and reporting carbon dioxide equivalence (CO2e). Please see Mosaic’s CDP Climate Change response for more information on our greenhouse gas emissions performance. (G4-EN17) Mosaic has engaged upstream and downstream stakeholders in our supply chain to better quantify the impacts of our business. In 2015, Mosaic collaborated with approximately 20 vendors and contractors to quantify GHG emissions associated with business travel and rail transport of raw materials and finished products. Scope 3 emissions from ammonia purchases, upstream transportation and business travel are reported below. Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Million Tonnes CO2e (except business travel) Source 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ammonia Purchases 2.88 2.13 2.12 2.20 2.31 Truck Transport 0.01 0.03 (Florida) Rail Transport 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 (Florida) Business Travel 5,557 5,335 5,140 4,652 4,328 Marine Transport 0.20 Total 2.89 2.15 2.14 2.23 2.44 Note: Ammonia purchases depicted in the table above are for production of crop nutrients in the Phosphates business segment only. Factor for purchased ammonia revised for 2013 and prior years per IPPC 2013 guidance for ammonia production with modern, natural gas ammonia plants. In 2014, we captured emissions totals from one of our trucking partners. These figures represent a portion of our total trucking emissions. These figures are not available for 2011-2013. Business Travel is presented in tonnes of CO2e. Emissions associated with product use are addressed as part of our product stewardship programs. Please see the Food section for more information. In 2016, we began working with a third party to evaluate the materiality significance of additional sources of Scope 3 emissions. We anticipate reporting the outcome of that exercise next year, and, if appropriate, expanding the scope of our reporting to include additional sources in the near future. Emissions Intensity (G4-EN18) By 2020, we aim to reduce GHG intensity by 10% per tonne of finished product. Mosaic’s historical GHG emissions per tonne of dry product crop nutrient and animal feed production are as follows: 2015 Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Per Tonne of Finished Product 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Mosaic 0.21 0.28 0.27 0.26 0.26 Note: Emissions intensity refers to total CO2e emissions generated in metric tonnes per unit of product measured in metric tonnes. Excludes co-products. Includes all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions sources reported in previous GRI/CDP. (G4-EN19) Mosaic is taking a proactive approach to reductions in emissions, with particular emphasis on improving energy efficiency and waste management. GHG emission reductions resulting from the initiatives reported in G4-EN6 equal approximately 288,000 tonnes of CO2e, the equivalent of taking more than 60,000 average U.S. cars off the road for a year. For more information on Mosaic’s efforts to reduce GHG emissions and address climate change, please see our 2015 CDP Response. Mosaic is committed to supporting best agricultural practices, including research and practices to minimize GHG emissions associated with the use of our crop nutrient products. Our approach to minimizing GHGs is multifaceted with focus on production, distribution and use activities. We continuously work to identify opportunities to improve our use of energy and lower our emissions so the carbon footprint of our products is minimized. Mosaic supports the minimization of greenhouse gas emissions from the global food supply by encouraging stakeholders to enhance their understanding, adoption and promotion of 4R Nutrient Stewardship. By applying the right fertilizer at the right rate, right time and in the right place, farmers minimize environmental impacts associated with fertilizer use, including potential greenhouse gas emissions. We are proactively reducing our GHG emissions by improving energy efficiency and waste management Other Emissions (G4-EN20) Mosaic does not produce CFCs, HCFCs, halon or methyl bromide in any of our operations. Refrigerants used in air conditioning units at our offices and production facilities represent a nominal quantity and only appropriate outside firms or certified internal technicians maintain these units. Air conditioning systems on some vehicles and equipment are maintained by Mosaic personnel. Ozone-depleting substances are phased out as required when units are replaced. Potential GHGs from refrigerants, expressed in CO2e, are included in G4-EN16. (G4-EN21) Mosaic recognizes the importance of careful air emissions management and proactive reduction of these emissions from our operations. We use published emission factors and engineering estimates, as well as analytical stack sampling results, to calculate criteria air and other pollutants emissions, shown below, for phosphates and potash operations. Due to regulatory reporting timelines, 2015 data was unavailable at the time of this publication’s release; we expect to publish 2015 data here in the third quarter of 2016. Criteria Air and Other Pollutants in ,000 Tonnes Normalized 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 NOx 2.7 3.54 4.56 3.06 3.55 0.2 CO 0.85 0.94 1.77 4.02 2.26 0.13 PM 3.73 3.96 3.66 3.87 5.09 0.28 SO2 22.7 16.94 13.11 13.65 17.04 0.95 VOC 1.29 1.32 2.61 0.25 0.66 0.04 NH3 0.77 0.63 1.1 1.4 1.86 0.1 FL 0.15 0.16 0.15 0.14 0.15 0.01 H2S 0.014 0.015 0.11 0.0 0.0 0.0 SAM 0.14 0.14 0.12 0.13 0.15 0.01 HF 0.38 0.47 0.45 0.07 0.39 0.0 Note: All business segments included. Emissions based on stack test results and emission factors. Normalized refers to the emissions value per tonne of finished product. Transportation G4-DMA: Our supply chain mission is to deliver goods and services at the best value to meet business requirements, always considering safety and sustainability. In any given year, Mosaic moves upwards of 60 million tons of raw materials, work-in-progress goods and finished products. We strive to transport materials as efficiently as possible, both in terms of cost and environmental impact. (G4-EN30) A breakdown of our transport of materials and products in 2015 is as follows: Transportation Mode and Weight Fuel Efficiency Tons Percentage Mode Materials Shipped (tons/miles/gallon) Shipped by Weight Vessel 1,400; Vessels and CrossRaw Materials Cross-gulf Barge 17,798,628 28% gulf Barge 793 River Barge Finished Product 514 4,904,460 8% Rail (Cars) In-process Goods 471 28,544,041 44% Raw Materials, Truck 130 13,047,997 20% Finished Product Total 64,295,126 100% Methodology for marine emissions based on calculating and comparing emissions from Global Maritime Fleet, RightShip 2013. Marine efficiencies based on actual fuel consumption as provided by supply chain partners and/or RightShip EVDI data. River barge movement efficiency based on Fuel Efficiency in Freight Transportation, American Waterway Operators, 2013. Mosaic aims to use actual barge/tug fuel data in 2017 report. Methodology for truck and rail transport based on Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions, version 1.0, GHG Protocol 2013. Fuel data supplied by supply chain partners and/or estimated using methodologies consistent with EPA GHG Emissions and GHG Protocol. Two-way mileage used for shipments with an empty backhaul; one-way mileage used for shipments as appropriate. Trucking includes diesel and natural gas combustion enginges. Rail based on actual fuel consumption as provided by supply chain partners. Environmental impacts of transporting our materials are primarily related to GHG emissions resulting from combustion of fuels by transport vehicles. In 2015, we engaged approximately 20 external supply chain providers to attempt to better understand the emissions impact associated with upstream and downstream transportation. We continue to evaluate additional sources of emissions and, if appropriate based on the results of our evaluation, will continue to expand the scope of our reporting in the future to include additional sources. Please see G4-EN17 for more information. For 2015, our spending on North American transport of materials and products was divided across modes as follows: Mosaic and its transportation partners use fuel and GHG emission-saving initiatives:  Establishing partnerships with vendors to increase efficiencies and reduce cost  Chartering the most efficient vessels available  Investing in faster truck loading processes  Using specialized Saddleback trailers to increase backhaul usage to reduce dead head During 2015, Mosaic and its transportation partners used various fuel and GHG emission-saving initiatives, including: Mosaic continued our participation with the PhosPro Initiative to improve our handling of raw materials that travel by rail. Consisting of cross-functional teams at Mosaic and CSX, the PhosPro initiative focuses on increasing efficiencies and reducing costs for both companies. Mosaic anticipates benefits such as moving more finished products upstream by rail instead of truck, which will result in improved fuel efficiency and lower GHG emissions. As part of our commitment to sustainability, Mosaic uses RightShip, a vetting service that allows the supply chain team to select vessels that meet certain safety and environmental criteria. Mosaic now excludes all G-rated vessels for international shipping and uses RightShip's GHG Emissions Rating as a guide for calculating and reporting its maritime carbon footprint. By using more efficient ships, we gain cost efficiencies and further our efforts to reduce Mosaic’s carbon footprint. Mosaic, along with our trucking partners, has implemented a number of fuel-saving initiatives, such as automatic engine shutoffs and reduced intra-company truck scaling. We have also invested in faster loading processes to reduce both fuel consumption and total trucks deployed. Mosaic uses specialized Saddleback trailers to increase backhaul usage to reduce “dead head,” or empty loads. These unique trailers can transport molten sulfur from the Port of Tampa to our production facilities and return to the port with a load of our finished product for shipment to customers. An N-ViroMotive locomotive, used at our South Fort Meade mine, uses approximately 57% less fuel and emits approximately 80% fewer GHG emissions than single-engine diesel locomotives. Mosaic contracts a fleet of more than 50 clean-burning natural gas-powered trucks to transport raw materials and finished products in our Central Florida operations. Benefits include significantly lower emissions of particulates and nitrogen oxides (up to 50% lower) and GHGs (potentially up to 25% lower). In 2015, a second Mosaic trucking partner added four compressed natural gas (CNG) trailers to its fleet, transporting approximately 120,000 tonnes of Mosaic's finished product for the year. We continue to explore opportunities to convert additional shipping volumes to compressed natural gas (CNG). In 2015, Mosaic’s Potash business segment completed several transportation optimization initiatives, including one to increase shipping by unit trains, which resulted in less “switching” and improved fuel efficiency. The segment also converted additional finished product tonnes to barge from less-efficient modes, which also resulted in improved fuel efficiency and fewer GHG emissions. Mosaic uses CNG trucks to transport raw materials and finished products in our Central Florida operations Waste Associated with Transportation Mosaic has funded and promoted The Fertilizer Institute (TFI) Bulk Blend Workshops and Manual. Transporting and distributing our crop nutrient products in bulk greatly reduces the amount of packaging required to deliver our products to consumers. Most of our crop nutrient products are transported from production facilities to consumers in bulk quantities. Therefore, environmental impacts associated with packaging are eliminated. In some areas where small-scale farmers purchase our products, bulk distribution is not possible. Land & Reclamation In our Florida phosphates operations, we conduct effective acre-for-acre reclamation and return mined lands to productive uses for both wildlife and people. We use advanced science and technology to do this important work. How & Where We Mine (G4-EN11) As of Dec. 31, 2015, Mosaic owned or controlled about 355,815 acres of land in Florida related to our phosphates mining operations. For each permit, Mosaic works with professional biologists, hydrologists and other specialists, in conjunction with as many as 12 local, regional, state and federal regulatory agencies, to identify areas of environmental sensitivity that should be preserved and protected, and to develop comprehensive reclamation plans that promote hydrologic function and biodiversity. As of Dec. 31, 2015, Mosaic owns or controls more than 21,000 acres in Florida that are designated as non-impacted floodplain and other preservation for which Mosaic has granted conservation easements in order to ensure long-term protection of those lands and waters. Mosaic operates three Canadian potash facilities, all located in the southern half of the province of Saskatchewan, including our solution mine at Belle Plaine, two interconnected mine shafts at our Esterhazy shaft mine and our shaft mine at Colonsay. Mosaic has mineral rights to approximately 575,000 acres in Saskatchewan for potash mining and surface rights to approximately 30,000 acres. Mosaic’s United States potash operations include a shaft mine in Carlsbad, N.M. with mineral rights to approximately 77,000 acres for potash mining and approximately 7,186 acres of surface rights. Since shaft mining in Saskatchewan occurs at more than 3,000 feet below surface, and solution mining requires limited acreage for pipeline and cluster infrastructure, the only surface areas that are disturbed are the actual footprint of the mine shaft and the adjacent aboveground processing facilities and tailings management areas. Although there are no International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) protected management areas in the vicinity of our operations, Mosaic has placed about 11,000 acres in conservation easements along wildlife corridors and other ecologically significant habitats. During the permitting process, it’s essential to balance the supply of phosphate against what is a temporary disturbance of ecological resources (G4-EN12) During the mine permitting process, discussions regarding ecological resource preservation are held between Mosaic and applicable regulatory agencies. Environmental advocate organizations are also consulted to allow their priorities to be considered. Preservation areas can include floodplains, as well as high-quality wetland or upland habitats and buffers. Such evaluations take into consideration landscape position as well as the type and quality of the habitat. Balancing the supply of phosphate, an important natural resource, against what is generally a temporary disturbance of ecological resources, is an essential consideration in this process. To reduce the impact associated with lag time (the time period between initial land disturbance for mining and reclamation), Mosaic’s pending permit applications include a “Regionally Ecologically Significant” (RES) project. A RES project involves the acquisition of land or conservation easements within the same watershed as the proposed new mine project. This land would not be mined, but rather would be restored to an improved ecological condition and then permanently preserved and managed. External wildlife surveys are conducted as part of the permitting process. Additionally, once all permits are received, a follow-up wildlife survey is conducted prior to land clearing to determine whether protected species are present and if so, whether they need to be physically relocated. Mosaic obtains government approvals and permits to physically relocate specific species, such as the gopher tortoise, in compliance with federal and state laws. After relocation, parcels are directionally cleared in preparation for mining to allow highly mobile animals to move to adjacent undisturbed or preservation areas. Upon completion of mining activities, state law requires the land to be recontoured and planted within two years; all wetlands are replaced at a minimum of acre for acre type for type as needed to meet reclamation and mitigation requirements. When complete, many vertebrates and invertebrates repopulate the site through migration from wildlife corridors and protected riverine systems. Such habitat corridors generally receive permanent protection after mining through conveyance and recording of perpetual conservation easements. To ensure biodiversity, Mosaic may introduce certain species into reclaimed lands, such as the gopher tortoise, that may have previously resided on the parcel but moved prior to mining. All introductions and relocations of protected species are conducted in full compliance with federal and state requirements and guidelines. We consult with Saskatchewan stakeholders about surface facility development to better protect wildlife and habitats Phosphate mining in Florida, representing our largest phosphate reserve holdings, is heavily regulated by as many as 12 local, regional, state and federal permitting authorities. This robust regulatory oversight ensures the effects of our mining operations are avoided, minimized, and mitigated in accordance with all legal and regulatory requirements. This stringent regulatory oversight helps ensure: appropriate environmentally sensitive land is preserved from mining; project design that minimizes effects to the maximum extent practicable; compensatory mitigation for unavoidable minimized effects; employment of best-inclass reclamation practices; and ongoing monitoring activities such as the Horse Creek Stewardship and Peace River Monitoring programs, designed to protect against significant impact to water quality, water quantity and biodiversity on these riverine systems within or outside of our property boundaries. Potash mining operations in Canada and the United States use shaft and solution mining techniques. Because of the limited footprint on surface features, such as surface infrastructure and tailings management areas, impacts to wildlife and habitats are also highly localized and relatively small in scale. Prior to surface development, Mosaic’s Saskatchewan facilities consult multiple stakeholders as part of best management practices that are protective of wildlife and habitats. Land Mined and Reclaimed (G4-MM1) Mosaic reports our Florida mining and reclamation activities to the FDEP Mining and Mitigation program. As of the date of this publication’s release, 2014 and 2015 figures have not been deemed complete by the agency. We provide estimates of mined and reclaimed acres for those years in the table below. Once we have satisfied all reclamation and compensatory mitigation obligations with respect to mined and disturbed lands, and the regulatory agencies “release” those reclaimed lands, they are considered “released acres.” Accordingly, a drop in annual reclaimed acreage may be the result of our satisfaction of those reclamation and mitigation obligations and agency release with respect to reclaimed acres. Land Mined and Reclaimed Total Acres Disturbed, Total Reclaimed Total Released Not Reclaimed Mined Disturbed Mined Disturbed Mined Disturbed 2012 2,975 4,379 (4,548) 692 4,242 3,687 2013 1,243 1,728 563 (3,115) 2,508 1,187 2014*, ** 12,320 5,320 3,776 2,214 2,994 2,740 2015* 2,401 4,703 2,668 2,631 10,207 5,035 *As of the date of this publication's release, this year's data has not been validated by FDEP. Accordingly, these figures are estimates only and may be revised in future reports. **The increase in mined acres in 2014 is largely due to the inclusion of 7,761 acres from South Pasture mine as a result of our 2014 acquisition of the Florida Phosphate assets of CF Industries, Inc. This figure represents all mined acres for that location since its opening in 1995. (G4-MM2) All active mine sites within the United States and Canada operate in compliance with federal, state/provincial and local regulations related to management of habitat and wildlife. Phosphate mining operations within the United States require extensive assessment of the proposed area of operation as a significant component of the permitting process. Mosaic performs environmental site assessments, wildlife surveys, impact studies, and hydrologic modeling and prepares mitigation plans prior to receiving a permit to operate on a parcel of land. Biodiversity in flora and fauna is an important part of reclamation. Our reclamation and mitigation plans have biodiversity requirements that must be monitored by qualified ecologists and reported to appropriate regulatory agencies as part of the permit conditions or regulations. In fact, self-sustaining achievement of these biodiversity standards is a requirement that must be met before regulatory agencies will deem a site successfully reclaimed. Protecting Biodiversity & Restoring Habitats We are committed to minimizing our impacts on the environment through responsible mine planning, permitting, operation and reclamation practices. (G4-EN13) In our phosphates mining operations, we restore or reclaim every acre of land we mine or disturb. In addition, environmentally sensitive lands – typically about 15% of the total project site – are set aside for preservation and protected into perpetuity with recorded conservation easements. Mined lands are reclaimed to land uses such as wildlife habitat (both wetlands and upland) – much of which is permanently protected through conservation easements – and agricultural lands. Much of this land is also suitable for future conventional development such as parks, housing and commercial use. Mosaic planted approximately 1,230,100 trees in 2015, reclaiming uplands, significant upland habitats and wetlands that require, at a minimum, acre for acre and type for type per permitting requirements. Mosaic coordinates with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) Mining and Mitigation program, to integrate habitat networks and wildlife corridors into reclamation planning. The FDEP created, implements and encourages permittees to participate in the development of these features to benefit the water quality and quantity in the area, facilitate wildlife habitat, and build connections between rivers and significant environmental features. As part of our reclamation efforts in Florida, we planted more than 1.2 million trees in 2015 Mosaic has fostered partnerships with, and funding for, a variety of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and academic institutions to advance our understanding of the habitats we manage through reclamation. Examples of these groups include Tampa Bay Watch, The Nature Conservancy and Audubon of Florida. Mosaic’s Potash business segment is similarly committed to habitat restoration. For example, in 2012, Mosaic made a grant to Ducks Unlimited for $2 million that will restore at least 500 acres of wetlands over a 10-year period in Saskatchewan. 2015 marked the fourth year of this agreement. To date, approximately 245 acres have been restored as part of this initiative. (G4-EN14) The FDEP’s Mining and Mitigation program oversees mining operations for the state of Florida. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency administer the federal permitting program designed to protect wetlands, streams and other water resources. The mine permitting process includes performing extensive ecological, wildlife and hydrological surveys, leading to the establishment of preservation areas with important ecological or hydrological value. The permitting process also requires external design to minimize effects of the proposed project on ecological and water resources and compensatory mitigation to offset unavoidable, minimized impacts. In our potash facilities located in Saskatchewan, Canada, our approach to evaluating potential impacts to biodiversity includes biological assessments for projects located in new or expanded footprint areas. Such impacts, however, are rare once a facility is in operation. These assessments include field surveys to identify rare species of plants, birds, mammals, reptiles and amphibians of special concern that may be impacted. Survey methods follow those recommended by the Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment. Biological assessments for all expansion areas at the potash facilities followed this approach. Phosphates and potash operations’ interaction with wildlife in the United States is regulated by state agencies such as the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission and by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). These state and federal agencies maintain lists of protected species, and Mosaic develops species-specific habitat management plans to ensure they are properly protected. We work closely with regulators to not only ensure compliance with management plans, but to fund and/or conduct research that promotes the goal of wildlife and habitat conservation. Mosaic does not specifically track wildlife species per the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) List designations, but instead tracks species as designated by regulatory agencies with authority in the regions in which we operate. IUCN Red List of Species Possibly in the Vicinity of Operations IUCN Red List Phosphate Operations (Florida) Designation Endangered 0 Florida bonneted bat* Vulnerable 4 Florida mouse, gopher tortoise, Florida scrub jay, West Indian manatee Near Threatened 2 Gopher frog, short-tailed snake Burrowing owl, Florida black bear, sandhill crane, Florida pine snake, least tern, limpkin, little blue heron, osprey, Southeast American Least Concern 19 kestrel, Sherman's fox squirrel, snowy egret, tricolored heron, white ibis, wood stork, Eastern indigo snake, Northern crested caracara, American alligator, bald eagle IUCN Red List U.S Potash Operations (New Mexico) Designation Endangered 0 Vulnerable 0 Near Threatened 1 Snowy plover American kestrel, Cooper's hawk, dunlin, great horned owl, greater yellowlegs, Harris's hawk, killdeer, least sandpiper, lesser yellowlegs, Least Concern 18 loggerhead shrike, merlin, Northern harrier, Northern pintail, Northern shoveler, red-tailed hawk, sanderling, sandhill crane, Western sandpiper IUCN Red List Canada Potash Operations (Saskatchewan) Designation Endangered 0 Endangered 0 IUCN Red List Phosphate Operations (Florida) Designation Vulnerable 1 Horned grebe Near Threatened 1 Olive-sided flycatcher American avocet, American bittern, American coot, American crow, American goldfinch, Alder flycatcher, American kestrel, American robin, Baltimore oriole, American white pelican, American wigeon, bald eagle, barn swallow, black-and-white warbler, black tern, black-capped chickadee, black-billed magpie, black-crowned night heron, blue jay, blue-winged teal, Brewer's blackbird, bobolink, brown-headed cowbird, bufflehead, Canada goose, canvasback, chest-nut sided warbler, cedar waxwing, clay-colored sparrow, common goldeneye, common grackle, common yellowthroat, dark-eyed junco, downy woodpecker, blacknecked grebe, Eastern kingbird, Eastern phoebe, Franklin's gull, gadwall, gray catbird, gray partridge, great horned owl, green-winged teal, hairy woodpecker, hermit thrush, horned lark, house sparrow, house wren, killdeer, least flycatcher, Le Conte’s sparrow, lesser yellowlegs, lesser scaup, loggerhead shrike, mallard, marbled godwit, marsh wren, merlin, mourning dove, yellow-shafted flicker, circus hudsonius, Northern harrier, Northern pintail, Northern shoveler, piedbilled grebe, redhead, red-breasted nuthatch, red-eyed vireo, rednecked grebe, red-tailed hawk, red-winged blackbird, ring-billed gull, Least Concern 143 ring-necked duck, rock dove, rose-breasted grosbeak, ruby-throated hummingbird, ruddy duck, ruffed grouse, sandhill crane, Say's phoebe, Savannah sparrow, sharp-tailed grouse, snow goose, song sparrow, solitary sandpiper, sora, spotted sandpiper, tree swallow, Swainson’s hawk, veery, vesper sparrow, warbling vireo, Western grebe, Western meadowlark, Western wood peewee, swamp sparrow, willet, willow flycatcher, Wilson’s phalarope, Wilson's snipe, yellow warbler, yellowbellied flycatcher, yellow-bellied sapsucker, yellow-headed blackbird, common nighthawk, common raven, turkey vulture, great blue heron, Northern leopard frog, red-bellied snake, wood frog, boreal chorus frog, plains garter snake, tiger salamander, Canadian toad, Eastern cottontail, snowshoe hare, mule deer, white-tailed deer, moose, coyote, Richardson's ground squirrel, thirteen-lined ground squirrel, red squirrel, striped skunk, muskrat, red fox, North American otter, North American deer mouse, American badger, American beaver, Black sided darter, Northern pike, white sucker, yellow perch, Northern pearl dace, common shiner, fathead minnow, longnose dace, creek chub, Johnny darter, log perch, walleye IUCN Red List Louisiana Operations Designation Endangered 2 Pallid sturgeon, Alabama heelsplitter Vulnerable 4 Alligator, snapping turtle, paddlefish, West Indian manatee Near Threatened 2 Gulf sturgeon, Southern creek mussel Least Concern 2 Bald eagle, long-tailed weasel IUCN Red List Phosphate Operations (Florida) Designation Notes: *The Florida bonneted bat was surveyed for, but not present at any of our operations. Species listed as possibly affected by Louisiana operations are from Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries database and may not have been actually observed on or near Mosaic property. Avian species listed as affected or possibly affected by New Mexico and Saskatchewan operations are migratory species with potential migration patterns proximal to our operations on those geographies. Our Carlsbad facility engages a third party biennially to survey species in the vicinity of our operations. This submission reflects results of the 2014 survey. Please see Additional Biodiversity Highlights for more information about Carlsbad’s ongoing species protection efforts. The table includes species and designations of the IUCN and not species and designations of federal or state/provincial agencies in the United States and Canada, by which Mosaic monitors threatened species. Our avian and bat protection plan in Carlsbad, N.M. minimizes the risk of migratory birds and bats being attracted to our operations Additional Biodiversity Highlights For over 80 years, Mosaic and its legacy companies have partnered with National Audubon Society for the protection of waterbirds in Tampa Bay. Since 2012, The Mosaic Company Foundation has funded a joint effort between Audubon in Florida and Louisiana aimed at citizen involvement in habitat stewardship and citizen science, as part of a hemispheric flyaways program to reverse shorebird population declines. Mosaic leases the northern portion of the Richard T. Paul Alafia Bank Bird Sanctuary to Audubon, which includes sections of both Bird Island and Sunken Island. National Audubon manages the Alafia Bank which support up to 18,000 nesting pairs of 18 waterbird species. Since 2013, Mosaic Belle Plaine has partnered with Wild and Cared Free, a wildlife rehabilitation organization dedicated to rehabilitating all species of animals in southern Saskatchewan. Mosaic has volunteered time and financial assistance to support the organization, and Wild and Cared Free has provided Mosaic access to training opportunities and rehabilitation services for animals around its Saskatchewan potash mines. Our Mosaic potash operations in Carlsbad, N.M., have developed an avian and bat protection plan to minimize risks to migratory birds and bats that can be attracted to our operations. Mosaic has partnered with regulatory authorities and interested community partners, through working group activities, to evaluate possible future strategies aimed at improving our hazing activities and minimizing risks to migratory avian and bat species in our areas. Materials & Waste G4-DMA: We aim to efficiently use the mineral resources and materials needed to make our crop nutrition products. Materials (G4-EN1) Our business mined or consumed the following raw materials in 2015: Materials Mined or Consumed in Million Tonnes (unless otherwise noted) 2015 Ammonia 1.5 Limestone 0.3 Phosphate Rock 14.5 Potash Ore 27.2 Sulfur (long tons) 4.2 Note: Ammonia purchases depicted in the table above are for production of crop nutrients in Phosphates. Limestone is used to produce our animal feed products and for water treatment processing. Sulfur, a byproduct of crude oil and natural gas de-sulfurization, is used to produce steam, electricity and sulfuric acid, which is used to produce phosphoric acid. We use byproduct heat from sulfuric acid production to generate steam that we use in our operations and to generate electricity. Sulfur is also used in the production of our MicroEssentials® product line. Various micronutrients, including boron, zinc, sulfur and cupric oxide, are key ingredients in our MicroEssentials product line. Ammonia is used in our finished products, diammonium phosphate (DAP), monoammonium phosphate (MAP) and MicroEssentials, and to neutralize the pH of the stack gases at our Esterhazy potash mine. Products and Materials Reclaimed or Recycled (G4-EN2) Sulfur is the most significant recycled raw material in our manufacturing processes. The sulfur used is recovered from crude oil and natural gas processing and then recycled in our plant operations to produce sulfuric acid, which we use to make phosphoric acid, steam and electricity. Our use of this product prevents an excess of sulfur that otherwise could be disposed of in landfills. In 2015, sulfur made up approximately 8.8% by weight of our total raw materials. We use recycled oil as a flotation aid in our phosphate beneficiation process. Mining Wastes We use industry best practices to manage and reuse overburden, tailings and byproducts associated with our mining and production practices. We comply with federal, state and local regulations related to these materials. (G4-MM3) Mining and processing of potash and phosphate generate residual materials that must be managed both during the operation of a facility and upon a facility’s closure. Potash tailings, consisting primarily of salt and clay, are stored in tailings management areas. A portion of the excess salt generated from potash mining is processed and then used for commercial purposes, including road salt, water softener salt, and use in food grade products and industrial uses. Phosphate clay residuals from mining are deposited in clay settling ponds. Overburden and sand tailings produced at our phosphate mines are used in reclamation and mitigation. These ponds are eventually dewatered and reclaimed. Wet phosphogypsum, a byproduct of our phosphate manufacturing process, is managed in permitted phosphogypsum management systems (“gypstacks”). We store the process water that separates from phosphogypsum during the dewatering process in gypstacks. Certain solid wastes generated by our phosphates operations may be subject to regulation under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and related state laws. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rules exempt “extraction” and “beneficiation” wastes, as well as 20 specified “mineral processing” wastes, from the hazardous waste management requirements of the RCRA. Accordingly, certain residual materials like phosphogypsum, as well as process wastewater from phosphoric acid production, are exempt from RCRA regulation. These materials (phosphogypsum and process wastewater) are subject to detailed state rules governing construction, operation, maintenance and closure. In September 2015, Mosaic reached settlements with federal and state environmental agencies in Florida and Louisiana relating to how Mosaic manages certain waste materials at its fertilizer production facilities. When the settlements become effective, Mosaic will modify certain practices and undertake new projects expected to result in capital expenditures likely to exceed $200 million, place $630 million into trusts as financial assurance to support the closure and long-term care of its phosphogypsum stack systems, pay an $8 million penalty and conduct or fund two environmental projects valued at $2.2 million. Mining and Mineral Processing Solid Waste Generated and Disposal Method in Tonnes Material 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Disposal Phosphates Used for Overburden 163,931,613 162,012,906 146,522,396 154,240,684 122,645,800 Reclamati Used for Sand Tailings 30,885,900 37,459,212 34,442,381 37,078,556 28,374,790 Reclamati Stored in Surface Clay 12,798,551 14,315,162 15,786,278 15,588,902 14,402,390 Impoundm and used Reclamati Managed Permitted Phosphogypsum 20,134,000 21,543,380 20,602,936 23,992,856 23,556,918 Phosphog Stack Sys Potash Stored or Tailings (Salt) 12,004,876 12,868,386 12,166,694 11,285,000 9,511,314.32 Recycled Commerc Deep Wel Brine 5,722,629 4,775,705 4,408,041 4,237,000 4,502,953.43 Injection o Evaporati Note: Overburden is stored in piles until used for reclamation. Clay is pumped wet to surface impoundments. The drying process for clay takes many years, but our clay settling areas eventually will be reclaimed for beneficial use. Other Wastes (G4-EN23) Mosaic’s operations generate a variety of non-hazardous solid wastes, including domestic refuse, construction and demolition debris, and waste lubricants. Mosaic has placed an emphasis on reducing and/or eliminating waste and our recycling program seeks to identify materials that can be diverted from landfills and recycled or reused. The following table summarizes materials recycled or reused in 2015. 2015 Recycled Wastes in Tonnes International Material Phosphates Potash Distribution Cardboard and Paper 13.3 14.1 35.1 Concrete 84.6 0.0 0.0 Electronic Waste and 15.2 28.6 2.0 Universal Waste Plastics 0.0 58.0 176.5 Scrap Metal 13,314.4 2,138.9 883.3 Raw Materials and 11,302.2 0.0 0.0 Finished Product Wood 0.0 0.0 30.7 Used Oil and Oil260.3 92.4 12.8 Contaminated Items Miscellaneous 57.5 990.1 42.9 Recyclables Total 25,047.4 3,322.1 1,183.4 Grand Total 29,552.9 Mosaic’s waste management program provides assurance that all of our locations have a process in place to minimize waste generation and that waste management practices do not adversely affect the environment or health and safety of employees and the public. We continue to improve our comprehensive waste management strategy, which complies with federal, state and local requirements and aligns to the Mosaic environmental health and safety management system. Below are examples of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes generated by disposal methods at phosphates, potash and international facilities. As our tracking of waste continues to improve, we anticipate further expanding the scope of our sustainability reporting for this indicator to include data for all facilities in the near future. 2015 Waste Generated by Disposal Method in Tonnes Incineration Landfill Treatment Recycle Other Total Phosphates 284.1 8,128.30 1,002.40 25,047.80 0 34,462.60 Hazardous 21.8 652.7 477.5 0 0 1,152.00 Nonhazardous 262.3 7,475.60 524.9 25,047.80 0 33,310.60 Potash 224.1 2,318.30 69.8 3,322.10 329.5 6263.8 Hazardous 80.8 279.1 69.8 161.9 329.5 921.1 Nonhazardous 143.3 2,039.20 0 3,160.20 0 5,342.70 International 215 6550 101.6 1,182.90 0 8049.5 Distribution Hazardous 86.5 108.3 0.1 0 0 194.8 Nonhazardous 128.6 6,441.70 101.5 1,182.90 0 7,854.70 Total 723.2 16,996.60 1,173.80 29,552.80 329.5 48,775.90 Note: Other disposal method includes combinations of co-processing, retort, treatment, incineration and/or deep well injection. Subtotals may not always add up to totals due to rounding. Each facility has an appropriate hazardous waste management system to ensure that waste is properly and safely disposed (G4-EN25) We endeavor to choose on-site process chemicals that are the least hazardous, thereby ensuring the lowest risk to occupational health and safety and minimizing waste management implications. Mosaic facilities generate hazardous waste during production and maintenance operations. In the United States, Mosaic’s phosphate mines and potash facilities are typically either categorized as Small Quantity or Conditionally Exempt Small Quantity Generators (which generate less than 2,200 pounds of hazardous waste per month or less than 220 pounds of hazardous waste per month, respectively). The five concentrate facilities in the Phosphates business segment are designated as Large Quantity Generators due to episodic generation of more than 2,200 pounds of hazardous waste in a month. The types of hazardous solid waste generated at Mosaic’s United States facilities typically include spent cleaning solvents, paint-related wastes and some spent laboratory chemicals. At concentrate facilities, wastes generated during production and maintenance operations include waste that is characteristically hazardous for corrosivity and/or toxicity (e.g., low pH and/or metals content). Each location has an appropriate hazardous waste management system to ensure that the waste is properly and safely disposed. No hazardous wastes are shipped internationally for disposal. Environmental Releases (G4-EN24) In 2015, we had a total of nine releases equal to or greater than 2,000 gallons. None of these was significant enough to report in our financial statements. Environmental Releases Number of Significant Reportable Releases Mosaic Business FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Segment Potash 8 12 10 6 3 Phosphates 2 3 4 1 6 Distribution 0 0 0 1 0 International 0 0 0 0 0 Corporate 0 0 0 1 0 Total Significant 10 15 14 9 9 Releases Note: Table includes environmental releases equal to or greater than 2,000 gallons. Releases meeting this criteria included: Potash – (2) brine and (1) ammonia; Phosphates – (2) phosphoric acid, (1) ammonia and (3) process water. Compliance (G4-EN29) In periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mosaic is required to report any environmental fine or sanction that it has identified as potentially material to investors, or if not potentially material, as potentially meeting or exceeding a significance threshold of $100,000. In September 2015, Mosaic reached settlements with federal and state environmental agencies in Florida and Louisiana relating to how Mosaic manages certain waste materials at its fertilizer production facilities. When the settlements become effective, Mosaic will modify certain practices and undertake new projects expected to result in capital expenditures likely to exceed $200 million, place $630 million into trusts as financial assurance to support the closure and long-term care of its phosphogypsum stack systems, pay an $8 million penalty and conduct or fund two environmental projects valued at $2.2 million. (G4-EN34) In 2015 we did not receive, address or resolve any environmental grievances filed through formal mechanisms. We support a variety of formal and informal channels through which stakeholders can submit concerns. Please see Engaging our Stakeholders for more information. Environmental Protection Expenditures and Investments (G4-EN31) Mosaic has expended, and anticipates that we will continue to expend, substantial financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental health and safety standards, and continue to improve our environmental stewardship. In the year ended Dec. 31, 2015, we spent approximately $280 million for environmental capital expenditures, land reclamation activities, gypstack closure and water treatment activities.  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top Share: MENU People G4-DMA: At Mosaic, the strength of our business relies on the commitment of an exceptional global team of employees. We are dedicated to preserving a safe, healthy and respectful work environment for an engaged, inclusive workforce. Mosaic’s Environmental Health and Safety Management System, aligned to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ANSI-Z10, integrates internationally regarded best management practices into our operations while affirming our ongoing safe and environmentally responsible performance. Continuous improvement is part of our culture and sustainability initiatives. Our updated Sustainability Targets include a goal to reduce incidents and injuries, and improve year-over-year performance. Globally, all Mosaic employees, service providers and contractors are held to the same high standards outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Workplace Awards Mosaic has been recognized as a top place to work in communities where we operate. In 2015, we were named one of the 100 Top Places to Work in Tampa Bay for the third consecutive year. Mosaic has also earned annual recognition as one of Canada’s Top 100 Employers and Saskatchewan’s Top Employers since 2013, and is listed on Forbes’ Canada’s Best Employers list (2016). In Brazil, Mosaic earned recognition as one of the 150 Best Companies to Work For in Brazil by Guia da Revista Você S/A 2015. Workforce Management Our Workforce (G4-10, G4-13) Whether working in our mines, distribution facilities or offices, our employees are part of a global Mosaic team that is richly diverse in skills, experiences and backgrounds. As of Dec. 31, 2015, Mosaic employed 8,523 regular employees. In August 2015, James “Joc” C. O’Rourke began serving as Mosaic’s President and Chief Executive Officer, succeeding James “Jim” T. Prokopanko’s planned retirement, who became our Senior Advisor until his planned retirement in January 2016. Joc O’Rourke was previously Mosaic’s Chief Operating Officer. In October 2015, Mosaic’s Colonsay facility in Saskatchewan, Canada, curtailed production in response to market conditions. These changes resulted in layoffs of approximately 50 junior employees and 22 employees who accepted voluntary early retirement incentives. Junior employees who were laid off received pay in lieu of notice and had the choice between severance pay or recall rights. In 2015, we realigned our business segments to more clearly reflect our evolving business model. Our international distribution activities, which had previously been reported in our Phosphates business segment, were moved into a separate International Distribution segment. We have an exceptional global team of more than 8,500 employees working in 7 countries Attracting the Best Talent in the Industry, and Investing in Our Employees Mosaic aims to be the employer of choice for a diverse and inclusive workforce. Our global talent investment philosophy is to provide competitive compensation and benefits, with flexibility to choose programs that best meet our employees’ needs. Mosaic offers health, welfare and retirement benefits to all full-time employees and eligible dependents. We attract employees through methods including, but not limited to, job boards, social media, diversity career fairs, veterans career fairs and college job fairs. In addition to our regular workforce, individual business segments retain contract workers and interns. Our robust student hiring programs provide a work opportunity to summer, co-op and intern students in Canada, the United States and Brazil. Individual business segments track contract workers by hours worked and in compliance with relevant local legislation, but additional data aggregation and demographic analysis is not currently possible at the group level. Workforce by Employment Type, Region and Gender Effective as of December 31, 2015 FT Salary FT Hourly PT* Total Country Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Australia 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 Brazil 1,044 235 0 0 0 0 1,044 235 Canada 706 213 1,181 107 0 0 1,887 320 China 104 49 0 0 0 0 104 49 India 30 5 0 0 0 0 30 5 Paraguay 95 14 0 0 0 0 95 14 United States 1,441 554 2,599 139 2 3 4,042 696 of America Sub-Totals 3,421 1,070 3,780 246 2 4 7,203 1,320 Totals 4,491 4,026 6 8,523 Notes: Excludes long-term leaves, co-ops, seasonal and temporary employees. Mosaic does not track individual contract worker counts or demographics. 15% of Mosaic's total workforce is female. *Defined as less than 35 hours per week. Mosaic recognizes that women are underrepresented across the mining and metals industry. Women make up approximately 15% of our company’s total workforce. In the face of challenging and persistent perceptions that our sector is traditionally “male,” Mosaic strives to improve the number of women we recruit and retain. (G4-LA1) Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Country Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Australia 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 Brazil 348 93 601 133 95 9 1,044 235 Canada 274 74 1,060 194 553 52 1,887 320 China 19 8 79 37 6 2 104 49 India 4 2 24 3 1 0 30 5 Paraguay 47 7 46 7 2 0 95 14 United States 431 83 1,779 334 1,832 279 4,042 696 of America Sub Totals 1,123 267 3,589 709 2,490 342 7,203 1,320 Totals 1,390 4,298 2,832 8,523 New Hires by Age Group, Gender and Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Country Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Brazil 86 29 55 17 2 2 143 48 Canada 56 12 62 17 8 1 126 30 China 6 1 4 1 0 0 12 2 India 2 2 3 3 0 0 6 5 Paraguay 0 0 3 4 0 0 3 4 United States of 93 20 131 33 40 8 264 61 America Sub Totals 243 64 258 75 50 11 551 150 Totals 307 333 61 701 Employee Turnover by Age Group, Gender and Region <30 30-50 >50 Totals Country Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Australia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brazil 94 19 128 23 18 1 240 43 Canada 27 5 42 13 77 12 146 30 China 1 1 8 1 0 0 9 2 India 3 2 5 2 1 0 9 4 Paraguay 21 0 5 0 0 0 26 0 United States of 39 13 103 32 114 19 256 64 America Grand Total 185 40 291 71 210 32 686 143 In 2015, overall employee turnover totaled 10%. Creating a Place Where Employees Are Proud to Work and Grow Their Careers Mosaic measures employee satisfaction biennially in a comprehensive survey of employee engagement, an indicator of productivity and a force that drives business outcomes. For the 2014 survey, Mosaic’s overall employee engagement level was 73%, above the global manufacturing benchmark of 68% and just below the top quartile benchmark of 74%. Our survey participation was 82%, which means that a majority of our employees describe Mosaic as a good place to work, are committed to staying, are proud to work for Mosaic and recommend Mosaic as a great place to work. SPOTLIGHT Taking a Pulse on Engagement Mosaic believes that engaged employees work smarter and safer; are innovative and find new ways to grow; and are more likely to stay with Mosaic and continue their professional growth and development with the company. Based on the results of Mosaic’s 2014 engagement survey, two focus areas for action planning across Mosaic emerged: teamwork and collaboration, and manager effectiveness. In an effort to monitor these focus areas and further embed engagement in the company’s culture, we implemented an employee engagement “pulse” survey in 2015—a shorter survey meant to capture employees’ feedback during the non-survey year. The results showed meaningful improvements in engagement in specific areas within our business segments and support functions. “Having an engaged and empowered workforce is vital to Mosaic’s long-term success,” said Corrine Ricard, Mosaic’s Senior Vice President of Human Resources. “The candid feedback we receive through our engagement surveys is critical in understanding what’s important to our people. We listen and take action to address issues—making the necessary improvements to ensure our company is a place where people are proud to work and grow.” Providing Competitive Compensation and Benefits (G4-EC5, G4-LA2) Mosaic offers competitive compensation and benefits in each of the company’s significant locations of operation. As shown below in local currency, the standard entry-level wage range is higher than the prevailing local minimum wage for each location presented. For Mosaic, minimum wages are generally not relevant since the majority of entry-level Mosaic positions require a higher level of skills or knowledge than jobs at which the minimum wage rate would apply. Within each of the countries in which Mosaic operates, benefits provided or offered to our full-time employees may differ for various reasons, including: State or country mandated benefit laws that apply to Mosaic employees in a specific geography Labor agreements between Mosaic and labor organizations acting on behalf of represented employees Market-specific benefit programs or practices that exist within an area that Mosaic competes for labor The impact to employees of local or national tax laws regarding the treatment of company-sponsored benefits Part-time employees, which make up less than 1% of our workforce, have benefits and eligibility that vary based on their location. Mosaic provides competitive compensation and bonus opportunities for jobs in all disciplines and geographic markets based on company and individual performance. Additionally, Mosaic contributes toward retirement income benefits, which may include defined-benefit pension plans, defined-contribution plans or other supplemental retirement plans across our locations and countries. The majority of administrative, insurance and other costs associated with Mosaic-sponsored health and welfare plans is borne by us. Participation in the retirement plans is automatic in the United States and Canada. The defined-contribution plan is open to all, but it is not mandatory to participate. Comparing Mosaic's Entry-Level Wage to Local Minimum Wage Local Minimum Mosaic Entry-level Mosaic Entry-level Significant Location Wage Wages* Wage U.S. Wage $14.98–23.24 (hourly) $7.25–$8.05 156% range/hr (USD) 11.35–18.08 (salaried) Canada Wage $17.74–25.78 (hourly) $10.50 149% range/hr (CAD) 15.62–23.56 (salaried) Brazil Wage 3.85–6.70 5.16–10.17 134% range/hr (BRL) China Wage 9.20–15.00 17.82–18.97 162% range/hr (CNY) India Wage 47.75–57.29 162.27–235.80 339% range/hr (INR) Paraguay Wage 8,291.16 8,747.20–18,422.73 106% range/hr (PGY) *Mosaic does not set wages based on gender. Employee Benefits  = Yes  = No Type of Benefit United States Canada Brazil Paraguay India China Health Care       Life Insurance       AD&D Insurance       Disability Coverage       Employee Assistance       Program Defined-benefit Plan       Defined-contribution       Savings Plan Annual Profit Sharing       Maternity Leave       Paternity Leave       Sickness Leave       Deferred Bonus and       Deferred Pay Long-term Incentives       Stock Ownership       Relocation Assistance       Flex Time Program       Formal Wellness       Programs Tuition Assistance /       Education Telecommute Program       Retirement Profit       Sharing Mosaic strives to support its employees’ health and wellbeing through a variety of initiatives. In 2015, Mosaic partnered with a third party at Florida and Louisiana facilities in 2015 to provide onsite medical services for employees, including: occupational care, wellness and preventive health, episodic care, primary care, and chronic condition management. (G4-LA3) Parental leave is offered to employees in North America, South America and Asia. As parental leaves vary in accordance with local laws and customs across the regions where we operate, Mosaic is unable to track retention rates of employees returning from parental leave. For example, in the United States, parental leave is undistinguished from broader reporting on the Family and Medical Leave Act, as well as state laws. Mosaic Employees:  Are proud to work for Mosaic  Are committed to staying and developing within the company  Recommend Mosaic to others and describe it as a great place to work Labor & Management Relations G4-DMA: Mosaic values collective bargaining as an important form of collaborative employee engagement. In addition, Mosaic is sensitive to the needs of its employees, and much consideration is placed on applicable notice periods for any such changes that may impact employees. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining is respected in all of Mosaic’s operations per our Commitment to Human Rights, which is guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the most widely recognized definition of human rights and the responsibilities of national governments; the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. (G4-11) Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements Worldwide Employees Total Worldwide 8,523 Employees Total Employees Represented by a 4,546 Union Percentage 53.34% Represented Note: 8,523 regular employees. Figure excludes long-term leaves, co-ops, seasonal and temporary employees. We’re committed to ensuring Mosaic is a company where employees are proud to work and grow (G4-LA4) Some of Mosaic’s labor agreements contain provisions of advance notice periods with respect to significant operational changes that impact employees. In most locations the exact notice requirement varies depending on circumstances surrounding the changes. In the United States, we adhere to federal and state WARN (The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act) laws that require a 60-day notification of plant closings and mass layoffs. In Canada, Mosaic adheres to or exceeds the minimum notice requirements set by the Saskatchewan Employment Act. In China, Mosaic adheres to or exceeds the minimum notice requirements set by Article 41 of the Employment Contract Law (ECL). In Brazil, Mosaic adheres to or exceeds the 30-day notice requirement for dismissals without cause mandated by Brazilian Labor Law. In the other regions where we operate, Mosaic meets and usually exceeds the minimum notice required, which varies by local legislation and collective bargaining agreements. (G4-MM4) Mosaic has not been subject to organized labor actions, including strikes or lockouts of any duration, at any of its locations in the 2015 reporting period. Moreover, we have not had a strike by or lockout of our employees in facilities where Mosaic is the majority owner since our formation in 2004. Our Commitment to Diversity & Equal Opportunity (G4-LA12) Mosaic’s Equal Employment Opportunity and Nondiscrimination Policy provides equal employment opportunities to all Mosaic employees and other qualified persons without regard to race, religion, color, gender, national origin, age, disability, marital status, citizenship status, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, or any other legally protected status under applicable laws in countries where Mosaic employees work. The policy also provides that Mosaic is committed to maintaining a work environment free of discrimination. Mosaic’s commitment applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including, but not limited to: Recruiting and hiring Training and promotion Compensation and benefits Performance assessments Transfer Terminations Layoff or recall from layoff Leaves of absence Company-sponsored training and education Retaliation or reprisal toward an employee who has exercised their rights under this policy is strictly prohibited. Mosaic’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics reinforces this policy. Our Commitment to Inclusion reinforces that Mosaic is focused on building a representative workforce that embraces the opportunities that diversity brings to the workplace. Mosaic tracks ethnicity only in the United States. Diversity indicators include American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, Hispanic or Latino, Two or More Races, or White. Ethnicity by Gender 2015 (United States) Male Female Total Ethnicity Count Percentage Count Percentage Count Percentage American Indian or 24 0.59% 5 0.72% 29 0.61% Alaskan Asian 41 1.01% 16 2.3% 57 1.2% Black or African 591 14.62% 114 16.38% 705 14.88% American Hawaiian/Pacific 4 0.1% 1 0.14% 5 0.11% Islander Hispanic or Latino 394 9.75% 57 8.19% 451 9.52% Two or More Races 21 0.52% 5 0.72% 26 0.55% Unknown 46 1.14% 5 0.72% 51 0.55% White 2921 72.27% 493 70.83% 3414 72.06% Total 4042 85.31% 696 14.69% 4738 100% Note: Includes United States, active employees, regular employees and employees on a leave of absence. Approximately 28% of the U.S. workforce is considered to be a part of a minority group. Total Management Workforce Worldwide by Gender and Age < 30 30-50 > 50 Unknown Gender Count Percentage Count Percentage Count Percentage Count Male 52 4.52% 618 53.74% 480 41.74% 0 Female 17 7.33% 170 73.28% 44 18.97% 1 Total 69 4.99% 788 57.02% 524 37.92% 1 Total U.S. Management Workforce by Ethnicity Total Percentage American Indian or Alaskan (United 0 0.00% States) Asian (United States) 11 1.38% Black or African American (United 57 7.13% States) Hispanic or Latino 49 6.13% (United States) Two or More Races 6 0.75% (United States) Unknown (United 4 0.50% States) White (United States) 672 84.11% Totals 799 100.00% Note: Includes U.S., active employees, regular employees and employees on a leave of absence. Approximately 16% of the company's management force is considered to be a member of a minority group. Approximately 17% of the company’s management workforce is female. (G4-LA13) One of Mosaic’s strategic priorities is to invest in people, and we are committed to providing the environment, development opportunities and compensation to ensure that Mosaic is a company where employees are proud to work and grow. We are an equal opportunity employer, and our recruiting practices focus on matching the best possible candidate to the position. Mosaic uses salary ranges that are competitive with market pay ranges for positions of comparable responsibility, functional knowledge, impact and other compensable factors. Gender is not a factor when determining compensation. Each salary range has a minimum or threshold salary for a new hire, although Mosaic typically sets the actual salary above this minimum. While our processes ensure Mosaic’s compensation is competitive and equitable, we also take steps to understand how our employees perceive their pay. In three consecutive biennial engagement surveys—administered globally to all Mosaic employees—we asked for responses to the following statement: I am paid fairly for the value I bring to Mosaic. Both women and men have continued to respond favorably to this question, with 70% and 66%, respectively, either strongly agreeing or agreeing. Safety Maintaining a Safe Workplace Reducing Our Incidents and Injuries (G4-LA5) We believe sustainability begins with the health and safety of our employees, contractors, communities and visitors. In our pursuit of an incidentand injury-free workplace, we track safety and environmental incidents closely, including nearmisses. We investigate their causes in order to mitigate potential risks. Mosaic has safety committees at a majority of our global operations, representing employees at approximately 95% of our operations. All Mosaic U.S. and Canada locations have formal joint safety committees, with the exception of small locations, such as warehouses, with 15 or fewer employees. The role of these committees, which are composed of employees from all levels, is to promote safety awareness and reinforce a working environment that promotes connectivity, teamwork and productivity among employees while supporting Mosaic’s relentless pursuit of an incidentand injury-free workplace. Our 2015 Recordable Injury Frequency Rate was the lowest in our company’s history. While this is good progress, we are continuing to pursue zero injuries (G4-LA6, G4-LA7) Mosaic has a safety management system in place that is designed to identify, evaluate and control risks. This proactive approach allows us to understand the risks, take action and prevent incidents from occurring in the first place— which results in fewer injuries. Mosaic follows U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards to calculate recordable injury frequency rates (RIFR) on a global basis. An OSHA recordable injury is an occupational injury that requires medical treatment that is more than simple first aid. The most common injuries are sprains/strains; cuts/lacerations/avulsions; fractures; bruises/contusions; and acute respiratory conditions. Lost time incident frequency rate (LTIFR) calculates the frequency rate of lost time injuries. This measure is an indicator of incident severity. Lost days begin the day after the lost time incident occurs and calendar days are counted, with no exception for weekends, holidays, vacation or scheduled time off. Employees who work in areas with elevated noise in the operational environment are at potential risk for hearing loss. To mitigate this risk, Mosaic utilizes engineering controls to reduce the noise of our equipment; where this cannot feasibly be accomplished, Mosaic requires the use of hearing protection or even double hearing protection. Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIFR) CY2015 Employee Contractor Total United States 0.95 0.88 0.92 Canada 1.08 1.11 1.1 International 0.24 0 0.21 Total 0.86 0.9 0.88 Note: Mosaic does not track RIFR or LDFR specifically by gender. Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate (LTIFR) CY2015 Employee Contractor Total United States 0.15 0.09 0.12 Canada 0.08 0.06 0.07 International 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 0.10 0.08 0.09 Note: Mosaic does not track RIFR or LDFR specifically by gender. There were no work-related fatalities in 2015. Absenteeism Rates CY2015 (%) Employee Phosphates* 3% Potash** 5% Brazil 4.20% India*** 0.00% China*** 0.00% *Data for hourly and salary nonexempt employees only. **Except for Colonsay, Potash's data is for hourly employees only. ***In China and India, all full-time Mosaic employees are salaried, and absenteeism is accounted for per their respective HR policies. (DMA, G4-LA8) Mosaic is committed to conducting business activities in a manner that protects the health and safety of its employees, contractors, customers and communities. 100% of our union contracts in the U.S. and Canada and 90% of union contracts in Brazil cover health and safety topics. Though rare, emergencies can occur in our business and the ability to respond promptly and effectively is critical. Mosaic’s overarching approach to crisis management includes risk anticipation and mitigation, site-specific emergency response plans, and routine crisis simulation drills involving Mosaic employees from various functions and emergency response professionals from the communities where we operate. Our internal crisis management intranet site outlines response plan specifics, including roles, procedures, guidelines and protocols for handling crises and communicating with stakeholders. Training & Development Developing & Supporting Our People (G4-LA9, G4-LA10) Mosaic employees are encouraged to continuously learn and improve their skills. With management support, we offer a companywide educational reimbursement program to help employees in each of our operating countries better meet their current job responsibilities, as well as prepare for future career opportunities within our company. Our internal training opportunities also support the continuous development of Mosaic employees at all levels: Leadership Professional and career development Environmental, health and safety (EHS) training Equipment and maintenance training Continuous improvement 2015 Training and Education Total Training in Hours Course Title Leadership, Professional 61,653 Development and Function Training* Legal Compliance 4,694 Training Topics in AntiCorruption, FCPA, 1,290 Business Conduct and Ethics EHS and Operations Training Phosphates 198,145 Potash 111,405 International and Corporate 89,810 Headquarters Total Hours 466,997 Hours per employee 53 *HR, IT, Finance and Commercial for all EEs Mosaic provides employees with helpful planning tools, calculators, articles, videos and webcasts, in addition to optional services provided by our third-party vendors to help plan for retirement. Mosaic also provides support and training for employees during transitional career stages. When a reduction in our workforce occurs, we provide comprehensive career transition services to employees to help ease the stress that accompanies job loss. View Our Workforce for more information on these 2015 efforts. (G4-LA11) As part of our strategic priority to develop, engage and empower our people, we have a performance management process called EDGE: Evaluating, Developing and Growing Excellence. Our performance management process has evolved to include scaled competencies, goal alignment and an emphasis on employee and career development. In addition, we offer tuition reimbursement programs to support continued education for Mosaic employees. More than 250 employees are currently enrolled in Mosaic’s tuition reimbursement program. Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews, by Gender Male Female Total Full-time Salaried Population (Launched 2,390 967 3,357 Forms) Performance Reviews 2,341 950 3,291 Given Percentage of 97.95% 98.24% 98.03% Reviews Received  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top Share: MENU Company Since forming in 2004, Mosaic has grown to be a global leader in phosphates and potash crop nutrition. We are proud to be a competitive, low-cost producer with strong customer relationships, and the financial strength to invest in growth and innovation. And we’ve led the industry in developing high-quality premium products that help growers succeed. None of Mosaic’s success would be possible without our greatest asset—our people. Each person at Mosaic contributes to our company strategy: to win in our core businesses of phosphates, potash and international distribution, and to grow in new ways. And we conduct our critical work with an emphasis on abiding integrity and excellence, for the benefit of all our stakeholders. Mission, Principles & Priorities (G4-56) No matter where Mosaic operates in the world, we ask that our employees adhere to the same companywide values. This common sense of purpose and responsibility ensures that we approach our work with a shared goal. (G4-6) We mine phosphate rock in Florida and process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in Saskatchewan and New Mexico. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India and Paraguay, as well as strategic equity investments in a phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region in Peru and a joint venture formed to develop a phosphate rock mine and chemical complexes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Mosaic conducts business through wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries, as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling interest. In 2015, we realigned our business segments to reflect our evolving business model and now report our financial results through three operating segments: Phosphates, Potash and International Distribution. Additional information about our business and operating segments is provided in our 10-K Report (Page 1). (G4-MM8) We mine phosphate rock and potash, which are less suited to artisanal or small-scale mining (as compared to precious metals, for example). In 2015, no artisanal or small-scale phosphate or potash mining took place on, or, to our knowledge, adjacent to any Mosaic site. Our mine operations are capital intensive, and therefore, risks are required to be defined and managed well before any mining occurs. Sustainability Governance Responsibility is one of Mosaic’s guiding principles. We are committed to making informed choices that improve our corporate governance, financial strength, operational efficiency, environmental stewardship, community engagement and resource management. Through these efforts, we intend to sustain our business and experience lasting success. We encourage each person at Mosaic to act responsibly and contribute to our company’s success. It’s our collective decisions and actions that must be ethical, strategic and sustainable. Together, we can create shared value and reduce our impacts. Sustainability leadership begins with our Board of Directors. The Environmental Health, Safety and Sustainable Development (EHSS) Committee of the Mosaic Board of Directors provides oversight of our environmental, health, safety and sustainable development strategic vision and performance, including: safety and health of employees and contractors, environmental performance, systems and processes designed to manage EHSS risks, commitments, public responsibilities and compliance, relationships with and impact on communities with respect to EHSS matters, public policy and advocacy strategies related to EHSS issues, and achieving societal support of major projects. View The EHSS Committee Charter for more information. The Board and Senior Leadership Team review the EHSS Committee’s recommendations in order to develop new companywide policies, initiatives, targets and goals. A team of employees, overseen by a Director of Sustainability, manages sustainability initiatives on a day-to-day basis. In 2015, we were once again named to the CDP Climate A List The Mosaic Company Senior Leadership Team (SLT), led by our President and Chief Executive Officer, is primarily responsible for managing profit and loss and delivering growth. Implementation and delivery of Mosaic’s business strategy and plan are monitored by SLT members. The SLT is supported in matters of sustainability by leading vice president and director-level employees who are accountable for ensuring the goals are achieved through site-specific, business segment and companywide implementation. Mosaic participates in a number of sustainability initiatives: United Nations Global Compact (UNGC): Committing to 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption; CDP and CDP Water (formerly named Carbon Disclosure Project): Improving transparency and performance with respect to greenhouse gas emissions and water; Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Promoting the use of sustainability reporting as a way for organizations to become more sustainable and contribute to sustainable development, and Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), IW Financial, Trucost, Vigeo, Corporate Knights, and Newsweek in partnership with Corporate Knights Capital: Providing data and information for analysis. Sustainability Leadership In addition to participating in several voluntary reporting initiatives in 2015, Mosaic earned recognition for our sustainability disclosure and performance practices. Our Leadership on Climate Change (G4-EC2) Mosaic’s “Commitment on Climate Change” acknowledges that global climate change creates uncertainty for our business and poses challenges for the health and well-being of the world’s populations—ecologically, socially and economically. The potential financial implications with regard to the physical changes associated with climate change, as well as potential regulatory response changes, are discussed in Mosaic’s CDP response and in Mosaic’s 10-K Report. Leadership & Management G4-DMA: We are focused on executing against our strategic priorities: developing, engaging and empowering our people; growing and strengthening our business; and creating value for stakeholders. Mosaic’s sustainability targets are closely aligned with our operational and financial goals. We respond annually to CDP and use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework with the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement to report on our environmental and sustainability performance. (G4-EC1) Our Economic Value Generated and Distributed Economic Performance in Millions FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Revenue $11,107.8 $9,974.1 $9,021.4 $9,055.8 $8,895.3 Operating Costs in Millions FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Cost of Goods Sold $8,022.8 $7,213.9 $7,006.0 $7,129.2 $7,177.4 Selling, General and Administrative $410.1 $427.3 $393.5 $382.4 $361.2 Expenses Less: Unrealized (Gain)/Loss on $41.9 $(15.2) $(0.4) $32.0 $31.9 Derivatives Less: Depreciation, Depletion and $508.1 $604.8 $655.6 $750.9 $739.8 Amortization *Less: Wages and $843.1 $935.9 $927.8 $1,429.3 $1,441.5 Benefits Total Operating Costs $7,039.8 $6,115.7 $5,816.5 $5,299.4 $5,325.4 Wages and Benefits $843.1 $935.9 $927.8 $1,429.3 $1,441.5 *Mosaic Cost of Goods Sold and Selling, General and Administrative expenses from the 10-K include wages and benefits. For the GRI report, wages and benefits are requested separately, so they are excluded here and added back in as a separate line item directly below. Payments to Providers of Funds in Millions FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Dividends Paid $119.5 $426.6 $427.1 $382.5 $384.7 Payments for Share $1,162.5 $2,755.3 $709.5 Repurchases Interest Paid (Net of $21.0 $6.9 $121.9 $126.2 Amount Capitalized) Total Payments to $140.5 $1,303.0 $434.0 $3,259.7 $1220.4 Providers of Funds Retained Earnings $10,141.3 $11,603.4 $11,182.1 $11,168.9 $11,014.8 Tax (Payment to Government) in Millions FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 United States $272.7 $175.8 $155.1 $(5.5)* $79.4 Canada $211.9 $123.2 $107.6 $87.9 $112.8 Brazil $2.2 $2.9 $3.0 $2.7 $2.0 Other $29.6 $(2.0) $(0.2) $28.1 $7.0 Total Income Taxes $516.4 $299.9 $265.5 $113.2 $193.3 Paid *CY2014 U.S. tax payments decreased due to CY2013 overpayments and refunds. Canadian Resource Taxes and Royalties $327.1 $307.9 $235.2 $195.0 $281.3 Expense** **Represents tax expense during the period, not cash payments. Our Value to Neighbors and Partners Through Community Investment We believe it is our responsibility to utilize our financial resources, technical expertise and innovative spirit to help the world sustainably grow the food it needs through strategic partnerships with leading organizations. The combined 2015 contributions by The Mosaic Company, The Mosaic Company Foundation and The Mosaic Institute in Brazil provided approximately $16 million of support through companywide philanthropic grant making, the United Way campaign's dollar-for-dollar match, in-kind products and services contributions, and paid employee volunteerism, including pro bono, skills-based technical assistance and functional-specific services. Please see G4-EC8 for more information. Our community investments are allocated to align with the size of our operations and industrial footprint in each of our locations. Mosaic uses an online grant application system to receive and evaluate proposals for funding. By accessing the online grant application system, potential grantees are able to review Mosaic’s focus areas, grant making guidelines, application deadlines and our non-discrimination policy. Establishing a standardized grant making system with stated guidelines and policies online has provided greater transparency to our partners, shareholders, employees and communities. Through this system, grantees provide reports on their outcomes, enabling Mosaic to evaluate the effectiveness of each grant. View details on our 2015 Community Investments & Partnerships. Community Investments Focus: Mosaic makes community investments in the areas of food, water and local initiatives. Food: Mosaic is committed to supporting organizations that advance global agricultural development, agricultural research and education, and hunger relief for community members in need. These programs, respectively, include: The Mosaic Villages Project in Guatemala and India; micronutrient deficiency research and mobile soil testing labs; and food drives, food distribution trucks and school back-pack programs. Water: Mosaic supports organizations that work in watershed restoration, habitat conservation and nutrient stewardship. These programs, respectively, include: shoreline restoration and oyster reef installations; improved land management practices and wildlife protection; and 4R nutrient stewardship, which is best management practices for fertilizer application, minimizing field runoff and improving farmer yields. Local: Mosaic supports philanthropic or civic partnerships that enrich the long-term strength of communities in which Mosaic has offices and operations. These programs, respectively, include: local schools, health care institutions, museums; special projects and sponsorship of events; and housing and disaster relief. (G4-EC3) Our Defined Benefit Plan Benefit Plan Obligation in Millions FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Pension Plan $743.3 $788.6 $728.0 $828.4 $731.2 Obligation Fair Value of Plan $654.4 $707.6 $736.9 $812.1 $726.7 Assets Note: Please refer to the discussion of our defined benefit pension plans in our 10-K report. Pension Plan Asset Allocation U.S. Pension Plans Assets as Assets as Assets as Assets as Assets as of of of of of 5/31/2012 5/31/2013 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 Fixed Income 77% 74% 75% 77% 95% U.S. Equity Securities 11% 13% 12% 12% 2% Non-U.S. Equity 6% 7% 7% 7% 2% Securities Real Estate 4% 4% 4% 4% 0% Private Equity 2% 1% 2% 0% 1% Other 0% 1% 0% 0% 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Canadian Pension Plans Assets as Assets as Assets as Assets as Assets as of of of of of 5/31/2012 5/31/2013 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 Fixed Income 38% 37% 38% 40% 39% U.S. Equity Securities 22% 21% 22% 23% 22% Canadian Equity 21% 20% 21% 20% 20% Securities Non-U.S. Equity 14% 14% 14% 14% 15% Securities Private Equity 3% 2% 2% 1% 1% Other 2% 6% 3% 2% 3% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Investment Plan and Savings Plan FY2012 FY2013 2013 2014 2015 Attributable Expense $30.0* $34.5* $35.2 $51.5 $55.1 *Only includes expense for Defined Plans in the United States. Participation and funding target attainment percentages for our U.S. and Canadian pension plans as of Dec. 31, 2015, are as follows: Benefit Plan Participation and Target Attainment (as of Dec. 31, 2015) Location Participants Funding Attainment United States (Hourly) 3,852 98.60% United States 3,844 96.00% (Salaried) Colonsay (Hourly) 637 110.00% Colonsay (Salaried) 69 97.00% Esterhazy (Hourly) 1,499 112.00% Esterhazy (Salaried) 232 96.00% (G4-EC4) Financial Assistance from Government 2015 Tax Credits and Subsidies Country Type Amount Canada Research and Development Credit $10,200,000 United States Research and Development Credit $338,000 United States Energy Credit $4,400,000 Brazil Employee Meal and Leave Subsidies $356,090 Brazil Maternity Leave Subsidy $47,703 Brazil Freight Tax Reduction SUDENE $981,403 Note: All figures are reported in U.S. dollars. As actual 2015 figures were not available at the time of reporting, these figures represent actual 2014 amounts. The Brazil and Canada figures were calculated using an average income statement exchange rate used for financial reporting purposes. Policies G4-DMA: As one of the world’s leading crop nutrient companies, Mosaic has a responsibility to be actively engaged in the promotion of sound and sustainable public policies. We proactively educate all levels of our employees and government officials on the key issues our company and operations face, our value to operating communities, and our vital role in the world's food production. (G4-SO3, G4-SO5) Mosaic must comply with all applicable laws of the United States, and all other countries in which we do business, that are designed to prevent bribery and corruption. Violations may result in stiff penalties, including the disgorgement of profits, imprisonment, and negative publicity. Mosaic’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics demands strict compliance from our employees and requires any employees who have been assigned a company computer user ID—which is approximately 3,500 employees—to complete online code of conduct training and certify compliance with the code annually. Please see G4-LA9 for more information. Mosaic also maintains a 24-hour independently administered confidential and anonymous incident reporting hotline for all Mosaic employees. In addition, our company conducts a robust risk assessment to identify risks related to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). A robust fraud risk assessment is also completed in the Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts. Mosaic recognizes the significance of the FCPA and has established a Worldwide Anti-corruption Policy. We conduct periodic FCPA audits of selected various geographic locations and respective individuals—including but not limited to country managers, sales representatives, accounting/finance personnel and supply chain—whose job responsibilities require a keen awareness of and compliance with the FCPA. Mosaic operates in a regulated industry and in areas throughout the world with varying degrees of perceived corruption. Mosaic also has routine interactions with foreign government officials and agencies related to obtaining licenses and approvals, customs, land use and other matters. The risk of corrupt practices exists in the countries where we operate as government officials and agencies are inherently involved in the production, sale, and distribution of our fertilizer products through the related laws and regulations governing these activities. Since May 2009, more than 6,000 Mosaic employees have completed FCPA training The total number of business segments analyzed for risks related to corruption in 2015: three (Potash, Phosphates and International Distribution). The percentage of business segments analyzed for risks related to corruption in 2015: 100% (all three business segments). We also review select joint ventures including Miski Mayo in Peru and the Wa'ad al Shamal Phosphates Company in Saudi Arabia. As of the date of this report, Mosaic had not identified any material violations of our anti-corruption policy and had not dismissed or disciplined any employee for corruption, nor declined to renew a contract with a business partner due to violations related to corruption. (G4-SO4) Mosaic requires all salaried employees (which includes all management employees) to complete the online FCPA training, and since May 2009, more than 6,000 employees have completed the training—representing a completion rate of approximately 95%. In addition to the online training, instructor-led training is also provided to certain employees, based on their location and job responsibilities. As part of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics certification process, which is required annually of all salaried employees, employees are specifically asked to certify as to their compliance with the FCPA in the past year. Most recently, the 2014 Code certification, completed in 2015, had a 100% completion rate. View G4-LA9 for more information. Board members receive the Code of Conduct training and are recertified annually, most recently with a 100% completion rate in 2015. In regards to business partners, Mosaic’s service agreements generally require suppliers to agree to follow the Mosaic Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, a section of which addresses Preventing Bribery and Corruption. The code states that suppliers adhere to the same level as required by Mosaic employees. Mosaic’s purchase order policy requires suppliers to acknowledge Mosaic’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics biannually in writing. Mosaic’s Worldwide Anti-Corruption Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are both publicly available on our Website. Visit mosaicco.com for complete information on Mosaic's policies and commitments. (G4-SO7) In 2015, there were no legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly practices. Mosaic is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and remains committed to its universal principles including anti-corruption G4-DMA: Mosaic supports elected officials, candidates for public office, and political committees that are supportive of Mosaic’s mission and share our views on important issues, such as maintaining a strong North American manufacturing and mining base, recognizing the importance of crop nutrients in maintaining domestic and global food security, and supporting reasonable science-based regulation with responsible environmental stewardship. (G4-SO6) Amounts of political contributions are reported based on when Mosaic issued the check, which in some cases may be in a different year than when the check was delivered and reported by the receiving candidate or organization. Contribution levels vary in accordance with election cycles in local and regional communities where we operate. Political Contributions (in U.S. Dollars) 2011 FY2012 2013 2014 2015 United States $146,250 $350,500 $195,423 $154,400 $217,139 Canada $42,000 $4,000 $5,800 $12,000 $9,936* Note: U.S. political contributions include both hard and soft money donations, with contributions made from Mosaic Company Political Action Committee (PAC) included in the U.S. total. 2015 in-kind donations for the United States and Canada totaled $238 and $2,592, respectively. *The Canadian figures for 2015 were converted to USD using the currency exchange rate on Dec. 31, 2015. Since the figures were not converted on the actual date of the contribution, the amount in USD on the date of the contribution may differ slightly from what is reported here.  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top Share: MENU Community G4-DMA: At Mosaic, we understand that our business and our communities are indelibly linked. Our operating communities are also our homes—where we live, work and raise children. We strive to be a thoughtful and engaged neighbor, investing carefully and generously as we seek long-term partnerships with organizations that are making a difference. The Mosaic Company, The Mosaic Company Foundation and The Mosaic Institute in Brazil partner with industry associations, nonprofit groups and stakeholders focused on food, water and local initiatives. We are especially committed to the strength and prosperity of the communities where we have offices and operations, including North America, South America and Asia. Our financial support is magnified by employee volunteerism and community involvement. Mosaic has diverse and varied economic effects on communities across the world. We encourage and support spending with local suppliers, and seek job applicants from local communities when an internal candidate is not available. Investing in Our Communities Our Indirect Economic Impacts (G4-EC7) Mosaic is dedicated to advancing the many ways that our business contributes to the development of the communities where we operate: investing in our communities; hiring employees and contracting vendors from local communities; offering competitive wages and benefits to our workforce; building community capacity, inter-firm networks and industry clusters; and developing our future workforce. Investing in Our Local Communities We focus our community investments in three core areas: Food, Water and Local. In 2015, combined contributions by The Mosaic Company, The Mosaic Company Foundation and The Mosaic Institute in Brazil through philanthropic funding, employee engagement and in-kind donations totaled approximately $16 million. View our global and local community investments on Mosaic’s Giving Map Hiring Employees and Contracting Vendors From Local Communities As a matter of practice, and in accordance with Mosaic’s global job posting policies, we will “hire from within wherever possible.” In addition, Mosaic initiates and conducts its search for qualified candidates locally, before the search is broadened. For more information, please see G4-EC6. Mosaic’s mining and production operations take place in communities of varying size throughout North America. Mosaic does not have a written policy for giving preference to locally-based suppliers, but we do encourage and support local suppliers of all sizes. For more information, please see G4-EC9. As a global company, the vendor screening process we have in place to ensure that we maintain strict ethics, quality and safety standards, which can be challenging for small companies to meet. In an effort to support more local suppliers, we engage them, build partnerships, and explore opportunities to build capacity. Offering Competitive Wages and Benefits to Our Workforce Our global talent investment philosophy is to provide competitive compensation and benefits, with flexibility to choose programs that best meet our employees’ needs. In 2015, Mosaic had 8,523 regular employees globally, for whom wages and benefits totaled over $1.4 billion. For more information, view G4-10, G4-13. Mosaic is helping develop skilled labor to sustain our industry:  Contributed to the creation of The Mosaic Academic Wing of the Trades & Technology Centre in Saskatchewan  Donated scholarship funds to various college engineering programs around the country  Florida Phosphate segment operates a two-year apprenticeship/ internship program  Joined Florida Polytechnic University to support scholarships, curriculum development, conducting joint research and more Building Community Capacity, Inter-firm Networks and Industry Clusters In 2012, Mosaic issued a Request for Proposal for its entire contract truck fleet in Florida that called for natural gas fueled vehicles. Mosaic awarded the new carrier contract to Dillon Transport, Inc.; however, a compressed natural gas (CNG) supply infrastructure to support the new fleet did not exist in the Tampa Bay area at the time of the conversion decision. To meet the requirements of its new contract with Mosaic, Dillon partnered with Trillium CNG to build and operate a new CNG filling station near the Port of Tampa. The station is the first CNG station in Hillsborough County and is open to the public. A second CNG filling station opened in Mulberry, Fla., in 2015. The Florida TaxWatch Center for Competitive Florida reported in 2013 that Florida consumes more than 728 billion cubic feet of natural gas annually, most of which is used to generate electricity. Expanding CNG services to fuel transportation fleets results in reduced emissions, lower fuel prices and less dependence on foreign oil suppliers. CNG is currently available in 59 of Florida's 67 counties for industrial, commercial and residential use. Developing Our Future Workforce Mosaic has plans to expand in various geographies, and skilled labor is a key priority. Working with the government to make immigration a priority, Mosaic has not only helped bring new skilled labor to Saskatchewan, but has also assisted in building community infrastructure in the areas where we operate. Mosaic contributed to the creation of The Mosaic Academic Wing of the Trades & Technology Centre at Parkland College in Yorkton, Saskatchewan, which is expected to train 250 skilled graduates each year. In 2014, Mosaic donated scholarship funds to various college engineering programs around the country, including Virginia Tech, the University of Kentucky, Louisiana State University, the University of Florida and the University of South Florida. Additionally, the Mosaic Phosphate business segment in Florida operates an apprenticeship/internship program. The two-year program provides a combination of classroom studies and on-the-job training to help students gain advanced skills that are in demand at Mosaic. 21 of those graduates will become Millwrights/ Mechanics and 20 will become Electrical, Instrumentation and Automation Technicians. To date, 142 people have graduated from the program since it started in 2008. Mosaic has diverse and varied indirect economic effects on communities across the world In 2014, Mosaic joined Florida Polytechnic University as an industry partner to support initiatives related to scholarships, curriculum development, service on advisory boards, industry insight and analysis, and conducting joint research. Mosaic also plans to provide opportunities to Florida Polytechnic students to participate in co-op and intern programs. The Mosaic Company Foundation supported the South Florida Museum and Bishop Planetarium’s capital campaign, securing naming rights for the Mosaic Backyard Universe, an interactive children’s exhibit focusing on Science, Technology, Engineering and Math concepts for children ages 2-8. Mosaic partners with the Hillsborough Education Foundation (HEF) in Tampa, Florida. As part of HEF’s annual funding, Mosaic supports HEF’s Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Fair. Now in its 36th year, the regional fair has grown to be the largest in Florida and one of the largest in the nation, with more than 1,900 entries from 2,500 students in grades K-12. Mosaic has partnered with MOSI since 2010 and has provided support for a variety of its initiatives throughout the years, including the Amazing You exhibit. Mosaic also funds the Destination STEAM program, which provides hand-on Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math education to elementary school children in DeSoto, Manatee and Hardee Counties. Indirect Economic Impacts of Our Operations (G4-EC8) Mosaic has diverse and varied indirect economic effects on communities across the world. Our community investments in 2015 totaled approximately $16 million. Due to the complex nature of the business and philanthropic activities in which Mosaic engages, we do not attempt to estimate our full indirect economic impact by using a measurement of currency. Global food security is one of the most pressing issues of our time and calls for the judicious use of resources, as well as ongoing innovation. Today’s crop nutrients are responsible for 40% to 60% of global crop yields, and Mosaic’s products play a crucial role in meeting the global demand for food. Farmers who produce enough food to support a profitable business bring economic benefits through their hiring and spending practices. Likewise, the dealers who distribute our fertilizers and the vendors who support our operations are meaningful contributors to the economic vitality of the rural and regional communities where they operate. Additionally, participants in The Mosaic Villages Project receive no-interest loans to buy fertilizer at planting, and repay the loans through the sale of surplus yield at harvest. Fertilizer acts as an injection of capital to the region, helping farmers break the cycle of poverty that has gripped these developing regions of the world. For example, The Mosaic Villages Project participants in Guatemala have reported that average yields have increased three to five times over that of traditional farming practices. Fertilizers are responsible for up to 60% of global crop yields Furthermore, many of Mosaic’s charitable community investments are focused on supporting hunger relief in communities and providing access to emergency food systems. Studies show that children who have sustained hunger have reduced abilities and capacity to learn in school. Access to regular food improves educational outcomes. Through work with the United Way and other local charities, Mosaic’s community investments help families achieve greater economic independence and improve educational outcomes for children. From workforce development programs to K-12 education initiatives, communities receive significant support to advance results in our operating communities and in non-governmental organization partner programs globally. The mining, production and distribution of phosphate and potash contribute to global economies through the import and export of the minerals themselves and the complementary goods needed to manufacture fertilizer, animal feed and industrial products. The 2013 Areawide Environmental Impact Statement (AEIS) for continued phosphate mining in the Central Florida Phosphate District that was administered by the Army Corps of Engineers studied the economic impact of Mosaic’s continued operations in the region. The evaluation concluded that the indirect economic impact of continued Mosaic mining in the Central Florida region over the next 50 years will be $1.4 billion. Furthermore, according to a 2013 study by the Port of Tampa of the port’s 2012 fiscal year, the phosphate industry accounted for more than $10 billion of the port’s $15.1 billion annual economic activity; supported more than half of the port’s 80,000 direct, indirect and related jobs; and created more than half of the 10,573 direct jobs at the port from the movement of phosphate rock and raw materials, as well as crop nutrition and animal feed supplies and products. A 2015 economic study by The Fertilizer Institute estimates that the U.S. fertilizer industry contributes $162 billion to the U.S. economy. The study goes on to estimate that fertilizer producers, wholesalers and retailers, and the businesses that serve them, support 519,900 U.S. jobs with total annual compensation of $36 billion. Additionally, many of Mosaic’s partnerships with community organizations continue to support positive healthcare, education, housing and recreational opportunities for our neighbors. Please see G4-EC7 and Mosaic’s Giving Map for more information. Our Local Spending & Hiring (G4-EC9) Mosaic does not have a written policy for preferring locally based suppliers, but we do encourage and support spend with local suppliers. We report on purchases in United States, Canada and Brazil. For the purposes of this indicator, operations in these areas are considered “significant” since they are in key geographies where most of our supply chain activities take place. (G4-EC6) As a matter of practice, and in accordance with Mosaic’s global job posting policies, we will “hire from within wherever possible.” For midto lower-level positions, a search is conducted locally to find a qualified candidate. If no local candidates are identified, then the search broadens until a qualified candidate is found. Mosaic offers relocation support, as required, to move talent according to business needs. For senior management roles, if no internal candidates are identified, a search will be conducted externally to find the best candidate for the leadership role. The hire may or may not come from one of the communities where we have a local presence. These candidates are also supported with relocation assistance. Local Supply Chain Operational Locations 2015 All Phosphate (United 73% States only)* All Potash (Canada 56% and United States)* Offshore–Fospar, 100% Brazil** Excludes governmental, raw materials, clubs and organizations, and employee related and freight spend. Includes as locals in the Phosphate segment all vendors with addresses in Louisiana and Florida, and in the Potash segment all vendors with addresses in New Mexico, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. *Brazil figures are based on all spend and consider as local vendors all of those whose addresses are within the country. Total excludes raw materials. Human Rights G4-DMA: Acting with integrity means making the right choice and taking the right path in any given situation. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, The Mosaic Company is committed to the protection and advancement of human rights. Mosaic’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics forms the basis of our Commitment to Human Rights. Non-discrimination (G4-HR3) In 2015, only one internal report of discrimination was substantiated and that matter resulted in the termination of employment of the subject of the report. The following complaints of discrimination were filed in 2015: a. two discrimination complaints filed with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission—EEOC—(one dismissed, one pending); b. one complaint filed with the Saskatchewan Human Rights Commission (pending); and c. seven internal complaints have been investigated and closed; only one report was substantiated, resulting in termination of employment for the subject of the complaint (this complaint is related to the complaint pending with the EEOC). (G4-HR4) Mosaic does not have any operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collaborative bargaining are identified as a significant risk. Mosaic does not discriminate based on association, per our Commitment to Human Rights, which is guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the most widely recognized definition of human rights and the responsibilities of national governments; the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declarations on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Per our Commitment to Human Rights, Mosaic aims to strengthen and enforce human rights in our policies and operations globally, including in our supply chain. Our Commitment to Human Rights is guided by the UDHR, ILO and OECD Child Labor (G4-HR5) Mosaic does not have any operations that are identified as a significant risk for child labor practices. Mosaic abides by all applicable child labor laws. In the United States and Canada we do not employ anyone under the age of 18. Mosaic complies with all statutory requirements in the locations where we operate, as well as our own employment policies, including our Commitment to Human Rights, which is guided by the UDHR, the most widely recognized definition of human rights and the responsibilities of national governments; the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Per our Commitment to Human Rights, Mosaic expects all of our business partners to comply with labor and employment laws in the countries where we operate, including laws pertaining to child labor. Compulsory Labor (G4-HR6) Mosaic does not have any operations at risk regarding forced or compulsory labor practices. Mosaic adheres to all immigration laws, as well as our global hiring and employment policies. Mosaic does not tolerate forced or compulsory labor, per our Commitment to Human Rights, which is guided by the UDHR, the most widely recognized definition of human rights and the responsibilities of national governments; the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Per our Commitment to Human Rights, Mosaic expects all of our business partners to comply with labor and employment laws in the countries where we operate, including laws pertaining to forced labor. Mosaic aims to strengthen and enforce human rights in our policies and operations globally, including in our supply chain Indigenous Rights (G4-MM5, G4-HR8) Mosaic has no operations that take place in or directly adjacent to indigenous people’s territories. There are no Mosaic operations or sites that have formal agreements with indigenous people’s communities. Further, Mosaic had no reported incidents related to violations involving rights of indigenous people for the period covered in this report. Human Rights and Labor Grievance Mechanisms (G4-HR12, G4-LA16) In 2015, Mosaic identified no grievances related to human rights. Mosaic also identified no grievances related to labor practices. Local Communities G4-DMA: Our local communities are our homes, and we have a vested interest in their sustainability. We understand that for Mosaic to prosper, so must our communities. We support formal and informal communication channels to connect our employees, communities, partners and customers. Examples include our Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) in Central Florida, as well as regional and international microsites intended as open lines of communication between Mosaic and local communities. Adhering to Our Principles (G4-SO1) In alignment with Mosaic’s Environment, Health and Safety policies, we are committed to conducting all business activities in a manner that protects the environment and the health and safety of our employees, our contractors, our customers and the public. Our guiding principles – which state that we are responsible, innovative, collaborative and driven – define how we conduct business, how we interact with colleagues, and how we treat our communities and planet. Accordingly, 100% of our operations have impact assessment and development programs. We employ a variety of approaches to systematically assess and manage the diverse impacts of industry on the various communities in which we operate. Sustaining Our Global and Local Operations We serve customers in approximately 40 countries. We mine phosphate rock in Florida and process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in Saskatchewan and New Mexico. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India and Paraguay, as well as strategic equity investments in a phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region in Peru and a joint venture formed to develop a phosphate rock mine and chemical complexes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. View a list of our locations (54 as of the date of this report). Our guiding principles define how we conduct business, how we interact with colleagues, and how we treat our communities and planet Although Mosaic continues to refine and adapt community investment programs throughout South America and Asia, due to the nature of our business and potential impact, this report heavily emphasizes Central Florida in the United States, Saskatchewan, Canada and Brazil. Our operations in Saskatchewan, Central Florida and Brazil work diligently to engage local communities. Mosaic’s engagement within local communities includes monthly meetings with a series of CAPs, civic organizations, elected officials, civil servants and other opinion leaders. Mosaic reaches the broader community through print, broadcast, billboard and digital ads, news and social media outlets, direct mail, and public education initiatives. When the business plans to expand operations, we host community forums and participate in public hearings convened by local and regional governments. Assessing Our Environmental Impact Mosaic is committed to conducting and reporting the results of environmental impact assessments. In April 2013, the final Areawide Environmental Impact Statement (AEIS) on Phosphate Mining in the Central Florida District was released by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) for public review. In August 2013, the AEIS for continued phosphate mining in the Central Florida Phosphate District was finalized. Administered by the ACOE in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act, this process analyzed the environmental scope and potential impacts of phosphate mining in Central Florida. Additionally, as it becomes available, information about our permit applications is posted online on microsites targeted to each permitting county in Central Florida. This transparency provides the public with a clearer view of the regulatory process for permitting and gives local residents the ability to communicate directly with the experts overseeing a given project. The Mosaic Potash segment conducts regular environmental impact assessments, reporting the findings to the Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment. All environmental impact assessments have been submitted and approved to date. Additionally, the Mosaic Potash facilities in Saskatchewan conduct thorough biological assessments of proposed expansion sites, such as the assessments for the tailing expansion at the Colonsay and Esterhazy mines, as well as the new K3 mine shaft site at Esterhazy. Each of these assessments includes field surveys to identify rare species of plants and animals of special concern to identify if mitigation programs are required. Developing and Consulting in Our Communities Each year, Mosaic targets investing 1% of profits over a three-year rolling average into our communities. The Mosaic Company, The Mosaic Company Foundation and The Mosaic Institute in Brazil make investments in our global communities through philanthropic grants, employee engagement and in-kind donations. Combined contributions in 2015 reached approximately $16 million. We make investments in our global communities through grants, employee engagement and in-kind donations In 2015, Mosaic operations in Florida committed more than $6.5 million, and operations in Saskatchewan committed more than $4 million to enrich and improve communities where we have offices and operations. Mosaic employs regional, full-time public affairs (PA) staff to support all communities where we have an operating footprint. Mosaic PA staff are committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the people in our communities, assessing local needs and building partnerships designed to improve community vibrancy for local residents. Independent CAPs help facilitate this work. Underwritten by Mosaic, CAPs serve as a forum for open discussion among representatives of the local community, and provide a place for companies to discuss community response to industry developments and plans. Recognizing Indigenous Rights In some locations, there are cultural implications to our business that Mosaic addresses through community engagement. Through the efforts of Mosaic’s Human Resources department in Canada, Mosaic continues to build a more inclusive workforce by working with various aboriginal bands. Mosaic recognizes the significance of building relationships with educational institutions throughout Saskatchewan, as well as other First Nation and Metis organizations that serve the career development needs of aboriginal people in Saskatchewan. For example, Mosaic partners with the Saskatchewan Indian Institute of Technologies’ Mining Industry Prep Programs, which are based in Saskatoon, Yorkton and Regina, to prepare the aboriginal workforce for careers in mining. Mosaic connects with stakeholders to keep them informed and engaged: Engaging Our Stakeholders Mosaic is committed to stakeholder engagement and public outreach efforts. Through face-to-face meetings, social media, government relations, facility tours and more, Mosaic connects with stakeholders to keep them well informed and engaged with our mission to help the world grow the food it needs. Mosaic employees conduct tours of mines and manufacturing facilities for local, state and federal elected officials and staff, customers, investors, students, community leaders, the media, and nonprofit and civic groups throughout the year. Mosaic has an engaged social media presence (Twitter, Facebook, YouTube). These media enable us to share information with the general public and engage in conversations about our business, making thousands of impressions on users and community members. Additionally, Mosaic manages micro websites in support of future permitting, with the goal of being transparent with the general public. These sites invite the public to be engaged with the permitting process, review maps of the proposed mining areas, ask an expert, and submit questions about our activities in and around their communities. In Canada, Mosaic is engaging the public in education on the importance of potash mining, fertilizer and global food security. In partnership with Saskatchewan Association of Ag Societies and Exhibitions, Mosaic is part of the “Food for Saskatchewan – Food for the World” educational display that tours the province. Mosaic’s own educational display was launched in 2014 and features interactive learning on Mosaic’s role in contributing to the province’s economy and the larger role of potash in feeding the world. Mosaic is committed to being an engaged business partner. Mosaic regularly engages its customers in crop nutrient education and business management principles through various events, such as Mosaic’s AgCollege, which hosts 250 of Mosaic’s strategic customers from the United States, Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Australia, Chile, China and India for the premier education, personal growth and leadership development event for fertilizer retailers. Mosaic’s AgCollege offers premier education, personal growth ​and leadership development for fertilizer retailers As a member of The Fertilizer Institute, Fertilizer Canada, the Saskatchewan Mining Association and the Saskatchewan Potash Producers Association, Mosaic presents important information to government groups and decision-makers who directly impact operations, our current expansions, and our investments in our communities. For example, we have joined with The Fertilizer Institute and the Agriculture Retailers Association in support of the ResponsibleAg initiative, which will facilitate fertilizer retailers’ compliance with federal safety and security regulations and provide access to comprehensive inspections. Mosaic has registered eight of our facilities in Florida, Texas, Kentucky, Illinois and Minnesota for this program, committing to the principles of responsible storage and transportation of our products. Individually, Mosaic participates in ongoing consultation with both the provincial government of Saskatchewan and the federal government of Canada. Topics presented to key stakeholders include the high cost of natural gas in Saskatchewan, and the need for new energy exploration and sources to sustain potash mining and future industry. Other topics include air emissions and the ability to work in partnership with the government to approach environmental sustainability. Stakeholders may reach Mosaic in several different ways: Send comments or questions regarding this report to: sustainability@mosaicco.com Contact our Board of Directors via written communication in care of the General Counsel at the address of the Company’s executive offices, or by e-mail: directors@mosaicco.com Call the company’s toll-free Ethics Line, managed by Ethics Point: (877) 261-2609 Mosaic’s mining operations, as forecast for 2011 to 2050, will have a net positive economic impact on the local economy (G4-SO2) Mosaic provides a great number of economic and social benefits to the local communities in which it operates. However, as with all mining activities, the extraction and beneficiation of phosphate and potash to meet the global demand for mineral fertilizer has the potential to cause environmental impacts. One such impact is the loss of farm output due to farmland being used for mining. The AEIS noted that Mosaic’s mining operations, as forecast for 2011 to 2050, will have a net positive economic impact on the local economy. Any economic effects from losses in farm output would be more than made up for by higher paying employment and economic activity resulting from mining. Mosaic operates in a highly regulated and monitored industry. We work closely with state/provincial and federal officials on operations, expansions and sales to ascertain the environmental impact of industry activities on local communities. Through this collaboration, Mosaic has identified and implemented mitigation opportunities that safeguard local communities from potential negative impact. For more information on actual or potential impacts, please see the discussion of risk factors in our 10-K Report, page 22. Resettlements, Closures and Disputes (G4-MM10) Mosaic’s phosphate mining is a land intensive operation. As such, our mine sites have to go through a detailed permitting process that involves determination and approval of ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation of our facilities. View Reclamation for specific details of our efforts. Mosaic has plans in place as required by governmental regulations for the closure and post closure care of our phosphogypsum management systems at eight former and current phosphoric acid manufacturing plants in Florida and Louisiana. Similarly, Mosaic has plans in place as required by governmental regulations for the closure and post-closure care of all its Carlsbad and Saskatchewan mining operations. For specific details on our estimated asset retirement obligations, refer to our 10-K (F-29). Mosaic’s Potash and Phosphate operations are well established mining regions with 50-plus years of operations Communicating with Our Stakeholders (G4-MM9) Mosaic’s potash and phosphate operations are well established mining regions with 50-plus years of operations. Mosaic purchased private properties in the vicinity of our operations in 2015, but no resettlements of communities took place. Mosaic has community relations managers who ensure potential impacts from our operations are communicated effectively to community associations. Community relations managers also work in conjunction with our land management office to address any questions or concerns raised by the community. Our Potash segment’s Land and Minerals Department works with individual landowners to ensure the appropriate level of consultation is employed, as is required by provincial legislation and internal policy. Mosaic recently participated in an AEIS, a two-year study by the ACOE, evaluating the cumulative impacts of phosphate rock mining in Central Florida. The study involved extensive community consultation, and the final report was issued in June 2013. (G4-MM6, G4-MM7) There were no disputes related to the land use or customary rights of local communities and indigenous people in 2015. Before concerns or disputes arise, Mosaic strives to engage in an interactive dialogue with stakeholders, including local communities and interest groups, through means such as our Internet site and community microsites, tours of plants and mines, community advisory panels, town halls, and/or open houses.  GRI Content Index MORE INFORMATION Assurance Statement Environment Metrics Supplement Annual Review and Archive Reports Mosaicco.com Contact Us Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Disclosure Statement Privacy Policy © 2016 The Mosaic Company. All Rights Reserved. We support and promote 4R Nutrient Stewardship: Right Source, Right Rate, Right Time, Right Place. / Print Page . Back to Top
