2015-2016 The Electrical Industries Group Global Compact Report 20152016 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the fifth Communication on Progress Report (COP) submitted by the Electrical Industries Group Limited (EIG Ltd.). This report seeks to highlight our performance and accomplishments during the period 20152016. It captures our commitment towards maintaining the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the CSR & Employee Engagement pillars that direct our efforts. At our company we firmly believe that we create value by serving one another, the environment, our communities and by extension our country, thus generating and improving social and economic stability through every step of our operation. CEO Commitment 1 Global Compact Report 20152016 “Our Employees drive our Corporate Strategy”. As Chairman of the Electrical Industries Group (EIG), I am honoured to reinforce our relentless commitment and support to the ten principles of the Global Compact, linked to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication on progress report for the period 2015-2016, we express our intent to implement and espouse these principles. The Electrical Industries Group Ltd. has been increasingly adapting its strategies, operations and culture to motivate a philosophy of discipline and goodness thus driving the efficiency and productivity of our people and by extension our organisation and communities. This transformation accentuates our commitment to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our day-to-day operations and our determination towards being good corporate citizens. At EIG we recognise our employees as our most valuable assets and we have been working arduously to ensure this message is communicated through our Corporate Mission, Vision, Strategy and core values. Understanding that our success is strengthened by the innovation and continuous learning of our people we are determined to build a cohesive culture of employee engagement and people development reinforced by robust systems, policies and procedures thus cultivating a safe, ethical and respectful environment that enables our employees to succeed. In April 2016, EIG established an Employee Engagement Committee, known as E2C, with the primary focus of increasing employee engagement and morale, boosting innovation, improving the organisation’s culture and company policies. Since its inception the Committee has embarked on a number of initiatives addressing employee concerns and improving organisation-wide communication. The organisation takes great pride in the execution of this initiative as it aims to highlight the continuous support of the Executive Management and drive sustainable development while showing our sincerest commitment to our employees. EIG will continue to strive toward its vision of becoming a model regional business leader and its sustainability goals in the year ahead. The following pages of this CoP report, describe the approach we have taken thus far in implementing the ten principles as we demonstrate our devotion to extending our performance in areas where results are already strong, while diligently addressing those aspects of our performance in which we see the greatest opportunities for improvement. I am therefore proud to submit our fourth Communication on Progress Report on the developments made in supporting the ten principles advocated by the UNGC during the year 2015-2016. Mr. Dave Ramkissoon Executive Chairman 2 Global Compact Report 20152016 Table of Contents About The Electrical Industries Group Ltd................................................................................................... 4 PILLAR 1: HUMAN RIGHTSPrinciples 12 ............................................................................ 6 PILLARLABOUR PRACTICES: Principles 3-6 ........................................................................ 6 PILLARENVIRONMENT: Principles 7-9 ................................................................................ 8 PILLAR: ANTICORRUPTION Principle 10 ..................................................................... 10 SOCIAL INVESTMENT .......................................................................................................... 10 3 Global Compact Report 20152016 About The Electrical Industries Group Ltd. The Electrical Industries Group is well-recognized as the premier producer of electrical cables, lighting fixtures, power solutions, plastics for construction and packaging material in the Caribbean with a combined history of over 80 years in manufacturing. EIG manufactures the Century Eslon, EIL and Agos Lighting brands while also distributing internationally well-known products such as GE, DAB Water Technology and Rheem. To give a brief insight into making of EIG we begin with EIL which was initially formed in 1969 as a joint venture between AEI Compounds (UK) and a local firm. In 1997, it was acquired by Trinidad Electrical Manufacturing Corporation Limited and has become the largest manufacturer of electrical products in the English-speaking Caribbean. In 2009, the company acquired Agos Lighting, manufacturers of lighting fixtures, which added even greater value to the company’s electrical portfolio. Seeking to break new ground, Century Elson was also acquired in 2011 a household name well-known and recognized for quality as the leading providers of plastic construction and industrial packaging products. On October 1st, 2014 the amalgamation of these companies lead to the formation of the Electrical Industries Group Limited (EIG). Currently with the Manufacturing Plants’ square footage of over 234,000 feet, EIG is known for its premier manufacturing processes and quality products. Today, while we are proud of our growth and achievement we continue to seek new and innovative ways to improve our products and processes to achieve optimal customer and employee satisfaction. Corporate Social Responsibility at EIG LTD. The establishment of the EIG Charitable Foundation as a registered company was a critical stepping stone in driving the organisation's CSR efforts and can therefore be viewed as the Charitable Arm of EIG Limited. It is established with financial resources donated by the Group and from voluntary contributions through CSR Initiatives. The Foundation is committed to dedicating its resources as it pertains to the four pillars that govern our CSR activities. 4 Global Compact Report 20152016 5 Global Compact Report 20152016 PILLAR 1: HUMAN RIGHTSRIGHTSPrinciples 112 Respect for Fundamental Human Rights 1.1.4. Workmen's Compensation Act 1.1.1. Industrial Relations Act In accordance with the Workmen’s Compensation Act, Chapter 88:05, EIG Ltd. has secured insurance coverage EIG is aware of its obligations falling under legislation such from a reputable insurance company. The company’s as the Equal Opportunity Act, Chapter 22:03, Industrial administrative input regarding workplace injuries which are Relations Act, Chapter 88:01, and ratified ILO conventions sustained in and out of the course of employment is guided such as the Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) by the requirements of the Act. Convention No. 111 of 1958. We actively engage our complement of human resources in a positive and Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work compliant manner, and aim to ensure that no person’s human rights are violated. 1.2.1. Employee Handbook 1.1.2. Minimum Wages Act EIG pledges to the principles which govern employees’ rights at work. EIG acknowledges both expressed and EIG observes the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act, implied rights which relate to issues such as the right to be National Minimum Wages Order and other occupational paid for work performed, the right to break periods, sick Minimum Wages Orders which govern minimum terms and leave, vacation leave and for career advancement. These conditions of employment in the unorganised, informal and other rights are contained in the Employees Handbook sector. which is provided to each employee in addition to their contracts of employment. 1.1.3. Occupational Health and Safety Act Resolving Employees Issues EIG accepts and executes its legal and contractual responsibilities to provide a safe workplace and a safe 1.3.1. Fairness and Equal Opportunity system of work for its employees and other stakeholders in its environment. EIG’s policy is aligned to the tenets of the EIG has established equitable standards regarding the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Chapter 88:08 and is employment of all of its employees. There is no filtered into rules and guidelines which are strictly enforced. differentiation in respect of matters such as status, race, class, culture, ethnic origins, gender or age. PILLARLABOUR PRACTICES: PILLARPRACTICES: Principles 3-3-6 Child Labour 2.1.2. Age Verification 2.1.1. Abolition of Child Labour During EIG’s recruitment process, all applicants are required to present original legal documents and EIG ensures that its recruitment practices does not include identification attesting to their age. The Human Resource the employment of children. EIG will actively seek to verify Department verifies the age of all applicants to ensure any incidence of child labour within its own supply chain compliance with the legal age requirement for and engage government and non-government agencies in employment. eliminating such occurrences. Civil and Political Rights 2.2.1. Collective Bargaining disputes. Employees who are Trade Union representatives are granted time-off from work with pay to engage in Some employees of EIG are members of Trade Unions negotiations and grievance matters. which represent workers in bargaining units at our companies. EIG engages the respective Trade Unions in 2.2.2. Employers Consultative Association (ECA) negotiations for Collective Agreements for workers in the respective bargaining units and for the purpose of settling 6 Global Compact Report 20152016 EIG’s membership with the ECA provides the Group with the Football Tournaments during the period using the Sports assistance to ensure our employees are trained and are Club’s facility. capable of addressing any Human Rights issues. 2.3.4. General Health and Wellness 2.2.3. Compensation Benchmarking The company completed H1N1 Vaccinations as well as This annual exercise serves as a useful tool for fair started doing annual medicals for employees, which compensation and to attract and retain talent. The Group supports the health of our employees. EIG has also has not participated in any compensation survey over the increased the preventative care limit with our Insurance last year. However benchmarking is still maintained done Providers to promote and maintain healthy employees. via the HRC Compensation Survey. Employment & Employment Relationships 2.2.4. Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) 2.4.1.. Employee Satisfaction Survey EIG is aware that personal problems can affect an employee's wellbeing, and as such there is a structured In 2014 the EIG’s Engagement survey results was 64%, in EAP programme which is offered to all staff in times of 2015, it dropped to 53%. EIG conducted a thorough analysis need. on this and a comprehensive engagement plan was rolled out for the period 2015-2016 to address the uncovered 2.2.5. Employee Relief Programme (ERP) gaps. EIG has an Employee Relief Fund which is made up of a 2.4.2. Performance Management contribution from the employee (50%) and employer (50%) on a monthly basis. Employees who contribute can have A talented and skilled workforce is the lifeblood of every access to the funds in times of need. organization. At EIG we ensure the growth of our employees’ development via EIG’s Appraisal system. All Conditions of Work & Social Protection employees must complete an annual appraisal based on KPIs set at the beginning of the year, which will then be used 2.3.1. Soft Loans as a guide for incentives & promotions as well as a vital part EIG continues to offer soft loans to employees who are in of Individual Development Plan and the Company's training need, all applications are to be submitted to the HR plan. Department. 2.4.3. Employee Engagement 2.3.2. Employee benefits, Insurance & Pension Plan EIG in its drive to further stimulate its employees’ 2/ EIG contributes 3 of the total premium for Group Health, engagement and development established an Employee the entire premium for Group Life and contributes 5% to Engagement Committee, known as the E2C in April 2016 Employees’ Pension Plan. with the primary focus of increasing employee engagement and morale, boosting innovation, improving the 2.3.3. Sports Club organisation’s culture and company policies. The E2C has embarked on a number of initiatives since its inception and EIG maintains a Sports Club which is accessible to all continues to strive towards achieving its objectives. employees. The company has hosted successful Cricket and 2.4.4. Company Events 2.4.5. Plant Tours EIG continues to host its annual end of Year Celebration at The company engages students from other institutions, each of its location, celebrating its people and their both local and foreign such as the University of the West contributions. Indies, The University of Trinidad and Tobago and most recently Business students from a University in Suriname. Health, Safety and the Environment 2.5.1 HSE & Our People Group. During the period 2015-2016, EIG embarked on an initiative to further educate its people on safe work EIG recognising our people as our principal assets and thus practices thus reducing accidents. HSE reported over 100 continues to drive a proactive HSE culture throughout the 7 Global Compact Report 20152016 training sessions with employees on various HSE related alignment of all employees to the Group’s Strategic topics during the same period. Objectives; as we have sought to cascade the Group’s Corporate Objectives, to each Department and then to 2.5.2. HSE Policy & Procedures individual employees. The Group has re-engineered numerous work procedures Social Dialogue to introduce more safety elements as well as improve the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) where required. The staff of EIG receive communication in several ways. Further, EIG has undertaken a systematic analysis to further understand the areas where accidents may occur and has 2.7.1. Communication via TV Screens and Team Sites provided PPE in addition to other measures in the hierarchy The HR Department recognizes work anniversaries, of controls to ensure safe employees. This campaign for a greetings for various occasions such as religious holidays safer EIG has resulted in a 59% reduction in all incidents. EIG etc., and employee recognitions on a monthly basis, these continues to provide a safe working environment for are posted on all screens in Plants as well as in Plant clients, suppliers and employees. Meetings with Staff. Human Development & Training in the Workplace 2.7.2. Department Governance Meeting 2.6.1. Developing our Human Capital EIG recognizes that employees’ feedback is integral to Through our performance management system, Individual understanding the current dynamics of the Group. Thus, the Development Plans will be created for each employee, Group continues to maintain monthly Governance following this a training plan is developed annually to be meetings within each Department, enabling conversation executed to ensure growth and increased productivity of between management and their employees in which good our people. work is recognised and solutions for issues are developed. 2.6.2. Internal Selection 2.7.3. Plant Meetings In the recruitment process, priority is given to employees if EIG at the start of each month, hosts individual Plant they meet the requirements for the vacancy. meetings to engage and communicate to the employees their previous month’s performance regarding production, 2.6.3. Our People aligned to Strategy efficiency, HSE and personal management. This forum also includes interactive sessions where employees can EIG has adopted the Balanced Scorecard Performance communicate to Management concerns or issues Management System throughout the Group. This evolution experienced. in the Group’s Management system has enabled the PILLARPILLARENVIRONMENT: ENVIRONMENT: Principles 77-9 SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES Environmental sustainability is one of the main focuses in and brighter tomorrow. As part of EIG’s ongoing the global environment. This does not come at an attached commitment to health, safety and the environment, the cost, but rather with the duty and understanding of all Group has sought to implement and continue programmes corporate entities and persons, of the need for a cleaner to ensure sustainability. ComputerBased Technologies replacing Paper-based assigned workflow components to improve efficiency, System productivity and communication. This contributed to a 40 % reduction in the Group’s paper consumption and also 3.1.1. Paper reduction drive – Numerous paper based reduced the number of printers by 60%. forms and documents used throughout the Group of Companies were converted to electronic-forms with 8 Global Compact Report 20152016 3.1.2. Controlled printing: 99% of the documents sent to execute the print, the request will remain dormant for 1 day print are now controlled. In the instance where a user after which it will be automatically deleted. This has saved requests to print, however, never goes to the printer to thousands of sheets of printed paper thus far. 3.1.3. Web Conferencing and Online Collaboration 3.1.5. Using modern Hardware All machines currently Eliminating unnecessary travel helps to reduce the feature LCD displays, which use less power and generate company's carbon footprint. Sharing documents online also less heat than CRT displays. We have no CRT displays in our saves paper and requires less physical real estate to manage environment and are migrating our desktops to “mini’s” it. which consumes significantly less power. 3.1.4. Server Consolidation – EIG has migrated from many 3.1.6. Hardware recycling and lengthening the hardware hardware servers to virtual servers hosted on significantly life cycle E-waste has become a growing problem that less hardware thereby consuming much less power. This greatly impacts our environment. We have reduced the has also led to reduction in heat levels. frequency with which hardware is disposed and lengthened the period before it is replaced. PROMOTING SOCIAL RESPONISBILITY IN THE SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Compliance with Statutory & Regulatory Bodies Through the Group’s compliance actions, corporate Environmental and Kaizen Limited, to ensure preventative reporting & review, EIG continues to partner with local measures, annual testing and sustainable methodologies statutory and regulatory bodies & business leaders in the are utilized. field of environmental technologies such as ROSE The organization now maintains its Corporate ISO 9001 Corporate Governance and Balanced Scorecard metrics for Group Certification with focus on the fundamental analysis and development, and its use of continuous teachings and requirements of the ISO 9001 system in the improvement and process re-engineering focus through its use of P.D.C.A. (Plan, Do, Check, Act) the use of its Quality Management System. Waste Management & Disposal As part of the Group Waste Management Policy, the Group has sought to: 1. Reduce the carbon footprint; 2. Continue the use of new technologies for waste removal and disposal 3. Conform to all regulatory statutes and best practices in the absence of regulatory guidance For the period 2015-2016, EIG embarked on improving its Solid Waste Disposal and Management. EIG entered into a contract in February 2016 with a new contractor with extensive experience in solid waste disposal. This change resulted in the Plant’s carefully examining the waste streams with the aim of reducing and only disposing on scheduled days. This resulted in a paradigm shift in the management of waste in the company and has created a greater sense of environmental consciousness. Energy Consumption At the beginning of 2010-2011, EIG started a process of new strategies to increase this savings. Over the last year, analysing our energy usage and as part of this initiative, we the head office and most of the have Power Factor Correction Equipment at our facility which has resulted in savings of 15% on our monthly electric Plastics Division has been converted to LED bulbsreplacing bill. The savings are equivalent to annual greenhouse gas the fluorescent tubes. This measure has contributed emissions from 11 passenger vehicles or CO2 emissions positively to energy reduction and associated savings while from 140 barrels of oil consumed or carbon sequestered by providing a long term sustainable lighting measure. It is the 1,533 tree seedlings grown for 10 years every month. The intent of the group to continue this at the other two Group has also embarked to further analyse and implement divisions to further yield energy reduction. 9 Global Compact Report 20152016 PILLAR: ANTIANTICORRUPTION Principle 10 10 Code of Conduct and Ethical Business Practices EIG recognizes that corruption is a major hindrance to the investigations and re-designs standard operating sustainable development of an organization and its procedures to manage those risks effectively to help the communities. The development of rules for corporate organisation achieve its objectives. Together, the internal governance rules around the world has prompted EIG to and external auditors secure assurance concerning the focus on anti-corruption measures as part of our need to state of the organisation’s internal controls. protect the reputation and interests of our stakeholders. Corporate Compliance Register Conflict of Interest EIG recognises that a fundamental method of addressing At EIG the Finance Department maintains clear separation unethical and corrupt business practices and ensuring its of duties within each Section to avoid opportunism and business sustainability is through internal measures conflict of interest. through the establishment of strong Corporate Governance Structure within the Group. As such in 2016 EIG established Internal & External Audit a Corporate Compliance Register managed by the Quality EIG continues to maintain its established Internal Audit Management Team to ensure the adherence to both System that monitors the internal control process, the internal and external business, statutory and regulatory Team assesses the critical risks facing the Group, conducts compliances. SOCIAL INVESTMENT EIG continues to support the environment and communities in which it operates. The Group strives to continuously build new positive relationships whilst maintaining our existing. Philanthropy EIG continues to financially support Charitable Groups, Clubs and Communities that are deemed appropriate via the Group’s Corporate & Social Responsibility Plans. The Group continues to support the community through its Food Drive in the month of December each year. Through the goodwill and donations of our employees, EIG is able to reach members of its fence line community and share the gift of food to those in need. 10 Global Compact Report 20152016 11
