communication on progress VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 1 Mr. H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 1001 USA. Dear Secretary General, This is to reaffirm our commitment to the United Nation Global Compact, to uphold its stated ten principles in the area of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption, and ensure all clients, employees and partners adhere to this policy. In this annual communication on Progress, we aspire to ensure continuous improvement in integrating the United Nation Global compact principles into our cultures, ethics, business strategy and orientation process of new employees. We also commit to share the communication of progress with our clients using our primary channel of communication. Yours sincerely Ayo Stuffman CEO VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human right abuse, Assessment, Policy and Goals ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS VAS2Nets Technologies Limited is a service firm that services top rated telecommunication company in all our country of dominance. Measures have been put in place through our independent internal audit and several survey conducted by Human Resources unit to ensure we are compliant with ISO 9001:2008 on human resources, UNGC Human right principle and Nigeria Labour Law so as to improve our system, such that employee and clients rights are protected at all time so as to operate effectively. Quality service is our watch word which is only achievable when all parties right in the organization are protected. Part of our human right policy is to ensure that every right in the hand book for employees and code of conduct for clients are adhered to. All personnel needs and clients requirement to get along with us have been clearly stated in our code of conduct and Handbook so as to ensure effective operation, which is aligned with section of the ISO 9001:2008 to ensure effective management of the Human Resources of the organization to have enhance customer base and more productivity. IMPLEMENTATION Human resources policy was reviewed in 2015 to foster right, which prompt employee awareness when and where there right has been violated. Suggestion Box had been provided and placed where both employees and partners that comes around in the company can make use of it. All right of abuse of right have been curbed and protected, so that no employee right is being violated on basis of Age, race, gender, religion, tribe and culture. Human Resource policy align with UNGC Human rights principle. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Suitably trained and impartial personnel conduct periodic independent internal audit in line with ISO requirement and UNGC principle to audits operational activity of the organization. All employees complied with the Human rights policy, as there have been no cases of human rights violation VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 3 There has not been any reported case of right violation, litigation and harassment of human rights Also, as a certified member of ISO 9001:2008, we report on Human resources, clients and mode of operation. The requirement for recertification is being compliant which we have been audited this year and the assessor has confirmed that our certification be issued LABOUR PRINCIPLE Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to bargain Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child Labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The company has shared the reviewed employee handbook with all staff, all that has to do with employment contract and employment details is stated therein. Work structure has also been revised such that employees can quickly meet the manager to discuss their opinion, in an open and fair manner. HR policy strictly frowns at child and compulsory labour. No employee was engage on compulsory and force labour. As no employee certificate is being withheld before and after their employment with the company. Discrimination in the area of employment does not exist in the organization, between when the company registered as a member of UNGC and now female recruitment has increased, there has been promotion of female employee into senior management role. To enhance employee work safety, measures have being put in place to ensure continuous housekeeping, healthy and hygienic work environment. Employee wellbeing has also being the pertinent interest of management by providing food vendors to provide lunch for staff at a subsidized rate, which make it very conducive for staff to get quality meal at affordable rate. VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 4 IMPLEMENTATION: We conduct quarterly performance evaluation for all employees, this provide us with another communication channel to all employees on their performance, so as to ensure employee satisfaction in all business area. The company has also put in place insurance cover on staff against unforeseen incident All employees are ensured they observe their annual time off and entitlement due are paid in the course of their time off, to enhance work life balance and well being. All employees are ensured they participate in the Friday games, to promote cordial relationship among the staff Human resource policy complies with ILO and Nigeria Labour Law Our policy strongly supports freedom of association and joint consultation. MEASUREMENT: No employees have ever complain of benefit deprivation The company profoundly respects the opinion of the employees, as a result organize quarterly meeting, where all staff participate and express themselves in an open and fair environment. Every employee gets fair and equitable remuneration commensurate with their role and qualification. There is no case of work place injury We have put in place employee satisfaction survey to solicit for information from all employees No discrimination on occupation and employment on the bases of age, gender and qualification Incessant sickness has reduced among employees as a result of welfare scheme put in place which has help to improve their health. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLE Principle 7: Business should support precautionary approach to the environmental challenge Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 5 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Several approach has been devised by organization in Nigeria in ensuring sustainable development, which cut across sewage management, sanitation, environmental cleaning. Despite all these, VAS2Nets has taken on other means in ensuring precautionary measure to the environmental challenge, which has been from the health of the populace. Overtime it has been reported that the less privilege has so many issues during maternity; this has prompt the interest of the company at regular interval to reach out to the less privilege and educate them during pregnancy period and likely environmental challenge on their health. IMPLEMENTATION Awareness raising and training to employees on environmental protection We encourage staff to do more of soft copy than hard copy so as to reduce, recycling process Ensure all office supplies and equipment’s are environmental friendly Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, service and equipment. Improving employee and community health through outreach program to patients at health center Provisions of waste bin in all offices for proper recycling of used papers and consume products packs. MEASUREMENT Periodic investigation and report review by Business Development Director on the outreach program Increased awareness of health challenges through periodic sms blast to the populace Increased number of pregnant woman subscribing to the company service to know more on health implication during pregnancy VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 6 ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Business should work against corruption and bribery in all its form ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS. VAS2Nets Technologies limited realized that bribery and corruption impede organization financial strength, credibility, economic growth and development. With the recent fight of the new government against corruption, the company is also in support of ensuring zero tolerance to bribery, corruption and extortion. The company has made a clear means of payment to clients, which totally get rid of corruption as cash payments lure staff to corrupt practices. Cash transaction is not allowed by employees. IMPLEMENTATION The company has list of Vendors that supplies all office needs Proper due diligence is done to ensure that those that represent the company in all business meeting do not put in personal interest Expenses submitted by employees related to work are documented with attached evidence of payments There are checks and balances to ensure employees are anti-corruption committed, as all transaction record are kept and is controlled by Finance, Administration and HR MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME VAS2Nets Technology Limited has an external audit company that check our books of account annually and the report send directly to the Chief financial Officer and Chief Executive officer. There has been no such incident of reported cases of bribery, corruption and extortion. We are leveraging on current practices to ensure there is continuous success in this aspect. All receipt on transaction done is submitted to Admin and Finance department for assessment. VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 7
