38 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Core values Cloetta has four core values that guide the way of working and acting, both within and outside the company. These core values are Focus, Passion, Teamplay and Pride. Focus is about doing the fundamentals with self-confidence, Passion is about “going the extra mile”, being positive and ambition and a “will do” attitude. having fun. Focus means continuous, diligent work across the essential parts of Passion is at the core of our business and characterizes all of our our business. We will only be successful by focusing and delivering actions. It releases the energy and inspiration that provide us with on prioritized activities. We therefore treasure the ability to be a role the drive to develop, produce and market great products that, in turn, model in execution, consistently being practical and fact-based, make our customers and consumers as passionate about them as creating clarity, setting priorities, making consistent choices and we are. It feeds the drive to take ownership, to realize goals and to always having a sense of urgency, speed, drive and discipline as well win. We therefore treasure the ability to inspire and motivate, to see as the agility to change and adapt when required. Blended with a “will change as an opportunity, to go the extra mile, and to be positive and do” mentality, built on self-confidence, ambition and realism, Focus to have fun. Passion manifests itself in the way we understand the brings both success and the admiration of the competition. business, deal with customers, help each other to succeed and communicate about Cloetta. Teamplay is about mutual responsibility: doing your part Pride is about being proud of our company, our brands, our and supporting each other. products and our personal contribution. Teamplay is based on both individual and mutual responsibilities and Pride is the driving force that motivates Cloetta’s employees to mutual support for one another. It extends beyond Cloetta, reflecting perform to the best of their ability and to take ownership of the in the way we aspire to cooperate with our external stakeholders, company’s direction. It is about pride in both your own and your customers and suppliers. We therefore treasure the ability to undercolleagues’ contribution to the company, its brands and its products. stand, value and respect people, to address each other in a creative, Pride is fuelled by the employees’ confidence and belief in Cloetta open and transparent way, to communicate with honesty and without as a company and as an employer. This is based on a safe and susfear and to share knowledge and learn together. Teamplay manifests tainable working environment and a working relationship based on itself in cross-functional cooperation, shared learning and together mutual trust. We nurture a company culture that empowers people acting as “One Cloetta”. with insight into our business goals and vision, so that everyone feels engaged and committed to where we are headed as a company. Open lines of communication encourage employees to take responsibility for their jobs and take pride in what they do. Corporate responsibility 39 Long-term sustainability Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Cloetta’s overall goal for corporate responsibility is to build sustainable long-term value. For Cloetta, sustainable value is about growing as a company while at the same time ensuring that the people and environments that are affected by Cloetta’s operations or products are positively impacted. Cloetta’s sustainability commitment Greater well-being Reduced Sustainable sourcing w Responsibility for the employees’ environmental w C ompliance with ethical well-being through an attractive and safe impact guidelines working environment in accordance with the UN’s Global Compact w E nergy consumption w A pproval of suppliers w Responsibility for the consumers’ w Waste w P rogrammes for raw materials well-being through high and consistent quality and sustainable product w E missions development with a greater share of natural raw materials Greater well-being – Employees Reduced environmental impact Implement sustainable sourcing Cloetta is driven by a conviction that valSystematic environmental management By incorporating sustainability aspects ue is created by the employees, and that provides a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts into the company’s purchasing strategy, the ability to attract, retain and develop to minimize its environmental impact. Cloetta creates a platform for ensuring the best and most competent people is Cloetta’s environmental work is governed the supply of high quality raw materials crucial for the company’s success. by the Code of Conduct, which states to the factories while at the same time It is also of the utmost importance that that the applicable laws and regulations improving the opportunities for growers in the safety of our employees is continushall be followed, that Cloetta’s environthe countries of origin to develop sustainously improved. All of Cloetta’s factories mental impact shall be minimized and that able farming. Read more on page 43. adhere to the same mantra: “Safety first”. continuous improvements shall be made in the environmental area. Read more on Greater well-being – Consumers page 46. Cloetta’s responsibility for consumer well-being includes high and consistent quality, correct and detailed content labelling and responsible marketing. Cloetta also strives to take responsibility for the consumers’ well-being through an increased number of natural products – that are “better-for-you”. Read more on page 48. Cloetta’s sustainability commitment until 2020. However, the journey to a sustainable society will not end Cloetta’s work with corporate responsibility is steered by the Group’s in 2020. Cloetta is therefore working continuously to evaluate the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is a set of guidelines and achieved results and improve its working methods within the frameprinciples for the way in which the company conducts operations and work of Cloetta’s sustainability commitment in order to continuously the employees’ actions in relation to consumers, customers, suppliers, improve our corporate responsibility work. Cloetta’ goals for 2020 are shareholders and colleagues. They are based on Cloetta’s core values; shown under the respective headings; Greater well-being, Reduced Focus, Passion, Teamplay and Pride, see page 38. environmental impact and Sustainable sourcing. Cloetta has defined three central areas for sustainability work that provide guidance in its sustainability commitment; greater well-being Sustainability every day among the employees and consumers, reduced environmental impact Cloetta’s continuous striving for sustainable development is mainly from the operations and the implementation of sustainable sourcing in focused on respect for the employees’ health and development, control our supplier chain. All prioritized issues related to Cloetta’s sustainof raw materials and first line suppliers, manufacturing safe products, ability work are encompassed in these three areas. handling complaints/returns effectively and reducing the Group’s enviCloetta’s sustainability commitment is a long-term undertakronmental impact. Measures to achieve day-to-day sustainability are ing. Cloetta has therefore formulated a number of goals that extend described in this annual and sustainability report within the affected 40 Corporate responsibility areas, such as product safety in the Production section and efforts to Cloetta’s sustainability work is overseen by the Director CorpoCloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] create a good working environment in the Employees section. rate Responsibility, who functions as a spokesman for issues related to corporate responsibility and is responsible for identifying prioritized Scope areas, acting as the stakeholders’ link to the management and supportCloetta’s sustainability work primarily covers the company’s own ing the implementation of Cloetta’s corporate responsibility strategy. operations, meaning Cloetta’s direct impact on the environment and Environmental and occupational health and safety managers are found people. However, Cloetta’s commitment to corporate responsibility in all factories. is integrated throughout the entire value chain. This means that aside from taking responsibility for the aspects that are under the company’s Strategic components direct control, Cloetta also takes a certain responsibility for indirect Policy and prioritized Cloetta’s overall strategy and operational aspects outside of its direct control, i.e. from raw material supplier to areas policy. Code of Conduct. Responsible the recyclability of the product packages. marketing. Materiality analysis and Cloetta’s sustainability commitment. Sustainability and Cloetta’s overall strategies Goals and KPIs Overall financial targets. Goals and Cloetta’s sustainability commitment supports and is firmly grounded in KPIs have been defined for each part of the company’s overall strategies: Cloetta’s sustainability commitment. • Focus on margin expansion and volume growth Data See entire annual report. By creating sustainability programmes for the prioritized raw Management systems, Lean 2020, IFRS. Cloetta’s leadership material groups and communicating these programmes on Cloetta’s programmes and platform. BRC and ISO 14001. packages, the brands are further strengthened among customers and certifications consumers. UTZ-certified cocoa and palm oil certified according to External statutes or UN Global Compact and other relevant the RSPO’s principles are two such examples. initiatives ILO conventions. EWC (European Works • Focus on cost-efficiency Council) Efforts to continuously reduce the company’s environmental impact go hand in hand with lower costs. Decreased energy use and of waste Cloetta supports volumes from the factories contribute to greater cost-efficiency. Cloetta is involved in projects primarily in its local markets but also • Focus on employee development takes part in initiatives at the global level. These can include environCloetta works determinedly to create an attractive workplace for mental projects driven within the framework of Cloetta’s sustainability all employees and promotes the development of a high-performing work and projects to promote an active and healthy lifestyle. organization by continuously developing and training its staff, designing competitive remuneration systems, upholding an inspiring Community engagement corporate culture and building a clear corporate identity. The local commitment to sustainable development is aimed at strengthening the surrounding community but also Cloetta’s brand both within Organization for sustainability work and outside the company. This engagement is mainly focused on considThe overall strategies for Cloetta’s corporate responsibility work eration to the local environment where Cloetta’s production facilities are adopted by the Group Management Team and are controlled and are based, but can also consist of other activities. Cloetta maintains an monitored through business planning processes at several levels in the ongoing dialogue with local authorities in the locations where it has faccompany. Ultimate responsibility for corporate responsibility lies with tories, as well as with the media and schools/universities, among others. Cloetta’s President. Cloetta’s Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct covers the entire value Cloetta – every day Cloetta’s commitment to product content chain, from raw material to consumer, and apCloetta has clearly defined guidelines for mutual When it comes to product content and quality, plies to all activities in all markets and countries respect and a shared set of core values. Cloetta Cloetta is subject to a number of national and where Cloetta is represented. The principles in has joined the UN Global Compact and works to international laws and rules. However, Cloetta the Code of Conduct are consistent with: promote its ten principles in the communities and wishes to take its responsibility further and is a environments where the company conducts busiforerunner in developing the content of the prod• T he UN’s Declaration of Human Rights ness. Special emphasis is placed on: ucts. For example, Cloetta is conducting a long• ILO conventions • Equality and non-discrimination term programme called NAFNAC (No Artificial • O ECD guidelines for multinational •F reedom of association and Flavours, No Artificial Colours), which is aimed enterprises collective bargaining at offering a portfolio of products that contain no • T he ICC framework for responsible • Occupational health and safety artificial flavours or colours. marketing of food and beverages • Working hours • T he European Brand Association Cloetta’s environmental impact Systematic environmental management provides From raw materials to cherished brands a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts to minimize its Cloetta works with responsibility throughout environmental impact. Cloetta’s environmental the supply chain, from raw material to finished work is aimed at complying with the applicable product. Cloetta supports the relevant ILO conlaws and rules, engaging the employees and ventions and complies with the laws and rules in focusing on continuous improvements in the the countries where it conducts operations. The environmental area. Cloetta’s foremost environsame requirements are placed on the suppliers, mental impact arises through water and energy and in order to become an approved supplier to consumption, wastewater emissions, waste and Cloetta, the supplier must undergo an approval transports. process and accept Cloetta’s general supplier requirements. Corporate responsibility 41 Stakeholders and materiality issues Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] The areas that are prioritized in Cloetta’s sustainability commitment have been defined through a materiality analysis. Every year, Cloetta performs a materiality analysis based on the sustainability issues that have been identified in discussions with Cloetta’s stakeholders. Cloetta’s stakeholders Consumer Cloetta’s primary stakeholders are customers, consumers, employees, organizations shareholders, investors, business partners/suppliers and the local comGovernment Union munity. These groups are directly critical for Cloetta’s long-term organizations survival. In addition, there are a number of other important stakeholders. These are shown in the illustration at left. Cloetta has a continuous, Employees Consumers open dialogue above all with the primary stakeholders based on the expectations and requirements of each stakeholder group. Schools/ The methodology behind Cloetta’s materiality analysis is aimed at universities Industry organizations classifying different types of sustainability issues on the basis of two Local community parameters: Suppliers • T he stakeholder perspective – i.e. what importance a specific issue has for Cloetta’s stakeholders. Customers • T he impact perspective – i.e. the direct impact a specific issue can Media Shareholders Non-profit have on Cloetta from a financial perspective, goodwill, etc. organizations The issues that are classified as being of critical importance from both a stakeholder and impact perspective are those that have the highest Banks/ priority for Cloetta. It is these sustainability issues and areas that are Stockholm financial stock defined in Cloetta’s sustainability commitment. players exchange Materiality analysis Very important Fulfil Prioritize • The sugar debate • S ocial, environmental and economic challenges in developing countries for prioritized raw materials. Importance for Cloetta’s stakeholders • Natural ingredients • Laws and conventions • Environmental impact in Cloetta’s operations. • Employee safety and well-being. • P roduct safety and quality. Administrate Monitor and supervise • Philanthropy • Corruption and fraud • Local community engagement • S ocial, environmental and economic challenges in developing countries for other raw materials. • Responsible marketing Important • Diversity High Very high Impact on Cloetta 42 Corporate responsibility The stakeholders’ key sustainability issues Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Stakeholder Key issues – sustainability Communication and cooperation w P roduct safety and quality. w W ith consumers through various surveys and via websites and w C lear declaration of ingredients. the social media. w Eco-friendly packages. w W ith customers through personal customer and sales meetings Customers/ w C loetta takes responsibility for the environment and working and via customer surveys, but also collaborative initiatives for Consumers conditions as far as possible. eco-friendly transports. w Ethical issues in general. w Efficient transports to the retail trade. w G ood and stimulating working conditions. w D aily meetings to discuss occupational health and safety in the w A safe working environment. factories. w H ealth and fitness activities. w A nnual performance reviews with all employees. Employees w Ethical issues in general. w S ystematic skills development activities. w G ood financial development for the company. w U p-to-date information provided via managers, the intranet and union representatives. w E mployee survey Great Place to Work every other year. Shareholders w S ustainable long-term financial value growth. w A nnual report, website, analyst and investor meetings, interim and investors w Ethical issues in general. reports and annual general meeting. w Ethics and business codes in procurements. w C ollaborative projects for sustainability. Suppliers and other w P roduct safety. w S upplier evaluations, sponsorship evaluations and development business partners w S ustainable long-term development. products. w S upport of human rights among raw material producers. w C loetta takes responsibility for the environment and working w T he local communities/municipalities around Cloetta’s factories conditions as far as possible. with regard to the local environment. w L aws, regulations and standards. w P ublic authorities in areas related to occupational health and The public/society w C loetta makes a positive contribution to development of safety, environmental and product responsibility, schools and society, including the local environment. universities. w C ertification bodies for ISO and BRC. w Key opinion leaders. Awards and honours Bronze Effie Award Cloetta – Listed Company Tupla of the Year for the second Tupla’s campaign on consecutive year YouTube (read more on For the second consecutive year, page 19) won a Bronze in Cloetta was named “Listed Company the Effie Awards, an interof the Year” after having won the national marketing comsub-categories Best Annual Report munications competition and Best IR Website. that is highly prestigious in Finland. Cloetta Netherlands nominated Cloetta Sweden winner Polly Goes Bananas wins for National Business Success in Best Practice Awards the “Gyllene Hjulet” award Award Cloetta Sweden was named winner in the best Custom With a bold underlying idea and wildly Cloetta was sector winner in the Assortment category in the annual Best Practice creative execution, Polly Goes Bananas, chocolate and sugar confectionery Awards, which are arranged by the International Catwith Sean Banan as front man, won category. Of the 300 nominated egory Management Association. Endorsement of the Year at the Gyllene companies across all sectors in the Hjulet awards. This gala recognizes the Netherlands, Cloetta was placed best sponsorship and event marketing among the top ten companies. projects in Sweden. Corporate responsibility 43 Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Sustainable sourcing Sustainable sourcing in Cloetta’s supply chain is a prioritized area. By incorporating sustainability aspects into the company’s purchasing strategy, Cloetta creates a platform for ensuring the supply of high quality raw materials to the factories while at the same time improving the opportunities for growers in the countries of origin to develop sustainable farming. First of all, sustainable sourcing at Cloetta is about having control •Is this a strategic raw material for Cloetta? one step back in the supply chain, i.e. to the first line of suppliers. Raw •How large are the volumes purchased by Cloetta? materials are purchased only from suppliers that can be verified against •Cloetta’s scope to create sustainability projects independently? Cloetta’s requirements for quality, product safety and sustainability. •Delivery and quality risks? All suppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and approved before they are permitted to deliver to the factories. The process varies in relation to Sustainable cocoa the risks, type of supplier involved and which raw material is delivered. Since 2014 Cloetta buys only sustainable cocoa from UTZ-certified Certain suppliers are evaluated and tested by Cloetta’s employees via farmers. This means that all cocoa and chocolate that is delivered to physical visits according to an established schedule. Cloetta’s factories is UTZ-certified. For Cloetta it is vital to address Secondly, sustainable sourcing at Cloetta is about directly addressthe challenges facing the cocoa growers in West Africa. By switching to ing different types of social, environmental and economic challenges sustainable cocoa from UTZ-certified farmers, Cloetta creates a platthat are found in the value chain beyond first line suppliers of specific form for securing a supply of high quality cocoa to the factories while raw material groups. Cloetta’s sustainable sourcing programme is providing better possibilities for West Africa cocoa growers to develop based on external certifications and/or verification according to the sustainable farming. guidelines defined in Cloetta’s Code of Conduct. Cloetta has evaluated all raw material groups and prioritized them Sourcing of cocoa based on the existing sustainability challenges and Cloetta’s opportuniWest Africa accounts for around 70 per cent of the total global harvest ties to address these challenges. of cocoa beans. There, cocoa is cultivated by three million smallholder Cloetta has defined sustainability programmes for a number of raw farmers, and each farm consists of an average of 2–4 hectares of land materials and the long-term goal is to have sustainability programmes with an average yield of 1–2 tonnes of cocoa beans per year. Local interin place for all prioritized raw materials by 2020. Cloetta already has mediaries then distribute the raw materials to the international cocoa programmes in place for cocoa and palm oil. In 2015 two new raw mawholesalers and exporters, after which the cocoa is sent to Europe. terials have been added; cane sugar and shea butter. Read more about Every year, Cloetta buys approximately 3,000 tonnes of cocoa in the Cloetta’s sustainability programmes for these raw materials below. form of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder from suppliers in Europe. Evaluation methodology In prioritizing Cloetta’s raw materials portfolio, the following aspects Low productivity for cocoa farmers have been taken into account: The West African cocoa farmers face a number of economic, social and •What are the sustainability challenges for each raw material? environmental challenges, of which low productivity on the farms is one •What types of sustainability initiatives have been defined? of the most critical. Limited knowledge about how to grow high quality 44 Corporate responsibility Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Sustainable cocoa farming through UTZ Cocoa is produced by around 5 million farmers and employs some 40 million people, of whom 70 per cent are found in West Africa, primarily Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire. Challenge: Leads to: at the same time that • aging trees • lower yields demand for cocoa has • diseases in the cocoa trees • lower income been rising steadily for • reduced soil fertility • lower quality of life 100 years Through UTZ the cocoa farmers are given • Training in new farming methods • Support to buy better plants, which leads to higher yields • UTZ-certified cocoa farmers produce more than growers who are not affiliated with UTZ Cocoa farmers in Cote d’Ivoire Cocoa farmers in Ghana UTZ-certified UTZ-certified 453 kg/hectares 444 kg/hectares Not UTZ-certified Not UTZ-certified 329 kg/hectares 405 kg/hectares Greater knowledge results in higher quality crops UTZ-certified cocoa farmers in Cote d’Ivoire have higher knowledge levels than those who are not UTZ-certified, and 83% have shared this knowledge with their families, their employees and others. In Cote d’Ivoire, 98% of UTZIn Cote d’Ivoire, 37% of UTZ-certified certified farmers say that their cocoa farmer feel that the quality of their cocoa beans meet the cooperatives’ quality beans has improved since joining the standards. UTZ programme. cocoa in an efficient manner is a root cause behind the farmers’ low productivity. The farmers are also struggling with aging cocoa trees and Goals for sustainable sourcing declining soil fertility at the same time that they often lack the means to finance investments in new plants, fertilizers, etc. Goal 2020 Responsibility for raw material suppliers • S ustainability programmes implemented for all prioritized raw UTZ-certified cocoa – for a better future materials. With UTZ-certified cocoa, the growers are assisted in building a better • B y the end of 2015, Cloetta’s suppliers of oils and fats must have future with sustainable farming practices. Through the UTZ proa fully traceable pipeline of palm oil fractions back to known gramme, they are provided with training in better farming methods, mills. By 2020, the same pipeline will be traceable back to improved working conditions and sustainable growing. The farmers are known plantations. also given support to buy better plants. All in all, this generates more • 1 00 per cent of the cocoa and chocolate purchased by Cloetta income and creates better prospects for the individual farmers while will be UTZ-certified. better safeguarding the environment. Outcome 2015 To earn UTZ certification the farmer must meet strict requireResponsibility for raw material suppliers ments, which are closely monitored by an independent third party. • S ustainability programmes for two new raw materials, cane These requirements include better farming methods and farm managesugar and shea butter, are under development. ment, safe and healthy working conditions, the abolishment of child • A ll of Cloetta’s suppliers of oils and fats were audited against labour and protection of the environment. Read more at www.utz.org. Cloetta’s policy. • 97.5 per cent of the palm oil that indirectly purchased by Cloetta Palm oil has been verified against Cloetta’s policy (2015 goals). From a sustainability perspective, there are a number of problems sur• A ll cocoa that Cloetta purchased during 2015 was UTZrounding cultivation and production of palm oil and palm kernel oil. As certified. a result, in April 2014 Cloetta adopted a new palm oil policy Corporate responsibility 45 Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Shea butter comes from the nuts of shea trees, which grow wild in central Africa. Collection and drying of shea nuts currently employs around 16 million poor rural women in 21 African countries. that is aimed at preventing destruction of rainforest in the countries of mill by 2015. In 2016 the suppliers of the remaining 2.5 per cent will origin and increasing the traceability of the palm oil that Cloetta uses either be phased or that amount of palm oil will be replaced with other indirectly. vegetable oils. Palm oil is a high-yield crop that is one of the most traded vegetable oils in the world. Malaysia and Indonesia account for around 90 per Sugarcane cent of total global palm oil production, and if cultivated in a sustainTo address the sustainability challenges found in the sugarcane indusable manner it can be an important source of income and economic try, Cloetta has become a member of Bonsucro – a global non-profit development in these countries. However, there are a number of enviorganization that fosters sustainability in the sugarcane industry. ronmental and social challenges associated with production of palm oil, There are a number of sustainability challenges in the sugarcane such as deforestation in environmentally sensitive areas, which has a industry. Deforestation to prepare the land for new sugarcane plantanegative impact on the entire ecosystem. tions is one of the biggest problems, but other problems related to the Due to the urgency of combating the long-term negative effects of rights of indigenous peoples and the work environment also exist. palm oil production, Cloetta has decided to formulate a sustainable Most of the sugar purchased by Cloetta is of European origin and plan that contributes to preserving the rainforests for future generacomes originally from sugar beets. As a result of the current market tions. Consequently, in its palm oil policy Cloetta declares a commitdynamics in Europe, Cloetta also buys sugar derived from sugarcane. ment to zero deforestation by implementing new ways of working with For a long time the European sugar market has been regulated, which its suppliers of oils and fats containing palm oil. has made Europe a net importer of sugar. Every year, Europe imports Some of Cloetta’s products contain small amounts of palm oil. 3 million tonnes of sugarcane-based sugar. However, Cloetta does not buy pure palm oil but only oils and fats that With more than 400 members from 32 countries that represent contain derivatives of palm oil to a varying extent. all parts of the delivery chain, Bonsucro is an organization that has All palm oil (part of the content in an oil or fat) that is purchased the resources to realize its vision: “A sugarcane sector that is continuby Cloetta is covered by GreenPalm certificates in accordance with the ously improving and verified as sustainable”. In addition to support Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). This means that for each Bonsucro’s vision, this membership will give Cloetta the opportunity to tonne of palm oil that is used in production, Cloetta pays a premium to better understand the challenges found in the sugarcane industry. palm oil producers that work according to the RSPO standard. Today, RSPO is the most widely supported method for achieving sustainable Shea butter palm oil production. Shea butter is a vegetable oil that is found in some of Cloetta’s chocolate products. The oil comes from the nuts of the shea trees that grow wild Cloetta’s palm oil policy in central Africa, which are collected and dried in small villages on the Cloetta’s palm oil policy goes beyond that which is required in the savannah. The shea industry has nearly doubled over the past ten years RSPO standard and states that by the end of 2015, Cloetta’s suppliers and currently employs around 16 million poor rural women in 21 Afrimust have a fully traceable pipeline back to known mills. By 2020 the can countries. Shea butter is an important ingredient in food products, same pipeline must be traceable down to known plantations. cosmetics and pharmaceuticals around the world. In addition, Cloetta will only buy oils and fats from suppliers that But there are a number of major challenges for the shea industry in can verify that the palm oil plantations comply with local laws in the Africa. One primary problem is the declining quality of the shea nuts countries of origin and guarantee that production is carried out in a that are collected from year to year. Another problem is that the women sustainable manner and according to Cloetta’s policy. No later than who collect shea nuts have been largely alienated from the rest of the in 2017, Cloetta’s suppliers must be able to verify that the plantations market, and are thereby prevented from receiving adequate compensaare run sustainably in compliance with Cloetta’s policy. Furthermore, tion for their harvest. Furthermore, the number of shea trees is decreasCloetta will not permit palm oil extraction in primary forest, peatlands, ing continuously, which indicates lower volumes in the future. areas with protected forest or areas where slash and burn farming is To overcome the sustainability challenges in the shea industry, used in plantation operation. Cloetta has joined the Global Shea Alliance (GSA). The GSA is a nonprofit organization that promotes sustainability in the shea industry. Compliance with the policy The GSA’s mission is to design, develop and propose strategies that In 2015 all suppliers of oils and fats were audited by Cloetta. The provide a foundation for a competitive and sustainable shea industry results show that 97.5 per cent of all palm oil found in the oils and fats worldwide, and to support and empower the rural African women and purchased by Cloetta met the traceability requirement back to known their communities. 46 Corporate responsibility Reduced environmental impact Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Cloettas’ greatest environmental impact arises through water and energy consumption, wastewater emissions, waste and transports. Viewed over the entire life cycle of the products, the most significant environmental impact arises in raw material and packaging production. Cloetta works to reduce its environmental impact through systematic Environmental goals 2020 environmental management. Cloetta complies with the statutory Continuous reduction of the company’s environmental impact is a environmental requirements and the Group is not party to any envicentral component of Cloetta’s sustainability management. One imporronmental disputes. Environmental initiatives are an integral part of tant part of this work is the formulation of long-term goals and action Cloetta’s operations and environmental aspects are taken into account programmes with clearly defined roles and responsibilities in order to when making decisions. Frequent evaluation and follow-up of measures meet the targets. For this purpose, Cloetta has defined three long-term increase awareness about the effects of different working methods on environmental goals that extend until 2020, see fact box on page 47. the environment. Working methods Environmental work in the factories Every year, Cloetta carries out an assessment of environmental aspects All of Cloetta’s factories conduct systematic environmental manageto identify the existing risks and opportunities. Cloetta has an action ment that includes action plans and monitoring in a number of different plan that defines and governs the activities to be carried out in order to areas. Seven of the 13 factories are certified according to the ISO 14001 reduce the company’s environmental impact. standard. In 2015 all production units that already had ISO14001 certificaEnvironmental impact and priorities tion will be added to Cloetta’s multi-site certificate. The six factories Environmental impact in the confectionery industry arises among oththat are not yet certified will be added to Cloetta’s multi-site certificate er things from water and energy consumption, wastewater emissions, successively. waste and transports. Certain environmental effects are also caused by coolants, other chemicals, noise and particles. Outside Cloetta’s direct Central environmental management system influence, there is also significant environmental impact connected to To ensure the use of a structured and systematic approach to Cloetta’s production of raw materials and packaging. environmental issues, a decision was made in 2014 to implement a The priorities for Cloetta’s environmental work have been set based central environmental management system encompassing the entire on how the direct operations impact the environment, the scope of Group. Cloetta’s impact as a whole, the probability of unplanned environmenThe goal is to develop and integrate the environmental managetal events occurring, the requirements of public authorities and other ment system together with Cloetta’s central ERP system. A fully stakeholders and, finally, the extent to which Cloetta can influence deintegrated methodology creates better potential to live up to the Code velopment. The prioritized areas for Cloetta’s environmental work are: of Conduct and deliver results in line with Cloetta’s production policy. • Energy consumption • Waste volume, type and recycling • Reduction carbon dioxide emissions Environmental key performance indicators Energy consumption Carbon dioxide emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 MWh/prod. tonne Kg/prod. kg 2,5 0,5 Total energy consumption, 226 215 219 209 208 GWh 2,0 0,4 Energy consumption per 2.32 2.23 2.21 1.98 1.96 Goal 2020 produced tonne, MWh 1.83 Goal 2020 1,5 0,3 0.33 CO 2 per produced kilo, kg 0.46 0.42 0.39 0.36 0.35 Wastewater per produced 4.4 5.0 4.0 2.9 2.9 tonne, m 3 1,0 0,2 COD* per produced tonne, 22.6 28.1 26.7 16.6 17.6 kg 0,5 0,1 Waste per produced tonne, 70 80 72 66 67 kg 0,0 0,0 Recycled waste, % 64 49 71 80 81 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * See next page. CO 2 equivalents are linked to the Group’s use of different energy types. Transports are excluded. Corporate responsibility 47 Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Energy sources Goals for reduced environmental impact Goal 2020 t Gas 42% Energy consumption t Electricity 37% • R educe energy consumption in relation to the produced volume Total (MWh/tonne) by 5 per cent. t Steam 13% 208 GWh Waste t District heating 4% • R educe the volume of waste in relation to the produced volume t Pellets 3% (kg/tonne) by 25 per cent. t Oil 1% Carbon dioxide emissions • R educe CO 2 emissions from production in relation to the produced volume (kg/kg) by 5 per cent. Outcome 2015 Energy consumption • Energy consumption in relation to the produced volume Energy consumption decreased by 1.5 per cent. The Group’s aggregate energy consumption during the financial year Waste was around 208 GWh (209). Approximately 25 per cent of the total • T he volume of waste in relation to the produced volume energy usage is independent from the production volume, i.e. related to increased by 1.0 per cent. heating and cooling of properties, while 75 per cent is directly linked to Carbon dioxide emissions production. • C O 2 emissions from production in relation to the produced volume decreased by 2.8 per cent. Waste management The base year for the above-mentioned reduction targets is 2014. All of Cloetta’s production units pre-sort their waste. The goal is to continuously develop waste management and reduce the total volume of production-related and other waste. A decrease in raw material waste has a positive impact on both the environment and the Group’s total costs. At present, 81 per cent (80) is recycled. Wastewater The volume of wastewater was 2.9 m3 (2.9) per produced tonne. In Emissions addition to the three prioritized goals, Cloetta is working to improve Alongside efforts to reduce energy consumption, Cloetta is also workthe wastewater quality. Cloetta rates this quality among other things ing to choose energy types with the smallest possible negative impact in terms of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), which measures the on the environment. For that reason, the total amount of energy used amount of oxygen consumed in complete chemical decomposition or is converted to the amount of CO2 equivalents generated by the chosen organic compounds in water. There are several projects underway to energy types. improve the quality of the wastewater. Transports Packaging Since 2014 Cloetta calculates CO2 emissions from transports that The packaging materials must perform several functions, such as proCloetta is responsible for. In 2015 48.7 kg of CO2 were released per protecting the product on its way to the consumer, enabling easy handling duced tonne. To reduce both freight costs and CO2 emissions, Cloetta of the product and communicating the brand. The most common uses stackable pallets for transports between the factories and finished method for consumer packaging is so-called “flexibles”, a material that inventory. Furthermore, Cloetta chooses transporters that have twocan be recycled or incinerated. level trailers and extra long bodies and that use a combination of road/ rail/water transports, when possible. If viable, without jeopardizing product quality, refrigerated transports are avoided. Waste Recycled waste Wastewater COD* Kg/prod. tonne % M3/prod. tonne Kg/prod. tonne 80 100 5 30 70 25 80 4 60 Goal 2020 20 50 60 3 49.3 40 15 30 40 2 10 20 20 1 5 10 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * C OD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), is a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed in complete chemical decomposition or organic compounds in water. 48 Corporate responsibility Responsibility for the consumer’s well-being Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Fewer calories with stevia In order to offer products with a reduced calorie content, stevia plays a key role for Cloetta’s products. Stevia is a plant native to South America whose leaves contain an intense and natural sweetness. Cloetta uses stevia extract in products such as Läkerol, chewing gum, Dietor and Dietorelle. Nuts Nuts are a natural source of many vital nutrients and also contain antioxidants. Cashew nuts are rich in iron, folic acid and zinc, peanuts (which are actually seeds) are rich in protein and contain high levels of Vitamin B3, almonds (actually seeds) are rich in Vitamin E and pistachios are very rich in antioxidants. Dental benefits with xylitol Production of the sweetener xylitol, which has fewer calories than natural sugar, was originally started in Finland in the 1970s through extraction from birch sap. Today xylitol is extracted from various hardwoods and from corncobs. Xylitol protects from tooth decay. Natural raw materials Goody Good Stuff and The Jelly Bean Factory are two examples where Cloetta has implemented the idea of 100 per cent natural ingredients. All artificial colours and flavours have been replaced by natural fruit and plant extracts and all other food additives have been removed. In addition, both Goody Good Stuff and The Jelly Bean Factory are free from allergens and contain no animal-based gelatine, which makes the products suitable for vegetarians and people with food allergies. Clear declaration of ingredients Cloetta works continuously to develop responsible and clear information about the contents of the products via packages and the website. Product safety High quality and product safety are vital in food production and are strictly adhered to in every step of Cloetta’s production processes, from inspection of raw materials to finished products. First class raw materials, correct handling and processes according to the recipes create the right flavour, appearance and consistency and eliminate any risks to the consumers. Corporate responsibility 49 Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Employees Cloetta is driven by a conviction that value is created by the employees, and that the ability to attract and retain the best and most competent people is decisive for the company’s future. Cloetta works determinedly to create an attractive workplace for all results of the survey, this will first be done in the commercial organizaemployees and promote the development of a high-performing ortions and thereafter in the various production areas. ganization by continuously developing and training its staff, designing competitive remuneration systems, upholding an inspiring corporate Relationship between the company and the employees culture and building a clear corporate identity. Cloetta strives to uphold a relationship of mutual respect and trust between the company and its employees. This also steers the company’s Employee survey way of working with the European Works Councils, local company Great Place to Work councils and trade unions organizations. Cloetta complies with the apTo create an attractive workplace for all employees, it is essential that plicable laws and regulations in the countries where the Group is active there is a genuine interest in understanding how the employees see their and respects local norms and values. In addition, the Group’s principles place of work, i.e. what they appreciate and what they find lacking or are are consistent with the relevant International Labour Organization simply dissatisfied with. (ILO) conventions. According to Great Place to Work, the best workplaces are built Cloetta encourages a good balance between professional and through day-to-day relationships. From the employees’ perspective, a personal life. It is important to help both men and women combine the good workplace is one where you: demands of their jobs with responsibility for home and family. The • Trust the people you work for, Group therefore supports flexible work arrangements like flex-time and • Have pride in what you do, and part-time hours, when possible. • Enjoy the people you work with. Cloetta conducted the recurring employee survey “Great Place to Work” at the end of 2014. The response rate was 85 per cent and Cloetta Goals for greater well-being achieved a Trust Index © of 60 per cent. The target for the next survey is to reach 63 per cent. Employees In 2015 the respective country and factory and department results • T he number of days between occupational accidents with >1 day were analyzed in greater detail. In most of Cloetta’s work groups, the of sickness absence will exceed 28 days in 2016. The outcome main focus has been on improving communication both between the in 2015 was 26. management and employees and between departments. At the end of • G reat Place to Work – the Trust Index will exceed 63 per cent in 2015 Cloetta started preparations for sending out the next employee 2016. The outcome in 2014 was 60 per cent. The next survey will survey, which is scheduled for the beginning of 2016. In order to be conducted in 2016. optimally handle and focus on the ongoing projects and work with the 50 Corporate responsibility Whistle blower service components of Cloetta’s skills development. All skills development is Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Cloetta strives to uphold an open business climate and high business designed to support Cloetta’s strategies, to be business-oriented and to ethics, and to safeguard safety and respect for the people who are afpromote the individual’s interests and needs. fected by our operations. In 2015 Cloetta implemented a whistleblower The main focus areas are to develop the right people for the right service that gives all Cloetta employees the opportunity to report jobs and to continuously clarify and improve roles, responsibilities and concerns about conduct that is not in line with the company’s values or working methods throughout the organization. Cloetta strives to be ethical principles. The whistleblower service is an early warning system an attractive employer in the markets where the company is active and to reduce risks, ensure good corporate governance and preserve the thereby retain valuable employees. customers’ and public’s trust in the Group. As a first course of action, All recruitment takes place locally with the support of centrally Cloetta’s employees are encouraged to contact their manager. If an developed tools that include both skills tests and self-assessment tests. employee feels unable to openly disclose the information, Cloetta offers For all positions, the selection is based on a job description with specific an opportunity to report their concerns anonymously. set of competencies against which the candidates’ performance is measTo ensure the employees’ anonymity, the service is operated by an ured, in combination with analysis of the various tests and interview independent third party where the reporting channel is encrypted and material. password protected. All reports are treated confidentially. Personal data relating to violation of laws is handled only by key persons or indiTrust in leadership and each other viduals in management positions. As a leader, it is vital that you dare to trust in both your own leadership and in others. It is also essential to understand each other and why difA good and safe working environment ferent individuals behave the way they do. Efforts to improve and develop the working environment are a natural For some time Cloetta has worked with the leadership tool aspect of operational development and the goal is to create a good Management Drives, which is based on the use of a questionnaire physical working environment and a healthy working climate where that among other things identifies the drives for each employee, what each individual can feel secure and pursue personal development. One energizes them and what drains them of energy. By using this leaderessential part of a secure working environment is to ensure that no one ship tool, both managers and employees are made aware of their own is subject to discrimination or sexual harassment. profiles and thereby which working methods suit them best. In 2015 the company further developed its leadership tool through the launch of Diversity Cloetta’s Leadership Dimensions, which are as follows: Cloetta aims to be a workplace where diversity and the different qualities, knowledge and skills of all employees are respected regardless • Visionary Leadership of gender, religion, ethnic background, age, race, sexual orientation, • People Leadership etc. Questions that take up whether anyone feels that they have been • Entrepreneurial Leadership harassed or discriminated against are included in the employee survey • Structured Leadership “Great Place to Work”. • Committed Leadership • Trusted Leadership The right expertise Cloetta is committed to continuously renewing and utilizing the Each dimension is briefly described with the help of a number of Group’s aggregate expertise. Competent employees that are given scope competencies and behaviours that are tied together with Management to realize their full potential create the conditions for Cloetta to mainDrives. By interconnecting these two, the Group has created its own tain its position as an attractive and innovative partner not only for the terminology that describes who we are and why good leadership is employees but also for customers, suppliers and business partners. A necessary in order to realize the Group’s vision, inspire maximum molearning-driven organization that works in project form and the use tivation and performance among the employees and create profitable of interdisciplinary teamwork in day-to-day activities are important long-term growth. Cloetta’s HR wheel Update of job descriptions and Employee evaluation: JAN preparations for the upcoming evaluation DEC w Individual goals process V FE NO B w Individual development measures Skills development with a focus on Target levels established the organization’s challenges for the OCT MAR coming year Strategic plan SEP APR Salary review AU G AY Semi-annual follow-up of employee evaluation M JUL JUN Management review  uccession planning wS Cloetta’s HR work follows an annual cycle of activities aimed at building w Identification of new and follow-up of existing talents and raising the level of expertise in the organization. Most of the activities in Cloetta’s HR wheel as described apply primarily to salaried employees. Corporate responsibility 51 Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] Safety – the foundation for operational excellence The single most important reason for creating a safe and healthy Leadership working environment at Cloetta is to ensure that the employees Cloetta applies the principle of leading by example. Leaders at can return home to their families every day in the same physical all levels in Cloetta must make safety their top priority and act condition they left in. But there are also other good reasons. accordingly. Cloetta aims for operational excellence in everything the company In 2015 all leaders in the supply chain attended a full-day does. As a first step towards achieving operational excellence training course on safety that covered leadership and safety conCloetta focuses on safety. Being and feeling safe on the job are esversations according to the watchword “take 60 seconds to think sential in order to develop and perform well in the workplace. before acting”. This has already had a significant impact on the All accidents can be avoided, and by investigating accidents safety culture, which has led to a doubling in reporting of unsafe and incidents Cloetta will continue to eliminate the root causes of acts and conditions and near misses. injuries. To support these efforts there is also a programme aimed at minimizing the risks in our business, even if it is not possible to create a risk-free environment. In 2015 considerable resources and effort were devoted to further developing Cloetta´s safety culture. The results for 2015 show a substantial improvement, but it is crucial to remember that every accident can lead to suffering for the individual. Cloetta measures the number of working days between accidents (accidents with more than one day of absence) and compared to 2014 the average number of days between accidents has increased from 18 to 26. Days between occupational accidents Risk reduction (average number of days between It is not possible to eliminate all risks. Instead, Cloetta’s focus is incidents leading to >1 day of absence) on reducing the greatest risks while at the same time managing Days other risks in our activities. This is done through a system in which 30 Goal 2016 Cloetta analyze all current risks in its business and then estab28 days lishes group-wide projects to reduce them. One such example is 25 the ongoing programme to upgrade the forklift truck fleet to safer machines equipped with additional safety features. In combina20 tion with this, the drivers are being trained according to a uniform 15 standard to ensure that the right behaviours are established. And Cloetta has continued to work lastly, investments are being made in the factory infrastructure to with attitudes toward risks, 10 create separate areas for forklift trucks. improvements in the equipment and implementation of policies. The use of discussions and 5 workshops promotes safety awareness, which is critical in 0 changing behaviour. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In spite of the excellent results and improvements achieved in 2015, Cloetta will continue to drive its safety culture in 2016 by focusing on the three following areas: Behaviour Human behaviour is decisive for management of safety aspects. Every employee at Cloetta is responsible for his or her own behaviour when it comes to safety. Furthermore, all Cloetta employees must take responsibility for the behaviour of their colleagues. The concept of “my brother’s keeper” is a mindset that will be developed through activities in the safety conversation programme, where all employees are given the opportunity to challenge unsafe acts and discuss more effective methods for performing tasks so that the risks are reduced. The programme is long-term and group-wide. 52 Corporate responsibility New salary framework Cloetta [ Annual Report 2015 ] One major factor in how employees perceive the attractiveness or their workplace is the feeling that they are fairly paid and that there is a well supported salary structure in the company. For several years Cloetta has been working closely with one of the major consulting companies to develop an optimized framework and strategy for Cloetta’s remuneration/salary structure. All positions at Cloetta have been evaluated and plotted on a matrix where comparable jobs are ranked similarly regardless of company or function. This has then been supplemented with a salary structure that is benchmarked against other food producing companies in each country. The results provide an excellent basis for upcoming salary reviews, where the existing salary level and the year’s performance are key parameters in the framework that has now been established. Number of employees This concept was launched with the help of a digital “playing field” The average number of employees in 2015 was 2,583 (2,533). The where managers cooperated in groups to work through a number of increase is due to the acquisitions during 2014 and 2015, but was offset exercises aimed at providing a better understanding and insight into the somewhat by the factory restructurings that were carried out succesdifferent Leadership Dimensions. A simple digital PCand mobilesively during 2014. Of the total number of employees, 54 per cent are adapted tool was created to assist the managers with follow-up of their employed under collective agreements and 46 per cent are salaried activities in day-to-day leadership. In 2016 Cloetta is planning training employees. activities to strengthen Cloetta’s Leadership Dimensions in day-to-day work and create an understanding of how each individual’s own leaderFlat organization for shorter decision-making processes ship can be developed in a way that boosts employee motivation and Cloetta has employees in 14 countries who are active in sales and marperformance. keting, production, innovation and support functions. Cloetta’s head office is located in Stockholm. Cloetta is organized according to function and its commercial organization is separate from the supply chain organization. Personnel, finance and administrative units are found in each main market and serve as support functions for both the local sales and marketing organization and for production. Responsibility for business development, Employees by country corporate communications, business control, marketing strategies, HR and certain financial activities like tax, financial administration, insurt Slovakia 27% ance and financial control are handled by central staffs. t Sweden 21% t Italy 17% t Netherlands 17% t Finland 8% t Belgium 4% t Ireland 3% t Norway 1% t Denmark 1% t Others 1% Age distribution Number 800 Employee categories Gender distribution 700 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 600 500 t Employees under t Women 51% 400 collective agreements 54% t Men 49% t Salaried employees 46% 300 200 100 0 <25 26–35 36–45 46–55 56> Nether­ Employees Slovakia Sweden Italy lands Finland Belgium Ireland Denmark Norway Germany UK Other Total Average number of employees 706 553 440 426 193 106 68 38 35 7 6 5 2,583 – of whom, women 480 253 179 159 160 24 25 21 16 3 3 4 1,327 Sickness absence, % 7.1 5.6 4.7 4.8 2.2 6.9 4.0 1.7 7.9
