Annual Report 2015/16 Access Engineering PLC This is an integrated Annual Report capturing economic, social and environmental performance 1 2 3 4 5 6 Engineering Innovation It’s not just about building a bridge...or a road...or a flyover...or any of the hundreds of other constructions and systems Access Engineering has produced as a vital partner of the development drive of Sri Lanka. It’s about how we set about such projects; how we engineer them; what skills and mindsets we apply...and this is where innovation figures largely! Whilst Access Engineering is adept at engineering innovative solutions for a myriad applications, our teams of professionals are renowned for their engineering innovation, as a quality that’s second nature to them. ‘Out of the box’ is familiar territory to us! Our greatest pleasure lies in leveraging innovation and applying it to meet various infrastructural needs such as transportation, access to clean drinking water, affordable housing, telecommunications, waste management and more thus adding value and quality to the lives of ordinary citizens everywhere. Vision To be the foremost Sri Lankan business enterprise in value engineering. Mission To meet the challenges in the development of multi-sector civil engineering projects, providing innovative solutions whilst developing long-term progressive relationships with all our stakeholders. About Us Established in 2001, Access Engineering PLC is the premier Civil Engineering firm listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange. Its track record includes over 100 major projects successfully completed; among these are Bridges and Flyovers, Roads and Highways, Harbours, Water Treatment Plants and Water Supply Projects, Land Drainage and Irrigation Schemes and Telecommunication Infrastructure Projects. Through its project implementation and services, Access Engineering has been a force behind many multidisciplinary infrastructure projects across the country. AEL, as it is familiarly known, specializes in advanced engineering solutions, for which it possesses unmatched technical know-how and resources. The in-house services of AEL offer its customers fully integrated project solutions including Project Design, Piling etc., whilst the Company also has its own materials supply chain, an island wide network of quarries, crusher plants, asphalt plants and concrete batching plants. Its modern fleet of specialized machinery and equipment coupled with some of the best human resources in the industry brings to bear the most cost-effective solutions which give a distinct advantage to AEL to be the preferred contractor in the industry. The Company presently employs over 2,000 workers comprising more than 150 Engineering and Technical Professionals, Skilled Personnel, Tradesmen, Skilled and Unskilled Workers. Access Engineering’s fully owned subsidiaries are, Access Realties (Private) Limited which owns Access Tower Office, Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited, the Developer of the proposed Access Tower II which is currently under construction. Its 84% owned subsidiary Sathosa Motors PLC holds the franchise for Isuzu commercial vehicles. Its 80% owned subsidiary Access Projects (Private) Limited is a leader in the leisure related building construction and interior solutions. The latest additions under its umbrella are three real estate companies namely Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited (100% owned), Horizon Knowledge City Limited (92% owned) and Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited (50% owned) which collectively own 21 acres of property in the IT and Education Zone of Malabe. ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited is an associate company of AEL with a 30% stake in a Joint Venture with Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Company Limited (ZPMC) of China, the world’s largest Container Handling Equipment Manufacturer. Access Engineering is recognized as a ‘specialist contractor’ by the National Contractors’ Association of Sri Lanka and as a ‘major contractor’ by Construction Industry Development Authority (CIDA), with the highest CIDA grading across most number of disciplines of civil engineering. It is compliant to ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 accreditations for its quality, environmental and health and safety management systems and is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. It is also a TRACE Member in good standing. ENGINEERING PROJECTS Roads and Highways Harbor and Marine Works Water and Wastewater Irrigation and Land Drainage At the forefront of many of Proven excellence in the design Providing safe drinking water, A major contractor specialized in the road rehabilitation and and construction of maritime better sanitation and ensuring construction of large scale irrigation improvement projects infrastructure minimal pollution and hydraulic infrastructure projects The work involves utility shifting, The Company’s rich experience The work involves civil construction, The assignments include road widening, improvements to in the sector includes design and mechanical and electrical works of augmentation, rehabilitation and existing drainage systems, town construction of port expansions; water treatment plants. construction of reservoirs, canals, improvements, rehabilitation and design and construction of coastal anicuts, earthen dams, diversion improvement of road pavements, jetties and breakwaters; offshore page 26 headwork, regulation structures and road safety and environmental dredging and coastal protection various other appurtenant hydraulic improvements. works; and the rehabilitation of piers, structures. quay wall, docks and berths. page 23 page 32 page 25 Building Projects Telecommunication Infrastructure Providing engineering services in A catalyst of growth in the building projects telecommunication sector through their long term partnership All Engineering services, including with the country’s leading mobile structural designs, piling, all civil service providers works, design and installation of mechanical, electrical and plumbing The scope work includes construction works, landscaping etc. are being of telecommunication towers including provided using in-house expertise and transmission facilities, installation capabilities. of cables, ducts, optical fiber telecommunication networks etc. page 36 page 45 ENGINEERING SERVICES Engineering Design Piling HDD and Cable Jetting Services Dredging Provides a competitive edge in Engages in construction of cast, Involved in telecommunication Involved in dredging and excavation turnkey and design and build in-situ bored piles for buildings, infrastructure work underground contracts bridges, etc. Dredging is a process that involves Horizontal directional drilling (HDD) the aquatic excavation of water beds The team is skilled in the design Access Engineering is one of the is a drilling technique used to to remove sediments, pollutants and of bridges, flyovers and viaducts, leading piling contractors in install underground utilities without other material. roads and highways, buildings, Sri Lanka, renowned for its reliability, disturbing the structures and without dams and other water retaining expertise and quality. The fleet trenching. Cable jetting is the process page 52 structures, foundations and ground includes hydraulic rotary drilling rigs of installing fiber optic cables in a duct improvements. and associated equipment. through blowing. page 46 page 47 page 51 Production Plants Central Equipment Division Fabrication Workshop Established several quarries and Maintains and repairs all Company Designs and fabricates light-duty crusher plants to ensure timely owned heavy machinery & and heavy-duty steel components supply and greater sustainability equipment and heavy vehicle fleet for machinery and construction of operations projects The fleet of heavy machinery and Crushed rock aggregates required equipment is maintained and The in-house engineers along with for road construction works; asphalt administered by the division as a versatile machinery offer cutting-edge concrete and cement concrete are complimentary service for construction solutions for design and fabrication of produced under this operation. projects carried out by the Company. complex steel and metal components Apart from providing for internal On-site and Off-site repairs are also including plant and machinery requirements, products of these handled by the division using the components, structural steel and plants also cater to external demand. expertise of in-house mechanical steel elements for various other engineers and technicians. requirements. page 53 page 54 page 55 Portfolio at a Glance Access Engineering PLC Please refer indicated pages for details on the respective Projects www.accessengsl.com and Services Page 6 1 Preamble Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Financial Highlights Financial Highlights Consolidated Revenue (Rs. Mn) Total Assets (Rs. Mn) Net Assets (Rs. Mn) 17,625 30,342 17,995 16,373 16,514 16,695 15,182 13,900 22,328 12,624 20,204 10,833 16,642 14,284 7,320 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group Earnings Stated Capital Revenue per Share Rs. 17,625 Mn Rs. 2.47 Rs. 9,000 Mn 2015/16 2014/15 Change (%) Group Company Group Company Group Company Earnings Highlights and Ratios Revenue Rs. Mn 17,625 11,604 16,514 11,245 6.7 3.2 Gross Profit Rs. Mn 3,977 2,562 3,815 2,630 4.2 -2.6 EBITDA Rs. Mn 3,748 2,934 3,322 2,439 12.8 20.3 Earnings before Tax Rs. Mn 2,995 2,355 2,763 1,944 8.4 21.1 Profit Attributable to Owners Rs. Mn 2,465 2,087 2,346 1,753 5.1 19.1 Dividend Rs. Mn 750 750 1,000 1,000 -25.0 -25.0 Earnings per Share Rs. 2.47 2.09 2.35 1.75 5.1 19.4 Dividend per Share Rs. 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 -25.0 -25.0 Dividend Payout % 30 36 43 57 -30.2 -36.8 Statement of Financial Position Highlights and Ratios Total Assets Rs. Mn 30,343 25,258 22,328 18,257 35.9 38.3 Stated Capital Rs. Mn 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 0.0 0.0 Retained Earnings Rs. Mn 8,362 6,835 7,169 5,920 16.6 15.5 Total Equity/Shareholders’ Funds Rs. Mn 17,995 15,936 16,695 15,021 7.8 6.1 Total Liabilities Rs. Mn 12,348 9,322 5,633 3,236 119.2 188.1 Current Assets Rs. Mn 17,986 14,406 13,173 9,509 36.5 51.5 Current Liabilities Rs. Mn 6,745 3,809 5,119 2,880 31.8 32.3 Net Asset per Share Rs. 17.46 15.94 16.27 15.02 7.3 6.1 Investor Highlights and Ratios Price per Share Rs. – 20.8 – 19.2 0.0 8.3 Gross Profit Margin % 22.6 22.1 23.1 23.4 -2.3 -5.6 Net Profit Margin % 14.5 18.0 14.7 15.6 -1.4 15.4 Return on Equity % 14.1 13.1 14.4 11.7 -2.1 12.5 Debt/Total Assets % 20.6 20.5 2.8 0.0 1,187.5 – Debt/Equity % 34.8 32.6 3.7 0.0 1,557.1 – Current Asset Ratio Times 2.7 3.8 2.6 3.3 3.7 14.7 Quick Asset Ratio Times 2.3 3.6 2.1 3.0 7.9 19.7 Preamble 1 Page 7 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Non-Financial and Operational Highlights Non-Financial and Operational Highlights Corporate Responsibility Integrated Reporting AEL was selected the Construction Sector Winner and the AEL’s 2nd Integrated Report was awarded the 2nd Runner-Up in less than Rs. 15 Bn Turnover Category Gold Award for Construction Companies at at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards 2015 the CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards 2015 organized by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Hiring and Project Safety Retaining Talent Completion Performance Our staff retention of Project completion performance was Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) was 94.67% 100% 1.14 which is unheard in the industry Corporate Stability Investor Confidence AEL were given an Entity Rating of ‘(SL) A+ with a stable Raised Rs. 5 Bn through an IPO of Debt Securities outlook’ by ICRA Lanka Limited which was oversubscribed Acquisition of approximately 21 acres of land Commencement of construction of 608 in the Information Technology and Education housing units for Public sector employees at Zone of Malabe Borella on a Public-Private Partnership basis Receipt of the highest CIDA accreditation for Commencement of piling works at ITC the most number of disciplines Colombo One Commissioning of cranes by ZPMC Lanka Completion of Kandana Water Treatment in Qatar Plant Extension Completion of construction of prefabricated Commencement of construction of steel buildings at Lakvijaya Power Station Kapparathota Jetty Page 8 1 Preamble Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 About this Report This Report presents a holistic view of the Company’s performance during the financial year 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016. Being an Integrated Report, it covers not only the financial About this Report performance but the broader social relationship and environmental impact of our activities. In this however, while striving to keep a broad perspective, AEL’s priorities on the stakeholder groups and activities which have a high degree of interest and impact on the Company. The Company embarked on Integrated Reporting with the Annual Report for year 2013/14 and so this is the third consecutive integrated Annual Report. In preparing this Report, AEL has closely followed the guidelines given in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version G4) [www.global reporting.org] with most of the pertinent GRI indicators covered. The Report also draws on concepts, principles and guidance from both International Integrated Reporting Framework (2013) [www.theiirc.org] and the Smart Integrated Reporting Methodology (www.smart.lk). While drawing on these sources, AEL has presented the information in a form that best suits the reporting needs of the Company. The Report is available in both print and HTML versions. The latter may be downloaded from the Company’s website www.accessengsl.com. Further queries regarding the Report or its contents should be addressed to the Chief Operating Officer, Access Engineering PLC at rohana@accessengsl.com. VALUE CREATION Value creation in the Company is a two-way process; we both deliver value to and derive AND CAPITAL FORMATION value from our stakeholders. Value is derived through both internal and external capitals. AEL’s internal capital comprises financial and institutional capital. The latter includes intangibles such as brand image, reputation, systems and processes, specialized knowledge, ethics and integrity. External capitals are essentially the stakeholder capitals. Preamble 1 Page 9 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 About this Report In determining the materiality of various aspects and impacts of the Company’s operations, AEL follows the approach specified in GRI G4. Thus, matters that are reported on are those that have a high level of economic, social or environmental impact or have a high influence on stakeholder decisions. Stakeholders are also identified using the same approach. PRIORITIZED TOPICS Category Aspect Reason for Reporting WITHIN THE REPORT Economic Economic All stakeholders, not only financial, require an Performance enhancement in the value of their investment. For instance employees would be concerned about their career growth. Sound economic performance is the bedrock of the Company as a going concern which is important to all stakeholders. Environmental Energy Construction is an energy-intensive business. Performance Water Heavy impact on water resources islandwide due to islandwide spread of projects which has social implications as well. Biodiversity Heavy impact of projects on biodiversity and heavy regulation within the industry in this regard which imposes constraints. Apart from regulation this is a concern regarding environmental capital. Emissions, Effluents Heavy discharge of emissions and other hazardous and Waste objects to the environment as a result of construction. Products and AEL’s commitment to improve projects executed Services and services provided so that they have a positive impact on the environment, or at least minimize environmental damage. Transport Execution of projects involve substantial transportation of resources. Overall AEL’s efforts to protect and conserve the environment being wide and numerous. Labour Employment AEL is a creator/provider of employment opportunities Practices and throughout the country. Decent Work Occupational Health The industry is heavily susceptible to work and related and Safety accidents, hazards and other H&S risks. Training and AEL’s ability to be in the forefront to a great extent Education depends on its ability to recruit the best people available and retain them. Diversity and Equal By default, construction is an industry that is male Opportunity dominated so gender equality cannot be a realistic concern. Labour force is heavily diversified due to the involvement of unskilled labour. Society Corruption The industry is heavily susceptible to corruption due to the large scale nature of projects, long term duration of projects, high monetary value of projects and the client in many cases being the Government or public sector agencies. Local Communities Heavy impact of projects on local communities and AEL’s commitment to uplift the living standards of localities the Company operates in. There is always the possibility of serious repercussions in case there are adverse impacts from AEL’s projects. Page 10 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 About this Report During the year under review, the following facilities were opened or closed: Facility Openings Facility Closings Expansions Matugama Asphalt Plant Jaffna Asphalt Plant None Matugama Crusher Plant Kotadeniyawa Crusher Plant Warakapola Crusher Plant Vavuniya I Quarry Nikaweratiya Sand Washing Plant Kotadeniyawa Quarry Wattala Concrete Batching Plant Warakapola Quarry Matugama Quarry Mankulam Quarry In addition, new project offices were opened in locations where new projects were commenced during the year. REPORT BOUNDARY This Report covers only the operations of Access Engineering PLC carried out within the country. Operations of subsidiaries and foreign operations of the Company have been omitted. Reasons for Omission yy Our subsidiaries operate in commercial sectors (renting of office space, sale of motor vehicles and provision of interior solutions) that are different to that in which AEL operates. Therefore, reporting aspects are not compatible. yy Difficulties in obtaining reliable data. yy Subsidiaries account for only a minor amount of the Company’s bottom line. yy Operations of Access Engineering PLC (East Africa) Branch are excluded as operations were not commented by 31st March 2016. Data found in the Report are based on Audited Financial Statements of the Company and internal records verified through periodic internal audits. In the process of compiling indicators, AEL has not substantially deviated from the Indicator Protocols stipulated by GRI. There is no restatement of information provided in previous reports or significant changes in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the Report. The Company has not obtained any external assurance on data reported in this integrated Report. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 11 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations ENGINEERING INNOVATION Basement construction using diaphragm walls Business Impact High (High/Medium/Low): Measure of Impact: Minimized energy consumption and reduced cost Value Addition Can be erected in congested and closed areas with adjacent buildings and utilities Construction time is lowered considerably by this method Economic and positive solution for large deep basement in saturated and unstable soil profiles Minimum vibration and noise induced during installation Remarks AEL introduced diaphragm wall construction technique using a hydraulic grab at Behaves as a seepage cutoff wall thus making the site more the proposed ITC hotel development at Galle Face, Colombo. The site required a favorable for construction massive car park basement that had to retain a 13 m high soil mass below the ground level. Compared to secant piling (conventional retaining wall system for basements), the diaphragm wall method was able to save 20% of the overall cost. The wall acts as a water barrier for seepage of water thus making the site more favorable for excavation and earth maneuver. Page 12 2 Message Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Message from the Chairman A Message from the Chairman Message 2 Page 13 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Message from the Chairman It is with great satisfaction and pride that I report to you that we can look back on another successful year for Access Engineering PLC in 2015/16. We continued to build on our core business of value engineering and engineering services while we also diversified into other areas, particularly real estate. With the Company’s traditional focus on value engineering, we continue to be on the cutting edge of technology and are constantly seeking to innovate and to deliver to our clientele, products and services of the best possible quality at the lowest possible cost. We had to contend with an economic scenario, both local and global, that was not too encouraging in 2015. Global We continue to be on the cutting edge of economic growth, which was only 3.1%, was held back by the lacklustre performance of emerging economies, technology and are constantly seeking to particularly the BRICS countries. Advanced economies innovate and to deliver to our clientele, products however, especially the US, fared moderately well. The Sri Lankan economy too recorded only a modest growth and services of the best possible quality of 4.9%. The growth was mainly driven by agriculture and service sectors. The balance of payments was adversely affected with the Rupee depreciating 9% against the US Dollar during 2015. With two elections being conducted during the year, the environment was also fraught with political uncertainties. Certain major projects such as the Port City were put on hold which had an adverse impact on the construction industry. Nevertheless, the industry continued to play a significant role in the economy. Our performance is all the more commendable for having being achieved in spite of the challenges we faced. Looking forward, while we remain firmly convinced that there still is great opportunity in our core business, there are also reasons why we need to strengthen our position by way of further diversification. The Government is facing a large fiscal deficit and is under pressure to increase its revenue, not to mention to adjust the balance between direct and indirect taxes. There is every possibility of the engineering and construction sectors being targeted for tax increases like the banking and financial sectors have been. In this scenario, we should focus on lobbying for tax holidays for our investments. We believe that the principal way to ensure a surer footing for our financial stability over the next few years is to expand further into real estate. We have set ourselves a target of constructing a minimum of three million square feet of valuable real estate over the next five years. To part fulfil this requirement we invested in three real estate companies during the year which collectively hold 21 acres of land in Malabe. This will strengthen our balance sheet by converting depreciating assets such as cash and cash equivalents into appreciating assets such as land, bricks and mortar. Our thrust into real estate will be backed up by our core competencies in design, engineering, construction and procurement. Another thrust of our diversification is the Motor Vehicle sector. Our investment in Sathosa Motors has been a resounding success with the shares we purchased having quadrupled in value. Further SML Frontier, which is 50% owned by Sathosa Motors has shown a fair performance over the years and we intend to go for an IPO for SML Frontier anytime after November 2016. Page 14 2 Message Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Message from the Chairman Access Projects (Private) Limited, in which we made a substantial investment in 2014, is not only contributing to our bottom line. It has helped us, and will continue to help us to bring a special skill in design and value engineering by interacting with architects, interior designers, MEP consultants and procurement processors in our real estate initiatives. This has enabled our team at Access Engineering to focus on our core business. I wish to thank the members of the Board for their stewardship and guidance which have been invaluable. I also thank our Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer for the leadership they have provided and all our staff for the dedication they have shown and living up to our values. Finally, I wish to thank all our stakeholders – customers, suppliers, bankers and the state for their continued support and the confidence they have reposed in us. Sumal Perera Chairman ENGINEERING INNOVATION Post-tensioning method for high rise buildings Business Impact High (High/Medium/Low): Measure of Impact: Optimum use of resources and minimized cost and energy consumption Value Addition The use of post-tensioned reinforcement to construct floor slabs results in thinner concrete sections and/or longer spans between supports Energy saving in construction process by minimizing the use of concrete and steel thereby preserving natural resources Reduction in cost and time of construction Remarks It reduces or eliminates shrinkage cracking; therefore no joints or fewer joints are needed Post-tensioning is a form of pre-stressing technique for reinforced concrete. Post-tensioning tendons, which are pre-stressing steel cables inside plastic ducts or sleeves, are positioned in the forms before the concrete is placed. Once the concrete has gained strength and before the service loads are applied, the cables are pulled tight or tensioned and anchored against the outer edges of the concrete. AEL introduced post-tensioning approach for slabs and beams of the Access Tower II development currently under construction at Dawson Street, Colombo 02. Page 16 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Joint Statement of the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer Joint Statement of the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 17 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Joint Statement of the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer THE MACROECONOMIC Despite constraints imposed by the local and international economic environment, your ENVIRONMENT Company – Access Engineering PLC, returned a laudable performance in 2015/16. Global economic growth was hampered by slowdown or stagnation in emerging economies particularly some of the BRICS countries. China continued to grow, albeit at a slower rate than in the past and continues to invest worldwide particularly along the maritime silk route. The Sri Lankan economy had to face a degree of uncertainty with the political changes during the year. A modest growth of 4.8% was achieved in 2015 with growth picking up in the last quarter of the calendar year. The industrial sector grew only by 3% while the construction sector grew by a negative 1% in real terms. The construction sector was affected by some AEL recorded a highly satisfactory performance political uncertainties; for example, the Port City during the year under review. An impressive project was put on hold though it recommenced later. However, there were enough infrastructure projects increase of 19% on profit after tax was recorded executed to ensure that construction continued to be a major driver of the economy. The extension of the year on year. The Company revenue for the Southern Expressway from Matara to Hambantota year was Rs. 11,604 Mn while the profit after and the Colombo Outer Circular Expressway Phase 3 commenced during the year. Water Supply Projects, tax was Rs. 2,087 Mn. targeted at towns North and East of Colombo were initiated. Major private sector projects such as the Colombo Water Front Project, the Shangri-La Development Project, ITC Development Project, Altair, AVIC, etc. also continued during the year. The Government’s intention to further improve the infrastructure with the development of the Central Expressway, a New Airport Terminal at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA), a New Bridge across the Kelani River, an Elevated Highways and the Colombo Megapolis Development Programme, augurs well for the future of the industry. OUR STRENGTHS Value addition through innovation is a cornerstone of the strategy of Access Engineering. Value engineering, which provides constructions and services which are of high quality, durable, maintainable and safe at the lowest cost possible without compromising on the other considerations is ingrained into all our activities. Some of the projects where our value engineering solutions have been provided over the years include the ADB funded Walawe Bank Coffer Dam Project (which resulted in substantial reduction in cost of temporary work), steel and composite flyovers, composite bridges (where construction time was reduced by more than half causing minimum inconvenience to the public), HDD microtunneling for laying fiber optic cables (where construction time was reduced substantially, resulting in cost effectiveness and minimum inconvenience to the public due to minimum surface damage) and the diaphragm wall project for ITC (where construction time and material usage was reduced in multi basement construction). Other innovations include form work systems to expedite construction and post tensioning to maximize usable spaces thereby reducing construction costs. We have also kept up our innovation in systems and procedures. We have the distinction of being the only construction company to run on SAP ERP. We can also be proud of having the most efficient processes in asphalt and concrete production. The engineering and technical resources of the Company have generated most of the innovative ideas which we have put into practice. Page 18 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Joint Statement of the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer OUR PERFORMANCE AEL recorded a highly satisfactory performance during the year under review. The Company maintained gross profit margin of above 22% with the top line increasing by a marginal 3.2%. An impressive increase of 19% in profit after tax was recorded year on year. The Company revenue for the year was Rs. 11,604 Mn while the profit after tax attributable to owners was Rs. 2,087 Mn. The other Access Engineering Group companies, Sathosa Motors PLC (SML), Access Realties (Private) Limited (ARL), ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited (ZPMC) and Access Projects (Private) Limited, recorded year on year growths both on the top and the bottom lines. Access Realties improved on its cash profit compared to last year, primarily because the previous year’s profit included revaluation gain. The Company’s new acquisitions of Horizon Holdings, Horizon Holdings Ventures and Horizon Knowledge City did not have any significant business activities during the year. The total asset base of the Group was increased by 38%, bolstered by the acquisition of a land bank in a developing Our success depends on the quality of our zone in Malabe through the investments in Horizon, human resources and retaining and nurturing Horizon Holdings Ventures and Horizon Knowledge City; capacity building initiatives; construction of Access them is paramount. We are considered to be Tower 2; investments made in various corporate debentures and the funds of Rs. 5 Bn raised through the the best employer in the industry, the most Company’s debenture issue in November 2015. Work was integrated Company which boasts of the also commenced on the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) project with the Urban Development Authority (UDA) best human resources, not to mention being for construction of apartments for Public sector employees in Borella. the preferred partner among international companies presently operating in Sri Lanka. Further investments were made towards building up the backward integration of the supply chain with acquisition of a new concrete batching plant, premises and associated equipment to cater to the growing demand for reliable ready mix concrete. Engagement with Universities and Vocational Training Colleges to attract competent and talented personnel was continued. Above all, we never forget that our success depends on the quality of our human resources and retaining and nurturing them is paramount. We are considered to be the best employer in the industry, the most integrated Company which boasts of the best human resources, not to mention being the preferred partner among international companies presently operating in Sri Lanka. WHAT SETS US APART We are the only construction Company in Sri Lanka to have a joint venture with a leading international and renowned Company in the field – Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Company Limited (ZPMC). The span of our operations entitles us to consider ourselves the most integrated engineering company in the country. Our backward integration activities include asphalt production, quarry operations, concrete production, design, etc. Our forward integration activities are primarily in the domain of real estate and provision of interior solutions. Our major real estate ventures have been Access Tower 1 and 2; and investments in the three Horizon companies for property development. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 19 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Joint Statement of the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer The customer is at the top of our value chain and so we give pride of place to customer relationships. In whatever we undertake to do for our customers, we try to enhance our delivery by providing innovative and value engineered solutions. This is well supported by our knowledge base and extensive service portfolio. The Company has a body of organizational learning and knowledge that it has built up over the years. Our customer retention ratio is among the highest and through our cost effective solutions coupled with quality and reliability, we continue to foster a high customer goodwill towards our business. In the year under review, an example of a step we have taken to improve customer centricity is, the UDA Government Housing Project where we have partnered with the UDA in finding a solution to ease the cash flow of this Project for the client by involving prospective buyers in the process. Team AEL is the best knowledge and talent base in the industry. Our culture is focused on innovation and value addition with encouragement for communication of ideas. Great ideas are appreciated and rewarded at all levels. The workplace is energetic and vibrant with no barriers hindering communication. The Company’s Vision ‘to be the foremost Sri Lankan business enterprise in value engineering’ is displayed and communicated well to all team members and inculcated into them; it is the philosophy which motivates them in all their activities. Among the accolades we have received during the year, are the Award for the Infrastructure Sector by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce at the 10 Best Corporate Citizens Sustainability Awards; Gold Winner at the CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards 2015; Overall Construction Sector Winner at the CIMA LMD Awards and being recognized Among the Top 25 Business Entities in Sri Lanka by the Business Today Magazine. LOOKING AHEAD Short to medium term plans include the consolidation and expansion of our core business with sustainability while diversifying. The forecasted public sector infrastructure projects and the private sector investments in the real estate sector are of particular significance. Further, consolidation and expansion can be expected in backward integration (expansion in concrete production/asphalt production) and forward integration (real estate development through joint venture partnerships, overseas projects through main/subsidiary companies). The increase in the tax rate from 12% to 17.5%, effective from April 2016, would have an adverse impact. Encouragement and incentives are required for investments in capacity building and we look forward to further opportunities to be involved in Public-Private Partnership Projects. In conclusion, we wish to thank our Chairman, the Board of Directors and the Corporate Management for the guidance, leadership and input they have provided. We thank our shareholders and the wider stakeholder community for the continued trust they have placed in us. Last but not least, we do not forget our employees, whatever their position, for it is their dedication and commitment that have made Access Engineering what it is today. Christopher Joshua Rohana Fernando Managing Director Chief Operating Officer 10th July 2016 ENGINEERING INNOVATION Under water concrete works using pre-cast invented concrete tees Business Impact High (High/Medium/Low): Measure of Impact: Achievement of cost and time saving with quality. Value Addition Time saving of 85 days approximately achieved and the completed project was handed over to the client successfully. Bottom and joint leakage prevented making the entire process effective in both time and cost. Precast concrete formwork is embedded to concrete and becomes part of the concrete works, thus adding strength to the quay wall structure. Remarks The inverted tees were precast hence the required strength The new North Pier Head at the Unity Container Terminal of Colombo Port had and quality was achieved under controlled supervision. been severely settled and damaged due to the Tsunami of 2004, as backfill material in the quay wall structure was washed away. AEL took the initiative to The concrete units were handled using cranes thus handling of provide an innovative solution for the underwater concreting works by using the concrete tees were easy. precast concrete inverted tees. These concrete tees play the role of formwork and was found to be effective when compared to steel formwork. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 21 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations THE ECONOMY GLOBALLY AND LOCALLY Review of Business The global economy generally speaking, showed a lacklustre performance in 2015, Operations recording a growth of only 3.1%. The main barrier to growth was the rather dismal performance of emerging economies, particularly the BRICS countries, which were held back by weak commodity prices, reduced global trade and capital flows. China, though by no means stagnating, is unable to sustain its growth rates of the past. Brazil and Russia are experiencing severe difficulties with India remaining the only bright spot in BRICS. Advanced economies however performed moderately well. In the construction sector too, globally there was an expansion in non-residential construction. There was generally a slump in commodity prices, particularly oil. This however benefitted some non-oil producing economies. The Sri Lankan economy too did not perform too well with GDP growth slowing marginally to 4.8% as against 4.9% the previous year. The growth was mainly driven by agriculture and service sectors. The economic environment had an adverse impact on the balance of payments and the Rupee with the Rupee depreciating by 9% against the US Dollar by end 2015. There was however an improvement in Government revenue to GDP to 13.0 percent in 2015 from 11.4% in 2014. GDP and Construction Sector Growth, Year on Year 2015 2014 Growth (%) GDP at Current Prices (Rs. Mn) 11,183 10,448 7.03 Construction Sector at Current Prices (Rs. Mn) 824 786 4.83 GDP at Constant (2010) Prices (Rs. Mn) Real 8,623 8,229 4.79 Construction Sector at Constant (2010) Prices (Rs. Mn) Terms 585 590 -0.85 Source: CBSL Annual Report 2015 Due to the relatively relaxed monetary policy maintained by the Central Bank, there was an expansion in credit granted to the private sector of 25.1% during the year. Inflation remained moderate at below 5% throughout the year. THE CONSTRUCTION The Construction Industry continued to play a pivotal role in 2015 despite some uncertainties INDUSTRY regarding the future of certain projects following the political changes. The Uma Oya Multipurpose Development Scheme recommenced in late 2015 and was 53% completed by end 2015. The plant is expected to be completed and commissioned by end 2017. A total of 337 rural electrification projects were completed by end 2015. Road development continued to be a key thrust of the Government’s development strategy. Phase II of the Colombo Outer Circular highway with 8.9 km of expressway was completed in September 2015. Work on the extension of the Southern expressway from Matara to Hambantota commenced in August 2015. The Central Expressway project, combining two expressways previously proposed, was also inaugurated in August 2015. Improvements to railway infrastructure continued with the Northern line and installation of a new railway signalling system also being completed. Further, the double tracking of the Kalutara South – Payagala South section and the Seeduwa – Chilaw section also continued. Construction of Phase I of the East Colombo Terminal was completed in 2015. The construction of Phase II of the Hambantota Port, including four container berths, a public terminal and an artificial island continued in 2015 and is expected to be completed in 2015. The Colombo Port City project which was halted in 2015 due to environmental concerns, recommenced in March 2016. In January 2016, the Government released the conceptual framework of the Western Province Megapolis Master plan, a macrolevel project, to develop a world class Colombo centred urban area in the Western Province. Page 22 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations A 5-Year analysis of the Sri Lankan Construction Industry 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Construction Sector (2010 Constant Prices) 584,999 590,111 553,438 514,757 424,798 GDP (2010 Constant Prices) 8,622,825 8,228,986 7,846,202 7,588,517 6,952,720 % Contribution of the Construction Sector to GDP (%) 6.78 7.17 7.05 6.78 6.11 Growth in Contribution (%) -5.39 1.67 3.98 11.02 – Employment in the Construction Industry 599,000 615,000 588,000 616,000 590,000 Total Labour Force 8,554,000 8,424,000 8,418,000 8,118,000 8,197,000 Contribution of Construction Sector (%) 7.00 7.30 6.99 7.59 7.20 Growth in Contribution (%) -4.08 4.52 -7.95 5.42 – Source: CBSL Annual Report 2015 Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 23 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations BUSINESS OPERATIONS: Roads and Highways ENGINEERING PROJECTS Colombo-Kandy Road (A 001), Kadawatha to Nittambuwa: Rehabilitation and Improvement The scope of work consists of widening the road section to a four lane dual carriageway Status : Ongoing including existing bridges and improving the existing cross drainage and town areas. The Client : RDA completed road will provide a secure and fast drive to and from Colombo, while eliminating Commencement : 11th September 2013 traffic backups at major intersections and towns. The project also demands extensive land Funded by : Government of Sri Lanka Completion : 18th April 2017 acquisition and utility shifting to facilitate widening of the road section. Project Value : Rs. 6,956.1 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor The improved road section will also provide a convenient corridor for traffic to access the Outer Location : Gampaha District Circular Highway (OCH) and the proposed Colombo – Kandy Expressway from Kadawatha. Once completed the roads will ensure free flow of long distance and metropolitan bound traffic on the road while gradually spurring industrial development along the corridor. Page 24 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Vavuniya – Horowpothana Road (A029): Rehabilitation and Improvement Status : Ongoing Client : RDA The project is implemented using additional financing from ADB as a continuation of the Commencement : 4th July 2015 Northern Road Connectivity Project. Under the scope of this project, 3.1 m carriageway is Funded by : Asian Development Bank rehabilitated along with 1 m wide hard and soft shoulders across 11 km long road section. Completion : 30th June 2016 The project also includes rehabilitation of road drainage infrastructure (27 Nos. of culverts) Project Value : Rs. 374.5 Mn and junction improvement works which consist of rehabilitating 1 km road section in Vavuniya Role in Contract : Main Contractor township, providing 3.5 m carriageway with 1.5 m footpath on either side of the carriageway Location : Vavuniya and Anuradhapura Districts and allocating adequate parking space where necessary. Once completed, the improved road section will reduce the travel time between Vavuniya and Horowpothana while ensuring a connected road network within the North Central Province. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 25 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Harbour and Marine Work Kapparathota Jetty: Design and Construction Status : Ongoing Client : Ministry of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources The scope of the project entrusted to Access Engineering PLC includes design and Development construction of 128 m long jetty on a pile foundation which extends from land into sea Commencement : 27th July 2015 enabling the local fishermen to anchor their boats within the sea area saving them the trouble Funded by : Government of Sri Lanka of bringing their boats to shore. The piers of the jetty will be equipped with new fenders and Completion : 26th July 2016 bollards to facilitate safe docking at the jetty. Project Value : Rs. 470.0 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor The project will bring significant benefits to the local fishermen with the increased anchoring Location : Kapparathota, Weligama facilities for the boats and the development of a new market place to trade their produce. Page 26 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Water and Wastewater Towns East of Colombo District Water Supply Project Status : Ongoing Client : National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) Commencement : 30th April 2015 Funded by : Government of Sri Lanka Completion : 30th April 2017 Project Value : Rs. 4,700.0 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor Location : Colombo District The major scope of the project consists of supplying and laying of a water distribution pipe network in Padukka, Horana and Seethawaka Divisional Secretariat areas. The project which aims to provide pipe borne water supply to an estimated population of 373,000 in the eastern part of the Colombo District is implemented through three contract packages. The Contract Package I which is awarded to Access Engineering PLC includes supply and laying of 1,000 mm diameter DI transmission pipes for a length of 4 km from Meepe to Meegoda and HDPE pipes of variable diameter as a distribution mains for 200 km. The project is to cover a total of 116 sq.km. covering 40 Grama Niladhari Divisions under Padukka, Horana and Seethawaka Divisional Secretariat Divisions. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 27 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Page 28 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Construction of Canal Bank Protection Works of St. Sebastian South Canal Status : Ongoing Client : Metro Colombo Urban The canal bank revetment works in St. Sebastian South Canal is spearheaded by Sri Lanka Development Project Land Reclamation and Development Corporation under the guidance of Ministry of Commencement : 27th October 2014 Megapolis and Western Region Development with the objective of flood control in the vicinity Funded by : International Bank for Construction & of St. Sebastian South Canal by dredging the canal and protecting its banks using gabion Development walls and steel sheet pile walls which prevent erosion of the banks. Completion : 20th July 2016 Project Value : Rs. 259.7 Mn St. Sebastian South Canal, with an approximate length of 2.0 km and a width of 15 m, is one Role in Contract : Main Contractor of the key storm water drainage canals in the Northern Colombo area that discharges storm Location : Maligawatta, water in the Colombo basin into the Kelani River. Some stretches of the canal bank had been Colombo District protected earlier either by gabion walls and sheet pile walls, but the rest of the earthen bank has not been protected resulting in the canal sections with undefined cross sections being difficult to maintain. The scope of the project includes canal bank protection work of around 6,000 m3 of gabion construction works, 90 m long sheet piling work and reinstatement of existing access road and storm water drains disturbed by construction work. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 29 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Greater Colombo Wastewater Management Project Status : Ongoing Client : National Water Supply The scope of this project is to rehabilitate six pump stations by fitting SCADA systems which and Drainage Board will automate the operation process, by allowing operators and facility personnel to monitor Commencement : 16th January 2015 and control the equipment either locally or remotely. Under the contract, each pump station Funded by : Asian Development Bank (ADB) will also be built with sanitary and office facilities required for the respective operational staff. Completion : 16th August 2016 Project Value : Rs. 283.9 Mn The Kolonnawa sewerage system consists of a 25 km sewer network and four wastewater Role in Contract : Subcontractor to CCB pump stations (Kolonnawa, Wellampitiya, Meetotamulla, Dematagoda) including associated Envico (Private) Limited force mains. The entire flow of the Kolonnawa Sewerage system is discharged to a manhole Location : Colombo District in the gravity sewer line which carries the flow to Maligawatta Pump Station. Dehiwala and Mt. Lavinia Sewerage System which consists of 25 km sewerage network and two sewerage pump stations (Dehiwala, Mt. Lavinia) and associated force mains, pump the entire flow into Wellawatta sea outfall. Kalu Ganga Water Supply Project: Kandana Water Treatment Plant Extension Status : Completed Client : National Water Supply Under this project, the treatment capacities of the plant and related facilities were expanded and Drainage Board to enable it to supply 60,000 m3/day of potable water which will cater to the needs of a total Commencement : 25th March 2013 of 250,000 people living in Kesbewa, Piliyandala, Jamburaliya, Kumbuke and surrounding Funded by : Japanese Bank for International Cooperation areas in outer southern parts of Greater Colombo. (JBIC) Completion : 23rd March 2015 The work of the project involved the construction of flocculation and sedimentation basins, Project Value : Rs. 722.9 Mn installation of filtration units and all other civil, mechanical, electrical and Instrumentation Role in Contract : Subcontractor to Salcon Control Monitoring System (ICM) works, construction of concrete and asphalt paved access Engineering Bhd. Malaysia roads to the water treatment plant as well as construction of an engineering office for National Location : Kandana, Horana Water Supply and Drainage Board. (Western Province) Page 30 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Rehabilitation of Labugama and Kalatuwawa Water Treatment Plants Status : Ongoing Client : National Water Supply The designed capacity of Labugama (WTP) which was 60,000 m3/day and Kalatuwawa and Drainage Board (WTP) which was 90,000 m3/day have been operationally reduced by 30% due to the severe Commencement : 23rd September 2013 deterioration that has occurred over the years. Funded by : Government of Hungary Completion : 21st September 2016 Our scope of the work includes the renovation and replacement of existing filters and Project Value : Rs. 2,230.1 Mn clarifiers, intake well improvements, modification of aerators and other process structures, Role in Contract : Subcontractor to Fővárősi Visműák (Hungary) reconstruction and renovation of existing buildings, internal roads and site work, etc. Location : Labugama (Western The rehabilitation is targeted to bring the plants up to the original capacity. Province) and Kalatuwawa (Ratnapura District) Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 31 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Page 32 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Irrigation and Land Drainage Status : Completed Deduruoya Reservoir Project Client : Irrigation Department The benefits from the overall project will bring wide socioeconomic benefits to the people in Commencement : 20th May 2015 the vicinity. The Reservoir will hold 75 Mn m3 of water after its completion and it will provide Funded by : Government of Sri Lanka assured irrigation facilities for 11,000 ha (27,500 acres) of paddy lands in the Deduru Oya Completion : 12th February 2016 and the Mee Oya basins benefiting about 15,000 farmer families. About 50,000 families will Project Value : Rs. 37.8 Mn benefit by domestic water facilities, lift irrigation and extension of inland fisheries culture etc. Role in Contract : Main Contractor Location : Kurunegala District The component of the project which was awarded to Access Engineering consists of construction of two row close conduits on 53.65 m length and 4 overcrossings in the right bank transbasin canal of Deduru Oya reservoir. Status : Ongoing Climate Resilience Improvement Project Client : Irrigation Department Recognizing that the country suffers an erratic rainfall pattern and water related climate Commencement : 29th July 2015 vulnerability which is likely to intensify in the years to come, nine river basins were selected Funded by : World Bank and Government of Sri Lanka to carry out flood and drought hazard modelling under the flood risk mitigation component of Completion : 27th July 2016 the project which primarily focuses on rehabilitating infrastructure damaged by recent floods Project Value : Rs. 94.4 Mn or those particularly at risk to future floods. Role in Contract : Main Contractor Location : Batticaloa District Furthering the cause, the contract of the improvement to Sammugarajah Anicut, Reconstruction of Nelluchchanai Anicut, Reconstruction of Kayamadu Regulator, Improvement and Rehabilitation of T-11D Channel and Widening, Straightening the Moongil Aru from downstream of Muniwaram Anicut to upstream of Muhathuwaram Anicut in Navakiri Scheme in Batticaloa District was entrusted to Access Engineering PLC by the Irrigation Department. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 33 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Rehabilitation of Downstream and Upstream Dam Embankments of Iranamadu Reservoir Status : Ongoing Client : Northern Provincial Jaffna – Kilinochchi Water Supply and Sanitation project – Iranamadu Component aims to Council strengthen and augment the Iranamadu Reservoir; which has been in disrepair due to the Commencement : 24th August 2015 lack of maintenance and the destruction caused by three decades of armed conflict. Funded by : Asian Development Bank Completion : 21st August 2017 The major scope of work under the contract includes construction of seepage removal Project Value : Rs. 488.4 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor drainage system within the dam structure, downstream access roads, rain water disposal Location : Kilinochchi District system, soil-cement-bentonite wall and formation of rock toe on the upstream side of the dam. Rehabilitation of sluice barrels and stilling basins on right and left banks is also part of the work. Once rehabilitated, the Reservoir, which now stores water 4 to 5 ft below the full supply level, will store water at its optimum capacity. While a part of the incremental volume of the rehabilitated Reservoir will be diverted to Jaffna to supply potable drinking water, the rest will be used for the benefit of 7,000 farmer families. Page 34 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Rehabilitation of Spillway, Supplying & Installation of New Radial Gates and Automation of Status : Ongoing Spill & Sluice Gates of Iranamadu Reservoir Client : Northern Provincial Council The contract package 2 under Iranamadu Component of Jaffna Kilinochchi Water Supply Commencement : 19th October 2015 and Sanitation project, involves rehabilitation of spillway structure, construction of new Funded by : Asian Development Bank seepage cutoff wall on upstream of the spillway, supply and installation of three new radial Completion : 15th October 2017 gates in the left bank section, rehabilitation of all 11 Nos. of existing radial gates and hoists Project Value : Rs. 397.6 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor and automation of all sluice gates and radial gates. Location : Kilinochchi District The land representing the Iranamadu Tank watershed and the command area is approximately 970 km2. The Iranamadu Tank Bund was originally constructed in 1902 and was raised thrice during successive settlement campaigns: in 1951, in 1954 and in 1975 to hold capacities of 88 Mn m3, 101 Mn m3 and of the present 131.8 Mn m3 respectively. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 35 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Page 36 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Building Projects ITC Colombo One: Diaphragm Wall, Anchoring and Excavation for Basement Car Parks Status : Ongoing Client : Welcome Hotels Lanka The project which is coming up in the picturesque coastline overlooking the historic Galle (Private) Limited Face Green is the latest addition to the ITC Hotel Chain. This development with a 29 storey Commencement : 19th November 2014 hotel complex and a 49 storey apartment complex will give a new look to the landscape of Funded by : ITC Limited the commercial capital and will give major boost to the Sri Lankan tourism industry. Completion : 2nd June 2016 Project Value : Rs. 1,395 Mn The main task in the contract awarded to Access Engineering PLC is the construction of a Role in Contract : Main Contractor diaphragm wall which is of 700 m in perimeter length and 21 m in depth from ground level. Location : Colombo 01 Once the diaphragm wall is built, the enclosed ground will be excavated to a depth of 13 m, removing approximately 150,000 m3 of soil to create space for basement car parks and to allow for pile installation. Soil nailing and shotcreting are also adopted to stabilize steep slopes formed by excavations on the site boundary. A newly acquired soil anchoring drilling rig is used to anchor the diaphragm wall on the soil mass. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 37 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Page 38 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations ITC Colombo One Project: Piling Works Status : Ongoing Client : Welcome Hotels Lanka The scope of the project in progress includes installation and testing of 444 Nos. of (Private) Limited cast-in-situ bored piles of 600 mm, 800 mm and 1,200 mm in diameter, which are being Commencement : 2nd December 2015 driven to an average depth of 25 m from ground level to support the superstructure of Funded by : ITC Limited the hotel and residential complexes. Bauer rotary drilling rigs and related machinery and Completion : 4th July 2016 equipment of the Company Piling Unit are deployed for work, where necessary. Advanced Project Value : Rs. 390.0 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor testing instruments and techniques are being used throughout the project in order to ensure Location : Colombo 01 quality control requirements are met at every level. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 39 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Page 40 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Relocation of Underserved Settlements Project (Phase II): Construction of Status : Ongoing 941 Low-Cost Housing Units at Henamulla Client : Urban Development Authority (UDA) The second phase of the Urban Regeneration Project, the permanent solution for the Commencement : 1st August 2014 relocation of underserved and derelict community settlements scattered across Colombo, Funded by : Government of Sri Lanka was launched at Henamulla, in August 2014. This is a project which has high social Completion : 12th March 2017 significance since the beneficiaries are underprivileged communities. Project Value : Rs. 3,246.5 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor The scope of the project entrusted to Access Engineering PLC includes investigation, design Location : Colombo 15 and construction of four 15 storey apartment blocks comprising 941 housing units of two bedrooms and spaces for living, kitchen, toilet and balcony along with the basic utilities. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 41 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Proposed Nagananda International Institute for Buddhist Studies: Structural Work Status : Completed Client : Nagananda International Proposed Nagananda Buddhist University will serve as centre of learning, development, Institute for Buddhist Studies protection and dissemination of Buddhist culture and values. The University and the Commencement : 18th June 2014 proposed development consist of five faculties including Faculty of Early Buddhist Sources, Funded by : Nagananda International Institute for Buddhist Studies Faculty of Practical and Applied Buddhism, Faculty of Systems of Medicine and Faculty of Completion : 4th December 2015 Social Sciences. Project Value : Rs. 1,158.2 Mn Role in Contract : Subcontractor to China Access Engineering was awarded a subcontract for structural works on Block B, C1, C2, C3, H1, Harbour Engineering H2 of the proposed university complex and an on-site retaining wall. Scope of work consists Company Limited of RCC concrete works, including raft foundations, masonry works and roof construction. Location : Manelwatta, Kelaniya Page 42 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Access Tower 2 Status : Ongoing Client : Access Realties 2 Upon completion, this second stage development and expansion of the existing Access (Private) Limited Tower complex will create a state-of-the-art office building in one of the busiest commercial Commencement : 27th February 2014 districts of Colombo. The completed tower will have 28 floors, with parking facilities for about Funded by : Access Realties (Private) Limited 300 vehicles. Completion : 30th December 2016 Project Value : Rs. 2,597.3 Mn All design and civil engineering works, including piling are being undertaken by Access Role in Contract : Main Contractor Engineering using some cost effective high-rise construction techniques such as postLocation : Dawson Street, tensioning. The total built-up area is 387,000 sq.ft. of which approximately 198,000 sq.ft. Colombo 02 will be set aside for business tenants. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 43 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Page 44 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Construction of Prefabricated Dormitories for Workers of Lakvijaya Power Station at Status : Completed Norochcholai, Puttalam – Stage 2 Client : Ceylon Electricity Board Commencement : 25th August 2015 The Lakvijaya Power Station located in Norochcholai, Puttalam is the largest power station in Funded by : Government of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka. The operation of the Power Station was commissioned in September 2014 under Completion : 24th February 2016 two phases and the construction work of the prefabricated dormitories for workers was Project Value : Rs. 224.8 Mn entrusted to Access Engineering PLC. Role in Contract : Main Contractor Location : Puttalam The scope of the project included the construction of two, two storeyed prefabricated steel buildings which has the capacity to house around two hundred workers employed at the Power Station. The detailed design of the foundation and the steel superstructure was carried out by Access Engineering PLC. The steel superstructures of the two buildings are erected on concrete substructures and the upper floor composite slabs use self-supported steel decking sheets and steel wire mesh reinforcement. The composite action of the slabs is ensured by using shear studs connected to the main steel components of the structures. The total building is covered with thermal resistance sandwich panels and roofing sheets manufactured in Sri Lanka. Modification of Cement Unloading and Conveying System at Ultratech Cement Lanka Status : Completed (Private) Limited Client : Ultratech Cement Lanka (Private) Limited The civil works and steel structure fabrication and erection works related to modification of Commencement : 25th May 2015 the existing cement unloading and conveying system at Ultratech Cement Lanka (Private) Funded by : Ultratech Cement Lanka Limited was entrusted to Access Engineering PLC. (Private) Limited Completion : 31st December 2015 The scope of the project included fabrication and erection of the steel superstructure which Project Value : Rs. 94.5 Mn Role in Contract : Main Contractor is of 50 m in height and 280 mt in weight and the construction of the basement and the Location : Peliyagoda ground floor structures. The fabrication work was undertaken by the mechanical fabrication workshop of Access Engineering PLC. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 45 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Telecommunication Infrastructure Dialog OFN Backbone Project: Phase IV Status : Completed Client : Dialog Axiata PLC The scope of the said project included planning, obtaining approvals, supply and installation Commencement : 12th January 2014 of cables and accessories, testing and commissioning of optical fiber circuits. Funded by : Dialog Axiata PLC Completion : 3rd January 2016 National Optical Fiber Backbone Network Project consists of several phases and Project Value : Rs. 378.7 Mn Phases I to III have already been completed and commissioned. Under Phase IV, a total Role in Contract : Main Contractor of around 215 km of cables were installed and successfully commissioned by Access Location : Multiple Sites Engineering, which covered the backbone route segments of Mawanella – Kiribathkumbura up to Padeniya, Urapola – Nittambuwa, Kesbewa – Waskaduwa, Avissawella – Sankapala. Subsequently, Optical Fiber Backbone Phase V was launched to install a cable network of 61 km from Jaffna to Molankawil along the A32 Road. Page 46 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations BUSINESS OPERATIONS: Engineering Design ENGINEERING OPERATIONS The Engineering Design Office made significant contributions to some of our key projects during the year. A particularly significant achievement was the Design and Construction of Access Tower 2 using Post-tension system with large spans. Projects to which the Design Office contributed to are shown in the table below. Services provided to both internal and external customers are included. Project Name Description of Work Carried Out Type Commencement Completion Client Rehabilitation of Labugama and Design of DAF unit and lime Water July 2013 July 2015 Forarosi Vismuak Kalatuwawa Water Treatment Plants saturator in Kalatuwawa and Supply (Hungary) design of DAF unit, filter, sludge pit, lime saturation plant in Labugama and associated buildings at both Labugama and Kalatuwawa treatment plants Construction of Access Tower 2 Design of 28 storey office Building December December Access Realties 2 building 2013 2016 (Private) Limited Design of Kapparathota Jetty Design of jetty with pile Harbor November December Ministry of foundation and deck & Marine 2014 2015 Fisheries & Aquatic Works Resources ITC Colombo One Development Design review of diaphragm wall Building January 2015 October 2015 Welcome Hotels Lanka (Private) Limited Grater Colombo Water Management Design of structures Water June 2015 May 2016 NWSDB Project supply Construction of prefabricated dormitories Design of steel building Building August 2015 November Ceylon Electricity for workers of Lakvijaya Power Station at 2015 Board Norochcholai, Puttalam – Stage 02 Urban Regeneration Project – City of Design of 25 storey building Building March 2016 July 2016 UDA Colombo, Construction of 608 Housing Units for Government Servants at Borella Design and Construction of Design of substructure with pile Flyover March 2016 June 2016 Road Development Ganemulla Flyover foundation, approach road and Authority drainage Design and Construction of Design of substructure with pile Flyover March 2016 June 2016 Road Development Polgahawela Flyover foundation, approach road and Authority drainage Design and Construction of Design of substructure with pile Flyover March 2016 May 2016 Road Development Rajagiriya Flyover foundation, approach road and Authority drainage The following software has been utilized in engineering designs: ETAB, STAADPRO, SAP 2000, SAFE and Auto Cad. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 47 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations External Consultants The design office used the services of CSE consultants during the year for peer reviewing of the Access Tower 2 Project. The following innovative technologies were introduced and utilized during the year. yy 15% saving on direct structural cost of the Access Tower 2 Project by introducing Post-tension system with large Spans. There are considerable indirect savings also due to the low floor to floor height. yy Introduction of high grade concrete to economies the column and beam sizing of Access Tower 2 Project. Piling A large number of projects were carried out by the Piling Unit during the year under review. Details of which are given below: Project Name Type No. of Piles Average Average Inception Client Volume of Depth Diameter of Concrete of Piles (m) Piles (mm) Used (m3) Proposed Apartment Complex Building 65 25 600/1,000 December Complete 689 at Abdul Gafoor Mawatha, 2015 Investments Colombo 03 (Private) Limited Proposed Apartment Complex Building 20 18 600/800/1,000 February Blue Ocean 260 at Gregory’s Road, Colombo 07 2016 Properties (Private) Limited Proposed Condominium Building 81 20 1,000 November Blue Ocean 853 Apartment Complex at Alfred 2014 Properties House Gardens, Colombo 03 (Private) Limited Proposed Apartment Complex Building 24 16 700/800/1,000 November Blue Ocean 302 at Havelock Road, Colombo 06 2015 Legend (Private) Limited Page 48 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Project Name Type No. of Piles Average Average Inception Client Volume of Depth Diameter of Concrete of Piles (m) Piles (mm) Used (m3) Proposed Damro Showroom Building 14 13 750/900/100 April 2015 D.R. Industries 157 Building at Moratuwa (Private) Limited Construction of Additions Building 124 25 800/1,000 January Ceylon Tea 347 to the Existing Factory and 2016 Services PLC Office Premises of Ceylon Tea Services PLC at Peliyagoda Construction of Proposed Building 26 16 600/750/900/1,000 December District Secretariat 399 Divisional Secretariat Complex 2015 Gampaha at Wattala Proposed Apartment Complex Building 275 23 600/800/1,000 April 2015 Fairway Holdings 4,047 Project (Fairway Galle) at Galle (Private) Limited Urban Homes, Fairway Building 150 6 750/900/1,000/1,200 December Fairway Holdings 1,218 Koswatte 2015 (Private) Limited Extention of Fairway Holdings Building 15 15 750/1,000 May 2015 Fairway Holdings 162 Office Building (Private) Limited Badulla, Hali-Ela and Water Supply 97 7 750 July 2015 National Water 407 Ella Integrated Water Supply Supply and Project Drainage Board Proposed Development Building 346 20 450/600/800/1,000 December University of 1,971 of Institute of Technology, 2014 Moratuwa University of Moratuwa Major Bridges Construction Bridge 42 18 1,500 October Wakachiku 1,706 Project of the National Road 2015 Construction Co., Network – Package 01 Limited Proposed Apartment Complex Building 28 8 600/800/900 February Link Engineering 167 at Jayasinghe Road, 2016 (Private) Limited Colombo 05 Proposed Apartment Complex Building 72 10 600/800/900/1,200 June 2015 Prime Homes 588 (Prime Libra) at Koswatte (Private) Limited Proposed Apartment Complex Building 26 5 800/900/1,000/1,200 September Prime Homes 156 (Prime 194) at Nugegoda 2015 (Private) Limited Piling Works for 30m Monopole Telecommunication 4 24 600 August Dialog Axiata PLC 41 (Relocation) at Peliyagoda 2015 Junction Widening of Bridge Bridge 16 6 1,000 January Road 79 No. 27/5km on Colombo-Kandy 2016 Development Road Project Authority Widening of Bridge Bridge 9 8 1,000 March 2016 Road 72 No. 27/3km on Colombo-Kandy Development Road Project Authority ITC Colombo One Bridge 438 15 600/800/1,200 December Welcome Hotels 1,400 Hotel and Luxury Apartment at 2015 Lanka (Private) Galle Face Colombo 01 Limited Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 49 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Page 50 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations The types of piling executed by the division includes the following: yy Cast in-situ bored piles yy Steel Sheet piles yy Secant piles yy Contiguous piles yy Timber piles yy Micro piles yy Caissons yy Ground Improvements and Earth Retaining works In addition to constructing and installing piles on sites, the unit offers the following services to its clients. yy Pile Integrity Testing which is a non-destructive method to assess the continuity and integrity of concrete pile foundations yy Crosshole sonic logging (CSL) to verify the structural integrity of bored piles and drilled shafts yy Static Load Testing to assess the pile’s load bearing capacity yy KODEN test – to monitor the profile of a deep excavation The division maintained the following inventory of equipment as at 31st March 2016. yy Six hydraulic rotary boring rigs (BG 24/25) yy Percussion drilling rigs yy Hydraulic grab and accessories (GB 34) yy 50-60t crawler and mobile cranes yy Excavators yy Desanders (BE 70) yy Concrete spraying machine (‘shotcreting’) yy Soil anchoring drilling rig yy Pile-testing apparatus The Company has also obtained the services of a consultant from the University of Moratuwa for interpretation of pile testing data and validation of results. The Company completed the First diaphragm wall project in Sri Lanka at ITC Colombo One Project. The Company also introduced Klemm 909-2 for anchoring work in the same project. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 51 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations HDD & Cable Jetting Services The following gives the highlights of the work carried out by the HDD and Telecom Division during the year. yy Designed & built solutions in Optical Fiber Backbone Networks, Metro Fiber Implementation projects including FTTH networks, Copper cable networks, Telecommunication tower constructions and Aerial Cable Installation. yy Utilized Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) technique which employs a trenchless method to install pipes, ducts or cables underground with minimal or no disturbance to surrounding structures. This is the most versatile solution for the installation of underground utilities along roads in built up areas as it causes minimal disturbance. yy Carried out Fiber Optic Cable Installation through cable jetting. Cable jetting is the process of installing a cable in a duct by pushing the cable into the duct whilst blowing air through the duct. This method is extremely productive than the conventional manual cable pulling method. This also enhances quality by eliminating potential damage to cables. The Company has been successful in installing and reaching a distance of approximately 4km of optical Fiber cable on average each day. yy Production of precast telecommunication poles Performance Matrices/Indices During the Year yy Total HDD distance – Approximately 6.7 km yy Total cable blowing distance – Approximately 17.1 km yy Total Optical Fiber Network Development distance – 159.5 km yy Total sites connected during the year – 132 Nos. within the year Specialized Equipment Fleet Machine Nos. Horizontal Directional Drilling Machine 3 Cable Blowing Machine 2 Page 52 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Dredging Services carried out by the Dredging Division during the year are given below: Project Name Description of Date of Date of Client Total Number of Total Work Carried Out Commencement Completion Operational Quantity Hours Dredged (m3) Thotagamuwa Molapu Desilting of Molapu Oya 24th May 2015 31st July 2015 Mega Dredge (Private) 278.10 2,779 Estuary outfall and 3 km length Limited Desilting Project along the river The dredger was disposed on 8th September 2015. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 53 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Production Plants The sales figures of AELs production plants in the year under review by product category are given in the table below: Site Commissioning Date UOM Sales Quantity Cumulative Total Capacity for the Financial Sales Quantity, of the Plant Year 2015/16 31st March (1st April 2015 2016 31st March 2016) Asphalt Plant – Kotadeniyawa April 2011 mt 85,496 347,606 96 TPH Asphalt Plant – Matugama September 2015. Transferred from Jaffna mt 28,397 130,099 120 TPH Asphalt Plant – Ibbagamuwa June 2011 mt 26,375 118,884 120 TPH Asphalt Plant – Vavuniya August 2013 mt 31,684 111,237 120 TPH Total Production – Asphalt Plants 171,951 707,826 Quarry Vavuniya II July 2014 Cubes 28,691 49,293 Quarry Warakapola April 2015 Cubes 17,016 17,016 Quarry Matugama December 2015 Cubes 2,374 2,374 Quarry Mankulam March 2016 Cubes – – Total Sales – Quarries (Quarry Products) 48,081 68,683 Crusher Plant – Kumbukgate June 2013 Cubes – 43,498 50 TPH Crusher Plant – Warakapola September 2015. Transferred Cubes 15,399 95,610 80 TPH from Kotadeniyawa Crusher Plant – Vavuniya January 2012 Cubes 32,135 161,371 150 TPH Crusher Plant (Leased) – Matugama September 2015 Cubes 1,908 1,908 110 TPH Total Sales of Crusher Production (Aggregates) 49,442 302,387 Concrete Batching Plant – Kandana August 2013 m 3 14,384 38,598 25m3/hr Concrete Batching Plant – Mabima January 2012 m3 67,885 213,151 60m3/hr Concrete Batching Plant – Wattala July 2015 m3 11,547 11,547 60m3/hr Total Sales of Concrete Production 93,816 263,296 Precast Yard – Kotadeniyawa July 2014 Nos. 5,639 13,274 Total Sales of Precast Production 5,639 13,274 Sand Washing Plant – Nikaweratiya June 2015 Cubes 706 706 Total Sales of Sand Production 706 706 Page 54 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Central Equipment Division (CED) The value of output of the Central Equipment Division workshop (both CED and Fabrication) is given in the table below: Project Name Amount Rs. Vavuniya – Horowpothana Road Project, Access Engineering PLC – PMD I 45,681,404 Kadawatha – Nittambuwa Road Project, Access Engineering PLC – PMD I 36,200,351 ITC Colombo One Development, Access Engineering PLC 28,423,570 Construction & Equipment Division II, Access Engineering PLC 24,846,482 Kotadeniyawa Asphalt Plant, Access Engineering PLC 17,741,636 Asphalt Laying Unit I, Access Engineering PLC 17,510,200 Vavuniya Crusher Plant, Access Engineering PLC 16,648,842 Kandana Concrete Batching Plant, Access Engineering PLC 16,173,722 Kotadeniyawa Crusher Plant, Access Engineering PLC 15,454,304 Vavuniya Quarry II, Access Engineering PLC 13,161,391 Dialog Optical Fiber Network Project (Phase 4), Access Engineering PLC 12,035,044 Colombo Port Expansion Project – East Container Terminal (Phase 1), Access Engineering PLC 11,704,329 Asphalt Laying Unit II, Access Engineering PLC 11,339,340 Matugama Asphalt Plant, Access Engineering PLC 10,840,505 97 Miscellaneous Jobs 167,269,449 Total 445,030,575 Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 55 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations Fabrication Workshop – Analysis of Top Projects The output values of the major projects carried out by the Fabrication Workshop are depicted in the table below: Description of Work Project/Client Amount Rs. Fabrication and supply of 59.5 m height steel building Modifying Cement Unloading and Conveying System at 67,424,205 Ultratech Cement, Access Engineering PLC Fabrication and supply of permanent casing for piles Proposed Apartment Complex Project (Fairway Galle) at 62,384,700 Galle, Piling Unit of Access Engineering PLC Fabrication of various types of pile ITC Colombo One Development, Piling Unit of Access 28,000,000 equipment accessories Engineering PLC Fabrication and supply of stainless steel grid tanks Greater Colombo Wastewater Management Project, 8,040,000 Access Engineering PLC Fabrication, supply and installation of lime Rehabilitation of Labugama and Kalatuwawa Water 4,900,850 saturation tank Treatment Plants Project, Access Engineering PLC Fabrication and supply of hand rail and Greater Ratnapura Water Supply Project, Abeinsa 4,568,037 stairway structures Ingeniería y Construcción Industrial, S.A., Spain Total 175,317,792 ENGINEERING INNOVATION Ground anchoring & micropiling using KR 909-2 drilling rig Business Impact Medium (High/Medium/Low): Measure of Impact: Increased efficiency and quality control Value Addition The machine can be used at limited access situations due to the compact size of equipment It can be maneuvered with ease due to the crawling feature and remote control device that enables it to move to a precise coordinate on ground Can be used in environmentally sensitive projects because it creates relatively little disturbance to the surrounding area Remarks Can be installed at most ground conditions, obstructions and The KR 909-2 is a compact and powerful drill rig. Through tried and tested foundations at any incline Klemm components, the rig is easily adaptable to varied tasks. On the one hand, the machine can be optimally operated to full capacity; while on the other, its Facilitates simple and economical connection to existing and inherent robust and simple construction, as well as the exclusive use of new structures standardized modules, guarantees the highest degree of performance with the slightest capital outlay. This product is suited to a wide range of drilling applications in the specialized civil engineering/geo-construction fields such as: anchoring applications, micropile applications, soil nailing and tie back anchor drilling applications and high-pressure injection for the construction of columns, base slabs or for underpinning jobs. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 57 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Stakeholder Approach to Value Creation Any business has numerous individuals, groups and organizations that are affected or A Stakeholder Approach are concerned with its activities. Similarly, there are individuals, groups and organizations to Value Creation whose actions, attitudes and opinions bear on the organization. These are known as its stakeholders. Stakeholders can be both internal and external to the organization. In all its activities, the Company has to consider the needs and aspirations of its diverse stakeholders and has often to strike a balance when meeting them. The following are the groups who are considered to be stakeholders of the Company: yy Investors yy Shareholders yy Bankers and Prospective Lenders yy Employees yy Government and Regulatory Authorities yy Customers yy Suppliers including Subcontractors yy Business Partners yy Local Communities where the Company Conducts Operations yy General Public yy Industry Peers and Competitors yy The Environment There is naturally a degree of prioritization in our engagement with our stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement at AEL is based on: yy The level of interest a particular stakeholder group has on our activities yy The degree of influence exercisable by a particular stakeholder group on the Company The groups that have a higher degree of interest and influence are given priority in the degree and frequency of engagement. However, AEL strives to maintain at least a minimum level of engagement with those stakeholder groups that have a low degree of interest and influence. The roles of the various stakeholder groups and the interactions AEL has with them are described below: INTERNAL Stakeholder Group Rational for Engagement STAKEHOLDERS Employees The industry AEL operates in is highly labour intensive and needs various categories of skilled labour. Moreover, employees can be lured by numerous opportunities both locally and overseas. Thus to remain competitive in the market, AEL needs to have the best talent pool and human capital in the industry and for this the Company needs to satisfy the needs and aspirations of its employees. A fully-engaged workforce that is highly satisfied will go the extra mile for the benefit of the Company to achieve its goals and objectives. Similarly, AEL’s vision towards sustainability is driven by its employees, who need the most up-to-date information to make a valuable and informed contribution. Page 58 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Stakeholder Approach to Value Creation EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder Group Rational for Engagement Investors As the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) is faced with financial constraints and is not able to finance all planned infrastructure development projects, investors will play a key role in funding future projects. Shareholders Shareholders provide equity capital and approve/reject Company strategic decisions while expecting a reasonable return on their investment. Bankers and Banks play a major role in the following areas: Prospective Lenders yy Financing infrastructure development projects of the country yy Processing day-to-day monetary transactions of the Company yy Providing funding arrangements enabling effective working capital management yy Providing investment opportunities through accepting deposits Government and Being in the business of developing infrastructure we are heavily dependent on the Government, directly or Regulatory Authorities indirectly, for most of AEL’s projects and contracts. Therefore, maintaining good relationships with GoSL is paramount to the Company continued business operations and sustainability. AEL has to continuously deal with regulatory authorities regarding approving and reviewing completed, ongoing and future infrastructure development projects. AEL contributes to the Government’s objectives by creating employment both directly and indirectly. The Company also contributes heavily to Government revenue by way of both direct and indirect taxes. AEL not only has a social responsibility to comply with all laws and regulations but the Company also has to satisfy regulatory authorities about its compliance. Clients and Maintaining cordial relationships with clients is important since most of the repeat orders are based on this. Customers Similarly, client satisfaction through effective project implementation is important in securing future business. AEL also needs customers to continually subscribe to its engineering products and services in order to generate business. Suppliers Including Construction industry is heavily dependent on raw materials and therefore, suppliers play a key role in the Subcontractors achievement of business objectives and timely completion of projects. Also, AEL needs subcontractors who are capable of carrying out work in an uninterrupted manner, who will provide timely delivery, who are trustworthy, competitive in terms of prices, quality of service offered and flexibility, easy to communicate with, have a good past track record and adhere to ethical conduct. It is both in AEL’s interests as well as that of the subcontractors that the Company cements lasting relationships with them. AEL needs to ensure that its scrupulously carries out all contractual obligations. Business Partners For AEL to be a leader in knowledge-based value engineering, it needs to liaise with companies specializing in particular areas enabling a valuable knowledge transfer process. They also collectively expects AEL to safeguard their interests while building progressive sustainable relationships. General Public The end user of almost all AEL’s products, i.e., construction projects, is the general public. Hence, they expect AEL to build infrastructure and provide services that are of minimum cost consistent with high quality, safety while being sustainable economically, socially and environmentally. In the present context, the general public will also be concerned with ethical conduct in all its transactions. Being a responsible corporate citizen and maintaining a positive public image is very important to succeed in this industry. Local Communities AEL’s operations often have a major impact on the areas in which the Company operates especially social and environmental. It is vital that AEL minimizes any negative consequences and maintain good relationships with the communities. Industry Peers and Fostering and engaging in fair competition while promoting ethical business practices is vital for the Competitors development of the industry. The peers expect AEL to actively promote and uplift the standard of the industry as a whole, while the Company sometimes needs to act collectively regarding industry issues. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 59 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Stakeholder Approach to Value Creation Methods of Engagement and Frequency of Engagement Stakeholder Group Method of Engagement Frequency of Engagement Investors yy Periodic meetings to ascertain/review project progress As and when required yy Business promotion meetings Shareholders Annual Report and General Meeting Annual Interim Financial Statements Quarterly Extraordinary General Meetings As and when required yy Updated website and dedicated investor relations e-mail Continuous yy Newspaper articles and other publications yy Road shows and investor forums yy CSE disclosures and announcements yy Research reports of the stock broking community Bankers and Prospective yy Timely settlement of dues Continuous Lenders yy Providing periodic financial information Responding to lenders’ queries As and when required Employees yy Periodic management-employee meetings yy ‘Open-door’ policy yy Training and development yy Maintaining transparency in all activities Continuous yy Staff welfare activities yy AEL News Portal yy Exit interviews yy Performance appraisal and rewarding Annual yy Employee satisfaction surveys yy Annual get-together and staff trip yy Joint communication from MD & COO via mail to every employee at the beginning of each year Government and yy Public-Private Partnership projects Regulatory Authorities yy Timely feedback through submission of reports, tax returns, updates etc. yy Ensuring compliance Continuous yy Participation at various forums, meetings, discussions organized by the Government and regulatory authorities yy Continuous membership in industry associations Clients and Customers Publication of the Integrated Report Annual yy Progress review meetings yy Updated website Continuous yy Relationship managers for each major customer Suppliers including yy Subcontractor/supplier evaluation Subcontractors yy Regular progress review meetings yy Updated website Continuous yy Contract negotiation and communication yy Procurement Committee meetings Page 60 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Stakeholder Approach to Value Creation Stakeholder Group Method of Engagement Frequency of Engagement Business Partners yy Regular visits to/from business partners yy Updated website Continuous yy Regular communication and periodic meetings for ongoing projects yy Relationship managers for each major customer General Public yy Updated website yy Regular media and other communications with the public yy Participation/sponsoring trade exhibitions Continuous yy Providing employment and internship opportunities yy Various Corporate Social Responsibility projects yy Consultation of local communities in project planning and execution Publication of the Integrated Report Annual Industry Peers and yy Membership in industry associations Continuous Competitors yy Joint execution of infrastructure projects with peers yy Industry advancement workshops, discussion forums and CSR projects Key Concerns Raised and Company’s Response Stakeholder Group Key Concerns Raised During the Year Company Response Investors Timely securing of projects Vigilant and proactive business development efforts Shareholders Provision of a monetary return on their investment Declared Rs. 750 Mn in cash dividends Providing uptodate information about the affairs yy Press releases featuring every project at three of the Company stages of the life cycle (commencement, execution and completion), earnings reviews and other publications such as the Annual Integrated Report yy Frequent release of research reports about the Company through stock broker companies yy Participation at investor forums both local and foreign yy Upgraded the Company website: www.accessengsl.com during the year with dedicated space for investors Bankers and Prospective Taking advantage of the low interest regime that Raised Rs. 5 Bn through an initial public offering of Lenders prevailed in the latter part of 2015 debt which was subsequently listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange Employees Need of recognizing and rewarding high performers Continued the performance-based reward system Need to enhance the competence of staff Provided training and development opportunities to staff members Need for brainstorming among employees Held the ‘Core Team Meeting’ in March 2016 headed by the Managing Director Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 61 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Stakeholder Approach to Value Creation Stakeholder Group Key Concerns Raised During the Year Company Response Training and raising awareness of the newly – Carried out continuous user training sessions on implemented ERP system different functional areas of the ERP system Need to provide staff with more up-to-date Created a central repository system giving access to information about the Company all employees Launched ‘AEL News’ e-mail-based information dissemination system Upgraded the Company website; www.accessengsl.com during the year Government and Need to participate in the infrastructure development yy Carried out infrastructure development projects Regulatory Authorities drive/initiatives of the Government throughout the country yy Participated at various industry related forums, discussions spearheaded by the GoSL Infrastructure development in partnership Commenced the first Public-Private Partnership with the GoSL (PPP) Project in partnership with the Urban Development Authority (UDA) to build houses for public sector servants Need to comply with all Government regulatory Complied with all applicable rules and regulations of requirements and payment of dues such as taxes, the Government with timely payment of all dues rates, etc. Clients and Customers Speedy delivery of projects at a lesser cost Provided solutions that are less costly and speedy such as the diaphragm wall, prefabricated bridges, post-tensioning, HDD, etc., during the year Need for high quality construction Completed projects with least number of defects Suppliers including Timely settlement of dues Settled all dues on time with zero fines or penalties Subcontractors for delayed payments Business Partners Need to impart knowledge from foreign principals Partnered Centunion of Spain in finalizing several flyovers across major railway stations and cities General Public Addressing the timely needs of the public yy Carried out various social responsibility initiatives yy Offered direct and indirect employment opportunities Enhancing the knowledge base of the industry yy Offered internships for over 160 students yy Introduced innovative solutions to the industry during the year Industry Peers and Raising sustainability awareness among industry Organized the construction industry learning event Competitors participants with the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce APPROACH TO AEL focus on the full range of topics or aspects that have a potential impact on its ability MATERIALITY to create sustainable value. These aspects are analyzed from two perspectives, namely importance to its engineering business and importance to its stakeholders. An aspect is considered important or material based on relevance and significance, the latter being determined by the probability of occurrence and the magnitude of the impact. AEL has identified aspects that are material to the Company’s stakeholders and AEL in the context of its economic, environmental and social agenda for sustainable value creation. The aspects AEL considers to be important are thus rated as moderate, high and very high and are tabulated below. AEL has used GRI G4 Sustainable Reporting Guidelines in this process. Page 62 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 A Stakeholder Approach to Value Creation Materiality Matrix No. Aspect Indicators Significance to Significance Stakeholder to AEL 1. Economic Performance EC 1 VH VH EC 3 VH VH 2. Energy EN 3 H H EN 6 H H 3. Water EN 10 H H 4. Biodiversity EN 11 M H 5. Overall EN 31 M H 6. Employment LA 1 VH VH LA 2 VH VH 7. Training and Education LA 9 VH VH 8. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA 12 M M 9. Local Community SO 3 H VH M – Moderate H – High VH – Very High Very High 9 1 6 7 Significance to AEL High 4 5 2 3 Moderate 8 Moderate High Very High Significance to Stakeholder Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 63 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Internal Capital Formation FINANCIAL CAPITAL Internal Capital Revenue Formation During the year under review, the Group’s consolidated revenue was recorded at Rs. 17,625 Mn, a growth of approximately 6.7% over the previous year. The major contributors to this top line were construction activities of the Company (52%), sale of motor Consolidated Revenue (Rs. Mn) vehicles and after sales services (23%), revenue of Access Projects (Private) Limited (15%) and the sale of construction related material (10%). A marginal drop in the construction revenue of the Company (-4%) was off set by healthy gains from other sectors including 20,000 production (39%), Access Projects (19%) and sale of motor vehicles and after sales services (17%). The Company also saw the first time consolidation of the full year results of its 80% 16,000 owned subsidiary Access Projects (Private) Limited. 12,000 At a company level, the top line recorded Rs. 11,604 Mn, a growth of 3.2% over the 8,000 corresponding year with the highest contribution stemming from building construction (46%) 4,000 followed by water and drainage construction (23%), road and highways construction (17%) and production (14%). At a project level ongoing work of the Kadawatha – Nittambuwa Road 0 Project, town east of Colombo water supply project, construction of houses for the underserved resettlements (phase II) project, Access Tower II and ITC Colombo One development were the 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Roads and Highways Construction major contributors to Company’s top line in addition to production income. Water and Drainage Construction Gross profit for the period was Rs. 3,977 Mn and Rs. 2,562 Mn at Group and Company Bridge Construction Building and Other Construction Sale of Construction Related Materials level with a margin of 22.6% and 22.1% respectively. The main contributors to this were the Hiring Income Company’s ability to offer fully-integrated value engineering services and turnkey engineering Fabrication Income Consultancy Service Income solutions for clients, prudent management of projects and internal sourcing of raw materials Rental Income from its own plants and quarries. Service Charges Vehicle Sales and After Sales Services Other Income The Company recorded other income amounting to Rs. 262 Mn and Rs. 252 Mn at Group and Company level with corresponding growth rates of 38% and 1,417% respectively. This was mainly due to the exchange gain generated by the devaluation of the Rupee as a result of the volatile market conditions that prevailed during the year. Dividend income also recorded a significant growth of 169% during the year at Company level on account of 140% EBIT – Group & Company (Rs. Mn) growth in the dividends declared by its 84.42% owned subsidiary Sathosa Motors PLC. 3,180 2,900 Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) 2,666 2,653 During the year under review, the EBIT increased by 9% and 20% respectively at Group and 2,202 Company level to record at Rs. 2,900 Mn and Rs. 2,202 Mn. In addition to the contribution 1,833 given by the growth in revenue and other income, the EBIT growth was also supported by the decline in administrative and other expenses. At a company level, other expenses and administrative expenses recorded significant year-on-year declines of 50% and 21% respectively. Efficiency improvement initiatives and streamlining of operations that were put in place during the latter part of 2014/15 were continued in 2015/16. A B A B A B EBIT margin for 2015/16 was 16% and 19% at Group and Company level respectively. 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group Company Net Finance Income For the Financial year 2015/16 the Company generated a net finance income of Rs. 96 Mn EBIT Margin – Group (%) and Rs. 152 Mn respectively at Group and Company level. At a company level, interest on fixed deposits rose by 266% during the year to Rs. 273 Mn while Rs. 40 Mn was received on 19 account of investments made during the year in listed corporate debentures. 16 16 During the year under review the Company raised Rs. 5 Bn through an initial public offering of rated unsecured redeemable debentures which was subsequently listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. On account of this, for the period ended 31st March 2016, the Company has incurred an interest expense of Rs. 190 Mn and finance cost of the Company increased significantly as a result. At a group level, the interest on bank loan rose by 288% year-on-year to record at Rs. 78 Mn 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 mainly on account of the 141% increase in interest bearing borrowings. Page 64 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Internal Capital Formation Taxation During the financial year 2015/16, the Company and its 80% owned subsidiary Access Projects (Private) Limited continued to enjoy a concessionary tax rate on construction income of 12%. Similarly, profits attributable to manufacturing of construction related material of the Company are exempted from income tax, commencing from year of assessment 2011/12 for a period of seven years. The Company’s fully owned Subsidiary – Access Realties (Private) Limited is taxed at 2% on revenue while Sathosa Motors PLC is taxed at 28%. Operations were not carried out at the Company’s recently made investments namely, Horizon Knowledge City Limited (100% owned) and Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited (92%). Tax expense for the year increased by 31% and 40% at Group and Company level to record at Rs. 444 Mn and Rs. 268 Mn respectively. At the Company level, the main reason for the increase in tax expense was the significant rise in other income which is taxed at 28%. At a group level, the full year consolidation of the results of Access Projects (Private) Limited also partly contributed to the increase in tax expense. The effective tax rates for 2015/16 remained at 15% and 11% respectively at Group and Company level as opposed to 12% and 10% respectively in 2014/15. Profit After Tax (Rs. Mn) Profit After Tax The after tax profit for the period ended 31st March 2016 was recorded at Rs. 2,551 Mn 2,902 and Rs. 2,087 Mn respectively at Group and Company level. This is a marginal growth of 2,524 2,551 2,424 5% at Group level and a significant growth of 19% at Company level. Highest contribution 2,087 to PAT was from construction activities of the Company (67%) followed by the production of 1,753 construction related material (15%), Sathosa Motors PLC (13%), Access Realties (Private) Limited (6%) and Access Projects (Private) Limited (6%). The Company’s recently acquired Subsidiaries namely Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited and Horizon Knowledge City Limited generated negligible losses amounting to Rs. 380,093 for the period. The Group’s associate and venture undertakings contributed Rs. 11 Mn to the bottom line, A B A B A B a growth of 2% over the corresponding year. Contribution from the Group’s 30% owned 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 associate, ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited was Rs. 12 Mn while its 50% owned joint Group Company venture, Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited was a marginal loss of Rs. 1 Mn. Net Profit Margin – Group (%) Profit attributable to the owners of the Company increased by 19% over the previous year to register at Rs. 2,087 Mn while at Group level, this amounted to Rs. 2,465 Mn, a growth of 5%. 17.7 Supported by the strong growth in after tax profits, the Company’s net profit margin rose 14.7 14.5 to 18%, a significant growth of 15% over the previous year. This is due to the prudent cost management practices adopted by the Company. Group’s net profit margin was 14.5% as opposed to 14.7% in the previous year. Earnings per ordinary share was recorded at Rs. 2.47 and Rs. 2.09 at Group and Company level respectively. Financial Position and Working Capital Management 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Total asset base of the Group increased by 36% to Rs. 30.3 Bn supported by the recent acquisition of a land bank in Malabe, capacity building initiatives, construction of Access Tower II, investments made in various corporate debentures and short term deposit. At a company level, the total asset base stood at Rs. 25.3 Bn, recording a growth of 38% mainly on account of the investments made in various Horizon Group Companies, corporate debentures and short term deposits. Capacity building to support the core business has always underpinned the organic growth of the Company over the years. 2015/16 too saw over Rs. 600 Mn being invested by the Company in building capacity across plant and machinery, tools and construction equipment Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 65 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Internal Capital Formation Group Working Capital (Rs. Mn) to cater the growth in business. The Group invested over Rs. 720 Mn during the year in the construction of Access Tower II which is scheduled for completion in 2016/17. The Group invested approximately Rs. 1.4 Bn in the debenture issues of National Development Bank PLC, People’s Leasing & Finance PLC and Hatton National Bank PLC in 2015/16. In 20,000 16,000 November 2015 the Company raised Rs. 5 Bn through an initial public offering of debt which is held in fixed deposits until such time it is utilized for the intended purposes for which it 12,000 was raised. 8,000 The liquidity position remains strong with approximately Rs. 7.3 Bn and Rs. 7.1 Bn held in 4,000 short term deposits and cash at Group and Company level respectively. Net working capital of the Group increased to Rs. 11.2 Bn from Rs. 8.1 Bn, a significant growth of 39.6%. At a company level, the net working capital remained at Rs. 10.6 Bn compared to Rs. 6.7 Bn a 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 year earlier, showcasing a mammoth growth of 60%. The current ratio of 2.7 and 3.8 at Group and Company level and the quick ratio of 2.3 and 3.6 at Group and Company level are well Current Liabilities Current Assets Over Current Liabilities above the industry standards. At the Group level, the increase in interest-bearing borrowings on account of its subsidiary namely Access Projects (Private) Limited and indirect subsidiary SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited has caused a slowdown in the growth of net working capital. Total net assets of the Group increased to Rs. 17.5 Bn from Rs. 16.3 Bn a year earlier underlying a growth of 7% year-on-year. At the Company levels, total net assets were recorded at Rs. 16 Bn recording a growth of 6% YoY. This translates to a net asset per share of Rs. 17.46 and Rs. 15.94 at Group and Company levels. The return on shareholders’ equity for the year was 14.1% and 13.1% at Group and Company levels respectively. As at 31st March, the operating activities of the Group and Company generated net cash flows amounting to Rs. 3,168 Mn and Rs. 2,858 Mn respectively. This was mainly due to the one-off super gain tax that was paid during the year amounting to Rs. 554 Mn and Rs. 438 Mn respectively at Group and Company levels. Investing activities generated negative net cash flows amounting to Rs. 9,251 Mn and Rs. 8,149 Mn respectively at Group and Company levels, while the positive net cash flows generated by the financing activities amounted to Rs. 4,532 Mn and Rs. 4,250 Mn. During the year, the Company paid Rs. 750 Mn in cash dividends to its shareholders. VALUE CREATION AND DISTRIBUTION 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Rs. % Rs. % Rs. % Value Added Revenue 12,198,091,440 11,373,026,739 13,426,749,520 Cost of materials and services bought in (7,122,407,885) (7,252,535,669) (8,349,711,487) 5,075,683,555 4,120,491,070 5,077,038,033 Value Distributed To employees as remuneration 1,330,832,626 26.21 1,550,805,636 37.64 1,667,587,386 32.85 To providers of capital 189,576,842 3.74 542,337 0.01 1,972,226 0.04 To Government revenue 770,437,350 15.18 178,137,460 4.32 237,932,779 4.69 To shareholders as dividend 750,000,000 14.78 1,000,000,000 24.27 500,000,000 9.85 Value Retained for Expansion and Growth Depreciation 731,645,853 14.41 605,791,129 14.70 551,874,844 10.87 Profit retained 1,303,190,883 25.68 785,214,508 19.06 2,117,670,798 41.71 5,075,683,555 100.00 4,120,491,070 100.00 5,077,038,033 100.00 Page 66 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Internal Capital Formation Profit After Tax and Net Profit Margin – SUBSIDIARY PERFORMANCE Company (ARL) Access Realties (Private) Limited (ARL) The Company’s fully owned subsidiary Access Realties (Private) Limited, which is the owner Rs. Mn % 400 200 and the managing agent of Access Tower, generated a net income of Rs. 211 Mn and Rs. 213 Mn respectively at Group and Company levels during the year through renting of office space and provision of related services. This is a marginal growth of 5% and 6% 320 160 240 120 respectively compared to the corresponding period. With gross profits amounting to Rs. 184 Mn and Rs. 185 Mn respectively at Group and Company levels the Company enjoyed high margins of 87%. 160 80 80 40 Being a BOI approved establishment, at present the Company is on a concessionary tax rate of 2% on turnover for a period of 15 years commencing 2010/11. Hence the after tax profit 0 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 of the Company stood at Rs. 153 Mn and Rs. 156 Mn respectively at Group and Company levels. This is a 51% decline at both levels compared to the previous year (2014/15) on Profit After Tax (Rs. Mn) Net Profit Margin (%) account of the gain on fair value of investment property recognized in 2014/15. Analysis of ARL Tenants (%) The Company’s investment property which is the Access Tower, a 12 storey modern office complex is currently valued at approximately Rs. 3.3 Bn. During the period under reviews 33% the Company invested Rs. 530 Mn in its fully owned subsidiary Access Realties 2 (Private) 39% Limited which is the developer of Access Tower II, a state-of-the-art 29-storey office complex due for completion in 2016/17. Access Towers enjoyed 100% occupancy throughout the year with more than half of the 14% 14% tenants being with the Company for more than 10 years. Sathosa Motors PLC (SML) Less than 5 Years 11-15 Years 6-10 Years 16-20 Years During the year under review Sathosa Motors PLC which has the franchise in Sri Lanka for Isuzu motors vehicles and spare parts manufactured by Isuzu Motors Limited of Japan Revenue – SML (Rs. Mn) generated a top line of Rs. 4,048 Mn and Rs. 3,006 Mn at Group and Company levels, a growth of 15.6% and 9.8% respectively. AEL holds approximately 84.4% of SML which is a 4,048 Public Quoted Company. 3,503 3,041 3,006 2,738 The Company’s gross profit margins at Group and Company level were 25% and 22% 2,434 respectively. With net profit margins of 8% and 11% respectively at Group and Company levels, the Company’s after tax profits stood at Rs. 327 Mn and 316 Mn. Access Projects (Private) Limited (APL) Established in 2002, Access Projects (Private) Limited is a leading contractor in the leisure related building industry. It is CIDA C1 graded for building construction and F1 graded A B A B A B 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 for total interior and aluminum works. The Company operates under three divisions – construction, aluminum and ceiling. It is the only manufacturer of metal ceiling panels in Group Company Sri Lanka and is the sole franchiser of Aluk Italy proprietary aluminum doors, windows and Profit After Tax and Net Profit Margin – curtain wall systems. AEL acquired 80% of Access Projects in October 2014. Company (APL) Top line for the financial year 2015/16 was recorded at Rs. 2,648 Mn, a drop of 24% Rs. Mn % 300 15 compared to the previous year. With a gross profit of Rs. 328 Mn, the margin was 12%. The Company’s finance expenses increased by 359% during the year to record at Rs. 67 Mn, 240 12 mainly on account of short term borrowings taken for working capital requirements. As a 180 9 result, the Company’s net profit for the period was Rs. 149 Mn, a decline of 43% year-on-year. 120 6 60 3 0 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Profit After Tax (Rs. Mn) Net Profit Margin (%) Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 67 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Internal Capital Formation INSTITUTIONAL CAPITAL Institutional capital is largely constituted of intangibles which are hard to quantify. It includes organizational learning, knowledge bases, systems, procedures, software, brand value and ethics. In this Report AEL does not attempt to present our institutional capital exhaustively, but confine ourselves to its most salient features. Organizational Knowledge and Expertise The knowledge stored in AEL’s human resources constitutes what is probably the most valuable part of its institutional capital. Today, AEL has a total of 2,054 employees including over 150 engineering professionals with Chartered Engineers and Quantity Surveyors. The Company has developed effective IT-based mechanisms to promote knowledge sharing within the Company. Some of them are the AEL Central Data Repository and the AEL news e-mail platform. There is also the Core Team meeting headed by the Managing Director. AEL’s institutional knowledge base is built up as an ongoing process by way of post project analyses which identify and record lessons learnt and formulate best practices for future reference. The Company’s in-house library contains reference materials on both paper and electronic materials on civil engineering and project management. A Companywide restructuring process was carried out during the year which included centralisation of operations such as accounting. A total of Rs. 600 Mn was invested in capacity building and the product/service portfolio was extended through the introduction of new construction techniques. Brand Value AEL’s brand value has been progressively built-up by the numerous projects it has executed over the years which has had very tangible and visible outcomes. The quality of value of the engineering artefacts the Company has built are appreciated not only by its clients but also by the ultimate end users who are often the general public. The reputation AEL has built-up in the industry has made us the partner of choice for most contractors. The retention rate AEL has achieved is a tribute to the image AEL has among skilled workers and professionals in the industry; that AEL has achieved these rates in a milieu where there are so many opportunities both locally and internationally is indeed commendable. AEL has fine tuned its systems and processes to come as close as possible to perfection in design and in construction. This is also backed up by the ISO certifications the Company has obtained for quality management, environmental management as well as health and safety management. Furthermore, the Company utilized SAP ERP system and HRIS backed up by a set of operating procedures which all employees are familiar with to reinforce AEL’s commitment to quality. Governance AEL has the distinction of being the first locally owned construction Company to obtain a listing on the Colombo Stock Exchange. While being a listed Company brings its own requirements regarding governance and transparency beyond this the Company has own governance procedures. AEL’s sound structure of internal controls is built on ethical principles which are ingrained in the Company’s corporate culture. AEL’s close adherence to quality, health, environmental and safety policies contribute to upholding its brand value. Page 68 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Review of Business Operations ENGINEERING INNOVATION Quality control of deep excavations using KODEN ultrasonic drilling monitor Business Impact High (High/Medium/Low): Measure of Impact: Increased quality and precision Value Addition Helps improve the quality of a drilled hole/trench and reduces working time and cost Provides onsite records of the perpendicularity of drilled holes and the shape of cross sections with high accuracy Provides numerical measurement data that can be easily imported into various Windows applications (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, etc.) for work reports, etc. Remarks Helps to maintain the vertical alignment of the excavation Koden Drilling Monitor DM-602/604 can measure and confirm underground thereby minimizing the wastages of concrete and drilling fluid foundation work, the state of wall surface, pile diameter, deflection and inclination, namely the ‘vertical accuracy’ of the drilled hole or excavated wall. The Issues clear recording even in slurry contaminated with dirt recording unit of the Koden instrument utilizes an ultrasonic echo sensing and sand system to measure the verticality of the excavation and any deviation is measured along with the surface cavities present in the deep excavated/drilled wall/hole. The ultrasonic measurement probe is suspended vertically from a cable and lowered into the excavated trench/hole to be surveyed. A log printout is generated to indicate the excavation profile as a function of depth as detected by the sensor. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 69 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation INVESTOR CAPITAL External Capital A few major shareholders, who have active and longstanding connections with the Company, Formation account for the bulk of the ownership of Access Engineering PLC. Nevertheless, the interests of smaller shareholders are also safeguarded through good corporate governance and financial transparency. Publicly held shares comprise 37.92% of the total shareholding held by a total of 5,743 shareholders. The breakup of the investors in terms of the number of shares held as at 31st March 2016 is as follows: From To No. of Holders No. of Shares % 1 1,000 2,412 1,063,019 0.11 1,001 10,000 2,141 9,343,440 0.94 10,001 100,000 909 29,345,707 2.93 100,001 1,000,000 235 69,039,782 6.90 Over 1,000,000 60 891,208,052 89.12 5,757 1,000,000,000 100.00 Categories of Shareholders Access Engineering PLC is an overwhelmingly Sri Lankan owned Company and the breakup of the shareholders by category as at 31st March 2016 is as follows: No. of Shareholders No. of Shares % Local Individuals 5,268 803,986,710 80.40 Local Institutions 402 143,073,602 14.31 Foreign Individuals 66 4,065,207 0.40 Foreign Institutions 21 48,874,481 4.89 5,757 1,000,000,000 100.00 Directors’ Shareholding The shareholding of the Directors as at 31st March 2016 is shown below: Name of the Director No. of Shares Held % S J S Perera 250,000,000 25.00 R J S Gomez 120,000,000 12.00 J C Joshua 100,000,000 10.00 S H S Mendis 24,000,000 2.40 D A R Fernando 24,000,000 2.40 S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 2.40 S D Perera 2,000,000 0.20 K A M K Ranasinghe Nil Nil N D Gunaratne Nil Nil D S Weerakkody Nil Nil Page 70 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Top 20 Shareholders as at 31st March 2016 Name of Shareholder No. of Shares No. of Shares 31.03.2016 % 31.03.2015* % 1. S J S Perera 250,000,000 25.00 250,000,000 25.00 2. R J S Gomez 120,000,000 12.00 120,000,000 12.00 3. J C Joshua 100,000,000 10.00 100,000,000 10.00 4. Mrs. R M N Joshua 70,000,000 7.00 70,000,000 7.00 5. S J S Perera 49,433,000 4.94 46,350,000 4.64 6. Mrs. D R S Malalasekera 45,000,000 4.50 45,000,000 4.50 7. Employees’ Provident Fund 27,420,502 2.74 15,396,437 1.54 8. S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 2.40 24,000,000 2.40 9. S H S Mendis 24,000,000 2.40 24,000,000 2.40 10. D A R Fernando 24,000,000 2.40 24,000,000 2.40 11. Citi Bank Newyork S/A Norges Bank Account 2 21,391,649 2.14 – – 12. Access Medical (Private) Limited 13,000,000 1.30 13,000,000 1.30 13. Hotel International Limited 8,053,988 0.81 5,545,460 0.55 14. Nuwara Eliya Property Developers (Private) Limited 8,052,462 0.81 8,052,462 0.81 15. MAS Capital (Private) Limited 6,860,957 0.68 6,860,957 0.69 16. CB London S/A Tundra Frontier Opportunities Fund 6,754,837 0.68 8,654,837 0.87 17. J B Cocoshell (Private) Limited 6,197,056 0.62 – – 18. M J Fernando 5,158,120 0.51 2,634,490 0.25 19. Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee for JB Vantage Value Equity Fund 5,072,312 0.51 6,185,731 0.62 20. Mellon Bank N.A. – Eaton Vance Trust Co. Collective Inv. Trust 4,337,027 0.43 2,818,027 0.28 818,731,910 81.87 772,498,401 77.25 Others 181,268,090 18.13 227,501,599 22.75 Total 1,000,000,000 100.00 1,000,000,000 100.00 *Comparative shareholdings as at 31st March 2015 of the twenty largest shareholders as at 31st March 2016 Share Price Performance Share price movements during the year with comparative figures for 2015/16 are shown below: Market Price Per Share 2015/16 2014/15 Rs. Rs. Highest 27.90 (30.07.2015) 43.50 (18.11.2014) Lowest 18.80 (09.03.2016) 18.50 (31.03.2015) As at end of the Year 20.80 19.20 Investor Relations Access Engineering takes care to nurture its investor relations. Presentations to the investor community were made by the Company at forums organized by stockbroker firms. Online real time trading information, Financial Statements and Company research reports can be accessed at www.accessengsl.com. The Company also maintains its investor relations by way of dedicated e-mails on the subject. The Company maintains high standards of transparency and accountability by timely release of all material and price sensitive information to CSE. Uptodate project related information is always available on the Company website. Shareholders can also have access to Directors by prior appointment if they wish. The Company’s dividend policy remains unchanged. The table below shows the earnings for each share, dividends for each share and payout ratio since our listing in 2012. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 71 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Group Company Group Company Group Company Group Company Group Company EPS (Rs.) 2.47 2.09 2.35 1.75 2.83 2.52 2.38 2.13 1.83 1.52 DPS (Rs.) 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.27 0.27 Payout (%) 30 36 43 57 18 20 21 23 15 18 An interim dividend of Rs. 0.50 for each share was declared for 2015/2016 on 20th November 2015 and paid in full by the Company on 11th December 2015. A final dividend of Rs. 0.50 for each share was declared for 2015/2016 on 25th May 2016 and paid in full by the Company on 14th June 2016. A total of approximately Rs. 750 Mn was paid out in cash as dividends during the year 2015/16. The performance of the shares relative to ASPI is shown in the table below: 31st March 2016 1st April 2015 Change (%) AEL Price (Rs.) 20.80 20.40 1.96 ASPI 6,071.88 6,916.08 (12.21) S&P SL 20 3,204.44 3,900.67 (17.85) The trading statistics of our shares since our listing in 2012 is shown below: For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 No. of Shares Traded 199,334,867 476,248,674 64,571,998 99,057,069 1,668,272 Value of Shares Traded (Rs.) 4,570,150,971 14,900,355,246 1,265,038,262 2,147,640,644 45,103,518 Number of Days Traded 241 239 239 243 4 Number of Trades 36,018 49,154 13,535 10,229 975 In November 2015, AEL issued 50 million rated senior unsecured redeemable debentures with tenures of 5-8 years raising Rs. 5 Bn. The debentures were rated ‘(SL) A+ with a stable outlook’ by ICRA Lanka Limited and were listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange on 23rd November 2015 This step was taken to take advantage of the low interest regime that prevailed in the latter part of 2015. CUSTOMER CAPITAL During the year under review, the Company has sustained its customer base for products and services alike. As shown in the tables appearing next, the Company has a diversified portfolio which includes not only contracts for engineering construction but encompasses a large number of services. Page 72 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Customer Base Sector 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Piling 19 15 2 3 3 5 4 Mechanical and Steel Fabrication Workshops 2 4 4 3 3 – – Geotechnical and Laboratory Services – 3 1 1 1 1 – Supply of Asphalt Concrete 70 30 21 22 20 – – Services Quarry Operations and Aggregate Production 67 57 56 11 12 – – Supply of Ready Mix Concrete 184 123 38 40 5 – – Engineering Designs 8 1 1 – – 1 2 Roads and Highways 3 5 7 7 7 5 5 Bridges and Flyovers 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 Water and Wastewater 8 5 5 4 3 3 3 Building and Other 13 5 4 4 3 2 3 Products Airport and Aviation – 1 1 1 1 – – Harbours and Marine Works 2 – 1 1 1 – – Dredging and Reclamation – – – – 1 1 – Telecommunication Infrastructure 2 3 3 2 2 1 2 Customer Turnover Sector 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Piling 1,239.12 1,278.00 1,797.40 1,411.69 284.09 51.81 23.18 Mechanical and Steel Fabrication Workshops 7.46 28.86 52.52 20.19 1.60 – – Geotechnical and Laboratory Services – 2.96 0.89 9.75 2.98 4.00 – Services Supply of Asphalt Concrete 857.53 717.68 331.11 407.58 494.09 – – Quarry Operations and Aggregate Production 96.05 77.41 31.30 53.37 55.31 – – Supply of Ready Mix Concrete 634.82 391.17 84.44 161.53 1.58 – – Engineering Designs 73.60 24.00 35.00 – – 20.00 88.00 Roads and Highways 1,417.39 3,905.40 6,752.96 5,410.90 3,989.92 1,695.61 1,356.42 Bridges and Flyovers 15.97 392.72 761.63 241.41 17.93 667.01 364.12 Water and Wastewater 2,485.04 1,079.61 869.09 967.76 472.76 325.73 550.56 Building and Other 3,705.06 3,790.20 1,276.41 1,443.46 753.08 10.91 7.22 Products Airport and Aviation – 15.03 9.78 387.29 257.48 – – Harbours and Marine Works 486.79 – 12.06 270.08 43.75 – – Dredging and Reclamation – – – – 7.07 31.19 – Telecommunication Infrastructure 610.67 650.62 1,115.41 650.46 578.69 738.08 735.24 Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 73 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Customers by Type Sector Public Private Foreign Piling 2 15 3 Mechanical and Steel Fabrication Workshops – 1 1 Geotechnical and Laboratory Services – – – Supply of Asphalt Concrete 4 63 3 Quarry Operations and Aggregate Production 3 64 – Supply of Ready Mix Concrete 3 176 5 Engineering Designs 3 4 1 Roads and Highways 1 – 3 Bridges and Flyovers 1 – – Water and Wastewater 3 2 3 Building and Other 4 8 1 Airport and Aviation – – – Harbors and Marine Works 2 – – Dredging and Reclamation – – – Telecommunication Infrastructure 1 2 – How the Company Does Business The methods by which AEL secures new business are listed below: Public Sector yy International Competitive Bidding (ICB) yy National Competitive Bidding (NCB) yy Limited/Restricted International and National Bidding yy Direct Contracting and Repeat Orders yy Two Stage Bidding yy Two Envelope System Private Sector yy Responses to Requests for Proposals (RFPs) yy Bidding yy Preferred Contractor yy Repeat Orders Our role in a contract can be: yy Main Contractor yy Subcontractor yy Joint Venture Partner yy Partner of a Consortium yy Public-Private Partnerships Page 74 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Elements of Customer Value Creation Given the nature of the Company’s business, engineering is the foundation of its customer value creation. The engineering solutions the Company offers its customers give value in terms of strength, quality, longevity and maintainability. Value Engineering Solutions yy Basement construction using diaphragm walls which can be erected in congested and closed areas with adjacent buildings and utilities with minimum vibration and noise. Construction time is lowered by this method. yy Slope stabilization using soil nailing and shotcreting where slopes with loose soils that are vulnerable for landslides can be stabilized using this technique. Using soil nailing slopes with low absorption and high strength can be achieved. Using shotcreting slopes that are not easily accessible to heavy machinery can be stabilized by spraying concrete from a distance at a high velocity. yy Post tensioning method for high rise building resulting in thinner concrete sections and/or longer spans between supports. This method saves energy in the construction process by minimizing the use of concrete and steel thereby preserving natural resources. It also reduces cost and time of construction. yy Ground anchoring and micropiling using KR-909-2 Drilling Rig – this machine can be used at limited access situations due to compact size of the equipment. It can be maneuvered with ease due to its crawling feature and the remote control device that enables it to move to a precise coordinate on ground. This is used in environmentally sensitive projects because it creates relatively little disturbance to the surrounding area. yy Quality control of deep excavations using Ultrasonic Drilling Monitor – this improves the quality of a drilled hole/trench and reduces working time and cost. yy Monitoring of potential lateral displacements of diaphragm walls using digital inclinometer. yy Pile instrumentation to measure changes in physical properties of the concrete and steel mass of a pile during static load testing or during long term monitoring; Concrete embedment strain gauges to measure the transfer of load along the length of the pile during the short term or long term loading of the structure. yy Prefabricated panel walls which require less working space, which is faster and has a long lifespan. yy New guardrail installation method which increases the speed of installation, reduces cost and improves quality. yy Prefabricated steel bridges & flyovers resulting in time and cost saving and efficiency improvement. yy Hydrogen Leak Detection for testing of pipes and ducts soon after installation. yy Ground Penetration Radar for detecting underground utilities and artefacts. yy Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) for trenchless installation resulting in minimal surface disruption. yy Cable Blowing in telecommunication works resulting in increased efficiency and cost reduction. Under this method, longer installation distances can be achieved. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 75 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Other Aspects of Customer Value Creation yy The only local construction Company to run operations on a fully automated ERP System which is based on SAP. Operations ranging from Project Management, Sales and Distribution, Equipment and Tools Management, Financial Management, Material Management and Procurement and Production Planning are run based on this system. yy Only local construction Company to have the highest CIDA Grading across most number of disciplines of civil engineering. This is also complemented by the Company’s subsidiary Access Projects (Private) Limited which also has the highest CIDA Grading for building construction and aluminium and ceiling works. yy In-house service portfolio providing A-Z engineering solutions. This is also complemented by the Company’s subsidiary Access Projects (Private) Limited which is a leader in providing interior solutions. yy Commitment to sustainability. yy Corporate governance. yy Being a preferred partner among all international contractors present in Sri Lanka. Invited by China Harbour Engineering Company (CHEC) to work with them on a project in Papua New Guinea which was completed and handed over successfully. The only Company to have formed a Joint Venture Partnership with the world’s largest container handling equipment manufacturer, ZPMC, China. Responsible Design The customer usually provides the designs done by their architects and engineers and the Company develops a product that fits the purpose. However, through a process of dialogue with the customer and the architects/engineers, the Company adds value by suggesting alterations and modifications to design aspects. The Company undertakes compliance with all relevant standards. As a result, it is involved in the design of temporary works. Stability check for walls, slopes and excavations are also done by the design department without adopting rules of thumb. Model testing is also done by the division and all designs are verified by third party consultants. Quality Assurance The Company’s quality procedures are enforced by rigorous adherence to the quality certifications it has obtained. the Company’s Quality Management System is ISO certified. An integrated audit covering both QMS and EMS was carried out by Det Norske Veritas. At least three internal audits are carried out during the life cycle of a project; namely at commencement, project execution and completion. This ensures the quality of the final product. The audits cover all aspects including quality, environmental performance and health and safety performance. Additionally, special audits are conducted when the need arises. EMPLOYEE CAPITAL Despite its volume of business and the wide scope of its operations, both technically and geographically, Access Engineering does not have an enormous workforce. As at 31st March 2016, the Company’s full time employees were a modest 2,054. Due to the nature of the work and the fact that operations of this nature are usually male dominated; the vast majority of its workforce is male. The bulk of the demand for manual labour is met through casual or subcontract workers. Page 76 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Workforce by Gender & Age Group (No.) The breakup of the Company’s full time or permanent workforce by age group and gender is shown below. 388 Age Group Male Female Total 353 312 18-20 56 0 56 258 207 21-25 312 24 336 157 26-30 388 42 430 113 31-35 353 37 390 56 55 36-40 258 25 283 42 37 24 25 0 8 12 7 41-45 207 8 215 18-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 Above 55 46-50 157 12 169 Male Female 51-55 113 7 120 Above 55 55 0 55 Workforce by Province (%) Total 1,899 155 2,054 The analysis of the workforce by province shows a heavy concentration in the Western 1% 3% 14% Province, reflecting the regional distribution of construction work. There are also a substantial 3% 3% number in the Northern Province due to post-war reconstruction and rehabilitation work. Province Total 76% Western 1,560 North western 57 Eastern 63 Western Northern North Western Sabaragamuwa Northern 296 Eastern Southern Sabaragamuwa 26 Southern 52 Total 2,054 Employees by Division breakdown of the Company is shown in the table below. Division Head Count Head Office 118 PMD I 723 PMD II 989 PMD III 224 Total 2,054 New recruitment by division and gender are shown in the table below. The fact that the majority of the total workforce as well as the new recruitments have been for the project divisions and relatively few for the head office, reflects our lean administrative structure. Division Total Female Male Head Office 21 8 13 Project Management Division I 52 0 52 Project Management Division II 79 10 69 Project Management Division III 34 5 29 Total 186 23 163 Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 77 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Staff Retention and Benefits The Company have also continued with its performance-based reward system. Staff retention for the year was 94.67% which reflected its reputation in the industry. It is indeed commendable that the Company was able to achieve this figure despite the numerous opportunities available both locally and overseas. Training and Development At AEL, the Company gave great importance to staff training and development, which is a major thrust of its human capital development strategy. The total cost incurred on training and development during the year was Rs. 2,371,731.14. The Company also offered a total of 166 industrial placements during the year contributing to the knowledge base of the industry as a whole. Industrial Placements by Division Division Total Placements Offered Project Management Division I (PMD I) 51 PMD II 38 PMD III 70 Head Office 7 Total 166 The training hours by gender and employee categories are as follows. Based on Gender Average Training Hours for Males 2.86 Average Training Hours for Females 1.61 Based on Employee Category Average Training Hours for Staff 2.82 Average Training Hours for Workers 2.76 Areas of training include a broad spread encompassing technical, soft skills and managerial subjects. Some of the subjects for which training was conducted are given below. yy Construction Development yy Building Construction Techniques yy Health and Safety Practices yy ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 Integrated Training yy Export Procedures and Documentation yy National Income and Taxation yy Internal Control Framework for Finance yy Construction Insurance yy Internal Audit Training for System Management Page 78 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation The Company has a systematic training program with training needs being identified by a training need analysis and the performance appraisals of staff. Training is conducted both internally and externally. Internal and on-the-job training methods include workshops, seminars, meetings and drills. Continuous user training sessions were carried out on different areas of the ERP system to promote effective utilisation of the system. External training is by way of workshops, seminars, conferences and discussions. A core team meeting was held in March 2016 headed by the Managing Director to promote brainstorming among employees. Health and Safety Details of Health and Safety Training carried out during the year are as follows. Program Name Type Dates Number of Average Participants Training Hours General Health and Safety Internal April 2015 – March 2016 Training (By Project Managers and Safety Officers) 633 2,010 Access Health and External 7th October 2015 Wellness Awareness Program on Heart Diseases 55 82.5 National Occupational External 14th October 2015 Health and Safety Conference 13 104 Training on First Aid Practices External 24th October 2015 30 150 Occupational First Aid External 30th October 2015 Training Program 20 140 Seminar on Occupational External 17th November 2015 Safety and Health for Construction Employees 31 248 Access Health and Wellness External 18th November 2015 Awareness Program on Cancer Prevention 54 54 Training on Fire Fighting External 24th October 2015 & 30th December 2015 66 392.5 Construction Industry External 10th & 30th Safety Requirements December 2015, 30th January 2016, 27th February 2016 & 28th March 2016 109 436 Training on Occupational External 15th March 2016 Health and Safety Management 11 88 Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 79 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Health and safety practices carried out during the year included: a. Conducting safety induction (through Video & PPT Presentation) b. Setting Operational Controls for critical activities c. Selection of best Safety Performer d. Display of safety signage e. Training and awareness on hazard identification, risk assessment & establishment of controls In the year under review, the Company spent a total of Rs. 11.267,389 on safety initiatives, mostly on purchase of safety equipment and other tools. The Company’s future plans for health and safety include health screening programs to ensure fitness for the jobs they perform for all employees and to identify and take action on any illnesses found. Anti-Corruption Measures All business units were analyzed for risks related to corruption in the year under review. The analysis covered a total of 99 operational projects in the year under review, whether begun, ongoing or completed – the latter consisting of projects still within the Defect Liability Period (DLP) or Financial Contribution Period (FCP) at year’s end. Operational Projects – 1st April 2015 – 31st March 2016 Completed 32 Commenced 23 Ongoing 26 DLP/FC 18 Total 99 Training in Anti-Corruption Measures The nature of our industry is such that it is at high risk of corruption occurring or of allegations of same. The Company has a very stringent policy of zero tolerance of corruption at all levels. This is very important from the point of view of building the Company’s social and relationship capital in view of the high public concern with the issue at the present time. Anti-Corruption Training (%) New Recruits in 2015/16 (Nos.) 186 Total Staff as at 31st March 2016 (Nos.) 2,054 % of Total Staff Underwent Training (%) 9 BUSINESS PARTNER CAPITAL AEL, in the course of its business operations, has had commercial agreements with a variety of partners. The most common forms are partnerships with other contractors or suppliers. The Company has played the roles of a joint venture partner, as a subcontractor to a lead contractor or a lead contractor overseeing one or more subcontractors. In the year under review, AEL commenced executing a public-private partnership project undertaken with the Urban Development Authority. This was to construct 608 residential housing units for public sector employees. The project, which was delayed due to finalization of facilities and financial options to be made available to the prospective public sector buyers, is now under construction. Page 80 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation The number of suppliers by category is shown in the table below. Supplier Type Number of Suppliers Local Vendors 8,130 Foreign Vendors 168 Internal Vendors 41 Total 8,339 Further the Company strengthened its relationship with ZPMC through the commissioning of twenty six rubber tired gantry cranes and eight ship-to-shore cranes in Qatar. The location of suppliers by country is shown below. Country Number of Suppliers Sri Lanka 8,171 UAE 2 Austria 1 Australia 1 China 68 Germany 2 United Kingdom 6 Hong Kong 6 Hungary 2 India 36 Italy 1 Japan 6 South Korea 2 Malaysia 7 Netherlands 2 Saudi Arabia 1 Singapore 15 Swaziland 1 Thailand 1 Turkey 2 Taiwan 1 USA 5 Total 8,339 Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 81 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Growth in JV & Subcontractor Sector 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 JV 814.24 852.04 453.40 717.61 734.92 444.66 41.00 Subcontractor 817.39 1,353.56 3,589.33 6,290.79 6,240.17 3,684.05 2,525.79 The types of suppliers include manufacturers, wholesalers, dealers, subcontractors, hirers of vehicles & machinery, sole agents, clearing agents and Government authorities AEL is also a member of the following associations: yy Construction Industry Development Authority (CIDA) yy National Construction Association of Sri Lanka (NCASL) – Major Specialist Contractor yy TRACE International, UK yy Business & Biodiversity Sri Lanka of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce – Patron Member yy UNGC – Member yy Lanka Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS – Member SOCIAL AND Since AEL’s core business is that of building infrastructure, the Company naturally delivers ENVIRONMENTAL CAPITAL social value by way of the projects it executes. The ultimate end users of the Company’s infrastructure developments are the general public. The Company enhances the value these developments provide by ensuring their safety, quality, maintainability and sustainability and executing them at the lowest possible cost without sacrificing other considerations. The Company also scrupulously fulfils its statutory responsibilities by complying with all laws and regulations. The Company also makes its due contributions to the Government’s coffers by timely payment of all taxes and rates. However, the Company recognises that its responsibilities as a socially conscious Company go far beyond the above. During the year under review, the Company continued with its tree planting campaign which was initiated in 2007. During the year, the Company planted 281 trees bringing the total planted under the campaign to 13,726. There is generally a poor understanding of biodiversity issues within the construction industry, despite the industry having a big impact on natural habitats, wild life and plants. To address this need, AEL together with the Sri Lanka Business and Biodiversity (SL B&B) Platform of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce organized the ‘Construction Sector Networking and Learning Event’ targeting an audience of construction teams, design teams, consultants and other professionals in the industry. 44 individuals attended the event from 14 organizations in the industry. The nature of the Company’s activities is such that it has an unavoidable impact on the natural environment. The Company is very conscious of the fact that this can damage its public image and especially that it can bring very adverse reactions from the local communities where the Company operates. The Company therefore does its utmost to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts. Page 82 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation The actions taken to this end in the year under review are listed below. Significant Aspect Environmental Impact Mitigation Strategies Adopted during 2015/16 Dust generated during roadwork Air quality degradation Watering Dust from crusher plants Air quality degradation Water sprinkling and water jacketing Waste oil/ burnt oil generated from Water/land pollution Handing over to an approved burnt oil handler for mechanical workshop reuse/recycle Cement contaminated water Water/land pollution yy Monitoring of water quality generated from batching plant yy Simple water treatment (Sedimentation) and reuse of water Waste paper (office operations) Natural resource depletion Handing over to certified recycling agents E-waste (office operations) Heavy metal contamination Handing over to certified recycling agents Fuel/oil leakages and spillages Water/land pollution yy Secondary containment for storage tanks from storages Fossil fuel consumption Natural resource depletion yy Monitoring fuel consumption yy Preventive/corrective maintenance Emission from motor vehicles Air pollution and contribution to yy Emissions tests for motor vehicles anthropogenic climate change yy Preventive/corrective maintenance Noise from generators Area nuisance yy Soundproofing Tree felling during road works yy Carbon sink destruction yy Tree planting programs; yy Degradation of natural environment During FY 2015/16 281 yy Contribution to anthropogenic climate change In Previous Years 13,445 yy Biodiversity loss (knock-on effect) Total 13,726 Energy Conservation Construction and engineering are by nature energy intensive activities. Reducing energy usage by conservation and efficiency measures not only reduces cost but it also reduces the Company’s carbon footprint and the national energy debt. As in the previous year, the Company set itself a target of reducing electricity consumption by 2% from the budgeted consumption. The following practices were adopted to reduce energy consumption. yy Procurement of energy efficient machines yy Installing thermal installation for roofs yy Utilisation of natural ventilation for site offices and rest rooms/meal rooms instead of air conditioning yy Isolating meeting rooms from the central AC system yy Use of solar energy for welding drilling activities yy Use of energy efficient light bulbs yy Dividing the lighting system into several zones with separate switches and installing a power factor correction capacitor The Company’s electricity conservation program was extremely successful. While the Company’s budgeted consumption was 1,877,423 units, the Company’s actual consumption was 1,706,405 units, a saving of 9.11% as compared with the targeted 2%. Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 83 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Monthly details of budget and consumption are shown in the table and bar chart below. Month Total Budgeted Units Total Actual Units April 160,650 118,546 May 161,055 159,007 June 161,380 165,858 July 163,430 136,077 August 168,780 130,307 September 169,585 143,590 October 154,250 120,535 November 143,890 143,128 December 141,640 139,062 January 150,763 142,429 February 151,030 149,692 March 150,970 158,174 Total 1,877,423 1,706,405 Electricity Consumption (No. of Units) 165,858 168,780 169,585 160,650 161,055 161,380 163,430 159,007 154,250 158,174 150,763 151,030 149,692 150,970 143,590 143,890 143,128 141,640 142,429 136,077 139,062 130,307 118,546 120,535 Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 Total Budgeted Units Total Actual Units Water Conservation While the Company had no specific target for water conservation during the years nevertheless it adopted a number of practices to reduce water consumption. These included: yy Treating waste water and reusing it at sites where possible (e.g. Mabima Concrete Batching Plant, Kandana Concrete Batching Plant, Kaduwela Workshop, etc.) yy Reusing water at all its construction sites as much as possible yy Budget water consumption based on the project activities for more realistic consumptions (construction and day to day) and monitor consumptions yy Monitor water consumptions monthly by head office and inquire unacceptable deviations Page 84 3 Management Discussion & Analysis Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation Water Usage 2015/16 Total Water Usage (Units) 485,322.40 Annual Usage by Each Employee (Units) 236.28 Monthly Usage (average) by Each Employee (Units) 19.69 Water Reused & Recycled (Units) 1,205 Percentage (%) 0.25 1 unit = 1,000 liters Waste Management All Company worksites produce substantial quantities of waste materials. The following waste management practices were adopted in the year under review. yy Each site identified the type of waste based on the activities performed at site, formulated and implemented a Waste Management Plan yy Domestic wastes collected at sites are segregated at the time of collection (e.g. iron, glass, steel, paper, polythene, etc.) yy Hazardous wastes generated at sites (burnt oil, oil filters, etc.) are disposed through CEA approved agents for recycle & reuse purposes yy Resorting to non-hazardous construction methods yy Using demolishing debris for landfills The Company also implemented a paper recycling program the results of which are summarised below. Wastepaper Recycled (Kg) 795 Full-grown Trees Saved (No.) 13 Oil Saved (l) 1,381 Electricity Saved (kWh) 3,148 Water Saved (l) 25,011 Landfill Saved (m) 2.59 Reduction in GHG Emissions (kg of Carbon Equivalent) 637 Eco Friendly Practices The Company strives to incorporate eco-friendly practices in all its activities and inculcate environmental consciousness in the Company’s staff as well. The following are some of the activities carried out during the year to this end. yy Promoting employees to adopt practices which conserve its environment yy Taking environmental practices into consideration when evaluating suppliers yy Compliance with environmental statutory requirements (e.g. EPL conditions, material (ABC, Quarry, Soil) transportation, etc.) yy Minimizing disturbance to the existing eco-system (e.g. environmental friendly site office construction) yy Control measures to avoid environmental emergencies/incidents (e.g. secondary containments for oil/fuel storage, etc.) Management Discussion & Analysis 3 Page 85 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 External Capital Formation yy Minimization of dust generation (water jacketing at crusher plants, watering with water bowers, etc.) yy Best construction practices to avoid environmental impacts (facilitating Bentonite collection within the piling site, washing facilities to avoid muddy environment inside as well as outside the construction sites) The costs incurred in the Company’s environmental protection activities are given below. Environmental protection activity Cost (Rs.) Road Watering 125,085 Tree Planting 12,850 Exposure Levels Monitoring 881,274 Miscellaneous Activities 94,018 Location & size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity. Location Land Extent Vauniya Crusher and Asphalt Plant 2 acre Labugama 13.1 acres Kalatuwawa 15.8 acres Page 86 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Board of Directors Board of Directors 7 2 1 8 9 1. Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera 3. Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando 5. Saumaya Dharshana Munasinghe Chairman Executive Director/COO Executive Director/Director – Business Development 2. Joseph Christopher Joshua 4. Shevantha Harindra Sudharaka Mendis Managing Director Executive Director/Director – Business Development Stewardship 4 Page 87 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Board of Directors 3 5 6 4 10 6. Dilhan Perera 8. Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe 10. Dinesh Weerakkody Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director 7. Ranjan John Suriyakumar Gomez 9. Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Page 88 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Board of Directors Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando Saumaya Dharshana Munasinghe Chairman Executive Director/COO Executive Director/Director – Business Development The Founder Chairman of the Access Joining the Access Group in 1998 as Group of Companies founded in 1989, an Engineer based in the Engineering He joined Access International (Private) he is also the Founder Chairman and Division, he played a vital role in enabling Limited in 1996 and was promoted to the a shareholder of Access Engineering. the division to become a separate position of Assistant Manager in 1999. In He continues to be the Chairman of all business entity, encompassing the name 2001, he assumed duties as Manager – companies under the umbrella of the and persons of Access Engineering. Special Projects in Access International Access Group and Chairman of Sathosa Having held senior management (Private) Limited and was promoted as Motors PLC, a company that gained positions in Access Engineering, he was General Manager – Special Projects in a public listing in 1993. He is a Fellow appointed to the Board in 2002. In 2007, 2004. He joined Access Engineering in Member of the Chartered Institute of he was appointed as the Director/COO of 2006 and was appointed to the Board Management Accountants – UK. It is Access Engineering. He is a Corporate of Access Engineering as Director – under his vision and leadership that the Member of Institution of Engineers, Business Development. He is also a Access Group of Companies has grown Sri Lanka (IESL) and has a B.Sc. Degree Director of Access International (Private) to be a diversified and successful in Civil Engineering from the University Limited, Sathosa Motors PLC, SML Frontier business enterprise, in a short span of of Peradeniya. He is also a Director of Automotive (Private) Limited, Access over two decades. Access International (Private) Limited, Realties (Private) Limited and Access Sathosa Motors PLC, Eco Friendly Power Realties 2 (Private) Limited. Joseph Christopher Joshua Developers (Private) Limited, Access Managing Director Realties (Private) Limited and Access Dilhan Perera Non-Executive Director One of the founder Directors of the Realties 2 (Private) Limited. Access Group of Companies, he was Mr. Dilhan Perera is the Chief Financial instrumental in heading some of the most Shevantha Harindra Sudharaka Mendis Officer at Access Group of Companies successful business units within the Executive Director/Director – Business and has been involved with the Access Development Group since its inception in that capacity. Group. A founder shareholder, he was the Joint Managing Director/CEO of the Having held many executive and Company. It was under his leadership that management positions within the Access Ranjan John Suriyakumar Gomez Group, he has functioned within the Non-Executive Director Access Engineering achieved significant milestones in growth. He also functions as Engineering Division since its inception. One of the Founder Directors of the Access the Joint Managing Director of the Access With the genesis of Access Engineering, Group of Companies and has functioned Group since 1997. Companies under his he became a part of that unit and as the Joint Managing Director of the purview include Access Realties (Private) was appointed as Director – Business Group since 1997. Companies under his Limited, Access Realties 2 (Private) Development in 2002. He is also a Director purview include ATSL International (Private) Limited, Access Energy (Private) Limited, of Access International (Private) Limited, Limited, ATSL Telesoft (Private) Limited, Access Natural Water (Private) Limited, Sathosa Motors PLC, SML Frontier Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited, Eco Friendly Power Developers (Private) Automotive (Private) Limited, Access Think Cube Systems (Private) Limited, Limited and business units of Access Realties (Private) Limited and Access Science Land Information Technology International (Private) Limited. He is also a Realties 2 (Private) Limited. (Private) Limited, e-buy (Private) Limited Director of Sathosa Motors PLC. and business units of Access International (Private) Limited. He is also a Director of Sathosa Motors PLC. Stewardship 4 Page 89 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Board of Directors Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne He is a Graduate in Business Kumar Ranasinghe Independent Non-Executive Director Administration from UK, a Fellow of Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Access Engineering both CIMA (UK) and CMA (Sri Lanka), A member of the Access Engineering Board in 2011, he is also the Finance Professional Member of the Singapore Board since 2011, he is a Senior Professor Director of ASCOT Holdings PLC, an Human Resource Institute and holds an in Civil Engineering at the University of Associate Member of the Chartered MBA from the University of Leicester, Moratuwa and a Member of the University Institute of Management Accountants – UK. He was conferred an honorary Grants Commission. He is a Chartered UK. He possesses over nineteen years membership by the Institute of Personnel Engineer, International Professional of experience in the field of finance and Management of Sri Lanka. Engineer, a Fellow of the Institution of accounting and has been at MB Financial Engineers, Sri Lanka, National Academy of Services (Private) Limited, a primary He is the recipient of Jaycees Ten Sciences, Sri Lanka and Institute of Project dealer appointed by the CBSL and Outstanding Young Persons Award in 1999 Managers. A past Vice-Chancellor of the Jewelknit, a Subsidiary of Mast and an International Associations of Lions University of Moratuwa, he functions as Industries – USA. Clubs National Achievers Award in 2008 an Independent Non-Executive Director for the advancement of good governance of Sampath Bank PLC, Textured Jersey Dinesh Weerakkody in the public sector. Lanka PLC, United Motors Lanka PLC and Independent Non-Executive Director Resus Energy PLC. He is a former Fellow Mr. Dinesh Weerakkody is the Chairman of the National University of Singapore and of the National Human Resource has been a Non-Executive Director of the Development Council of Sri Lanka and Colombo Stock Exchange, Hemas Power Cornucopia Sri Lanka. He is an Advisor PLC and Lanka IOC PLC. to the Ministry of National Policies and Economic Affairs. He was the Chairman His research focus is to combine of the Government-appointed Committee applications in Engineering Economics to review the Banking Sector and and Environmental Economics with Project NBFI consolidation and the Committee Management. He has published over appointed to review the budgetary 120 research papers, of which over 70 allocation for education. He is a former are international refereed publications. Chairman of the Commercial Bank of He has been honoured with the SLAAS Ceylon PLC and the Employees’ Trust General Research Committee Award for Fund Board of Sri Lanka. He serves in a Outstanding Contribution to Sri Lankan number of private sector Boards including Science, Committee of Vice-Chancellors Glaxo SmithKline Consumer Sri Lanka and and Directors (CVCD) Excellence Award Ceylon Tobacco PLC. He is also a 2012 for the Most Outstanding Senior Vice-President of the International Researcher in Technology and related Chamber of Commerce, Sri Lanka Sciences in the Sri Lankan Universities, Chapter, a Committee member of Award for Outstanding Contribution Sri Lanka Tennis Association, a Council to Education at the World Education member of the Employers Federation Congress 2012, India and the Education of Ceylon, a member of the Institute of Leadership Award 2013 at the 4th Asia’s Directors of Sri Lanka, a member of the Best B-School Awards in Singapore. National Health Development Fund and a member of the CIMA Global Asia Pacific Industry Experts Panel. Page 90 3 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Management Team Corporate Management Team 1 2 3 4 1 Sumal Perera Chairman 2 Christopher Joshua Managing Director 3 Rohana Fernando Executive Director/COO 4 Shevantha Mendis Executive Director/Director – Business Development Stewardship 4 Page 91 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Management Team 5 6 7 8 5 Dharshana Munasinghe Executive Director/Director – Business Development 6 Vasantha Manatunge Senior General Manager 7 Dharmasiri Chandrapala General Manager – Technical 8 Manoaj Jayahsuriya General Manager – Project Management Division – I Page 92 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Management Team 9 10 11 12 9 Srimal Fernando General Manager – Project Management Division – II 10 Palitha Wanigasundara General Manager – Project Management Division – III 11 Kosala Wickramasinghe General Manager – Planning and Development 12 Niroshan Thilakarathne General Manager – Commercial Stewardship 4 Page 93 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Management Team 13 14 15 16 13 Ms. Neranjala Priyadarshani General Manager – Finance (Resigned w.e.f. 31st March 2016) 14 Thasantha Kumara Deputy General Manager 15 Prabashana Kumara Deputy General Manager – Project Management Division – II 16 Nilantha Iddagoda Deputy General Manager – Finance (Appointed w.e.f. 1st April 2016) Page 94 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Management Team Sumal Perera Dharmasiri Chandrapala Palitha Wanigasundara Chairman General Manager – Technical General Manager – Project Management Division – III Profile given on page 88 T D D Chandrapala Joined the Company Palitha joined the Company in 2007 as in 2002 and counts over 11 years of Deputy General Manager (Construction) Christopher Joshua experience at Senior Management level of and currently functions as the General Managing Director the Company. He holds a B.Sc. Degree in Manager (Project Management Division – Profile given on page 88 Civil Engineering and he is also a Chartered III). He holds a Master of Science Degree Civil Engineer. He has over 37 years of in Civil Engineering (USSR), a Master Rohana Fernando experience in the fields of Irrigation and of Engineering Degree in Construction Executive Director/COO Drainage, Building Construction, Water Management (University of Moratuwa) and Profile given on page 88 Supply, Roads and Bridges. a Master of Business Administration Degree (Postgraduate Institute of Management, Shevantha Mendis Manoaj Jayahsuriya University of Sri Jayewardenepura). He is Executive Director/Director – Business Development General Manager – Project Management Division – I a Fellow Member of Institute of Engineers, Profile given on page 88 Manoaj joined the Company in March Sri Lanka and a Corporate Member of 2006. He has over 30 years of experience the Institute of Engineers (Australia). Prior in diversified fields such as the Sri Lanka to joining the Company, he served in Dharshana Munasinghe Executive Director/Director – Business Development Navy, operations, apparel manufacturing, the National Water Supply and Drainage corporate planning and human resource Board for 20 years in the capacities of Profile given on page 88 management. He holds an MBA from the Chief Engineer, Project Manager, Assistant Postgraduate Institute of Management (PIM) General Manager and a Project Director. Vasantha Manatunge Senior General Manager of University of Sri Jayewardenepura, B.Sc. (Hons.) from University of Colombo and a Kosala Wickramasinghe V K Manatunge joined the Company in General Manager – Planning and Development Postgraduate Diploma in Psychology as well early 2003 and is currently functioning as as several naval professional qualifications. Kosala joined the Company as a Project the Senior General Manager of Access Manager in 2007. He holds a Bachelor Engineering. He obtained his Degree in Civil Srimal Fernando of Science Degree in Civil Engineering Engineering from the University of Moratuwa General Manager – Project Management Division – II from the University of Moratuwa and in 1978 and has been a Corporate Member Srimal joined the Company in August 1999 a Postgraduate Diploma in Structural of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka as a Civil Engineer and was promoted Engineering from University of Moratuwa. since 1982. He counts over 38 years of to Manager – Engineering in January He is also a Corporate Member of the experience in the civil engineering field and 2004 and as General Manager in January Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka and has worked in various capacities in the state 2008. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in a Corporate Member of the Society of sector as well as private sector. Civil Engineering from the University of Structural Engineers Sri Lanka. He has Peradeniya and is a Corporate Member of over 14 years experience in the field of the Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka. During Civil Engineering including Structural the period of his service, he was involved Engineering and Project Management. with major projects in many diversified fields such as Roads and Highways, Bridges, Telecommunication, Water and Waste Water, Piling and Buildings in a senior level management capacity. Stewardship 4 Page 95 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Management Team Niroshan Thilakarathne Prabashana Kumara General Manager – Commercial Deputy General Manager – Project Management Division – II Niroshan presently serves in the capacity of the General Manager (Commercial) Prabashana Joined the Company in after serving in various capacities in the December 2006 as an Operations Manager Company over a period of almost 13 years. (Telecom Projects) and was promoted to Also, he has over six years of experience Senior Manager (Telecom Projects) in 2010 before joining Access having worked in and as Deputy General Manager in April a professional firm which provides Audit, 2014. He holds a Bachelor of Science Tax, Finance and Advisory services. He is Degree in Electrical and Electronics also a Finalist of the Institute of Chartered Engineering from the University of Accountants of Sri Lanka. Peradeniya. He has 17 years of experience in the fields of Telecommunication and Ms. Neranjala Priyadarshani Building Services (M&E) and was involved General Manager – Finance in several major projects in Sri Lanka and Neranjala joined the Company in 2005 overseas in Key Management roles. and presently serves in the capacity of the General Manager – Finance of the Nilantha Iddagoda Deputy General Manager – Finance Company. She is a Fellow Member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nilantha joined the Company in 2008 and Sri Lanka and an Associate of the Society presently serves in the capacity of the of Certified Management Accountants of Deputy General Manager – Finance of the Sri Lanka. She holds a Special Degree in Company. He is an Associate Member (ACA) Accountancy and Financial Management of The Institute of Chartered Accountants from the University of Sri Jayewardenepura. of Sri Lanka and an Associate Member of the Association of Accounting Technicians Thasantha Kumara of Sri Lanka. He holds an MBA from the Deputy General Manager Postgraduate Institute of Management (PIM) He joined the Company at the beginning of University of Sri Jayewardenepura and of 2013. Thasantha has over 20 years of holds a B.Sc. Estate Management and experience in the field of Civil Engineering Valuation (Special) Degree from the including Roads, Highways and Bridge University of Sri Jayewardenepura. He has Engineering and Project Management. over 11 years of experience in the field of He has served in the capacity of Resident finance and auditing. Engineer, Design Engineer, Executive Engineer for the Road Development Authority for seven years and in the private sector for 13 years in the capacity of Project Manager, Senior Project Manager and Divisional Co-ordinator in the Roads, Highways and Bridges Division. He has a B.Sc. (Hons.) in Civil Engineering from the University of Moratuwa and a Postgraduate Diploma in Highway and Traffic Engineering from University of Moratuwa. He is also a Corporate member of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka. Page 96 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Constructed on a sound philosophy, ethics, policies, values, accountability and sincerity Corporate of action, AEL’s corporate governance ethos works within a culture of performance that Governance emphasizes a framework of conformance and compliance. To AEL, corporate governance goes beyond the tenets of conformance and compliance into a milieu where the Company business is grown and nurtured into a sustainable and equitable one, presenting all the Company’s stakeholders with a future to grow with AEL. Maximizing shareholder wealth on a sustainable basis while safeguarding the rights of multiple stakeholders are fundamentals which are permeated through all levels of the Company’s management and staff, who in turn work on the trusses of truth, trust, principles and honesty to ensure that the end justifies the means and remain strategically aligned to the core principles of AEL’s corporate governance practice. AEL’s governance and operating model facilitates efficient and timely decision-making coupled with pragmatic resource allocations, which in turn are integrated into a transparent, accountable and ethical framework that are compliant not only with the laws of the country but also with self-imposed codes of ethics, standards and regulations that positions the Company on a platform of critical governance features to ensure a culture that goes beyond compliance. This is thus manifested in the composition of the corporate management team, division of powers and duties and the promotion of sound corporate ethics across the Company. AEL also considers it is its prime responsibility to disclose unbiased, fair and accurate information on the Company’s governance practices on a timely manner to all stakeholders so that they could exercise sound decision-making. Hence this report serves that purpose in great detail. The Company’s vision and mission remain firmly embedded in its future journey with the Board of Directors and Executive Management providing the necessary stewardship to its team and other stakeholders to achieve its objectives. Evaluating and setting the direction of the Company’s strategic initiatives, performance objectives and targets also remain entrenched within the Board of Directors, in addition to strengthening the overarching company principle of protecting the interests of all stakeholders and consolidation of business activities to ensure continuity and sustainability. The Board of Directors of AEL endeavours to provide entrepreneurial leadership through effective formulation and execution of policies and procedures to attain the objectives of the Company. The Board comprises ten Directors out of which five are Executive Directors and five are Non-Executive Directors. There is no female representation on the Board. Chairman of the Company who acts in an executive capacity is mainly responsible for directing the affairs of the Board while maintaining effective external relationships. Day-to-day affairs of the Company are headed by the Managing Director who is supported by the Director/Chief Operating Officer (COO). Three of the Non-Executive Directors are independent in respect of criteria laid down by the regulatory authorities and have no interests or relationships in relation to the affairs of the Company. This composition has encouraged the Company to demonstrate more transparency and independent judgment in the decision-making process. Decisions regarding new Board appointments are taken by the Board collectively and the qualifications and experience of Board members are decided based on the nature of the business of the Company and the value addition the member is expected to bring to the Board and the Company. The Company also adopts the main corporate governance committees under the highest governance body; Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Related Party Transactions Review Committee to strengthen its commitment on corporate governance. Beyond the mandatory requirements, the Company also has in place a Strategic Planning and a Compliance Committee to ensure adherence to best practices. Stewardship 4 Page 97 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance The Board carries out a self-evaluation of its performance both individually as well as collectively against economic, environmental and social targets/goals set at the beginning of each year. Results of these evaluations are properly minuted by the Company Secretary who is responsible for maintaining the same. The Executive Directors are required to adhere with the provisions of the ‘Company Policy on Disciplinary Management’ to avoid any potential conflict of interest. Implementation of the said policy is periodically monitored by a six-member committee. The Non-Executive Directors are required to confirm the existence or non-existence of conflict of interest in the dated declaration submitted to the Board. Shareholders being the primary stakeholder group, the Company has in place a clear mechanism for facilitating their recommendations. Shareholders could meet the members of the Board on prior appointment or through the Company Secretary who keeps a record of their concerns. These concerns are promptly replied either directly or through the Company Secretary as the case maybe. Access Engineering’s Corporate Management team is committed to achieving sustained value creation for the benefit of all stakeholders through adherence to a set of well-defined corporate governance principles, coupled with maintaining effective structures and processes within the Company. The team, which comprises the Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer, Board Members and Senior Management, meet at regular intervals to discuss the management of business activities. Project implementation is carried out by the Project Management Divisions wherein General Managers and Deputy General Managers work on plans and targets, matching those to realistic time frames and ensuring any shortfalls or delays are speedily rectified. Authority is exercised within an ethical framework of business practices established by the Board, which demands compliance with existing laws and regulations as well as best practices in dealing with employees, customers, suppliers and the community at large. AEL has also infused a milieu of increased participation by middle management to permeate the need for a more responsible, transparent and accountable administration, which in turn will strengthen the financial discipline of the Company. The culture of high authority tied up with high accountability has given us the freedom to respond to customer needs faster than most of the competitors which has been the cornerstone of our competitive advantage. The permeation of authority and accountability right down to the shopfloor level and the frontline has freed up the top management to dwell on the more strategic and conceptual inputs. Driving a team branded on excellence, people remain centric to our entire operational capabilities and engineering competencies. The experience and professionalism within AEL’s team has been the catalyst in integrating its core competencies into strategic partnerships. Maintaining a healthy work life balance with an environment of superior human resource development through a comprehensive Quality Management System and Occupational Health and Safety Management System inculcate the culture of meritocracy and performance oriented individuals who make up for an excellent team, driven to achieve ambitious goals. Part of the compensation of staff including Executive Directors and the Corporate Management is performance based and the distribution of the same is decided by the Board and the Management after the evaluation of multiple factors including but not limited to performance of the Company and the individual concerned. Employees are encouraged to make recommendations to the Board through their respective department heads. Page 98 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance BUSINESS ETHICS AEL’s Code of Ethics has been devised with the objective of developing and maintaining long term relationships with all stakeholders while satisfying the requirements of our valuable customers. It is the Company’s belief that upholding these values will result in the Company being profitable. Thus every employee at Access Engineering including the new recruits are firmly guided to abide by the following ethics: Equality Recognizing the rights of all stakeholders Carrying out activities with due consideration to their rights Self-Regulation Honesty Solving conflicts in a fair and Conducting business in a expeditious manner professional manner Meeting all regulatory requirements Upholding the principles of fair play AEL’s Code of Ethics Co-operativeness Integrity Upholding a healthy business Being transparent about business environment activities Co-operating with other Serving all stakeholders with businesses and professionals honest values Discipline Having company interest over self interest Carrying out work in an orderly manner INTERNAL CONTROL At Access Engineering, Internal Controls are considered a fundamental and integral part of good corporate governance because the Board of Directors is responsible for identifying and managing all risks of the Company. To this effect the Company’s Internal Audit Department provides reasonable assurance to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Management that the internal controls imposed over core organizational processes are effective enough so as to ensure the achievement of the ultimate objective of wealth maximization of the Company and its shareholders. It presents the Company with a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management/mitigation process, internal controls and governance activities within the Company while adding value. It also assists the Company to meet its obligations of adhering to the practice of good corporate governance. The system of internal controls at Access Engineering is one that is embedded within the Company and not a separate exercise and is able to respond to emerging risks within and outside the Company and includes procedures for reporting control failures and weaknesses, if prevalent. Key functions of the Internal Audit Department include the following: • Objectively evaluating current risks and the internal control framework • Systematically analyzing business process and associated controls • Reviewing the existence and value of assets • Providing information on major frauds and irregularities • Ad hoc review of other areas of concern, including unacceptable levels of risk Stewardship 4 3 Page 99 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance • Reviewing the compliance framework and specific compliance issues • Reviewing operational and financial performance • Making recommendations for more effective and efficient use of resources • Assessing the accomplishment of corporate goals and objectives • Providing feedback on adherence to Organizational Values and Code of Conduct/Code of Ethics • Monitoring compliance with Company’s policies and procedures • Reviewing systems for ensuring legislative or regulatory issues impacting the Company are recognized and addressed properly • Conducting special investigative reviews at the request of Management/Board The Company adopts a risk assessment based approach with regard to its Internal Audit functions with the objective of Maintaining Safety, Reliability, Profitability and Integrity of the organization and to overlook key operational and regulatory deficiencies. In preparing the Internal Audit Plan for each financial year, the Company adopts a balanced approach considering both high risk areas as well as core organizational processes. Due to the increasing complexity of the business environment the Company operates in, the more recent Internal Audit Plans have adopted a flexible structure so as to facilitate unforeseeable and ad hoc situations. Once prepared, the draft plan is presented to the Corporate Management for review and comments prior to being presented to the Audit Committee for final ratification. Based on a thorough evaluation and previous audit findings the department’s key focus areas for the financial year 2016/2017 were identified to be statutory compliance, information technology, enterprise resource planning system, public complaints and financial reporting. Page 100 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance COMPANY POLICIES Quality Policy AEL has always been concerned about its multifaceted stakeholders ranging from customers, its dedicated and committed staff, principals, subcontractors, suppliers and the society at large. This concern is driven by the Company’s commitment to satisfy customer needs by providing high quality civil construction services with effective, efficient and innovative solutions. This commitment is met by continually improving the quality management system whilst adhering to the ISO 9001:2008 and other applicable regulatory requirements through cost effective, profitable, safe and sound environmental friendly operations. Environment Policy AEL recognizes that in carrying out its activities, it has a responsibility to customers, employees and the general public to minimize environmental impacts. The Company’s environmental policy has been devised around this motive to: 1. Ensure compliance with all applicable legal and other requirements, which relate to its environmental aspects. 2. Promote environmental awareness and commitment to the policy amongst all employees and stakeholders through training and communications to encourage suppliers and subcontractors to apply sound environmental principles. 3. Avoid the wastage of materials, water and energy by paying careful attention to their use. 4. Prevent pollution and minimize environmental disturbance from its activities. 5. Promote continual improvement by reviewing the environmental aspects related to Company activities by setting appropriate targets and objectives for improving performance. This commitment is met by continually improving the environmental management system whilst adhering to the ISO 14001:2004 and other applicable regulatory requirements. Health and Safety Policy AEL is committed to uplift the living standards and the well-being of everyone who is affected by its operations. This commitment is strictly embedded in the Company’s affairs through the Health and Safety Policy which focuses on preventing injury and ill health of employees and others affected by its operations and complying with all legal and other requirements to which it has subscribed. AEL is firmly dedicated to promote awareness of health and safety and continuously improve the Health and Safety Management System and performance by periodically reviewing and making modifications of the same. This commitment is met by continually improving the Health and Safety Management system whilst adhering to the OHSAS 18001 and other applicable regulatory requirements. The above policies are enforced and implemented companywide on a continuous basis. Effectiveness of their implementation is measured from time to time through periodic audits conducted both internally and externally. Stewardship 4 3 Page 101 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Appointed by the Board of Directors, the Committee comprises three (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors and one (01) Non-Executive Director of the Board. Members of the Audit Committee Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Independent Non-Executive Director Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Non-Executive Director Suresh Dilhan Perera Non-Executive Director The Audit Committee Charter formalizes the authority, responsibilities and specific duties pertaining to the Committee as follows: 1. Overseeing preparation, presentation and adequacy of disclosures in the Financial Statements of the Company, in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 2. Ensuring compliance with financial reporting requirements, information requirements of the Companies Act and other relevant financial-related regulations and requirements 3. Ascertaining that the Company’s internal controls and risk management processes are adequate and meet the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards requirements 4. Assessing the independence and performance of the Company’s External Auditors 5. Making recommendations to the Board pertaining to appointment, reappointment and removal of External Auditors and to approve remuneration and terms of engagement of the External Auditors Remuneration Committee Comprising three (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors and one (01) Non-Executive Director of the Board, this Committee is appointed by the Board. Members of the Remuneration Committee Dinesh Weerakkody (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Independent Non-Executive Director Kumar Ranasinghe Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne Independent Non-Executive Director Suresh Dilhan Perera Non-Executive Director With the primary objective of the Company’s remuneration policy being effective enough to attract and retain the best human capital to sustain operations while rewarding performance, the Remuneration Committee is tasked with recommending the remuneration payable to the Executive Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and/or equivalent position thereof. This recommendation is made to the Board, which is responsible for the final determination upon consideration of such recommendations. Page 102 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance The Committee met on the following occasions to discuss matters relating to the financial year of which the Members’ attendance was as follows: Name 16th June 2015 22nd September 2015 Dinesh Weerakkody (Chairman)   Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe   Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne   Suresh Dilhan Perera  – Related Party Transactions Review Committee Established during the financial year by the Board, this Committee comprises three (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors and two (02) Executive Directors of the Board. Members of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee: Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Independent Non-Executive Director Kumar Ranasinghe Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Non-Executive Director Joseph Christopher Joshua Managing Director Rohana Fernando Director/Chief Operating Officer The purpose of the Committee is to provide independent review, approval and oversight of all proposed Related Party Transactions in accordance with the Related Party Transactions Policy. The Related Party Transactions Review Committee Charter formalizes the authority, responsibilities and specific duties pertaining to the Committee as follows: 1. Providing independent review, approval and oversight of related party transactions on the terms set forth in the Related Party Transactions Policy 2. Reviewing the Charter and Policy at least annually and recommending amendments to the Charter and Policy to the Board as and when determined to be appropriate by the Committee 3. Performing such other functions as assigned by law and regulations or the Board During the financial year the Committee met once on 23rd March 2016 with the attendance of all Committee Members. Strategic Planning Committee Essentially focusing on assessing existing and new investments, this Committee is responsible for identifying, appraising and monitoring the investment purview, in order to ensure optimum resource allocation by the Company. Stewardship 4 3 Page 103 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Members of the Strategic Planning Committee Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera (Chairman) Chairman Joseph Christopher Joshua Managing Director Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando Executive Director/ Chief Operating Officer Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Independent Non-Executive Director Kumar Ranasinghe The Committee’s mandate includes: 1. Formulating criteria and guidelines for assessing existing and new investments. 2. Planning investments periodically, targeting at optimum utilization of resources. 3. Reviewing existing investments. 4. Assessing new investments for strategic fit, risk profile, profitability and future potential. 5. Making recommendations to the Board on investment portfolio, contingency planning and desired future corporate goals. Compliance Committee The Compliance Committee is appointed by the Chief Operating Officer and is set up to further strengthen good governance at Corporate Management level. This mechanism will bridge the gap between the Senior Management and the Board of Directors when important decisions are to be made on operational issues. The Board oversees the performance of the Company against the triple bottom line Objectives and Codes of Conduct based on the recommendations made by the Compliance Committee through the COO. Members of the Compliance Committee Rohana Fernando (Chairman) Chief Operating Officer/Executive Director V K Manatunge (Convener) Senior General Manager Palitha Wanigasundara General Manager (Project Management Division III) Manoaj Jayahsuriya General Manager (Project Management Division I) Kosala Wickramasinghe General Manager (Planning & Development) Niroshan Thilakaratne General Manager (Commercial) The Committee’s mandate includes: 1. Establish and monitor if the organization’s objectives are met. 2. Evaluate Company policies, formulate new policies, advise and take the initiative to revise existing policies. 3. Ensure that policies are in compliance with laws and regulations. 4. Ensure that project management, accounting, procurement, stores and human resource functions are carried out according to established processes and procedures. 5. Ensure that control systems are laid down and operated to promote the most economic, efficient and effective use of resources as well as safeguard assets. Page 104 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance COMPANY’S ADHERENCE TO THE REQUIREMENTS STIPULATED IN SECTION 7.10 ON ‘CORPORATE GOVERNANCE’ OF THE CONTINUING LISTING REQUIREMENTS OF THE COLOMBO STOCK EXCHANGE 7.10 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Status of Compliance 7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors (a) The Board of Directors of a Listed Entity shall include The Board comprises of ten (10) Directors of which Complied at least five (05) are Executive Directors and five (05) are Two Non-Executive Directors; or Non-Executive Directors. Such number of Non-Executive Directors equivalent to one-third of the total number of Directors whichever is higher. (b) The total number of Directors is to be calculated based on the number as at the conclusion of the immediately preceding Annual General Meeting. (c) Any change occurring to this ratio shall be rectified within ninety (90) days from the date of the change. 7.10.2 Independent Directors (a) Where the constitution of the Board of Directors The Board comprises of five (05) Non-Executive Complied includes only two Non-Executive Directors in terms of Directors out of which three (03) are independent. Rule 7.10.1 above, both such Non-Executive Directors Each NED signs and submits an annual shall be independent. In all other instances two or declaration to the Board of his independence 1/3 of Non-Executive Directors appointed to the against the criteria specified in Appendix 7A of Board of Directors, whichever is higher shall be the Listing Rules. ‘independent’. (b) The Board shall require each Non-Executive Director to submit a signed and dated declaration annually of his/her independence or non-independence against the specified criteria. A specimen of the said declaration is given in Appendix 7A of this Section. 7.10.3 Disclosure Relating to Directors (a) The Board shall make a determination annually as The Company annually reviews the independence Complied to the Independence or Non-Independence of each or non-independence of each of the Non-Executive Non-Executive Director based on such declaration Directors and the names of Directors determined and other information available to the Board and shall to be independent are disclosed on page 87 of the set out in the Annual Report the names of Directors Annual Report. determined to be independent. Brief résumés of all Directors are found on (b) In the event a Director does not qualify as pages 88 – 89 of the Report. ‘independent’ against any of the criteria setout below but if the Board, taking account all the circumstances, is of the opinion that the Director is nevertheless ‘independent’, the Board shall specify the criteria not met and the basis for its determination in the Annual Report. (c) In addition to disclosures relating to the independence of a Director set out above, the Board shall publish in its Annual Report a brief résumé of each Director on its Board which includes information on the nature of his/her expertise in relevant functional areas. (d) Upon appointment of a new Director to its Board, the Entity shall forthwith provide to the exchange a brief résumé of such Director for dissemination to the public. Such résumé shall include information on the matters itemized in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above. Stewardship 4 3 Page 105 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Status of Compliance 7.10.4 Criteria for defining ‘Independence’ Subject to Rule 7.10.3 (a) and (b), a Non-Executive In determining the Independence/ Complied Director shall not be considered independent if he/she – Non-Independence of the NEDs the Company takes • Has been employed by the Listed Entity during the into account criteria specified in Section 7.10.4. period of two years immediately preceding appointment as Director. • Currently has/had during the period of two (02) years immediately preceding appointment as a Director, a material business relationship with the Listed Entity, whether directly or indirectly. • Has a close family member who is a Director, Chief Executive Officer (and/or equivalent position) in the listed Entity. • Has a significant shareholding in the Entity. • Has served on the Board of the listed entity continuously for a period exceeding nine (09) years from the date of the first appointment; provided however, if such Director is reappointed after a period of two (02) years from the date of completion of the proceeding nine (09) year period, he will be considered as ‘independent’ for the purpose of this section. • Is employed in another company or business In which a majority of the other Directors of the listed entity are employed or are Directors; or In which a majority of the other Directors of the listed entity have a significant shareholding or material business relationships; or That has significant shareholding in the Listed Entity or with which the Listed Entity has a business connection. • Is a Director of another company In which a majority of the other Directors of the listed entity are employed or are Directors, That has a business connection in the Listed Entity or a significant shareholding. • Has a material business relationship or a significant shareholding in another company or business In which a majority of the other Directors of the listed entity are employed or are Directors; and or Which has a business connection with the listed entity or significant shareholding in the same. 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee A listed entity shall have a Remuneration Committee in conformity with the following: (a) Composition The Remuneration Committee of the Company Complied The Remuneration Committee shall comprise of a consists of four (04) Non-Executive Directors out of minimum of two Independent Non-Executive Directors which three (03) are independent. (in instances where an entity has only two Directors on its Board); or of Non-Executive Directors a majority of whom shall be independent, whichever shall be higher. Page 106 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Status of Compliance (b) Functions The Remuneration Committee operates with the Complied The Remuneration Committee shall recommend the primary objective of ensuring that the remuneration remuneration payable to the Executive Directors and policy of the Company is effective enough to attract Chief Executive Officer of the listed entity and/or and retain the best human capital. The Committee equivalent position thereof, to the Board of the listed holds the responsibility of recommending the entity which will make the final determination upon remuneration payable to the Executive Directors consideration of such recommendations. of the Company. The recommendation is made to the Board, which is responsible for the final determination upon consideration of such recommendations. (c) Disclosure in the Annual Report Details with regard to the Remuneration Committee Complied The Annual Report should set out the names of and the remuneration policy of the Company are Directors (or persons in the parent company’s disclosed on pages 101 – 102 of this Report. Committee in the case of a group company) Refer Note 36.5 of ‘Notes to the Financial comprising the Remuneration Committee, contain a Statements’ for a disclosure of the aggregate statement of the remuneration policy and set out the remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive aggregate remuneration paid to Executive and Directors. Non-Executive Directors. 7.10.6 Audit Committee A listed entity shall have an Audit Committee in conformity with the following: (a) Composition The Audit Committee of the Company comprises of Complied The Audit Committee shall compromise three (03) Independent Non-Executive Directors and Of a minimum of two Independent Non-Executive one (01) Non-Executive Director of the Board. Two Directors (in instances where a entity has only two (02) members of the Committee are members of Directors on its Board); professional accounting bodies. or Of Non-Executive Directors a majority of whom shall be independent, whichever shall be higher. (b) Functions The Charter of the Audit Committee of the Company Complied Shall include includes the following: 1. Overseeing of the preparation, presentation and • Overseeing the preparation, presentation adequacy of disclosures in the Financial Statements and adequacy of disclosures in the Financial of a listed entity, in accordance with Sri Lanka Statements of the Company, in accordance with Accounting Standards. the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 2. Overseeing of the entity’s compliance with financial • Ensuring compliance with financial reporting reporting requirements, information requirements requirements of the Companies Act and other of the Companies Act and other relevant financial relevant financial-related regulations and reporting related regulations and requirements. requirements; 3. Overseeing the processes to ensure that the • Ascertaining that the Company’s internal controls entity’s internal controls and risk management are and risk management processes are adequate adequate, to meet the requirements of the Sri Lanka and meet the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards Auditing Standards. requirements; 4. Assessment of the independence and performance • Assessing the independence and performance of of the Entity’s External Auditors. the Company’s External Auditors; 5. To make recommendations to the Board pertaining • Making recommendations to the Board to appointment, reappointment and removal of pertaining to appointment, reappointment and External Auditors and to approve the remuneration removal of External Auditors and to approve and terms of engagement of the External Auditors. remuneration and terms of engagement of the External Auditors. Stewardship 4 3 Page 107 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Status of Compliance (c) Disclosure in the Annual Report Composition of the Audit Committee is disclosed on Complied The names of the Directors (or persons in the Parent page 124 of the Annual Report. Company’s Committee in the case of a Group Company) Independence of the Auditors is disclosed on comprising the Audit Committee should be disclosed in page 140 of the Annual Report. the Annual Report. Audit Committee Report is found on page 124 of the The Committee shall make a determination of the Annual Report. independence of the Auditors and shall disclose the basis for such determination in the Annual Report. The Annual Report shall contain a report by the Audit Committee, setting out the manner of compliance by the entity in relation to the above, during the period to which the Annual Report relates. COMPANY’S ADHERENCE TO CODE OF BEST PRACTICES ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ISSUED JOINTLY BY THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF SRI LANKA AND THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA Section 01: The Company Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A. Directors A.1 The Board A.1 Every public company should be headed by an Effective The Company is headed by a Unitary Board Complied Board, which should direct, lead and control the Company. comprising ten (10) members. Primary objective of the Board is to provide necessary stewardship, strategic direction, a policy framework and a governance structure in order to achieve the vision of the Company. Composition of the Board is as follows: • Five (5) Executive Directors • Two (2) Non-Executive Directors • Three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors The Board consists of Professionals from diverse fields such as Engineering, Accounting, Finance, Business Development, Human Resources and Consultancy. They also sufficiently represent professional, academic and entrepreneurial domains all of which are necessary for the effective functioning of the Board. Additionally all Members of the Board possess the adequate level of skills, competencies and knowledge in their respective fields of specialization so as to provide overall strategic direction to the Company. The Board also sets the level of Risk Appetite of the Company. There are four (4) Subcommittees of the Board of which three (3) are mandatory and one (1) is voluntary. These Committees ensure Company’s adherence to the best practices of corporate governance in conducting business. Page 108 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.1.1 The Board should meet regularly. Board meetings should During the year 5 scheduled Board meetings were Complied be held at least once in every quarter of a financial year, conducted all of which were well planned and in order to effectively execute the Board’s responsibilities, informed in advance. Attendance of Members at the while providing information to the Board on a structured meetings was as follows: and regular basis. Name 19th 29th 29th 4th 3rd May Jun. Jul. Nov. Feb. 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 S J S Perera      R J S Gomez      J C Joshua      S H S Mendis      D A R Fernando      S D Munasinghe      Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe      N D Gunaratne      S D Perera      D Weerakkody      A.1.2 The Board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of The Board of Directors provides the entrepreneurial Complied the Company within a framework of prudent and effective leadership through effective formulation and controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed. execution of strategies in order to ensure sustainable value creation to all stakeholders. The Corporate Management team which is collectively responsible for the execution of strategies set by the Board is directly headed by the Managing Director and the Chief Operating Officer. The system of internal controls which is based on a ‘Risk Assessment Approach’ ensures safety, reliability, profitability and integrity of the organization within a broader framework of enterprise risk management. The Board is responsible for the efficient functioning of the system as the level of risk appetite of the Company is set by the Board. The Board is also responsible for the preparation of Financial Statements of the Company to reflect a true and fair view of the state of affairs, establishment of an adequate corporate governance framework and the appointment of External Auditors. A.1.3 The Board collectively, and Directors individually, The Board collectively and the Directors individually Complied must act in accordance with the laws of the country, have recognized their duty to act in accordance as applicable to the business enterprise. There should be with the prevailing laws of the country. The Board a procedure agreed to by the Board of Directors, to obtain also complies with the sound framework of business independent professional advice where necessary, practices in place which further strengthens at the Company’s expense. compliance with existing laws and regulations. In matters of strategic importance to the Company, the Board obtains independent professional advice if it deems necessary at the expense of the Company. Stewardship 4 3 Page 109 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.1.4 All Directors should have access to the advice and All Directors had access to the services of a Complied services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to professional secretarial company which ensured the Board in ensuring that Board procedures are followed that the Board received information on a timely and that applicable rules and regulations are complied manner for the effective conduct of meetings. The with. Any questions of the removal of the Company firm also provided the Board with advice on matters Secretary should be a matter for the Board as a whole. relating to compliance with rules and regulations, proper conduct of meetings and the adoption of best practices of corporate governance. The firm is also responsible for the distribution of Company’s Annual Report to its shareholders. A.1.5 All Directors should bring independent judgment to bear All Directors are encouraged to bring independent Complied on issues of strategy, performance, resources (including judgment on matters relating to strategic direction key appointments) and standards of business conduct. of the Company, effective utilization of resources, performance and business conduct. Transparency of the judgments is further enhanced with the existence of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors who continue to critically evaluate the decisions of the Executive Directors. All Directors have an equal opportunity to express their views and ideas and the composition of the Board is sufficient enough to ensure balance of power. No Director dominates the conduct of meetings or the Board’s decision-making process. A.1.6 Every Director should dedicate adequate time and effort All Directors dedicated an adequate amount of time Complied to matters of the Board and the Company, to ensure that on matters relating to the Company and the Board. the duties and responsibilities owed to the Company Their contribution to the Company was evident in are satisfactorily discharged. It must be recognized that the participation at Board meetings, Board Directors have to dedicate sufficient time before a meeting Subcommittee meetings and in the decisions to review Board papers and call for additional information passed through circular resolution. Relevant Board and clarification, and after a meeting to follow up on issues papers together with supplementary information consequent to the meeting. This should be supplemented were sent at least a week prior to the Board by a time allocation for familiarization with business meetings so as to give them adequate time to changes, operations, risks and controls. critically review and study the contents. In the event additional information was requested by the Board through the Company Secretary the same was made available at the earliest in order to enhance the effectiveness of Board decisions. A.1.7 Every Director should receive appropriate training A new Director who is appointed to the Board Complied when first appointed to the Board of a company and receives an orientation on the operations, risk subsequently as necessary. Training curricula should management, internal control and other areas from encompass both general aspects of directorship and the Managing Director in order to familiarize the new matters specific to the particular Industry/Company Director with the Company. concerned. A Director must recognize that there is a need Majority of the Independent Non-Executive Directors for continuous training and an expansion of knowledge are members of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. and skills required to effectively perform his duties as a Each Director was well aware of the need to Director. The Board should regularly review and agree the continuously enhance his knowledge and skills so training and development needs of the Directors. as to effectively perform his duties as a Director. A.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) A.2 There are two key tasks at the top of every public The Chairman is responsible for the effective Complied company – conducting of the business of the Board and conduct of the business of the Board while the facilitating executive responsibility for management of the executive responsibility for management of the Company’s business. There should be a clear division of Company’s business is vested with the Managing responsibilities at the head of the Company, which will Director. Hence, there is a balance of power & ensure a balance of power and authority, such that no one authority. The Managing Director is supported by individual has unfettered powers of decision. the Chief Operating Officer in managing the day-to-day affairs of the Company. Decision-making at the highest level happens by adopting the rule of simple majority. No one individual is vested with unfettered powers of decision-making. Page 110 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.2.1 A decision to combine the posts of Chairman and CEO The Chairman is mainly responsible for leading, Complied in one person should be justified and highlighted in the directing and controlling the affairs of the Board Annual Report. including the Board balance, effective conduct of Board meetings and Special meetings of the Board. He is also responsible for maintaining effective external relationships. Day-to-day affairs of the Company are headed by the Managing Director who is supported by the Director/Chief Operating Officer (COO). The MD and COO give leadership to the Corporate Management team who is collectively responsible for the conduct of day-to-day operations. A.3 Chairman’s Role A.3 The Chairman’s role in preserving good corporate As the highest member of the organization, the Complied governance is crucial. As the person responsible for Chairman is committed to the practice of good running the Board, the Chairman should preserve order corporate governance. As the head at the Board and facilitate the effective discharge of Board functions. meetings, the Chairman ensures that the the Board Members receive adequate information prior to every meeting together with the agenda, facilitates discussions at the meetings, encourages participation of all members and accurate recording of proceedings through minutes. He is responsible for ensuring that the objectives of the meeting are achieved and adequately discussed among its members. Chairman is also responsible for the composition and the structure of the Board, representing the views of the Company to the public, maintaining relationships with shareholders and overseeing the self-evaluation of Board Members performance. A.3.1 The Chairman should conduct Board proceedings in a The Chairman is responsible for making sure that Complied proper manner. the agenda, minutes of prior meetings, Board papers and supplementary information are circulated among the members in advance giving sufficient time for preparation. He encourages active and effective participation of all Board members facilitating productive discussions. The Chairman ensures the proper recording of all matters discussed at the meetings through the Company Secretary. He is also responsible for making the Board members aware of the importance of creating value to all stakeholders of the Company. A.4 Financial Acumen A.4 The Board should ensure the availability within it of those The Board compromises of four (4) members with Complied with sufficient financial acumen and knowledge to offer extensive knowledge and experience in financial guidance on matters of finance. matters and who are professionally qualified in finance. This is further strengthened since three (3) of these members operate in a Non-Executive capacity. In addition, rest of the Board members sufficiently possesses knowledge on financial matters based on experience gathered in their respective fields. Stewardship 4 3 Page 111 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.5 Board Balance A.5 It is preferable for the Board to have a balance of The Board compromise of ten (10) Directors of Complied Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that no which five (5) are Executive Directors and five individual or small group of individuals can dominate the (5) are Non-Executive. This ratio was maintained Board’s decision-taking. throughout the financial year. Thus no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-taking. Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day operations of the Company, thus ensures independent judgment. A.5.1 The Board should include Non-Executive Directors of 50% of the Board of Directors of the Company Complied sufficient caliber and number for their views to carry operates in a Non-Executive capacity and this ratio significant weight in the Board’s decisions. The Board was maintained throughout the year. Every NED on should include at least two Non-Executive Directors or the Board has excelled in their respective discipline. such number of Non-Executive Directors equivalent to Thus, their contribution to the decision-making of one third of total number of Directors, whichever is higher. the Board was noteworthy during the year, both In the event, the Chairman and CEO is the same person, quantitatively as well as qualitatively. Non-Executive Directors should comprise a majority of the Board. A.5.2 Where the constitution of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of the Company comprises Complied includes only two Non-Executive Directors, both such five (5) Non-Executive Directors out of which three Non-Executive Directors should be ‘independent’. In all (3) are Independent and this ratio was maintained other instances two or one-third of Non-Executive Directors throughout the year. appointed to the Board of Directors whichever is higher should be ‘independent’. A.5.3 For a Director to be deemed ‘independent’ such Director Three (3) Non-Executive Directors on the Board are Complied should be independent of management and free of not involved in day-to-day affairs of the Company any business or other relationship that could materially and they do not have any business or other interfere with or could reasonably be perceived to relationship that could materially interfere with materially interfere with the exercise of their unfettered and the exercise of their unfettered and independent independent judgment. judgment. Additionally, each Independent NED submits a written declaration of his independence to the Board on an annual basis. This written annual submission is also considered as a part of their annual performance evaluation. Based on the written declaration submitted by the Independent NEDs for the financial year 2015/16, they were considered as continuing to be independent. A.5.4 Each Non-Executive Director should submit a signed and During the year, each Non-Executive Director Complied dated declaration annually of his/her independence or submitted a dated and signed declaration regarding non-independence against the specified criteria set out in their independence against the specified criteria the specimen in Schedule H. set out in the Code. A.5.5 The Board should make a determination annually as to Based on the declarations submitted to the Board Complied the independence or non-independence of each and other information available, the following NEDs Non-Executive Director based on such a declaration made of the Board were decided to be independent as at of decided criteria and other information available to the the end of the financial year. Board. The Board should determine whether the Director is • Mr. D S Weerakkody independent in character and judgment and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect • Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe or could appear to affect, the Director’s judgment. The • Mr. N D Gunarathne Board should specify the criteria not met and the basis for its determination in the Annual Report, if it determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which indicate the contrary and should set out in the Annual Report the names of Directors determined to be ‘independent’. Page 112 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.5.6 If an Alternate Director is appointed by a Non-Executive This is not applicable as there are no Alternate Not Applicable Director such as Alternate Director should not be an Directors in the Company. Executive of the Company. If an Alternate Director is appointed by an Independent Director, the person who is appointed also should meet the criteria of independence and the provision on minimum number of Independent Directors also should be satisfied. A.5.7 In the event, the Chairman and CEO is the same person, This is not applicable as the Chairman of the Not Applicable the Board should appoint one of the Independent Company is not the CEO. Non-Executive Directors to be the ‘Senior Independent Director’ (SID) and disclose this appointment in the Annual Report. A.5.8 The Senior Independent Director should make himself Not Applicable Not Applicable available for confidential discussions with other Directors who may have concerns which they believe have not been properly considered by the Board as a whole and which pertain to significant issues that are detrimental to the Company. A.5.9 The Chairman should hold meetings with the The Chairman holds meetings with the NEDs without Complied Non-Executive Directors only, without the Executive the presence of Executive Directors as and when Directors being present, as necessary and at least once necessary. During the year, one (1) such meeting each year. was held. A.5.10 Where Directors have concerns about the matters of the During the year, there were no matters of the Complied Company which cannot be unanimously resolved, Company that the BOD was unable to resolve they should ensure their concerns are recorded in the unanimously. However, in the event such matter Board minutes. arises, the Company Secretary records the same in sufficient detail in the Board minutes. These minutes are circulated among Board members prior to the next meeting. A.6 Supply of Information A.6 The Board should be provided with timely information in a The Board was provided with timely information by Complied form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge way of Management Reports and Board Papers its duties. during the year. The information was made available by the Company Secretary along with the agenda at least 7 days prior to the meeting in order to provide sufficient time for preparation. In the event information provided was not sufficient supplementary information was provided on the request of Board members. A.6.1 Management has an obligation to provide the Board Members of the Board (mainly Executive) are Complied with appropriate and timely information, but information provided with Management Reports and Project volunteered by management may not be enough in all Performance Reports on a monthly basis. In circumstances and Directors should make further addition to this, the entire Board is provided with inquiries where necessary. The Chairman should ensure Board Papers and other relevant information all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at by the Corporate Management. The Board is Board meetings. also appraised on areas such as CSR, Risk Management, Corporate Governance, Human Resources and Legal Compliance by the Corporate Management time to time. In instances where additional information is required the same is requested from the Corporate Management or the responsible individuals. As and when necessary the Corporate Management also makes presentations to the Board in order to enable sound decision-making. The Board has free and open access to all Corporate Management members. Stewardship 4 3 Page 113 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.6.2 The minutes, agenda and papers required for a Board Effective conduct of the Board meetings was Complied meeting should ordinarily be provided to Directors at facilitated through the proper circulation of agenda, least seven (7) days before the meeting, to facilitate its Board minutes and other papers among the effective conduct. Directors by the Company Secretary seven (7) days before the meeting. A.7 Appointments to the Board A.7 There should be a formal and transparent procedure for All Board appointments are based on the capacity Complied the appointment of New Directors to the Board. of the individual concerned to pass the ‘fit & proper’ test which in turn is based on the qualifications, experience and the value that can be added by the individual to the Board as well as to the Company. Existing Directors are vested with the autonomy to critically evaluate the potential candidate in the above test and a final decision is taken by the Board collectively. A.7.1 Nomination Committee should be established to make The Company does not have a Nomination Not Complied recommendations to the Board on all new Board Committee in place. However, the existing Board appointments. Terms of Reference for Nomination members function in a manner that is similar to a Committees are set out in Schedule A. The Chairman formally appointed Nomination Committee in matters and members of the Nomination Committee should be concerning new appointments to the Board. identified in the Annual Report. A.7.2 The Nomination Committee or in the absence of a During the year, the Board critically evaluated the Complied Nomination Committee, the Board as a whole should ‘quality’ of the Board in terms of their qualifications, annually assess Board composition to ascertain whether experience, independence and the value that can the combined knowledge and experience of the Board be added to the Company to effectively meet the matches the strategic demands facing the Company. The demands of the Company. The Board is satisfied findings of such assessment should be taken into account with its composition and the level of qualifications, when new Board appointments are considered and when knowledge and experience it possesses as a incumbent Directors come up for re-election. whole in order to meet strategic demands facing the Company. A.7.3 Upon the appointment of a new Director to the Board, the No new Director was appointed to the Board Complied Company should forthwith disclose to shareholders: during the year. However, all new appointments are promptly communicated to the CSE together with • A brief résumé of the Director; a brief rèsumè containing the member’s expertise, • The nature of his expertise in relevant functional areas; other Directorships held and independence for • The names of companies in which the Director holds public dissemination. directorships or memberships in Board Committees; and • Whether such Director can be considered independent. A.8 Re-Election A.8 All Directors should be required to submit themselves for Directors are reelected with the sanction of the Complied reelection at regular intervals and at least once in every shareholders at the Annual General Meeting three years. of the Company. The Articles of Association of the Company requires one NED to appear for reelection every year and as such 2015 saw the reelection of R J S. Gomez who retired by rotation. Recommendations on the reelection of Directors are given by the Company Secretary and the same is reviewed by the Board. A.8.1 Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified In terms of the Articles of Association of the Complied terms subject to reelection and to the provisions in the Company one NED is required to retire by rotation Companies Act relating to the removal of a Director and every year. The reelection of NEDs is sanctioned by their reappointment should not be automatic. the shareholders at the AGM of the Company. Page 114 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.8.2 All Directors including the Chairman of the Board, No new Director was appointed to the Board Complied should be subject to election by shareholders at the first during the year. However, in the event a new opportunity after their appointment, and to reelection Director is appointed to the Board, he/she will offer thereafter at intervals of no more than three years. The himself/herself for election by the shareholders at names of Directors submitted for election or reelection the first opportunity. should be accompanied by a resume minimally as setout in paragraph A.7.3 above, to enable shareholders to make an informed decision on their election. A.9 Appraisal of Board Performance A.9 Boards should periodically appraise their own Performance of the Board is evaluated from time Complied performance in order to ensure that Board responsibilities to time with at least once a year to ensure that are satisfactorily discharged. responsibilities are satisfactorily discharged. Appraisal of Board performance is usually coordinated by the Company Secretary and overseen by the Chairman. A.9.1 The Board should annually appraise itself on its Performance of the Board for the FY 2015/16 was Complied performance in the discharge of its key responsibilities. assessed at the first Board meeting conducted for the FY 2016/17. The evaluation was done against the targets and goals set at the beginning of the FY 2015/16 covering areas such as strategic direction of the Company, regulatory and legal compliance, corporate governance, risk management, financial performance, systems management and internal audit function among others. The Board was satisfied as a whole of its performance in the year 2015/16. A.9.2 The Board should also undertake an annual self-evaluation Members of the Board and Board Committees Complied of its own performance and that of its Committees. carried out self-assessments of their performance for the FY 2015/16 against targets set at the beginning of the year. Minutes of the results of these assessments were recorded by the Company Secretary and areas for improvement in the FY 2016/17 were identified. Each individual Director was satisfied of his performance in the FY 2015/16. Over the years both individual and collective performance appraisal of the Board has facilitated continuous development and improvement. A.9.3 The Board should state how such performance evaluations Refer A.9.2 above. Complied have been conducted in the Annual Report. A.10 Disclosure of Information in Respect of Directors A.10 Shareholders should be kept advised of relevant details in Shareholders are informed as and when necessary Complied respect of Directors. about changes to the Board, interest in the shares of the Company and other relevant details through disclosures and financial results released to the CSE for public dissemination. Stewardship 4 3 Page 115 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance A.10.1 The Annual Report of the Company should setout the Please refer the following pages for the information Complied relevant information in relation to each Director. relating to Directors of the Company. Information Requirement Page/s • Brief Profile 88 – 89 • Nature of Expertise 88 – 89 • Related Party Transactions 188 – 192 • Other Directorships Held 191 • Attendance at Board Meetings 108 • Composition of Board Committees 101 – 102 • Attendance at Committee Meetings 102, 124 & 126 • Remunerations 192 A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive Officer A.11 The Board should be required at least annually to assess Not applicable as the Company doesn’t Not Applicable the performance of the CEO. have a CEO. A.11.1 At the commencement of every fiscal year, the Board Not applicable as the Company doesn’t Not Applicable in consultation with the CEO, should set, inline with the have a CEO. short, medium and long term objectives of the Company, reasonable financial and non-financial targets that should be met by the CEO during the year. A.11.2 The performance of the CEO should be evaluated by Not applicable as the Company doesn’t Not Applicable the Board at the end of each fiscal year to ascertain have a CEO. whether the targets set by the Board have been achieved and if not, whether the failure to meet such targets was reasonable in the circumstances. B. Directors’ Remuneration B.1 Remuneration Procedure B.1 Companies should establish a formal and transparent Remuneration payable to the Executive Directors Complied procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration of the Company is recommended by the and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual Remuneration Committee. Remuneration payable Directors. No Director should be involved in deciding to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company is his/her own remuneration. recommended by the Board as a whole. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. B.1.1 To avoid potential conflicts of interest, the Board of The Remuneration Committee is responsible Complied Directors should set up a Remuneration Committee to for recommending the remuneration payable to make recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms the Executive Directors. The Committee makes of reference, on the Company’s framework of remunerating recommendations to the Board which is responsible Executive Directors. (These also include Post employment for the final determination. Benefits as well as Terminal Benefits). B.1.2 Remuneration Committees should consist exclusively of The Remuneration Committee appointed by the Complied Non-Executive Directors and should have a Chairman, Board consisted of four (4) Non-Executive Directors who should be appointed by the Board. out of which three (3) were independent. B.1.3 The Chairman and the members of the Remuneration Details of the Remuneration Committee are given on Complied Committee should be listed in the Annual Report pages 101 – 102 of this Report. each year. Page 116 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance B.1.4 The Board as a whole or where required by the Articles Remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Complied of Association the shareholders, should determine the Directors is decided by the Board as a whole. remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, including The Non-Executive Directors are paid a monthly members of the Remuneration Committee, within the limits fee for being a member of the Board and its set in the Articles of Association. Where permitted by the subcommittees. Since the Non-Executive Directors Articles, the Board may delegate this responsibility to a are not involved in the day-to-day affairs of the subcommittee of the Board, which might include the CEO. Company, they are not entitled to any performance incentives. B.1.5 The Remuneration Committee should consult the The Remuneration Committee consulted the Complied Chairman and/or CEO about its proposals relating to Chairman and the Managing Director in providing the remuneration of other Executive Directors and have recommendations regarding the remuneration of access to professional advice from within and outside the other Executive Directors. The Chairman or the MD Company, in discharging their responsibilities. is not remunerated by the Company. B.2 The Level and Makeup of Remuneration B.2 Levels of remuneration of both Executive and The remuneration package of both Executive and Complied Non-Executive Directors should be sufficient to attract Non-Executive Directors is based on a variety of and retain the Directors needed to run the Company factors including their contribution to the Company, successfully. A proportion of Executive Directors’ market rates of remuneration and their expectation. remuneration should be structured to link rewards to Portion of the remuneration of the Executive corporate and individual performance. Directors is linked to their performance which is evaluated against targets set and agreed at the beginning of the period. B.2.1 The Remuneration Committee should provide packages The Remuneration Committee considers the Complied needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors value addition of Executive Directors and their of the quality requires but should avoid paying more than contribution to the achievement of short and is necessary for this purpose. long term objectives in structuring their remuneration packages so as to ensure that nothing is paid more than necessary. B.2.2 The Remuneration Committee should judge where to The Committee conducts an analysis of other Complied position levels of remuneration of the Company, relative companies in the industry in deciding the levels of to other companies. It should be aware what comparable remuneration of the Company. companies are paying and should take account of relative performance, but should use such comparisons with caution, mindful of the risk that they can result in an increase of remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in performance. B.2.3 The Remuneration Committee should be sensitive to Companies within the Group operate in different Not Applicable remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the industry and market sectors where the remuneration Company or Group of which it is a part, especially when and employment conditions are substantially determining the annual salary increases. different to those of the Company. B.2.4 The performance related elements of remuneration of The extent of contribution and value addition Complied Executive Directors should be designed and tailored to towards achieving the set targets and objectives align their interest with those of the Company and main of a particular year is the key determinant in stakeholders and to give these Directors appropriate deciding the performance-related element of the incentives to perform at the highest level. remuneration of the Executive Directors. B.2.5 Executive share options should not be offered at a Not applicable as there are no Executive share Not Applicable discount (i.e., less than market price prevailing at the time options in the Company. the exercise price is determined), save as permitted by the Listing Rules of the Stock Exchange. B.2.6 In designing schemes of performance-related Provisions of Schedule E of the Code Complied remuneration, Remuneration Committee should follow the were followed in designing schemes of provisions set out in Schedule E. performance-related remuneration. Stewardship 4 3 Page 117 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance B.2.7 The Remuneration Committee should consider what There are no compensation commitments Not Applicable compensation commitments (including pension (including pension contributions) in Directors contributions) their Directors’ contracts of service, if any, contracts of service. entail in the event of early termination. Remuneration Committees should in particular, consider the advantages of providing explicitly for such compensation commitments to apply other than in the case of removal for misconduct, in initial contracts. B.2.8 Where the initial contract does not explicitly provide for Not applicable as the Company’s objective is to Not Applicable compensation commitments, Remuneration Committees avoid early termination by all means. should, within legal constraints tailor their approach in early termination cases to the relevant circumstances. The Board aim should be, to avoid rewarding poor performance while dealing fairly with case where departure is not due to poor performance. B.2.9 Levels of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors Complied should reflect the time commitment and responsibilities reflects the degree of responsibilities and the of their role taking into consideration market practices. level of time commitment extended by them in Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should not contributing and adding value to the Company’s normally include share options. If exceptionally options decision-making. The NEDs do not have any share are granted, shareholder approval should be sought in options in the Company. advance and any shares acquired by exercise of the options should be held until at least one year after the Non-Executive Director leaves the Board. Holding share options could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive Director’s independence. B.3 Disclosure of Remuneration B.3 The Company Annual Report should contain a Compensation paid to Key Management Personnel Partly Complied Statement of Remuneration Policy and details of the is given on page 192 of this Report. Board as a whole. B.3.1 The Annual Report should set out the names of Directors Names of the members of the Remuneration Partly Complied (or persons in the Parent Company’s Committee in the case Committee and the compensation paid to of a Group Company) compromising the Remuneration Key Management Personnel are given in pages 101 Committee, contain a Statement of Remuneration Policy and and 192 of this Report respectively. set out the aggregate remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors. C. Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Conduct of General Meetings C.1 Boards should use the AGM to communicate with The Company considers the AGM as the primary Complied shareholders and should encourage their participation. tool of communication with shareholders. The Notice of Meeting inviting all shareholders is given in page 215 of this Report. All shareholders are free to raise any queries from the Board on matters relating to the Company at the AGM. The Board encourages an open dialogue with shareholders at the AGM. C.1.1 Companies should count all proxy votes and should Secretaries of the Company record and count all Complied indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution and Proxy Forms lodged on each resolution separately. the balance for and against the resolution and withheld The Proxy Forms are sent to all registered after it has been dealt with on a show of hands, except shareholders along with the Notice of Meeting. where poll is called. C.1.2 Companies should propose a separate resolution at the To receive and consider the Annual Report and Complied AGM on each substantially separate issue and should in Accounts is the first resolution adopted at every particular propose a resolution at the AGM relating to the AGM. Further, the Company proposes separate adoption of the Report and Accounts. resolutions on each substantially separate issue. So, shareholders are given the opportunity to vote separately on each substantial issue. Page 118 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance C.1.3 The Chairman of the Board should arrange for the The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Complied Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Remuneration Committee and the Strategic Planning Committees to be available to answer questions at the Committee attended the 2015 AGM of the Company AGM relating to the adoption of the Report and Accounts. and answered questions raised by shareholders. C.1.4 Companies should arrange for the Notice of the AGM and All related papers and the Notice of Meeting are Complied related papers to be sent to shareholders as determined sent to the shareholders 15 days before the AGM by statue, before the meeting. through the Company Secretary. C.1.5 Companies should circulate with every Notice of General Summary of procedures governing voting at the Complied Meeting a summary of the procedures governing voting at General Meeting is distributed with the Notice of General Meetings. Meeting by the Company Secretary. C.2 Communication with Shareholders C.2 The Board should implement effective communication The AGM and the Annual Report are the primary Complied with shareholders. means of communication with shareholders. Additionally, the Company makes disclosures on material and price sensitive matters from time to time to the CSE for dissemination among the public. Similarly the Company’s website www.accessengsl.com is updated with financial and project related information, corporate disclosures and other press releases for public viewing. C.2.1 There should be a channel to reach all shareholders of the The AGM and the Annual Report are the primary Complied Company in order to disseminate timely information. means of reaching all shareholders. Additionally, the Company makes disclosures on material and price sensitive matters from time to time to the CSE for timely dissemination of information. Similarly, the Company’s website is also used as a tool to reach shareholders on a continuing basis. C.2.2 The Company should disclose the policy and methodology The Company’s policy on information dissemination Complied for communication with shareholders. is based on the prime need of creating a fair market for the Company’s securities among all market participants. So the Company focuses on accurate, timely and relevant information dissemination so as to avoid any market malpractice or doubt. C.2.3 The Company should disclose how they implement the The Company held its 4th AGM on 28th August 2015 Complied above policy and methodology. and disseminated the circular to shareholders, Proxy Form, the Notice of Meeting and the CD containing the Annual Report fifteen (15) days before. Any shareholder who requested a Printed Version of the Annual Report was given the same within the stipulated period through the Company Secretary. C.2.4 The Company should disclose the contact person for The point of contact is given in page 8 Complied such communication. of this Report. C.2.5 There should be a process to make all Directors aware The shareholders are free to correspond with the Complied of major issues and concerns of shareholders and this Board either directly or through the Company process has to be disclosed by the Company. Secretary as they wish. The Directors can also be met by the Shareholders on appointment. The Company Secretary keeps a record of all valid correspondence from the shareholders and directs them to the appropriate Board member who in return would respond as necessary. The Company also has a dedicated investor relations e-mail that could be equally utilized by any shareholder to correspond. Stewardship 4 3 Page 119 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance C.2.6 The Company should decide the person to contact in Both the Company Secretary as well as members Complied relation to shareholder matters. The relevant person of the Board act as contact points in relation to with statutory responsibilities to contact in relation to shareholder matters. shareholder matters is the Company Secretary or his/her absence should be a member of the Board of Directors. C.2.7 The process for responding to shareholder matters should Responses for shareholder queries directly sent Complied be formulated by the Board and disclosed. to individual members of the Board are sent by the respective members. Queries directed to the Company Secretary are responded by the Directors through the Company Secretary. C.3 Major and Material Transactions C.3 Further to complying with the requirements under the No material transactions were entered into by the Not Applicable Companies Act, Securities and Exchange Commission Company during the financial year. Law and Colombo Stock Exchange Regulations; as applicable, Directors should disclose to shareholders all proposed material transactions, which if entered into, would materially alter/vary the Company’s net assets base or in the case of a Company with subsidiaries, the consolidated group net asset base. C.3.1 Prior to a Company engaging in or committing to a ‘Major No major related party transactions were carried Not Applicable related party involving the acquisition, sale or disposition out by the Company during the financial year. of greater than one third of the value of the Company’s assets or that of a subsidiary which has a material bearing on the Company and/or consolidated net assets of the Company or a transaction which has or is likely to have the effect of the Company acquiring obligations and liabilities, of greater than one third of the value of the Company’s assets, Directors should disclose to shareholders the purpose and material facts of such transactions and obtain shareholders’ approval by ordinary resolution at an Extraordinary General Meeting. It also applies to transactions which have the purpose or effect of substantially altering the nature of the business carried on by the Company. D. Accountability and Audit D.1 Financial Reporting D.1 The Board should present a balanced and understandable Annual Report containing the Audited Financial Complied assessment of the Company’s financial position, Statements, performance, prospects and Interim performance and prospects. Financial Reports were released to the CSE within the period stipulated by the CSE and other regulatory authorities. D.1.1 The Board’s responsibility to present a balanced and Audited Financial Statements giving a true and Complied understandable assessment extends to interim and other fair view of the operations of the Company, Interim price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, Financial Statements and other price sensitive as well as to information required to be presented by disclosures are made by the Company periodically statutory requirements. and as and when required in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations. D.1.2 The Directors’ Report, which forms part of the Annual The Annual Report of the Board of Directors on Complied Report, should contain declarations by the Directors. the Affairs of the Company making the relevant declarations is given on page 138 of this Report. D.1.3 The Annual Report should contain a statement setting ‘Directors Responsibility for Financial Reporting’, Complied out the responsibilities of the Board for the preparation ‘Statement of Auditors’ and the ‘Directors’ Statement and presentation of Financial Statements, together on Internal Control’ are given in pages 145, 148 and with a Statement by the Auditors about their reporting 146 respectively. responsibilities. Further, the Annual Report should contain a Report/Statement on Internal Control. Page 120 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance D.1.4 The Annual Report should contain a ‘Management Management Discussion and Analysis is given in Complied Discussion and Analysis’. pages 17 – 85 of this Report. D.1.5 The Directors should report that the business is a going Refer Note 2.2 ‘Basis of Measurement’ of ‘Notes to Complied concern, with supporting assumptions or qualifications the Financial Statements’. as necessary. D.1.6 In the event the net assets of the Company fall below 50% Not applicable as there was no serious loss of Not Applicable of the value of the Company’s shareholders’ funds, the capital during the year. Directors shall forthwith summon an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company to notify shareholders of the position and of remedial action being taken. D.1.7 The Board should adequately and accurately disclose Refer Note 36 of ‘Notes to the Financial Statements’. Complied the related party transactions in its Annual Report. D.2 Internal Control D.2 The Board should have a process of risk management The Company operates with a sound system Complied and a sound system of internal control to safeguard of internal control within an integrated risk shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets. management framework that is formulated and Broadly, risk management and internal control is a ratified by the Board. The Board is responsible for process, affected by a Company’s Board of Directors and effective operation of the system of internal controls management, designed to provide reasonable assurance to ensure the achievement of objectives. regarding the achievement of Company’s objectives. D.2.1 The Directors should, at least annually, conduct a review Annual review of risks faced by the Company is Complied of the risks facing the Company and the effectiveness of conducted by the Directors. The Audit Committee the system of internal controls, so as to be able to report to Charter of the Company authorizes the Audit shareholders as required in D.1.3. This could be made the Committee to ascertain the adequacy of internal responsibility of the Audit Committee. controls and risk management processes. D.2.2 Companies should have an internal audit function. The Company has an Internal Audit Function Complied headed by the ‘Head of Internal Audit’. D.2.3 The Board should require the Audit Committee to carry Operation and review of internal controls is done Complied out reviews of the process and effectiveness of risk by the Internal Audit function as a continuous and management and internal controls and to document ongoing process. These Reports are forwarded to the Board and Board takes the responsibility for the to the Audit Committee which in turn presents it disclosures on internal controls. to the Board. The Board is responsible for making disclosures on internal controls. D.2.4 The responsibilities of Directors in maintaining a sound Refer Page 146 for the ‘Directors’ Statement on Complied system of internal control and the contents of the Internal Controls’. Statement of Internal Control should be in accordance with the Schedule K. D.3 Audit Committee D.3 The Board should establish formal and transparent Accounting policies and financial reporting Complied arrangements for considering how they should select principles of the Company are formulated so as to and apply accounting policies, financial reporting and ensure compliance with all applicable standards, internal control principles and maintaining an appropriate rules and other regulations. At times the guidance of relationship with the Company’s Auditors. the External Auditors is also sought in this process. The Board maintains cordial relationships with the External Auditors. D.3.1 The Audit Committee should be comprised of a minimum The Audit Committee compromises of three (3) Complied of two Independent Non-Executive Directors (in instances Independent Non-Executive Directors and one where a Company has only two Directors on its Board) (1) Non-Executive Director of the Board. The or exclusively by Non-Executive Directors, a majority of Chairman of the Committee is an Independent whom should be independent, whichever is higher. The Non-Executive Director. Chairman of the Committee should be a Non-Executive Director appointed by the Board. Stewardship 4 3 Page 121 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance D.3.2 The duties of the Audit Committee should include keeping Charter of the Audit Committee specifies duties Complied under review the scope and results of the audit and its of its Members one of which is assessing the effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of independence and performance of External the Auditors. Where the Auditors also supply a substantial Auditors. Performance of the External Auditor volume of non-audit services to the Company, the is assessed considering the audit and Committee should keep the nature and extent of such non-audit services provided and the level of skills services under review, seeking to balance objectivity, and experience. independence and value for money. D.3.3 The Audit Committee should have a written Terms of The Audit Committee Charter specifies the Complied Reference, dealing clearly with its authority and duties. Committee’s purpose, duties and responsibilities. The Audit Committee’s written Terms of Reference must address: • The Committees purpose • The duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee D.3.4 Disclosures D.3.4 The names of Directors (persons in the Parent Company’s The composition of the Audit Committee is given Complied Committee in the case of a Group Company) comprising in page 124 of this Report. A statement on the the Audit Committee should be disclosed in the Annual ‘Independence of Auditors’ is given in the Report. The Committee should also make a determination ‘Annual Report of the Board of Directors’. of the Independence of the Auditors and should disclose The Audit Committee Report is given on page 124 the basis of such determination in the Annual Report. of this Report. The Annual Report should contain a report by the Audit Committee, setting out the manner of compliance by the Company, in relation to the above, during the period to which the Annual Report relates. D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics D.4 Companies must adopt a Code of Business Conduct Directors and Key Management Personnel are Complied and Ethics for Directors and Key Management Personnel expected to comply with the ‘Code of Ethics’ of the and must promptly disclose any waivers of the Code for Company outlined in page 98 of this Report. Said Directors or others. individuals have not violated or waived from the said ‘Code of Ethics’ during the year. D.4.1 All Companies must disclose whether they have a Code The ‘Code of Ethics’ of the Company is given in Complied of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Key page 98 of this Report. The affirmative declaration Management Personnel and if they have such a Code, on compliance with this Code is given in page 142 make an affirmative declaration in the Annual Report of this Report. that all Directors and Key Management Personnel have declared compliance with such Code and if unable to make that declaration, state why they are unable to do so. Each company may determine its own policies in the formulation of such a Code. D.4.2 The Chairman must affirm in the Company’s Annual Report Refer page 142 of this Report. Complied that he is not aware of any violation of any of the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosure D.5 Directors should be required to disclose the extent to This Report on the Company’s compliance with the Complied which the Company adheres to established principles and ICASL/SEC ‘Code of Corporate Governance’ practices of Good Corporate Governance. meets this requirement. D.5.1 The Directors should include in the Company’s Annual Same as D.5 Complied Report a Corporate Governance Report, setting out the manner and extent to which the Company has complied with the principles and provisions of this Code. Page 122 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance SECTION 2: SHAREHOLDERS Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance E. Institutional Investors E.1 Shareholder Voting E.1 Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make Board encourages the active participation of Complied considered use of their votes and should be encouraged institutional shareholders at the AGM. In addition, to ensure their voting intentions are translated Executive Directors meet institutional shareholders into practice. upon their request to discuss about the Company’s past performance and future strategies. E.1.1 A listed company should conduct a regular and The most structured and continuous dialogue the Complied structured dialogue with shareholders based on a mutual Company has with the shareholders is the AGM. understanding of objectives. Arising from such dialogue, The Chairman is available to meet shareholders the Chairman should ensure the views of shareholders are at the end of each AGM and can be met on communicated to the Board as a whole. appointment on other occasions. The Chairman then communicates the views and concerns of shareholders to the Board as a whole. E.2 Evaluation of Governance Disclosure E.2 When evaluating Companies’ governance arrangements, Institutional investors are encouraged to give due Complied particularly those relating to Board structure and weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention composition, institutional investors should be encouraged in evaluating Companies’ governance arrangements to give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention. F. Other Investors F.1 Investing/Divesting Decisions F.1 Individual shareholders, investing directly in shares of The Company encourages individual shareholders Complied companies should be encouraged to carry out adequate to carry out adequate analysis or seek independent analysis or seek independent advice in investing or advice in investing or divesting decisions. The divesting decisions. Company facilitates this process by providing information necessary for the same on a timely and unbiased basis. F.2 Individual shareholders should be encouraged to The Company encourages individual shareholders Complied participate in General Meetings of companies and to participate in General Meetings and exercise their exercise their voting rights. voting rights. G. Sustainability Reporting G.1 Principles of Sustainability Reporting G.1.1 Economic Sustainability Refer page 211 of this Report for a full list of Complied The principle of economic sustainability governance performance indicators relating to economic recognizes how organizations take responsibility for sustainability. impacts of their strategies, decisions and activities on economic performance and corporate citizenship in their sphere of influence (including geographic) and how this is integrated throughout the organization. G.1.2 The Environment Refer page 211 of this Report for a full list of Complied Environmental governance of an organization should performance indicators relating to the environment. adopt an integrated approach that takes into consideration the direct and indirect economic, social, health and environmental implications of their decisions and activities, including pollution prevention, sustainable resource use, climate change, protection of environment, biodiversity and restoration of national resources. Stewardship 4 3 Page 123 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Extent of Compliance G.1.3 Labor Practices Refer page 211 of this Report for a full list of Complied Labor practices governance of an organization performance indicators relating to labor practices. encompass all policies and practices relating to work performed by or on behalf of the organization. G.1.4 Society Refer page 212 of this Report for a full list of Complied Society governance encompasses support for and performance indicators relating to the society. building a relationship with the community and striving for sustainable development including responsible public policy participation, fair competition and responsible community involvement. G.1.5 Product Responsibility All construction related activities of the Company Complied Product responsibility governance includes manufacturing are carried out with highest quality in accordance quality products and distributing them and ensuring with the best practices adopted. The QMS of the that the products are safe for the consumers and the Company is also ISO 9001:2008 certified. environment and also communicating clearly with consumers so that they can make an informed choice including factual unbiased information and fair contractual practices and consumer data protection and privacy. G.1.6 Stakeholder identification, engagement and Refer pages 57 – 61 of this Report. Complied effective communication. G.1.7 Sustainability reporting is and disclosure should be Prior to 2013/14 the Company produced Complied formalized as a part of the Company’s reporting processes stand alone Sustainability Reports. This Report is and take place on regular basis. the Company’s third Integrated Report. Page 124 4 3 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Report of the Audit Committee ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Report of the The Audit Committee’s authority, responsibilities and specific duties have been formalized Audit Committee through an Audit Committee Charter. The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company and the Group, the internal control and risk management systems of the Group and its compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the External Auditors’ performance, qualifications and independence. COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee of AEL is appointed by the Board of Directors and the present Committee comprises of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors and one (1) Non-Executive Director of the Board. Members of the Audit Committee are as follows: Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Independent Non-Executive Director Suresh Dilhan Perera Non-Executive Director Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Non-Executive Director MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE The Committee met on the following occasions to discuss matters relating to the financial year of which the Members’ attendance was as follows: Name 19th May 29th July 4th 3rd 2015 2015 November February 2015 2016 Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne (Chairman)     Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik     Kumar Ranasinghe Suresh Dilhan Perera     Dinesh Weerakkody     In addition to the committee members, the meetings were attended by the Director/COO, GM – Finance, GM – Commercial and the Head of Internal Audit on invitation. The Company Secretaries were also present at every meeting. ACTIVITIES The Committee performed the following tasks in relation to the financial year under review: yy Review and recommendation of the Audited and Interim Financial Statements of the Group/Company to the Board of Directors prior to releasing the same to the CSE. yy Review of the ‘Compliance Report’ and its enforcement to ensure compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements. yy Review and ratification of the Internal Audit Plan of the Company . yy Recommendation to the Board on the post implementation audit of the enterprise resource planning system of the Company. Stewardship 4 Page 125 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Report of the Audit Committee yy Oversight of the internal audit function and review of the quarterly internal audit report. yy Recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of Company’s External Auditors, KPMG and the audit fees after a thorough review of their performance, qualifications and independence. yy Review of the progress of various projects carried out by the Company. yy Review of performance of various subsidiary companies within the Group. SUPPORT TO THE COMMITTEE The Committee received information and support from the management in enabling them to fulfil their responsibilities. EXTERNAL AUDITORS The Committee concurs with the declaration of the External Auditors of their independence in relation to the affairs of the Group. The Audit Committee has recommended the reappointment of Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as the External Auditors for the financial year 2016/17. CONCLUSION The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Company’s accounting policies and operational controls are sufficient and provide reasonable assurance that the affairs of the Company are managed in accordance with the Group policies and that Group assets are properly accounted for and adequately safeguarded. N D Gunaratne Chairman – Audit Committee 10th July 2016 Page 126 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Board Related Party Transaction Review Committee Report ROLE OF THE RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION REVIEW COMMITTEE Board Related Party The Related Party Transaction Review Committee’s authority, responsibilities and specific Transaction Review duties have been formalized through a Related Party Transaction Review Committee Charter. Committee Report The role of the Committee is to provide independent review, approval and oversight of all related party transactions on behalf of the Board as required by the ‘Code on Related Party Transactions’ issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Committee shall also perform such other functions as assigned by law, regulations or the Board. COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE The Related Party Transaction Review Committee of AEL is appointed by the Board of Directors and the present Committee comprises of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors and two (2) Executive Directors of the Board. Members of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee are as follows: Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe Independent Non-Executive Director Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Non-Executive Director Joseph Christopher Joshua Managing Director Rohana Fernando Director/Chief Operating Officer MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE The Committee met on 23rd March 2016 with the presence of all Members. In addition to the Committee members, the meeting was attended by the GM – Commercial on invitation. The Company Secretaries were also present at the meeting. ACTIVITIES Being the first meeting of the Committee since its formation by the Board, the Members reviewed and approved the Related Party Transaction Review Committee Charter and made recommendations on the Related Party Transaction Policy concerning recurrent and non-recurrent related party transactions. N D Gunaratne Chairman – Related Party Transaction Review Committee 10th July 2016 Stewardship Page 127 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management At Access Engineering PLC, key risks are being effectively managed through the Enterprise implementation of a robust risk management framework that operates in a positive, Risk Management open and honest culture. RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK AND PROCESS 1. Internal Environment Strategic decisions on risk management structure and policy from Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Corporate Management and other relevant committees. Operational decisions on risk management processes. Determine reporting and compliance level. 2. Objective Setting Identify the objectives of each project of Access Engineering PLC and the Company as a whole. Identify the objectives of shareholders. Position the audit to evaluate current status of risk management process. Objective setting for risk management based on Company and shareholder objectives. Ensure that the risk management objectives are correlated to the Company’s Vision and Mission. Determine the risk appetite of the organization. Page 128 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management Risk Appetite Risk appetite is the level of risk the Company can take in order to achieve the set goals and strategic objectives’ (Attitude towards risk). 3. Identify Risks (Event Identification) We identify the risks faced by the organization with possible categorization. The following categories are considered: yy Business and operational risks yy Financial risks yy Legal and regulatory risks yy Strategic risks The following techniques can be used to identify risks: yy Interviews yy Trend analysis yy Research yy Forecasting yy Analysis of past performances 4. Risk Assessment 4.1 Analyze Risks Risk analysis is carried out by identifying a specific risk based on a significant activity of the Company. Risks identified in a risk portfolio which is mentioned below is then assessed based on likelihood of the occurrence and severity of the risk. Risks are further analyzed by preparing Qualitative Risk Analysis and Quantitative Risk Analysis. Qualitative Risk Analysis – Risk is analyzed based on the subjective evaluation of probability and impact. This method is quick and convenient due to predefined rating scale and flexibility. No sophisticated system would be required when carrying out this method. Quantitative Risk Analysis – Risk is analyzed based on the probable estimate of time and cost. This method is time consuming due to the requirement of specific and large volumes of accurate information. 4.2 Evaluate Risks This step includes risk prioritization and comparing the necessary course of action to be taken against existing internal controls. In this process the feasibility of a course of action for prioritized risks is also evaluated in order to ensure effective allocation of resources for risk treatment. 4.3 Risk Matrix for Risk Assessment The following risk matrix is developed as a technique for analyzing and evaluating risk. This matrix mainly focuses on risk analysis based on qualitative perception. The likelihood of occurrence of a risk is determined based on past experience, industry and organizational trends and judgment. Stewardship 4 Page 129 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management The severity of a risk is the potential financial or a non-financial loss/damage to the organization. This can also be determined based on experience, discussion, calculation, judgment etc. Based on likelihood and severity, risks are categorized into three categories where relevant actions are proposed. Accordingly risks need to be monitored, communicated and controlled. These three areas are identified based on the risk tolerance (appetite) limits agreed as given below: Impact Plan for Action Immediate Action Immediate Action Significant (Mitigate or (Mitigate or (Mitigate or Transfer) Share) Share) Plan for Action Immediate Action No Action Moderate (Mitigate or (Mitigate or (Accept or Avoid) Transfer) Share) No Action No Action Plan for Action Minor (Accept) (Accept) (Mitigate or Transfer) Low Medium High Likelihood Assessing Likelihood of a Risk Value Estimation Descriptor Indicator 1 Predictable. Very low likelihood. May have occurred Low in the past, might be detected once or twice 2 Occurred in the past. Anticipate significant number Medium of incidents in working life 3 Occurs frequently. Anticipate higher number of High incidents in working life Assessing Severity of Risk Based on Consequence Value Estimation Descriptor Indicator 1 Very little evidence for loss of business based on Minor existing consequences or no impact is expected 2 Significant evidence for loss of business due to Moderate existing impact 3 Loss of business due to higher impact Significant Page 130 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management Plan of Action Value Estimation Descriptor Indicator 1-2 Accept the risk with no action or accept with No action monitoring risk while maintaining existing controls (Accept or Avoid) 3-4 Take action to amend the existing control processes Plan for as they are insufficient before incurring severe action damage. (Mitigate or Transfer) 6-9 Immediate and extensive action required due to Immediate inadequacy or ineffectiveness of current controls, action with strict monitoring and controlling process (Mitigate or Share) Summary of the Risk Analysis Process Activities (Processes) of Access Engineering PLC Estimation Activities Head Office Project Management Division Projects Risk Rating Process Stewardship 4 Page 131 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management 5. Risk Response Broad risk treatment approaches are identified through the risk matrix. General control approaches that can be used as Risk Treatment are. Avoidance – Avoid the risk due to unacceptability of identified risk. Not highly recommended due to correlation of risk and opportunity. Acceptance – Risk is accepted due to insignificance, non-feasibility or ineffectiveness of an action plan. The level of risk is managed and monitored continuously. Sharing or Transfer – One of the mitigation procedures where the risk is transferred to a third party. Mitigation – Implementing feasible and effective strategic action plan to reduce the risk to an acceptable level. 6. Control Activities Appropriate control methods have been taken based on the risk appetite of the Company. 7. Communicate and Consult Effective communication is required in all stages of the risk management process. Specific approaches for risk reporting need to be implemented, such as: Risk register Residual risk report Position audit Periodic reviews Feedback reports 8. Monitor and Review The risk management structure/policy and framework is reviewed and updated regularly. The effectiveness of the process and actions taken is also reviewed to incorporate necessary changes. Page 132 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management RISK IDENTIFICATION The list of risks faced by the organization on a regular basis, the consequences of the risk and current mitigation actions are mentioned in the following table. This is reviewed based on management feedback and sometimes new response actions are decided based on the quantum of certain risks: Business and Operational Risks Consequences Response Project delays and cost Could lead to penalties, negative image and yy Detailed project planning at the inception of the project overruns low profits. This could also negatively affect covering the scope of the project, management of resources, securing of future projects. time, quality and risk yy Implementation of strict budgetary controls with each project and production plant considered as a separate profit center yy Continuous use of advanced technology and new construction techniques to expedite project implementation and to reduce cost yy Project progress review meetings held every month for all ongoing projects yy Performance review meetings held every month for all operational plants and the workshop yy Customer relationship management Quality failures Faulty constructions or below standard output yy Detailed project planning at the inception of the project could lead to negative image, penalties and covering the scope of the project, management of resources, hazards to third parties. Also earnings could be time, quality and risk negatively affected from possible reworks. yy Adherence to quality and safety standards (ISO 9001-2008 QMS & OHSAS 18001) during project implementation yy Regular internal audits. Every project is subjected to a minimum of three (3) audits at different intervals covering commencement/mobilization, implementation and project closure. yy Special audits conducted as and when the need arises yy Adherence to best practices in construction and benchmarking with the best-in-class projects within the Company yy Conduct of Post Project Analysis for each project with proper documentation of method statements and knowledge sharing yy Standardization of project management through the ERP system yy Utilization of the most up-to-date and advanced technologies in construction yy External verification of projects by third party consultants as and when necessary Product portfolio (Less This can lead to high income volatility yy Expanded the Company’s presence in the real estate sector diversity in income streams) through investments in Horizon Holdings (Pvt) Limited (50%), Horizon Holdings Ventures (Pvt) Limited (100%) and Horizon Knowledge City Limited (92%). These companies together own 21 acres of property in the Malabe Information Technology Zone which is expected to be developed on a staggered basis. yy Commenced construction on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) Project to construct houses for public sector servants. This is the first PPP Project in the country for over 2 decades. Stewardship 4 Page 133 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management Business and Operational Risks Consequences Response Dependence on clients Dependence on a few clients could lead to them yy Customer relationship managers to communicate regularly dictating terms and high income volatility with the client yy Serving a mix of public and private sector clients across a wide range of engineering disciplines Dependence on partners/ Quality issues could arise and dependence yy Limited use of subcontractors in the core business of the subcontractors could lead to unfavorable terms in contracting Company with the main resource hired externally being labour yy Screening and review of partners/subcontractors periodically on environmental, social and economic grounds yy Working with a reliable and diverse range of subcontractors yy Expansion into new markets and sectors where there is limited subcontractor presence Staffing issues Staff unrest leading to potential strikes, quality yy Manpower planning failures and project execution issues yy Recruitment of the best talent pool in the industry based on the solid relationship built with local universities yy Continuous training and development of staff both on-site and off-site yy Effective and efficient grievance handling procedure yy Transfer of knowledge from reputed international contractors and partners to enhance staff competence yy Rewarding of employees with performance-based incentives Health and safety of Could lead to workplace accidents, yy OHSAS certification employees penalties, negative image and hiring yy Providing necessary safety equipment to all sites difficulties in future projects yy Focused training on H&S to all employees yy Insurance coverage to mitigate unforeseeable risks yy Internal audit function to monitor the proper implementation of safety standards with the support of Safety Officers attached to each project site yy Rewarding of employees based on safety performance Environmental damages Construction inherently results in changes to the yy Green engineering philosophy natural environment. Damage of this nature will yy Adherence to ISO 14001 Environmental Management System be viewed negatively by stakeholders yy R&D into new techniques in construction which cause less impact to the environment yy Internal audit function to monitor the proper implementation of safety standards yy Tree planting programmes at project sites to restore any damage caused yy Raising awareness of staff through focused training on the importance of preserving the environment during construction yy Periodic evaluation of stakeholders (mainly subcontractors and suppliers) on environmental grounds Page 134 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management Business and Operational Risks Consequences Response Changes in technology Obsolescence of machinery/systems etc., could yy Investment in new technology result in a low quality product, project delays yy Upgrading of knowledge through training and development, and cost overruns industrial visits yy Partnering foreign principals to impart new technology Competition Increased competition has the possibility of yy Efforts to maintain industry positioning including the reducing market share and margins practice of value engineering philosophy ensuring value addition to clientele yy Dedicated Business Development Teams continuously seeking new opportunities yy Increasing efficiency through R&D, investment in new technology and the adoption of best practices yy Diversifying business operations to reduce the impact of competition IT Risk Information security and access to accurate yy Well documented and enforced IT policy with clearly defined information when required could be threatened user authority levels yy Use of firewalls, access controls and physical controls to protect IT resources yy Scheduled backup system yy Creation of a Central Data Repository which gives all employees access to accurate information within the Company on areas such as engineering, media, legal, systems management, human resources, information technology and finance yy Regular maintenance of hardware yy Companywide use of the ERP system Procurement risk Low quality material resulting in faulty and yy Use of thorough contract management and administration inferior construction finally leading to the loss of policies and strategies competitive advantage. There is also the risk of yy Negotiation with suppliers frauds resulting in financial loss to the Company. yy Training and development of procurement staff on effective contract management practices and negotiation skills yy Regular supplier evaluations are conducted to ascertain their financial strength, social and environmental conduct yy Streamlined procurement procedures through the ERP System yy Appropriate segmentation and proper responsibility allocation yy Regular evaluation and audit of procurement functions by the Internal Audit Department Human resource risk Improper recruitment resulting in an incompetent yy Recruitment of the best talent pool in the industry based on workforce and inferior product/service offering to solid relationships built with local universities clients. The industry is also prone to a high level yy Regular conduct of performance evaluation and rewarding of labour turnover. best performance yy Regular training and development both on-site and off-site Plant breakdowns This could lead to the production of inferior yy Purchase of high quality production plants and related quality construction material and a possible machinery/equipment from reputed/world renowned suppliers delay in sales resulting in penalties and future yy Conducting regular quality checks and preventive loss of business. There is also the costs maintenance of plants associated with Idling of resources. yy Training of staff on the proper use of production plants Stewardship 4 Page 135 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management Business and Operational Risks Consequences Response Wastage Excess cash outflow and loss of natural yy Training employees on the best use of material and resources resources yy Providing appropriate storage methods and proper instructions on material storage yy Regular monitoring of wastage levels by the Internal Audit Team Improper utilization Improper capital investment could harm the yy Capital Investments are made only after conducting a of assets financial resources of the Company resulting feasibility study in negative net present value. Similarly there yy Purchase of high quality assets from reputed/world can be compensations due to unsuitable renowned suppliers disposal methods. yy Regular maintenance of assets yy Maintain proper documentation on asset purchase, usage, depreciation, transfers and disposals. yy Evaluate appropriate disposal methods prior to disposal Vehicle, machinery and This could result in loss of productivity leading to yy Purchase of high quality machinery from reputed/world equipment breakdown inferior quality products/services and a possible renowned suppliers delay in project completion. There could also be yy Regular maintenance of machinery and equipment by the a future loss of business. Central Equipment Division and the Mechanical Work Shop yy Training of staff on the proper use of equipment and machinery Financial Risks Consequences Response Forex risk Impact on imports and potential for yy Hedging (Forward contracts) asset/liability translation risk yy Matching sales and purchases to same currency yy Conducting business transactions in a limited number of currencies to reduce exposure Interest rate risk Potential high interest cost lowering net earnings yy Issue of listed debentures with a fixed coupon rate and difficulty of financing new Projects yy Capital structure guidelines designed for each project at the planning stage yy Negotiations with financial institutions yy Use of various financial instruments to manage exposure Investment risk New investments could have lower yields yy Board Committee for investment decisions – than expected. Also certain synergies might Strategic Planning Committee not materialize as planned due to issues of yy Investment screening and adherence to value alignment. predetermined criteria Liquidity risk Inability to honour short term liabilities and yy Cash flow forecasting and maintaining adequate cash and incurring of unnecessary finance cost cash equivalent balances Lenders/creditors losing trust on the Company yy Agreed debtor/creditor settlement periods yy Closely monitoring projectwise net operating cash flows yy Maintaining cordial relationships with suppliers yy Secured and committed facilities from financial institutions Credit risk Potential defaults and delay of payments and yy Credit policy/approvals and regular reviews their negative impact on earnings yy Creditworthy client base (mainly Government) yy Material payments being backed by guarantees yy Entering to contractual agreements with clients Page 136 4 Stewardship Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Enterprise Risk Management Financial Risks Consequences Response Fraud and error Negative impact on earnings, image and a bad Authority limits and internal controls precedent for other employees Focused recruitment process Inflation Lowering of margins Agreeing on escalation provisions as required when contracting Legal and Regulatory Risks Consequences Response Changes in The industry is highly prone to these type of risks yy Monitoring of policy trends Government policy and adverse changes can lead to difficulties in yy Diversification project planning and execution yy Overseas expansion yy Collective lobbying with industry players Tax rates Changes in tax rates might lead to possible yy Forecasting and tax planning reduction in earnings/margins yy Making investments in tax free ventures yy Collective lobbying with industry players Compliance Non-compliance with applicable laws and yy Regular monitoring of compliance with laws and regulations regulations could lead to fines and a negative by the Compliance Committee and the Related Party impact on our corporate image Transactions Review Committee yy Adherence to corporate governance practices yy Careful review of agreements Strategic Risks Consequences Response Damage to Loss of contracts and a negative effect on yy Continuous effort in brand/image building corporate image stakeholder engagement yy Corporate communication yy Continuous dialogue with stakeholders Slowdown in business Inability to meet stakeholder expectations yy Diversification into complementary areas of business Growth (Industry trends) yy Overseas expansion yy Continuous dialogue with stakeholders Loss of business Inability to maintain industry positioning and yy High focus on credible business relationship management relationships potential loss of future business yy Working with a diverse clientele and business partners Share price fluctuations Inability to achieve shareholder return targets yy Adherence to all applicable rules and regulations and leading to negative investor sentiment voluntary codes of conduct yy Maintaining sound business fundamentals yy Investment screening yy Corporate communication Poor Talent Management Loss of business and strategy yy Succession planning execution issues yy Training and development yy Focused reward management 5 Financial Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company 138 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 145 Directors’ Statement on Internal Control 146 Independent Auditors’ Report 148 Reports Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Statement of Financial Position Statement of Changes in Equity 149 150 151 Statement of Cash Flows 152 Notes to the Financial Statements 153 5 Financial Calendar 4th Annual General Meeting 28th August 2015 1st Quarter Report 10th August 2015 2nd Quarter Report 5th November 2015 3rd Quarter Report 8th February 2016 4th Quarter Report 30th May 2016 First Interim Dividend for 2015/16 11th December 2015 Final Dividend for 2015/16 14th June 2016 Page 138 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company The Directors of Access Engineering PLC have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report together with the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31st March 2016. This Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company contains the information required in terms of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and is guided by recommended best practices. GENERAL Access Engineering PLC was incorporated in terms of the Companies Act No. 17 of 1982 on 31st July 2001 and was re-registered as per the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 on 6th February 2008 with PB 200 as the new number assigned to the Company. Thereafter, the Company obtained a listing on the Diri Savi Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange on 27th March 2012 and changed its name to Access Engineering PLC on 12th June 2012. The registration number of the Company changed to PB 200 PQ. The Company is now listed on the Main Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange with effect from 8th January 2013. The Company also has Rs. 5,000 Mn Rated Senior Unsecured Redeemable Debentures at a par value of LKR 100/which are listed on the Main Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Both the Company and the Debentures in issue have been assigned a Rating of ‘(SL) A+ with a stable outlook’ by ICRA Lanka Limited. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are referred to in Note 1.3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. This Report together with the Financial Statements reflect the state of affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company acquired 50% of the share capital of Blue Star Constructions (Private) Limited, for a cash consideration of Rs. 800 Mn on 30th May 2016. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Financial Statements of the Group prepared in-line with applicable accounting standards and regulatory requirements, inclusive of specific disclosures, duly signed by two Directors on behalf of the Board and the Auditors are included in this Annual Report and forms part and parcel hereof. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT The Report of the Independent Auditors on the Financial Statements of the Company is given on page 148. ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Financial Statements of the Company and the Group are given on pages 155 to 162 of the Annual Report. The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs and LKASs) and the policies adopted thereof are given on pages 155 to 162 Figures pertaining to the previous period have been restated where necessary to conform to the presentation for the year under review. Financial Reports 5 Page 139 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING The Directors are responsible for the preparation of Financial Statements of the Company to reflect a true and fair view of the state of its affairs. The Directors are of the view that these Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKASs), the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility is given on page 145. DIRECTORS The names of the Directors who held office as at the end of the accounting period are given below and their brief profiles appear on pages 88 to 89. Executive Directors Mr. S J S Perera – Chairman Mr. J C Joshua – Managing Director Mr. D A R Fernando – Chief Operating Officer Mr. S H S Mendis Mr. S D Munasinghe Non-Executive Directors Mr. R J S Gomez Mr. S D Perera Independent Non-Executive Directors Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Mr. N D Gunaratne Mr. D S Weerakkody In terms of Article 88 (i) of the Articles of Association, Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe shall retire by rotation and being eligible is recommended by the Board for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Directors of Subsidiary Companies are given in Annexure A of this Report. INTERESTS REGISTER The Company maintains an Interests Register in terms of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, which is deemed to form part and parcel of this Annual Report and available for inspection upon request. All related party transactions which encompasses the transactions of Directors who were directly or indirectly interested in a contract or a related party transaction with the Company during the accounting period are recorded in the Interests Register in due compliance with the applicable rules and regulations of the relevant Regulatory Authorities. The relevant interests of Directors in the shares of the Company as at 31st March 2016, as recorded in the Interests Register are given below in this Report under Directors’ Shareholding. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION The Directors’ remuneration is disclosed under Key Management Personnel Compensation in Note 36.5 to the Financial Statements on page 192. Page 140 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS Directors’ interests in contracts with the Company are stated below. The Directors have no direct or indirect interest in any other contract or proposed contract with the Company. Except for the transactions referred to in Note 36 to the Financial Statements, the Company did not carry out any transaction with any of the Directors. AUDITORS Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants served as the Auditors during the year under review and also provided non-audit/consultancy services. They do not have any interest in the Company other than that of Auditor and provider of tax related services. A total amount of Rs. 2,531,098/is payable by the Company to the Auditors for the year under review comprising Rs. 2,185,000/as audit fees and Rs. 346,098/for non-audit services. The Auditors have expressed their willingness to continue in office. A resolution to reappoint the Auditors and to authorize the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. STATED CAPITAL The stated capital of the Company is Rs. 9,000,000,000/-. representing 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares. The details of the Debentures in issue as at 31st March 2016 are set out in Note 30.1 to the Financial Statements on page 181. The said Debentures have been assigned a Rating of ‘(SL) A+ with a stable outlook’ by ICRA Lanka Limited. DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING The relevant interests of Directors in the shares of the Company as at 31st March 2016 and 31st March 2015 are as follows: Shareholding as at 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 Mr. S J S Perera 250,000,000 250,000,000 Mr. J C Joshua 100,000,000 100,000,000 Mr. R J S Gomez 120,000,000 120,000,000 Mr. D A R Fernando 24,000,000 24,000,000 Mr. S H S Mendis 24,000,000 24,000,000 Mr. S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 24,000,000 Mr. S D Perera 2,000,000 2,000,000 Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Nil Nil Mr. N D Gunaratne Nil Nil Mr. D S Weerakkody Nil Nil SHAREHOLDERS There were 5,757 shareholders registered as at 31st March 2016 (4,610 shareholders as at 31st March 2015). The details of distribution are given on page 69 of this Report. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS, DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE AND OTHER INFORMATION Information on the distribution of shareholding, analysis of shareholders, market values per share, earnings, dividends, net assets per share, twenty largest shareholders of the Company, percentage of shares held by the public as per the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are given on pages 69 to 71 under Investor Capital. Financial Reports 5 Page 141 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company RATIOS AND MARKET PRICES OF DEBENTURES Ratios and market prices of the Listed Rated Senior Unsecured Redeemable Debentures issued by the Company, as required by the Listing Rules are set out in Note 30.1 to the Financial Statements on page 181. EMPLOYMENT POLICY The Company’s employment policy is totally non-discriminatory which respects individuals and provides carrier opportunities irrespective of the gender, race or religion. As at 31st March 2016, 2,054 persons were in employment (1,887 persons as at 31st March 2015). RESERVES The reserves of the Company with the movements during the year are given in the Statement of Changes in Equity on page 151. LAND HOLDINGS Details of property, plant and equipment and changes during the year are given in Note 15 of Notes to the Financial Statements. The extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of the Company’s land holdings are given below: Extent Carrying Value of Location A R P Revalued/Amortized Assets (Rs.) Access Engineering PLC No. 336/1, Low Level Road, Jalthara, Ranala – 3.0 38.40 51,277,778 No. 267, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama – 3.0 1.00 145,200,000 No. 278, Alubogahalanda, Jalthara, Ranala 3.0 3.0 4.86 53,333,333 No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralesgamuwa – 2.0 37.00 100,000,000 Dickowita – Hendala 2.0 3.0 10.18 15,800,000 Weliwita – Kaduwela 2.0 – – 40,000,000 Access Realties (Private) Limited Investment Property – Colombo 2 1.0 – 25.65 3,310,076,746 Sathosa Motors PLC Peliyagoda – Leasehold Land 2.0 – 23.93 5,362,542 Access Projects (Private) Limited No. 278, Kekulanvilla Road, Jalthara, Ranala 2.0 1.0 38.38 27,400,000 Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited Investment Property – Land at Kaduwela 4.0 1.0 5.00 285,193,000 Horizon Knowledge City Limited No. 278, Weliwita Road, Weliwita 8.0 4.0 44.87 562,158,000 DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of Rs. 0.50 per share was declared on 20th November 2015 and paid to shareholders on 11th December 2015. Pursuant to a resolution adopted on 25th May 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the payment of a final dividend of Rs. 0.50 per share for the year ended 31st March 2016. The said final dividend was paid on 14th June 2016. Page 142 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company INVESTMENTS Details of the Company’s quoted and unquoted investments as at 31st March 2016, are given in Notes 18, 19, 20, 24.1, 25 and 26 to the Financial Statements. DONATIONS The Company made donations amounting to Rs. 3,651,267/in total, during the year under review (2015 – Rs. 2,802,883/-). RISK MANAGEMENT An ongoing process is in place to identify and manage the risks that are associated with the business and operations of the Company. The Directors review this process through the Audit Committee. Specific steps taken by the Company in managing the risks are detailed in the section on Enterprise Risk Management on pages 127 to 136. STATUTORY PAYMENTS The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, all contributions, levies and taxes payable on behalf of, and in respect of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and all other known statutory dues as were due and payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as at the Statement of Financial Position date have been paid or, where relevant provided for, except as specified in Note 37 to the Financial Statements covering commitments and contingencies. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Except as disclosed in Note 37 to the Financial Statements, there were no material Contingent Liabilities as at the Statement of Financial Position date. EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Except for the matters disclosed in Note 38 to the Financial Statements there are no material events as at the date of the Auditors’ Report which require adjustment to or disclosure in the Financial Statements. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors confirm that the Company is compliant with Section 7.10 of the Listing Rules of the CSE. The Chairman confirms that he is not aware of any violation of any of the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Similarly the Board of Directors and the Key Management Personnel declare compliance with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics of the Company. Financial Reports 5 Page 143 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company An Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Related Party Transaction Review Committee function as Board Sub Committees, with Directors who possess the requisite qualifications and experience. The composition of the said committees as at 31st March 2016 is as follows: AUDIT COMMITTEE Mr. N D Gunaratne – Chairman Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Mr. S D Perera Mr. D S Weerakkody REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Mr. D S Weerakkody – Chairman Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Mr. N D Gunaratne Mr. S D Perera STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE Mr. S J S Perera – Chairman Mr. J C Joshua Mr. D A R Fernando Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION REVIEW COMMITTEE Mr. N D Gunaratne – Chairman Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Mr. D S Weerakkody Mr. J C Joshua Mr. D A R Fernando The Corporate Governance of the Company is reflected in its strong belief in protecting and enhancing stakeholder value in a sustainable manner, supported by a sound system of policies and practices. Prudent internal controls ensure professionalism, integrity and commitment of the Board of Directors, Management and employees. The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 96 to 123 explains the measures adopted by the Company during the year. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company continued its Corporate Social Responsibility Programmes, details of which are set out on page 81 of this Report. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION After making adequate enquiries from the management, the Directors are satisfied that the Company operates in a manner that minimizes the detrimental effects on the environment and provides products and services that have a beneficial effect on the customers and the communities within which the Company operates. GOING CONCERN The Financial Statements are prepared on-going concern principles. After making adequate enquires from the management, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue its operations in the foreseeable future. Page 144 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Fifth Annual General Meeting will be held on 10th August 2016. The Notice of the Annual General Meeting appears on page 215. This Annual Report is signed for and on behalf of the Board of Directors by, S J S Perera J C Joshua Chairman Managing Director P W Corporate Secretarial (Private) Limited Secretaries 10th July 2016 Colombo ANNEXURE ‘A’ TO THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY Company Name Name of Directors Sathosa Motors PLC yy S J S Perera – Chairman yy T D Gunasekara – Managing Director yy M M N De Silva (Independent Non-Executive Director) yy J C Joshua (Non-Executive Director) yy R J S Gomez (Non-Executive Director) yy D A R Fernando (Non-Executive Director) yy S H S Mendis (Non-Executive Director) yy S D Munasinghe (Non-Executive Director) yy C Wijesinghe (Independent Non-Executive Director) Access Realties (Private) Limited yy S J S Perera yy J C Joshua yy R J S Gomez yy D A R Fernando yy S H S Mendis yy S D Munasinghe yy S D Perera Access Projects (Private) Limited yy S J S Perera yy D D S Ferdinando yy S D Perera yy K P M D C N Ferdinando yy I S N Fernando yy S P Wanigasundara yy R M R K Wickramasinghe yy T A L N Thilakarathne Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited yy D A U Priyasaman yy M Dharmapriya yy R M R K Wickramasinghe yy P T N Priyadharshani Horizon Knowledge City Limited yy D A U Priyasaman yy M Dharmapriya yy S J S Perera yy J C Joshua yy D A R Fernando Financial Reports 5 Page 145 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility Statement of Directors’ Responsibility This Statement sets out the responsibility of the Board of Directors in relation to the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries. Responsibility of the Auditors in relation to the Financial Statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries is set out in the ‘Independent Auditors’ Report’ given in page 148. The Directors are responsible for the proper recording and maintenance of books of accounts of all transactions of the Company and its subsidiaries under the provisions of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. In terms of this Act the Directors are responsible for preparing Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries at the end of each financial year. These Statements consist of the Statement of Comprehensive Income giving a true and fair view of the profit or loss of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the financial year, the Statement of Financial Position giving a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of the financial year, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and the Notes thereto. In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are required to ensure that – yy Appropriate accounting policies have been selected and applied in a consistent manner and material departures, if any, have been disclosed and explained; yy Financial Statements are presented in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS); and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made so that the form and substance of transactions are properly reflected; yy Financial Statements provide the information required by and otherwise comply with the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange; yy The Company maintains with reasonable accuracy sufficient accounting records to disclose the financial position of the Company and the Group; yy Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and they are of the view that sufficient resources are available to justify it. Further, the Directors confirm that they have taken reasonable measures to safeguard the assets of the Company and Group and in this regard have established appropriate systems of internal control with a view to preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities. The External Auditors were provided with all the information and explanations necessary to enable them to form their independent opinion on the Financial Statements. COMPLIANCE REPORT The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies payable by the Company and its Subsidiaries, all contributions, levies and taxes payable on behalf of and in respect of the employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and all other known statutory dues as were due and payable by the Company and its Subsidiaries as at reporting date have been paid or, where relevant, provided for, except as specified in Note 37 to the Financial Statements covering commitments and contingencies. By Order of the Board, P W Corporate Secretarial (Private) Limited Secretaries 10th July 2016 Colombo Page 146 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Directors’ Statement on Internal Control Directors’ Statement on Internal Control INTRODUCTION This statement is presented by the Board based on the recommendation made by the ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance 2013’ jointly issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors (‘Board’) is responsible for the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control at Access Engineering PLC in order to safeguard shareholders’ investment and Company’s Assets. In order to discharge their responsibilities effectively, the Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company and the Group with the objective of mitigating any losses to the Company. This system is reviewed by the Board on a periodic basis in order to ensure its adequacy and effectiveness. The Board is of the view that the system of internal controls in place is sound and adequate to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Financial Statements for external purposes and is in accordance with relevant accounting principles and regulatory requirements. SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL Following features of the system of internal control put in place by the Board provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting. They also ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of the system. yy Committees appointed by the Board to assist them in ensuring the effectiveness of the Company’s daily operations and to ensure that these daily operations are within the corporate objectives, strategies and annual budget ratified by the Board. yy Internal Audit Department which is headed by the Head of Internal Audit carries out periodic audits on an ongoing basis covering all operational projects/units to ensure the effectiveness of the system of internal control. These audits are carried out in accordance with the annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee and findings of the same are submitted to the Board Audit Committee for their review on a quarterly basis. Additionally, special audits are conducted as and when the need arises and findings of the same are submitted to the Board Audit Committee for their review. yy The Board Audit Committee reviews internal control issues identified by the Internal Audit Department, regulatory bodies and the management and evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems. They also review the internal audit functions with particular emphasis on the scope of audits and quality of internal audits. The minutes of the Board Audit Committee meetings are tabled at the Board meetings of the Company. yy In accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards comprising SLFRS and LKAS, processes that are required to comply with requirements of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosures were introduced and implemented. Continuous monitoring is in progress to enhance the system’s effectiveness and efficiency. yy The comments made by External Auditors in connection with the internal control system during the financial year 2014/15 were taken into consideration and appropriate steps have been taken to incorporate them where appropriate. Financial Reports 5 Page 147 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Directors’ Statement on Internal Control CONFIRMATION Based on the above processes, the Board of Directors confirms that the financial reporting system of the Company has been designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Financial Statements for external purposes has been done in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKASs), requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. S J S Perera J C Joshua Chairman Managing Director N D Gunarathna Chairman – Audit Committee 10th July 2016 Colombo Page 148 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Independent Auditors’ Report Independent Auditors’ Report TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying Financial Statements of Access Engineering PLC, (‘the Company’) and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries (‘the Group’) which comprise the Statement of Financial Position as at 31st March 2016, and the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, set out on pages 149 to 205 of the Annual Report. Board’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements The Board of Directors (‘Board’) are responsible for the preparation of these Financial Statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and for such internal control as the Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements. The procedures selected depend on the Auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the Auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries dealt with thereby as at 31st March 2016 and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements As required by Section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the following: a) The basis of opinion and scope and limitations of the audit are as stated above. b) In our opinion: We have obtained all the information and explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from our examination, proper accounting records have been kept by the Company, The Financial Statements of the Company give a true and fair view of its financial position as at 31st March 2016 and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. The Financial Statements of the Company and the Group comply with the requirements of Sections 151 and 153 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Chartered Accountants Colombo 10th July 2016 M.R. Mihular FCA P.Y.S. Perera FCA C.P. Jayatilake FCA KPMG, a Sri Lankan partnership and a member firm T.J.S. Rajakarier FCA W.W.J.C. Perera FCA Ms. S. Joseph FCA of the KPMG network of independent member firms Ms. S.M.B. Jayasekara ACA W.K.D.C. Abeyrathne FCA S.T.D.L. Perera FCA G.A.U. Karunaratne FCA R.M.D.B. Rajapakse FCA Ms. B.K.D.T.N. Rodrigo FCA affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative R.H. Rajan ACA (”KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Principals S.R.I. Perera FCMA(UK), LLB, Attorney-at-Law, H.S. Goonewardene ACA Financial Reports 5 Page 149 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Revenue 8 17,624,604,760 16,514,104,913 11,604,396,432 11,244,872,796 Cost of Sales (13,647,549,913) (12,698,719,308) (9,041,925,327) (8,614,500,716) Gross Profit 3,977,054,847 3,815,385,605 2,562,471,105 2,630,372,080 Other Income 9 262,058,936 189,532,049 251,714,453 16,597,808 Administrative Expenses (1,294,039,664) (1,252,113,127) (559,330,905) (708,712,636) Other Expenses (56,710,414) (110,799,227) (52,672,798) (105,322,773) Net Finance Income 10 95,718,108 109,623,595 152,403,713 111,013,798 Share of Profit of Associate & JV, Net of Tax 19.3 11,282,378 11,112,685 – – Profit Before Tax 11 2,995,364,191 2,762,741,580 2,354,585,568 1,943,948,277 Income Tax Expenses 12 (444,499,958) (338,840,390) (267,802,039) (191,224,052) Profit for the Year 2,550,864,233 2,423,901,190 2,086,783,529 1,752,724,225 Profit Attributable to: Owners of the Company 2,465,295,003 2,345,902,717 2,086,783,529 1,752,724,225 Non-Controlling Interest 85,569,230 77,998,473 – – Profit for the Year 2,550,864,233 2,423,901,190 2,086,783,529 1,752,724,225 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial Gain on Defined Benefit Plans 31.1 22,744,245 8,029,753 18,634,323 10,511,919 Tax on Other Comprehensive Income 12.3 (2,565,288) (575,005) (2,301,616) (968,220) Other Comprehensive Income for the Year, Net of Tax 20,178,957 7,454,748 16,332,707 9,543,699 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year, Net of Tax 2,571,043,190 2,431,355,938 2,103,116,236 1,762,267,924 Total Comprehensive Income Attributable to: Owners of the Company 2,484,759,741 2,353,822,479 2,103,116,236 1,762,267,924 Non-Controlling Interest 86,283,449 77,533,459 – – Total Comprehensive Income for the Year, Net of Tax 2,571,043,190 2,431,355,938 2,103,116,236 1,762,267,924 Earnings Per Share 13 2.47 2.35 2.09 1.75 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Page 150 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Statement of Financial Position Statement of Financial Position Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Assets Non-Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 15 4,790,904,021 4,221,531,887 3,078,333,356 3,241,572,136 Investment Properties 16 3,328,874,433 3,012,436,200 174,392,599 174,392,599 Investment Properties – Work in Progress 16.3 1,191,726,723 472,169,319 – – Intangible Assets 17 1,354,162,838 1,292,345,386 72,638,543 83,087,853 Investments in Subsidiaries 18 – – 6,358,474,047 5,193,474,047 Investment in Joint Venture 19.1 249,097,834 – 250,000,000 – Investment in Associate 19.2 83,553,736 72,533,965 55,465,410 55,465,410 Other Long Term Investments 20 – – – – Other Non-Current Financial Assets 24.1 1,358,785,866 84,113,503 863,166,986 – Total Non-Current Assets 12,357,105,451 9,155,130,260 10,852,470,941 8,747,992,045 Current Assets Inventories 21 2,376,138,354 2,183,981,213 839,846,530 928,795,475 Trade and Other Receivables 22 6,575,954,063 6,522,291,096 4,572,900,445 4,540,372,873 Amount Due from Related Parties 23 25,929,496 146,058,280 468,398,485 554,648,785 Current Tax Assets 35 – 14,640,295 – 14,640,295 Other Current Financial Assets 24.2 1,671,305,926 1,275,404,887 1,353,134,714 1,041,609,527 Short Term Investments 25 40,387,475 63,908,621 40,387,475 63,908,621 Short Term Deposits 26 6,792,241,584 1,047,928,278 6,654,883,540 847,812,646 Cash and Cash Equivalents 27 503,790,212 1,918,480,806 476,383,407 1,517,175,410 Total Current Assets 17,985,747,110 13,172,693,476 14,405,934,596 9,508,963,632 Total Assets 30,342,852,561 22,327,823,736 25,258,405,537 18,256,955,677 Equity and Liabilities Stated Capital 28 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 Revaluation Reserve 100,860,402 100,860,402 100,860,402 100,860,402 Retained Earnings 8,361,639,086 7,168,628,364 6,835,195,392 5,920,470,541 Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company 17,462,499,488 16,269,488,766 15,936,055,794 15,021,330,943 Non-Controlling Interest 532,191,820 425,017,704 – – Total Equity 17,994,691,308 16,694,506,470 15,936,055,794 15,021,330,943 Non-Current Liabilities Deferred Grant 29 6,362,000 6,581,652 – – Interest-Bearing Borrowings 30 5,193,271,021 97,868,513 5,189,556,989 – Employee Benefits 31 168,729,706 159,264,174 119,523,080 112,510,177 Deferred Taxation 32 234,905,814 250,705,784 204,527,660 242,831,592 Total Non-Current Liabilities 5,603,268,541 514,420,123 5,513,607,729 355,341,769 Current Liabilities Bank Overdraft 27 412,594,547 276,320,248 – – Trade and Other Payables 33 5,367,753,212 4,430,258,431 3,610,047,268 2,866,512,030 Amount Due to Related Parties 34 42,349,657 47,914,212 30,659,604 11,726,511 Interest-Bearing Borrowings 30 652,491,078 251,727,673 – – Current Tax Liability 35 248,999,284 98,281,234 164,499,820 – Unclaimed Dividend 20,704,934 14,395,345 3,535,322 2,044,424 Total Current Liabilities 6,744,892,712 5,118,897,143 3,808,742,014 2,880,282,965 Total Liabilities 12,348,161,253 5,633,317,266 9,322,349,743 3,235,624,734 Total Equity and Liabilities 30,342,852,561 22,327,823,736 25,258,405,537 18,256,955,677 Net Asset Per Share 17.46 16.27 15.94 15.02 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. N Iddagoda Deputy General Manager – Finance The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Approved and signed for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Access Engineering PLC. J C Joshua D A R Fernando Managing Director Chief Operating Officer 10th July 2016 Colombo Financial Reports 5 Page 151 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Changes in Equity Attributable to Equity Holders of the Parent Group Stated Capital Revaluation Retained Total Non-Controlling Total Equity Reserve Earnings Interest Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Balance at 1st April 2014 (Restated) 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 5,814,805,885 14,915,666,287 266,337,644 15,182,003,931 Profit for the Year – – 2,345,902,717 2,345,902,717 77,998,473 2,423,901,190 Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax – – 7,919,762 7,919,762 (465,014) 7,454,748 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year – – 2,353,822,479 2,353,822,479 77,533,459 2,431,355,938 Dividends Paid – – (1,000,000,000) (1,000,000,000) – (1,000,000,000) Dividends Paid to Non-Controlling Interest – – – – (4,699,368) (4,699,368) Non-Controlling Interest on Acquisition of Access Projects (Private) Limited – – – – 85,845,969 85,845,969 Balance at 31st March 2015 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 7,168,628,364 16,269,488,766 425,017,704 16,694,506,470 Super Gain Tax Expense (Note 35) – – (541,749,019) (541,749,019) (12,479,631) (554,228,650) Balance at 1st April 2015 after SGT 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 6,626,879,345 15,727,739,747 412,538,073 16,140,277,820 Profit for the Year – – 2,465,295,003 2,465,295,003 85,569,230 2,550,864,233 Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax – – 19,464,738 19,464,738 714,219 20,178,957 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year – – 2,484,759,741 2,484,759,741 86,283,449 2,571,043,190 Dividends Paid – – (750,000,000) (750,000,000) – (750,000,000) Dividend Paid to Non-Controlling Interest – – – – (16,629,704) (16,629,704) Non-Controlling Interest of Horizon Knowledge City Limited – – – – 50,000,002 50,000,002 Balance at 31st March 2016 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 8,361,639,086 17,462,499,488 532,191,820 17,994,691,308 Company Stated Capital Revaluation Retained Total Reserve Earnings Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Balance at 1st April 2014 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 5,158,202,617 14,259,063,019 Profit for the Year – – 1,752,724,225 1,752,724,225 Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax – – 9,543,699 9,543,699 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year – – 1,762,267,924 1,762,267,924 Dividends Paid – – (1,000,000,000) (1,000,000,000) Balance at 31st March 2015 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 5,920,470,541 15,021,330,943 Super Gain Tax Expense (Note 35) – – (438,391,385) (438,391,385) Balance at 1st April 2015 after SGT 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 5,482,079,156 14,582,939,558 Profit for the Year – – 2,086,783,529 2,086,783,529 Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax – – 16,332,707 16,332,707 Total Comprehensive Income for the Year – – 2,103,116,236 2,103,116,236 Dividends Paid – – (750,000,000) (750,000,000) Balance at 31st March 2016 9,000,000,000 100,860,402 6,835,195,392 15,936,055,794 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Page 152 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Statement of Cash Flows Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Profit Before Tax 2,995,364,191 2,762,741,580 2,354,585,568 1,943,948,277 Reconciliation of Profit Before Tax to Cash Generated from Operations: Depreciation, Amortization and Impairment 11 847,894,354 668,476,961 731,645,853 605,791,129 Provision for Retirement Benefits 31.1 47,553,165 39,218,502 33,337,497 33,257,731 Provision for/Write-off of Bad and Doubtful Debts and Inventories 11 24,537,179 33,982,805 14,770,329 32,896,081 Gain on Fair Value Changes of Investment Property 16 (21,168,487) (174,125,525) – – (Gain)/Loss on Fair Value Changes of Short term Investments 9 10,053,644 (21,528,816) 10,053,644 (21,528,816) Gain on Fair Value Changes of Investment in Unit Trusts 9 (109,300) (109,300) (109,300) (109,300) Profit from Disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment 9 (34,548,179) (28,485,502) (29,919,741) (18,452,958) (Gain)/Loss on Disposal of Investments 9 (14,677,702) 294,030 (14,677,702) 294,030 Amortization of Deferred Revenue 29 (219,652) (219,389) – – Share of Profit of Associate & JV, Net of Tax 19.3 (11,282,378) (11,112,685) – – Dividend Income 9 (8,032,719) (8,406,900) (94,139,164) (35,011,627) Net Finance Income 10 (95,718,108) (109,623,595) (152,403,713) (111,013,798) 3,739,646,008 3,151,102,166 2,853,143,271 2,430,070,749 Changes in Working Capital (Increase)/Decrease Inventories (195,809,057) 153,578,543 88,948,945 260,288,758 (Increase)/Decrease Trade and Other Receivables (99,134,201) 1,039,433,121 (70,643,802) 1,406,862,645 (Increase)/Decrease Other Current Financial Assets (395,901,039) (196,854,449) (311,525,187) 32,903,706 (Increase)/Decrease Amounts Due from Related Parties 120,128,783 17,645,953 86,250,300 (433,600,315) Increase/(Decrease) Trade and Other Payables 943,650,983 (532,884,072) 745,026,136 (752,164,363) Increase/(Decrease) Amounts Due to Related Parties (5,564,555) 20,204,780 18,933,093 (24,949,736) Cash Generated from Operating Activities 4,107,016,922 3,652,226,042 3,410,132,756 2,919,411,444 Interest Paid (96,537,327) (28,931,973) (19,853) (542,337) Tax Paid (272,920,901) (371,959,666) (105,921,571) (250,776,595) Super Gain Tax Paid (554,228,650) – (438,391,385) – Gratuity Paid 31 (15,343,388) (8,001,339) (7,690,271) (5,582,898) Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 3,167,986,656 3,243,333,064 2,858,109,676 2,662,509,614 Cash Flows from/(used in) Investing Activities Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment (1,430,730,557) (938,385,924) (613,131,458) (713,882,417) Purchase of Intangible Assets 17.1, 17.2 (90,387,201) (19,308,865) – (18,868,061) Investment in Other Non-Current Financial Assets (1,274,672,363) (45,628,180) (863,166,986) – Investment in Investment Properties 16 (295,269,746) (6,272,202) – – Investment in Investment Properties – Work in Progress (719,557,404) (472,169,319) – – Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant and Equipment 92,227,353 53,208,398 85,093,437 38,831,136 Proceeds from Sales of Investment 28,145,203 953,370 28,145,203 953,370 Acquisition of Subsidiary, Net of Cash Acquired – (1,148,557,338) – (1,000,000,000) Investment in Subsidiary – – (1,165,000,000) (300,000,000) Proceeds from Issue of Shares to Non-Controlling Interest 50,000,002 – – – Investment in Joint Venture (250,000,000) – (250,000,000) – (Investments in)/Withdrawal from Short Term Deposit (5,744,204,006) 91,913,279 (5,806,961,594) 225,627,819 Dividend Income 8,032,719 8,406,900 94,139,164 35,011,627 Interest Income 375,252,363 138,555,567 341,980,555 111,556,135 Net Cash Flows used in Investing Activities (9,251,163,637) (2,337,284,314) (8,148,901,679) (1,620,770,391) Cash Flows from/(used in) Financing Activities Dividends Paid (750,000,000) (1,000,000,000) (750,000,000) (1,000,000,000) Proceeds from Issue of Debentures 30.1 4,825,670,000 – 5,000,000,000 – Dividends Paid to Non-Controlling Interest (16,629,704) (4,699,368) – – Loan Obtained During the Year 30.2 2,297,706,327 459,262,242 – – Repayment of Loan 30.2 (1,815,840,233) (209,056,646) – – Payment of Finance Lease Liabilities 30.3 (8,694,302) (7,711,702) – (5,058,610) Net Cash from/(used in) Financing Activities 4,532,212,088 (762,205,474) 4,250,000,000 (1,005,058,610) Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (1,550,964,893) 143,843,276 (1,040,792,003) 36,680,613 Cash and Cash Equivalent at the Beginning 1,642,160,558 1,498,317,282 1,517,175,410 1,480,494,797 Cash and Cash Equivalent at the End 27 91,195,665 1,642,160,558 476,383,407 1,517,175,410 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Financial Reports 5 Page 153 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION 1.1 Reporting Entity 2.1 Statement of Compliance Access Engineering PLC (‘Company’) is a company domiciled and The Financial Statements of the Company and those consolidated operating in Sri Lanka and listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. which comprise the Statement of Financial Position, Statement The Company’s registered office and the principal place of business of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, Statement are located at ‘Access Towers’, No. 278, Union Place, Colombo 02. of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows together with the Accounting Policies and Notes (the Financial Statements) 1.2 Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements of Access Engineering PLC Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by The Institute of Chartered as at and for the year ended 31st March 2016, comprise the Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and with the requirement Company and its Subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. The Financial Statements of all Companies in the Group have Responsibilities for the Financial Statements a common financial year which ends on 31st March. Access The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and Engineering PLC does not have any identifiable parent of its own. presentation of the Financial Statements of the Company and its The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group. Subsidiaries as per provisions of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs). 1.3 Principal Activities and Nature of Operations Access Engineering PLC (AEL) is primarily involved in the business The Board of Directors acknowledges this responsibility as set out of construction activities and supply of construction-related in the Statement of ‘Directors’ Responsibility for Financial services and materials. Statements’ (Refer page 145), ‘Annual Report of the Board of Directors’ (Refer page 138) and in the statement appearing with the Access Realties (Private) Limited, a fully-owned subsidiary of AEL Statement of Financial Position of this Annual Report. engaged in the development of high rise buildings and manage the same or otherwise (lease/rent/sale) in whole or in part. Components of Financial Statements Financial Statements include the following components: Sathosa Motors PLC which is a subsidiary of AEL with 84.4% of holding and involved in the business of importing and sale of motor yy The Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive vehicles and spare parts together with the repair and maintenance Income: providing information on the financial performance of the of such motor vehicles. Group and the Company for the year. (Refer page 149) yy The Statement of Financial Position: providing information on the Access Projects (Private) Limited is a subsidiary of AEL with 80% of financial position of the Group and the Company as at the yearholding and involved in the business of construction activities. end. (Refer page 150) yy The Statement of Changes in Equity: providing information on the Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited is a fully-owned movements of stated capital and reserves of the Group and the subsidiary of AEL and involved in the business of property Company during the year under review. (Refer page 151) development. yy The Statement of Cash Flow: providing information on the generating of cash and cash equivalents and utilization of the Horizon Knowledge City Limited is a subsidiary of AEL with 92% of same. (Refer page 152) holding and was established for the business of higher education yy Notes to the Financial Statements: comprising accounting and providing infrastructure facilities for an internationally policies and other explanatory notes. (Refer page 153 to 205) recognized private university. The Financial Statements were authorized for issue by the Board of All subsidiaries of the Company have been incorporated in Sri Lanka. Directors in accordance with the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 10th July 2016. Page 154 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.2 Basis of Measurement Revaluation of Property, Plant and Equipment and These Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical Investment Properties cost basis except for the following material items in the Statement The Group measures land and buildings at revalued amounts of Financial Position: with changes in fair value being recognized in Statement of Other Comprehensive Income and in the Statement of Changes in Equity. yy Financial assets and financial liabilities that have been measured In addition, it carries its investment properties at fair value, with at fair value – LKAS 39 – (Refer Note 41) changes in fair value being recognized in the Statement of yy Employee benefit liability recognized based on actuarial Profit or Loss. valuation – LKAS 19 – (Refer Note 31) yy Land and buildings stated at revalued amounts – LKAS 16 – The Group engaged an independent professional valuer to assess (Refer Note 15) fair value of land and buildings and investment properties. Details of the valuation are depicted on Notes 15 and 16. yy Investment property measured at fair value – LKAS 40 – (Refer Note 16) Land and buildings were valued by reference to market-based evidence, using comparable prices adjusted for specific market 2.3 Functional and Presentation Currency factors such as nature, location and condition of the property. Items included in the Financial Statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of the primary economic Investment properties carried out on an open market value for environment in which the entity operates. The Consolidated existing use basis. Financial Statements are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs.), which is the Group’s functional currency. Taxes Significant judgment was required to determine the total provision 2.4 Use of Significant Accounting Judgments, Estimates and Assumptions for current, deferred and other taxes due to the uncertainties that The preparation of Financial Statements of the Group/Company in exists with respect to the interpretation of the applicability of tax conformity with SLFRSs/LKASs requires the management to make laws, at the time of the preparation of these Financial Statements. judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, Uncertainties also exist with respect to the interpretation of complex income, expenses and disclosure of contingent liabilities. Judgments tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. and estimates are based on historical experience and other factors, Given the wide range of business relationships and the long term including expectations that are believed to be reasonable under nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, the circumstances. Hence, actual experience and results may differ differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions from these judgments and estimates. Estimates and underlying made or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. accounting estimates are recognized prospectively. Defined Benefit Plans The Management considered the following items, where significant The employee benefit liability of the Group is based on the actuarial judgments, estimates and assumptions have been used in valuation carried out by an Independent Actuarial Specialist. preparing these Financial Statements. The actuarial valuations involve making assumptions about discount rates and future salary increases. The complexity of the Going Concern valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long term nature, the The Management has made an assessment of its ability to continue defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these as a going concern and is satisfied that it has the resources to assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each Reporting date. continue in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the Details of the key assumptions used in the estimates are contained Management is not aware of any material uncertainties that may in Note 31. cast significant doubt upon the Group’s/Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the Financial Statements continue to be prepared on a going concern basis. Financial Reports 5 Page 155 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements The following Notes provide more information on specific When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is accounting judgments, estimations and assumptions used: recognized immediately in profit or loss. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment. yy Impairment of financial assets (Note 3.3.7.8) yy Fair value measurement of financial instruments (Note 3.3.10) The consideration transferred, does not include amounts related yy Impairment of non-financial assets (Note 3.3.6) to the settlement of preexisting relationships such amounts are yy Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiaries generally recognized in profit or loss. Transaction costs, other than (Note 3.1.2) those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are yy Provisions and contingent liabilities and contingent assets expensed as incurred. (Note 3.4) After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 2.5 Comparative Information accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment The presentation and classification of the Financial Statements of testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the the previous years have been amended, where relevant for better acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating presentation and to be comparable with those of the current year. units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES to those units. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Financial Statements 3.1.2 Investments in Subsidiaries and have been applied consistently by the Company and its Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group Subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. controls an entity when it is exposed to or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to 3.1 Basis of Consolidation affect those returns through its power over the entity. The Financial The Group’s Financial Statements comprise consolidation of the Statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, its Subsidiaries in terms of Financial Statements from the date on which control commences the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards SLFRS 10 – ‘Consolidated until the date on which control ceases. Financial Statements’. Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less impairment in The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared using the Financial Statements of the Company. The net assets of each uniform accounting policies for like transactions/events in similar subsidiary are reviewed at each Reporting date to determine whether circumstances and where necessary, appropriate adjustments have there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements. then the recoverable amount of the investment is estimated and the impairment loss is recognized to the extent of its net assets loss. 3.1.1 Business Combinations and Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 3.1.3 Non-Controlling Interests method as at the acquisition date – i.e., when control is transferred The total profit and loss for the year of the Company and to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and its Subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income its activities. In assessing control, the Group also takes into with the proportion of profit and loss after taxation pertaining to consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries being deducted as non-controlling interest. All assets and liabilities of the Company The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: and of its Subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in yy The fair value of the consideration transferred; plus the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The interest of yy The recognized amount of any non-controlling interests in the non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries in the fair value of net acquiree; plus assets of the Group is indicated separately in the Consolidated yy If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value Statement of Financial Position under the heading non-controlling of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree; less interest. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as transactions with yy The net recognized amount (generally fair value) of the owners in their capacity as owners. Adjustments to non-controlling identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. No adjustments are made to goodwill and no gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Page 156 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.1.4 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures Upon loss of significant influence over the investment, the Group As associate is an entity over which the Group has significant measures and recognizes any retained investment at its fair value. influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint control the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from another entity. disposal is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties 3.1.5 Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized income assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealized decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees consent of the parties sharing control. are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the evidence of impairment. investment in an associate and joint venture is initially recognized at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognize 3.2 Foreign Currency changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint 3.2.1 Foreign Currency Transactions venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate All foreign exchange transactions are converted to functional or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment currency, at the rates of exchange prevailing at the time the and is not tested for impairment separately. transactions are effected. The Statement of Profit or Loss reflects the Group’s share of the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change are retranslated to functional currency equivalents at the spot in Other Comprehensive Income of those investees is presented exchange rate prevailing at the Reporting date. as part of the Group’s Other Comprehensive Income until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceased. In addition, Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in when there has been a change recognized directly in the equity of a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the the associate or joint venture, the Group recognizes its share of any dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary assets and liabilities changes, when applicable, in the Statement of Changes in Equity. are translated using exchange rates that existed when the values Unrealized gains and losses resulting from transactions between were determined. the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of foreign exchange transactions are recognized as a profit or a loss in the The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate Statement of Profit or Loss. and a joint venture is shown on the face of the Statement of Profit or Loss outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after 3.3 Assets and Bases of Their Valuation tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate Assets classified as current assets in the Statement of Financial or joint venture. Position are cash and bank balances and those, which are expected to be realized in cash during the normal operating cycle or within one After application of the equity method, the Group determines year from the Reporting date, whichever is shorter. Assets other than whether it is necessary to recognize an impairment loss on its current assets are those, which the Company intends to hold beyond investment in its associate or joint venture. At each Reporting date, one year period calculated from the Reporting date. the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the equity accounted investees are impaired. If there 3.3.1 Property, Plant and Equipment is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment 3.3.1.1 Recognition and Measurement as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate Property, plant and equipment are recognized if it is probable that or joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognizes the future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the loss as ‘Share of Results of an Associate and a Joint Venture’ in the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. Statement of Profit or Loss. Financial Reports 5 Page 157 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost/revaluation less 3.3.1.6 Revaluation accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Revaluation is performed on freehold land and building by professionally qualified valuers using the open market value at 3.3.1.2 Owned Assets least once in every three years. The valuation surplus is recognized The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprise of on the net carrying value of the asset and is transferred to a its purchase price and any directly attributable costs of bringing revaluation reserve after restating the asset at the revalued amount. the asset to working condition for its intended use. The cost of The revaluation reserve is transferred to retained earnings at the self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, point of derecognition. and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the working condition for its intended use. This also includes cost 3.3.1.7 Depreciation of dismantling and removing the items and restoring in the site on Depreciation is recognized in profit or loss on straight-line basis which they are located and borrowing costs on qualifying assets. over the estimated useful lives of each part of item of property, plant and equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter Purchased software that is integrated to the functionality of the of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably related equipment is capitalized as part of equipment. certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have whereas depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of the date different useful lives, they are accounted as separate items (major that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal component) of property, plant and equipment. group that is classified as held for sale) and the date that the asset is derecognized. Depreciation is not charged on freehold land and 3.3.1.3 Leased Assets capital work in progress. Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially, all risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Upon The estimated useful lives are as follows: initial recognition the leased asset is measured and capitalized at Asset Category Useful Life (Years) an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Freehold Building 10 – 25 asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy Leasehold Building 50 applicable to that asset. Improvements to Leasehold Property 8–9 Plant and Machinery 3 – 10 Other leases are operating leases and, except for investment Motor Vehicles 4–8 property, the leased assets are not recognized in the Group’s Office Equipment 3–5 Statement of Financial Position. Furniture and Fittings 3–5 Tools 3–8 3.3.1.4 Subsequent Costs Other Construction Equipment 10 The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognized in the carrying amount of the item if it is Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the reviewed at each Reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. part will flow to the Company and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. 3.3.1.8 Capital Work in Progress Capital expenses incurred during the year which are not completed The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and as at the Reporting date are shown as capital work in progress, equipment are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. whilst the capital assets which have been completed during the year and available to use have been transferred to property, plant 3.3.1.5 Derecognition and equipment. The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized on disposal or when no future economic benefits are 3.3.2 Investment Properties expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses on derecognition Investment property is property held either to earn rental income or are recognized within other income in profit or loss. for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, using the production of supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Page 158 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.3.2.1 Recognition and Measurement 3.3.3.2 Software Investment properties are measured initially at cost. The carrying All computer software cost incurred, which are not internally related amount includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment to associate hardware, which can be clearly identified, reliably property at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition measured and its probable that they will lead to future economic criteria are met and exclude the costs of day-to-day servicing benefits, are included in the Statement of Financial Position under of an investment property. Subsequently, investment properties the category of intangible assets and is amortized on a straight-line are stated at fair value, which reflects market conditions at the basis over its useful life. Reporting date. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties are included in the Statement The estimated useful lives are as follows: of Profit or Loss in the year in which they arise. Fair values are Asset Category Useful Life (Years) evaluated at least once in every three years by an accredited external independent valuer. Enterprise Resource Planning System 10 Other Software 3–5 3.3.2.2 Derecognition Investment properties are derecognized either when they have 3.3.4 Inventories been disposed of or when the investment property is permanently Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected after making due allowance for obsolete and slow moving items. from its disposal. Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment property are recognized in the Statement of Profit The cost of inventories is comprised of all costs of purchase, costs or Loss in the event of retirement or disposal. of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Transfers are made from investment property only when there is a change in use. For a transfer from investment property to owner Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the normal occupied property, the deemed cost for subsequent accounting is course of business less estimated cost of realization and/or cost of the fair value at the date of change in use. conversion from their existing state to saleable condition. Where Group companies occupy a significant portion of the Inventory movement is reviewed at the end of Reporting period by investment property of a subsidiary, such investment properties an expert to assess the recoverability of inventory and the items are treated as property, plant and equipment in the Consolidated that are identified as irrecoverable are written off during the year. Financial Statements and accounted using Group accounting policy for property, plant and equipment. Work in Progress Contractual costs incurred for future work are recognized as an 3.3.3 Intangible Assets asset when it is probable that they will be recovered and such costs An intangible asset is recognized if it is probable that economic are classified as work in progress. benefits are attributable to the assets, will flow to the entity and cost of the assets can be measured reliably and carried at cost less Variation and claims are recognized in contract revenue only accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation or claim and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured. Until 3.3.3.1 Leasehold Right – Land recognized in revenue, cost incurred for variations and claims are Leasehold property comprises of land use rights and is amortized classified as work in progress. on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease in accordance with the pattern of benefits expected to be derived from the lease. 3.3.5 Cash and Cash Equivalents Leasehold property is tested for impairment annually and is written Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand down where applicable. The impairment loss if any is recognized in deposits and short term highly liquid investments, readily the Statement of Profit or Loss. convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. The estimated useful life is as follows: Item Useful Life (Years) For the purpose of Statement of Cash Flow, Cash and Cash Equivalents consist of cash in hand and deposits in banks net of Leasehold Rights (Remaining Lease Period) 70 Years outstanding bank overdrafts. Investments with short maturities i.e., three months or less from the date of acquisition are also treated as cash equivalents. Financial Reports 5 Page 159 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.3.6 Impairment of Non-Financial Assets All financial assets are recognized initially at fair value plus, in the The Group assesses at each Reporting date whether there is an case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s financial asset. recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and Purchase or sale of financial assets that require delivery of assets is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from market place (regular way trades) are recognized on the trade date, other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. The Group’s financial assets include cash and cash equivalent, short term deposits, trade and other receivables, loans, quoted In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are equity and debt instruments. discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 3.3.7.2 Subsequent Measurement the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs to For the purpose of subsequent measurement, financial assets are sell, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available. classified in four categories: If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation yy Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or yy Loans and receivables other available fair value indicators. yy Held-to-maturity investments yy AFS financial assets Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss in those expense categories 3.3.7.3 Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss consistent with the function of the impaired asset, except for a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial property previously revalued where the revaluation was taken to assets held-for-trading and financial assets designated upon initial other comprehensive income. In this case, the impairment is also recognition at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets are recognized in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for the purpose previous revaluation. of selling or repurchasing in the near term. This category includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as Reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously defined by LKAS 39. Derivatives, including separated embedded recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or may have derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are decreased. If such indication exists, the Company estimates the designated as effective hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair asset’s or cash generating unit’s recoverable amount. A previously value through profit or loss are carried in the Statement of Financial recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been Position at fair value with changes in fair value recognized as finance a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s income or finance costs in the Statement of Profit or Loss. recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset The Group evaluated its financial assets at fair value through profit does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying or loss (held-for-trading) whether the intent to sell them in the near amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had term is still appropriate. When the Group is unable to trade these no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. financial assets due to inactive markets and management’s intent to Such reversal is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss sell them in the foreseeable future significantly changes, the Group unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the may elect to reclassify these financial assets in rare circumstances. reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. The reclassification to loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity depends on the nature of the asset. Financial Instruments 3.3.7 Financial Assets 3.3.7.4 Loans and Receivables 3.3.7.1 Initial Recognition and Measurement Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as financial fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, market. After initial measurement, such financial assets are held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets, or subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective interest rate (EIR) method, less impairment. Amortized cost is hedge, as appropriate. Page 160 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on of the asset using the EIR. If the asset is subsequently determined acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the to be impaired, then the amount recorded in equity is reclassified EIR. The EIR amortization is included as finance income in the to the Statement of Profit or Loss. Statement of Profit or Loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss. 3.3.7.7 Derecognition A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or 3.3.7.5 Held-to-Maturity Investments part of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily derecognized Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments (i.e., removed from the Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial and fixed maturities are classified as held-to-maturity when Position) when: the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold them to yy The right to receive cash flows from the asset has expired; or maturity. After initial measurement, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less yy The Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the impairment. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included as finance arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially income in the Statement of Profit or Loss. The losses arising from all the risks and rewards of the asset; or (b) the Group has neither impairment are recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss. transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. 3.3.7.6 Available-for-Sale Financial Assets Available-for-sale financial assets include equity investments and When the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows debt securities. Equity investments classified as available-for-sale from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, are those, which are neither classified as held-for-trading nor it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and designated at fair value through profit or loss. Debt securities in rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained this category are those that are intended to be held for an indefinite substantially all risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control period of time and that may be sold in response to needs for of the asset, the Group continues to recognize the transferred asset liquidity or in response to changes in the market conditions. to the extent of its continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognizes an associated liability. The transferred asset and the After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights subsequently measured at fair value with unrealized gains or losses and obligations that the Group has retained. recognized in Other Comprehensive Income and credited in the available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognized, Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the at which time, the cumulative gain or loss is recognized in other transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying operating income or the investment is determined to be impaired, amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that when the cumulative loss is reclassified from the available-for-sale the Group could be required to repay. reserve to the Statement of Profit or Loss in finance costs. Interest earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial assets is reported 3.3.7.8 Impairment of Financial Assets as interest income using the EIR method. The Group assesses, at each Reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial The Group evaluates whether the ability and intention to sell its assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets available-for-sale financial assets in the near term is still is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence appropriate. When, in rare circumstances, the Group is unable of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred to trade these financial assets due to inactive markets, the Group after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) may elect to reclassify these financial assets if the Management and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash has the ability and intention to hold the assets for foreseeable flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can future or until maturity. be reliably estimated. For a financial asset reclassified from the available-for-sale Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a category, the fair value carrying amount at the date of group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default reclassification becomes its new amortized cost and any previous or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that gain or loss on the asset that has been recognized in equity is they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization and where amortized to profit or loss over the remaining life of the investment observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the using the EIR. Any difference between the new amortized cost estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic and the maturity amount is also amortized over the remaining life conditions that correlate with defaults. Financial Reports 5 Page 161 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.3.7.9 Financial Assets Carried at Amortized Cost 3.3.8.2 Subsequent Measurement For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the Group first The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their assesses whether impairment exists individually for financial assets classification as follows: that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually liabilities held-for-trading and financial liabilities designated upon assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. Financial liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which acquired for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This an impairment loss is or continues to be, recognized are not category includes derivative financial instruments entered into included in a collective assessment of impairment. by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by LKAS 39. Separated embedded The amount of any impairment loss identified is measured as the derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are difference between the assets carrying amount and the present designated as effective hedging instruments. value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred). The present value of Gains or losses on liabilities held-for-trading are recognized in the the estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s Statement of Profit or Loss. original effective interest rate. Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition an allowance account and loss is recognized in the Statement of and only if the criteria in LKAS 39 are satisfied. The Group has Profit or Loss. Interest income (recorded as finance income in the not designated any financial liability as at fair value through Statement of Profit or Loss) continues to be accrued on the reduced profit or loss. carrying amount using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. Loans and Borrowings Loans, together with the associated allowance are written off when After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective has been realized or has been transferred to the Group. If, in a interest rate method. Gains and losses are recognized in the profit subsequent year, the amount of the estimated impairment loss or loss when the liabilities are derecognized as well as through the increases or decreases because of an event occurring after the effective interest rate (EIR) method amortization process. impairment was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is increased or reduced by adjusting the allowance account. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount If a write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to finance or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that is an integral part cost in the Statement of Profit or Loss. of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included in finance costs in the Statement of Profit or Loss. 3.3.8 Financial Liabilities 3.3.8.1 Initial Recognition and Measurement 3.3.8.3 Derecognition Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition as financial A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing payables or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on effective hedge, as appropriate. substantially different terms or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly new liability and the difference in the respective carrying amounts attributable transaction costs. is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss. The Group financial liabilities include trade and other payables, 3.3.9 Offsetting of Financial Instruments bank overdrafts and loans and borrowings. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset with the net amount reported in the Statement of Financial Position only if there is a current enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. Page 162 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Income and expense will not be offset in the Consolidated Statement Contingent Liabilities of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income unless required Contingent Liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will or permitted by any accounting standard or interpretation, as be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations specifically disclosed in the accounting policies of the Group. where the transfer of economic benefit is not probable or cannot be readily measured. Further, contingent liabilities are not recognized 3.3.10 Fair Value of Financial Instruments in the Statement of Financial Position but are disclosed unless its The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active occurrence is remote. markets at each Reporting date is determined by reference to quoted market prices or dealer price quotations (bid price for long Currently the Group/Company is involved in pending litigations positions and ask price for short positions), without any deduction and claims arising out of the normal conduct of the business. for transaction costs. The Group/Company does not expect the pending litigations and claims, individually and in aggregate, to have a material impact For financial instruments not traded in an active market, the fair on the Group’s financial position, operating profit or cash flow in value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques. Such addition to amounts accrued as provision for legal disputes. The techniques may include: disclosures relating to contingencies are set out in Note 37. yy Using recent arm's length market transactions. 3.5 Post-Employment Benefits yy Reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is 3.5.1 Defined Benefit Plans substantially the same. The liability recognized in the Statement of Financial Position in yy A discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models. respect of defined benefit plan is the present value of defined benefit obligation at the Reporting date. The defined benefit An analysis of fair values of financial instruments and further details obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using as to how they are measured are provided in Note 41. Project Unit Credit (PUC) method as recommended by LKAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’. Actuarial gains and losses for the defined 3.4 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities benefit plans are recognized in full in the period in which they occur Provisions in Other Comprehensive Income. Provisions are recognized when the Group/Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is The gratuity liability of Access Realties (Private) Limited and probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic Access Projects (Private) Limited are not externally funded, nor benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable actuarially valued. The gratuity liability is valued using the Projected estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where Unit Credit (PUC) method considering the assumptions required to the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, arrive at the present value of defined benefit obligation. the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to any However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, provision is presented in profit or loss net of any reimbursement. the liability for gratuity payment to an employee arises only after the If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions completion of five years of continued service. are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is 3.5.2 Defined Contribution Plans-Employees’ Provident Fund and used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is Employees’ Trust Fund recognized as a finance cost. A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays a fixed contribution to a separate entity and will Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. the specific terms in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate on the basis of an evaluation of the most likely outcome. All employees who are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund contributions are covered All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing the by relevant contributions funds in line with the relevant statutes. Financial Statements. Employer’s contributions to the defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense in profit or loss when incurred. Financial Reports 5 Page 163 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 4. STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER 4.2.5 Agency Commissions and Hire Income COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Agency commissions are recognized in the Statement of Profit or 4.1 Revenue Loss on an accrual basis. Revenue represents the amounts derived from the provision of services, which fall within the Group’s ordinary activities net of trade 4.2.6 Interest Income discounts and turnover related taxes. For all financial instruments measured at amortized cost and interest-bearing financial assets classified as available-for-sale, 4.2 Revenue Recognition interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that the rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue and future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the the associated costs incurred or to be incurred can be reliably financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. Interest income received or receivable, net of trade discounts and sales taxes and is included in finance income in the Statement of Profit or Loss. after eliminating sales within the Group. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognition of revenue: 4.2.7 Dividend Income Dividend income is accounted when the shareholders’ right to 4.2.1 Construction Contracts receive payment is established. Contract revenue includes the initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, claims and incentive 4.2.8 Other Income payments, to the extent that it is probable that they will result in Other income is recognized on an accrual basis. revenue and can be measured reliably. As soon as the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract revenue 4.3 Expenditure Recognition is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss in proportion to the 4.3.1 Construction Contracts stage of completion of the contract. Contract expenses are recognized as incurred unless they create an asset to future contract activity. An expected loss on a contract The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work is recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. performed. When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognized only to the extent 4.3.2 Other Expenses of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of efficiency 4.2.2 Rental Income has been charged to revenue in arriving at the profit for the year. Rental income from investment property is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the term For the purpose of presentation of Statement of Profit or Loss, of the lease. the Directors are of the opinion that function of expenses method presents fairly the elements of the enterprises performance; hence 4.2.3 Sale of Goods such presentation method is adopted. Revenue from the sale of goods in the course of ordinary activities is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or 4.3.3 Recognition of Expected Losses receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates. Expected losses are recognized as an expense when it is probable Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence exists, usually that the total cost pertaining to construction contracts will exceed in the form of an executed sales agreement, that the significant its revenue. risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs 4.3.4 Borrowing Costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably, there is Borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period in no continuing management involvement with the goods and the which they are incurred except those that are directly attributable to amount of revenue can be measured reliably. the construction or development of property, plant and equipment which are capitalized as a part of the cost of those assets during 4.2.4 Services Rendered the period of construction or development. Revenue for services rendered is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss once all significant performance obligations have been provided. Page 164 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 4.4 Taxation Intersegment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 4.4.1 Current Tax Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered a reasonable basis. from or paid to the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that The activities of the Group are located mainly in Sri Lanka. are enacted or substantively enacted at the Reporting date. Consequently, the economic environment in which the Group operates is not subject to risks and rewards that are significantly The provision for income tax is based on the elements of income and different on a geographical basis. Hence, disclosure by expenditures reported in the Financial Statements and computed in geographical region is not provided. accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act. The relevant details are disclosed in the respective Notes to the The relevant details are disclosed in the respective Notes to the Financial Statements. Financial Statements. 6. OTHER GENERAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 4.4.2 Deferred Taxation 6.1 Related Party Transactions Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary Disclosure has been made in respect of the transactions in which differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and one party has the ability to control or exercise significant influence their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the over the financial and operating policies/decisions of the other, Reporting date. irrespective of whether a price is being charged. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to The relevant details are disclosed in the Note 36 to the apply in the year when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, Financial Statements. based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Reporting date. 6.2 Statement of Cash Flows The Statement of Cash Flow has been prepared using the ‘indirect Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally method’ in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current LKAS 7 on ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. Cash and cash equivalent income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same comprise of cash in hand, cash at bank and short term investments taxable entity and the same taxation authority. that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. 4.4.3 Sales Tax Revenue, expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount Interest received and dividends received are classified as investing of sales tax, except, where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of cash flows, while dividend paid is classified as financing cash flow assets or service is not recoverable from the taxation authorities, in and interest paid is classified under the operating cash flows for the which case, the sales tax is recognized as a part of the cost of the purpose of presentation of Statement of Cash Flows. asset or part of the expense items, as applicable and receivable and payable that are stated with the amount of sales tax included. Bank overdrafts and short term borrowings that are repayable The net amount of sales tax recoverable from or payable to the on demand and forming an integral part of the Group’s cash taxation authorities is included as a part of receivables or payables management are included as a component of cash and cash in the Statement of Financial Position. equivalent for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows. 5. SEGMENTAL REPORTING 6.3 Earnings per Share Segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to engaged either in providing related Products or Services (Business ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average Segment), or in providing Products or Services within a particular number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Economic Environment (Geographical Segment), which is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the Segments. Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s Business and Geographical Segments. The Group’s Primary Format for segmental reporting is based on Business Segments. The Business Segments are determined based on the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. Financial Reports 5 Page 165 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.4 Events Occurring after the Reporting Period Events after the Reporting period are those events favorable and unfavorable that occurs between the end of the Reporting period and the date when the Financial Statements are authorized for issue. The materiality of the events occurring after the Reporting period is considered and appropriate adjustments to or disclosures are made in the Financial Statements, where necessary. 7. EFFECT OF SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Company Financial Statements are disclosed below. The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective. (a) SLFRS 9 – Financial Instruments SLFRS 9 as issued reflects the replacement of LKAS 39 – ‘Financial Instrument: Recognition and Measurement’ and applies to the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities as defined in LKAS 39. This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2018. The adoption of SLFRS 9 will have an impact on the classification and measurement of the Company’s and Group’s financial instruments. (b) SLFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognized. It replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance including LKAS 18 – ‘Revenue’ and LKAS 11 – ‘Construction Contracts’. The adoption of SLFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Group will adopt these standards when they become effective. Pending a detailed review, the financial impact is not reasonably estimable as at the date of publication of these Financial Statements. Page 166 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 8. REVENUE Roads and Highways Construction 1,963,490,947 4,511,993,093 1,963,490,947 4,511,993,093 Water and Drainage Construction 2,672,353,036 1,079,610,095 2,672,353,036 1,079,610,095 Bridge Construction 15,965,649 392,724,184 15,965,649 392,724,184 Building and Other Construction 7,140,296,654 5,565,913,243 5,308,289,381 3,849,272,882 Sale of Construction-Related Material 1,566,381,307 1,130,853,960 1,588,462,802 1,186,479,707 Hiring Income 47,310,383 115,465,225 48,374,583 119,161,902 Fabrication Income 7,460,034 28,878,502 7,460,034 28,878,502 Consultancy Service Income – 76,752,431 – 76,752,431 Rental Income 143,507,832 137,007,440 – – Service Charges 19,544,067 17,897,730 – – Vehicle Sales and After Sales Services 4,048,294,851 3,457,009,010 – – 17,624,604,760 16,514,104,913 11,604,396,432 11,244,872,796 9. OTHER INCOME Dividend Income 8,032,719 8,406,900 94,139,164 35,011,627 Gain on Fair Value Changes of Investment in Unit Trust 109,300 109,300 109,300 109,300 Rent Income 3,725,000 2,400,000 9,675,000 2,100,000 Gain/(Loss) on Fair Value Changes in Short Term Investments (10,053,644) 21,528,816 (10,053,644) 21,528,816 Gain on Fair Value Changes of Investment Property (Note 16) 21,168,487 174,125,525 – – Profit on Disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment 34,548,179 28,485,502 29,919,741 18,452,958 Foreign Exchange Gain/(Loss) 105,996,686 (62,514,447) 106,046,943 (62,495,304) Sundry Income 83,854,507 17,284,483 7,200,247 2,184,441 Gain/(Loss) on Disposal of Investment 14,677,702 (294,030) 14,677,702 (294,030) 262,058,936 189,532,049 251,714,453 16,597,808 10. NET FINANCE INCOME 10.1 Finance Income Interest Income on Fixed Deposits 274,010,994 83,740,835 273,271,267 74,576,067 Interest Income on Repurchase Agreements 25,489,782 45,767,817 22,716,376 28,114,583 Interest Income on Debentures 63,425,557 – 40,220,959 – Other Interest Income 12,326,030 9,046,915 5,771,953 8,865,485 Interest Income on Retention Receivable 86,896,284 57,044,857 69,648,671 54,013,696 Interest Income on Staff Loan 2,184,230 2,718,521 2,184,230 2,718,521 Total Finance Income 464,332,877 198,318,945 413,813,456 168,288,352 10.2 Finance Cost Interest on Finance Leases (1,012,906) (1,078,348) – (430,323) Interest on Bank Overdraft (17,541,587) (7,764,672) (19,853) (112,014) Interest on Debentures (182,996,927) – (189,556,989) – Interest on Bank Loan (77,982,835) (20,088,952) – – Unwinding of Prepaid Retention Receivable Expenses (86,896,284) (57,044,857) (69,648,671) (54,013,696) Unwinding of Prepaid Staff Loan Expenses (2,184,230) (2,718,521) (2,184,230) (2,718,521) Total Finance Cost (368,914,769) (88,695,350) (261,409,743) (57,274,554) Net Finance Income 95,718,108 109,623,595 152,403,713 111,013,798 Financial Reports 5 Page 167 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 11. PROFIT BEFORE TAX Is stated after charging all expenses including following: Auditors’ Remuneration – Statutory Audit and Related Services 5,136,000 4,472,000 2,185,000 1,895,000 – Non-Audit Services 2,302,698 3,898,987 346,098 1,407,467 (Gain)/Loss on Fair Value Changes in Short Term Investments 10,053,644 (21,528,816) 10,053,644 (21,528,816) Provision for/Write-off of Bad and Doubtful Debts 20,885,264 33,982,805 14,770,329 32,896,081 Provision for Inventories 3,651,915 – – – Donations 4,558,957 2,818,195 3,651,267 2,802,883 CSR Expense 458,412 90,060,468 458,412 89,692,168 Depreciation, Amortization and Impairment 847,894,354 668,476,961 731,645,853 605,791,129 Personnel Cost Including Defined Benefit Plan Costs – Gratuity (Note 31.1) 47,553,165 39,218,502 33,337,497 33,257,731 Defined Contribution Costs – EPF 98,696,597 88,198,781 60,813,337 68,580,536 – ETF 24,456,603 22,028,084 15,221,712 17,128,943 Directors’ Emoluments and Fees (Note 36.5) 51,745,060 55,822,800 25,666,500 35,805,000 Staff Cost 1,513,205,145 1,635,381,279 1,179,254,166 1,377,281,772 Performance Incentives 92,352,582 46,308,451 92,352,582 46,308,451 Number of Employees 2,625 2,493 2,054 1,887 12. INCOME TAX EXPENSES 12.1 Current Tax Expense (Note 12.2) 460,183,602 300,119,249 308,407,587 157,762,618 Under Provision in Respect of Previous Year 2,681,614 18,134,066 – 18,134,065 Deferred Tax Expense (Note 12.3) (18,365,258) 20,587,075 (40,605,548) 15,327,369 444,499,958 338,840,390 267,802,039 191,224,052 12.2 Reconciliation between Accounting Profit and Taxable Profit Accounting Profit before Income Tax Expense 2,995,364,191 2,762,741,580 2,354,585,568 1,943,948,277 Aggregate Disallowed Items 1,708,409,867 984,397,902 1,408,908,172 821,162,802 Aggregate Allowable Items (1,305,319,484) (1,188,580,344) (1,162,305,429) (979,510,170) Total Statutory Income 3,398,454,574 2,558,559,138 2,601,188,311 1,785,600,909 Exempted Income (418,655,570) (473,550,672) (417,166,263) (470,912,428) Taxable Income 2,979,799,004 2,085,008,466 2,184,022,048 1,314,688,481 Taxable Revenue at 2% 209,062,056 198,507,074 – – Taxable Construction Income at 12% 2,058,977,293 1,468,921,012 1,894,491,163 1,314,688,481 Taxable Other Income at 28% 711,759,655 417,580,380 289,530,885 – 2,979,799,004 2,085,008,466 2,184,022,048 1,314,688,481 Tax @ 2% 4,181,241 3,970,141 – – Tax @ 12% 247,077,275 176,270,521 227,338,939 157,762,618 Tax @ 28% 199,292,703 116,922,506 81,068,648 – Dividend Tax 9,632,383 2,956,081 – – Current Tax Expenses 460,183,602 300,119,249 308,407,587 157,762,618 Page 168 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 12.3 Deferred Tax Expense Statement of Profit or Loss Property, Plant and Equipment 3,359,591 35,492,368 (19,811,402) 29,209,505 Staff Redundancy Provision 6,836,391 (6,836,391) 6,836,391 (6,836,391) Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts (1,606,507) (3,517,950) (1,606,507) (3,517,950) Provision for Debenture Interest Expense (22,965,811) – (22,965,811) – Defined Benefit Obligation (3,988,922) (4,550,952) (3,058,219) (3,527,795) (18,365,258) 20,587,075 (40,605,548) 15,327,369 Other Comprehensive Income Revaluation of Building (43,971) (318,155) (43,971) (318,155) Defined Benefit Obligation 2,609,259 893,160 2,345,587 1,286,375 2,565,288 575,005 2,301,616 968,220 Total Deferred Tax Charge (15,799,970) 21,162,080 (38,303,932) 16,295,589 12.4 Applicable Rates of Income Tax Company Under the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at the concessionary rate of 12% on construction income and 28% on other income. Tax Exemption As per Section 17A.2a of Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 22 of 2011 and as amended by Act No. 08 of 2012, profits attributable to manufacturing of construction-related material are exempted from income tax, commencing from year of assessment 2011/12 for a period of seven (7) years. Potential Impact of Income Tax Rate Change As per the recent policy measures published on 29th April 2016 by the Ministry of Finance (www.treasury.gov.lk), Company will be liable to pay income tax at 17.5% instead of the concessionary rate of 12% on construction income whilst the tax rate on other sources of income will remain at 28% with effect from the year of assessment starting 1st April 2016. Subsidiaries Access Realties (Private) Limited As per the agreement entered into with the Board of Investment (BOI) of Sri Lanka under Section 17 of the Board of Investment Act No. 04 of 1978, the Company is exempted from income tax for the period of seven (7) years from the year of assessment in which the enterprise commences to make profits in relation to the transaction in that year or any year of assessment not later than five (5) years reckoned from the date of its operation whichever year is earlier. Accordingly, the seven (7) years income tax exemption period was enforced from 1st April 2003 to 31st March 2010. Thereafter the Company is liable for a concessionary rate of income tax of 2% on its turnover for the period of fifteen (15) years immediately following the seven (7) years tax exemption period. However, the Company is liable to pay Income Tax at 28% on other income. Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited As per the Agreement entered into with Board of Investment (BOI) of Sri Lanka, the enterprise shall apply for a tax exemption period of twelve (12) years under Section 17 of Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 subject to the condition that over Rupees Two Thousand Five Hundred Million (Rs. 2,500 Mn) is made in the project within a period of three (3) years from the date hereof. Financial Reports 5 Page 169 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Sathosa Motors PLC and its Subsidiary In accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for Income Tax at 28% on its taxable profit. Access Projects (Private) Limited In accordance with the provisions in the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at the rate of 12% on construction income and 28% on other income. Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited In accordance with the provisions in the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for Income tax at 28% on its taxable profit. Horizon Knowledge City Limited Pursuant to the agreement dated 12th February 2016 entered into with the Board of Investment (BOI) under Section 17 of the Board of Investment Law No. 4 of 1978, the profits and income of the enterprise is exempt from income tax for a period of eight (8) years reckoned from the year of assessment as may be determined by the Board (‘tax exemption period’). After the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period, referred to above, the profit and income of the Company charged at the rate of 15% for a period of two (2) years. 13. EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Access Engineering PLC by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year: Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Profit Attributable to Equity Holders of the Company (Rs.) 2,465,295,003 2,345,902,717 2,086,783,529 1,752,724,225 Weighted Average Number of Ordinary Shares 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 Earnings per Share (Rs.) 2.47 2.35 2.09 1.75 Group/Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 14. DIVIDENDS PER SHARE Declared and Paid during the Year Dividends on Ordinary Shares Final Dividend* 250,000,000 500,000,000 Interim Dividend 500,000,000 500,000,000 Total Dividends 750,000,000 1,000,000,000 Dividend per Share 0.75 1.00 *Dividend paid out of previous year's profits. Page 170 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Land Building Plant and Motor Vehicles Office Equipment Machinery Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 15.1 Group Cost or Valuation Balance at the Beginning of the Year 433,011,111 573,014,617 3,470,739,192 759,421,244 280,385,587 Additions 562,158,000 8,013,810 381,537,631 32,867,778 30,332,105 Transfers – 265,592,000 9,158,915 – 26,058,002 Acquisition through Business Combination – – – – – Disposals/Impairment/Derecognition – – (85,420,121) (36,779,458) (2,838,895) Balance at the End of the Year 995,169,111 846,620,427 3,776,015,617 755,509,564 333,936,799 Accumulated Depreciation Balance at the Beginning of the Year – 80,160,716 1,147,550,805 339,636,166 189,603,301 Charge – 32,253,976 489,668,345 102,055,360 46,739,775 Acquisition through Business Combination – – – – – Impairment Loss – – 11,542,238 – – Disposals – – (40,657,212) (28,043,526) (2,600,222) Balance at the End of the Year – 112,414,692 1,608,104,176 413,648,000 233,742,854 Carrying Value at 31st March 2016 995,169,111 734,205,735 2,167,911,441 341,861,564 100,193,945 Carrying Value at 31st March 2015 433,011,111 492,853,901 2,323,188,387 419,785,078 90,782,286 Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of Rs. 588.74 Mn (2015 – Rs. 459.51 Mn) have been fully-depreciated and continue to be in use by the Group. Land Building Plant and Motor Vehicles Office Equipment Machinery Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 15.2 Company Cost or Valuation Balance at the Beginning of the Year 305,611,111 60,388,889 3,306,432,541 594,059,937 214,808,061 Additions – – 357,975,613 27,428,351 18,244,797 Transfers – – – – – Disposals – – (84,526,549) (33,518,187) (2,838,895) Balance at the End of the Year 305,611,111 60,388,889 3,579,881,605 587,970,101 230,213,963 Accumulated Depreciation Balance at the Beginning of the Year – 6,047,349 1,066,629,424 287,191,179 144,263,685 Charge – 6,038,889 469,948,757 71,484,053 36,424,916 Transfers – – – – – Impairment Loss – – 11,542,238 – – Disposals – – (40,440,081) (24,782,255) (2,600,222) Balance at the End of the Year – 12,086,238 1,507,680,338 333,892,977 178,088,379 Carrying Value 31st March 2016 305,611,111 48,302,651 2,072,201,267 254,077,124 52,125,584 Carrying Value 31st March 2015 305,611,111 54,341,540 2,239,803,117 306,868,758 70,544,376 On 1st January 2015, land and building located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralesgamuwa were transferred to Investment Properties (Note 16). It was no longer used by the Company and decided that the land and building would be leased to the SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited, which is an indirect subsidiary of the Company. As per LKAS 16, this property has been classified as property, plant and equipment in the Group Financial Statements (Note 16.1). Company property, plant and equipment with a cost of Rs. 500.47 Mn (2015 – Rs. 332.5 Mn) have been fully-depreciated and continued to be in use by the Company. Financial Reports 5 Page 171 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Freehold Leasehold Total Furniture and Tools Other Construction Motor Capital Work in 2016 2015 Fittings Equipment Vehicles Progress Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 134,075,500 321,050,535 145,264,282 14,486,144 175,917,576 6,307,365,788 5,194,077,923 8,257,447 125,147,441 81,616,270 18,000,000 198,445,431 1,446,375,913 938,385,924 46,650,194 – – – (347,459,111) – – – – – – – – 257,786,038 (673,185) (9,430,991) – (5,632,930) – (140,775,580) (82,884,097) 188,309,956 436,766,985 226,880,552 26,853,214 26,903,896 7,612,966,121 6,307,365,788 78,884,542 181,488,188 60,006,020 8,504,163 – 2,085,833,901 1,406,727,399 27,656,185 67,272,257 37,929,834 4,206,638 – 807,782,370 656,273,178 – – – – – – 80,994,525 – – – – – 11,542,238 – (366,415) (7,469,218) – (3,959,816) – (83,096,409) (58,161,201) 106,174,312 241,291,227 97,935,854 8,750,985 – 2,822,062,100 2,085,833,901 82,135,644 195,475,758 128,944,698 18,102,229 26,903,896 4,790,904,021 – 55,190,958 139,562,347 85,258,262 5,981,981 175,917,576 – 4,221,531,887 Freehold Total Furniture and Tools Other Construction 2016 2015 Fittings Equipment Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 101,200,964 317,131,626 145,264,282 5,044,897,411 4,564,553,103 3,897,972 123,968,455 81,616,270 613,131,458 713,882,417 – – – – (177,500,000) (496,665) (9,430,991) – (130,811,287) (56,038,109) 104,602,271 431,669,090 226,880,552 5,527,217,582 5,044,897,411 61,478,921 177,708,697 60,006,020 1,803,325,275 1,245,564,282 20,896,745 66,931,112 37,929,834 709,654,306 596,528,325 – – – – (3,107,401) – – – 11,542,238 – (345,817) (7,469,218) – (75,637,593) (35,659,931) 82,029,849 237,170,591 97,935,854 2,448,884,226 1,803,325,275 22,572,422 194,498,499 128,944,698 3,078,333,356 – 39,722,043 139,422,929 85,258,262 – 3,241,572,136 Page 172 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Location and extent of the Company’s freehold lands at the Reporting date are as shown below: Location Extent 1. Land depicted at No. 336/1, Low Level Road, Jalthara, Ranala 3 Roots and 38.4 Perches 2. Land depicted at No. 267, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama 3 Roots and 1 Perch 3. Land depicted at No. 278, Alubogahalanda, Jalthara, Ranala 3 Acres 3 Roots and 4.86 Perches 4. Land depicted at Dickowita, Hendala 2 Acres 3 Roots and 10.18 Perches 5. Land depicted at Weliwita, Kaduwela 2 Acres Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 16. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Balance at the Beginning of the Year 3,012,436,200 2,832,038,473 174,392,599 – Acquisition of Investment Property 295,269,746 6,272,202 – – Transfer from Property, Plant and Equipment – – – 174,392,599 Fair Value Gain on Investment Property (Note 9) 21,168,487 174,125,525 – – Balance at the End of the Year 3,328,874,433 3,012,436,200 174,392,599 174,392,599 Rental Income Derived from Investment Properties 213,856,193 139,407,440 8,400,000 2,100,000 Direct Operating Expenses (Including Repair and Maintenance) Generating Rental Income (27,532,190) (29,851,006) – – 16.1 Investment Property Belong to the Company Location: Land and buildings of the Company are located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralesgamuwa. Floor Area: The total gross floor area of the building is 12,784 sq.ft. Valuation: Based on the observation of Board of Directors, the Company decided that the sale price of comparative properties has not changed significantly during the year 2015/16. Therefore, the Company has decided that fair value of the investment property as at 31st March 2016 was similar to the carrying value as at previous Reporting date and no need to recognize gain/(loss) on fair value adjustment based on Section 75-e of the LKAS 40. Fair value of the property is ascertained by independent valuation carried out by K T D Tissera, FIV (Sri Lanka), F.R.I.C.S. (Eng.) an independent professional valuer, on an open market value for existing use basis as at 31st March 2014. Property located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralesgamuwa is secured on back-up overdraft facility to accommodate any unsettled claims in respect of letter of guarantees issued or LC (term) bills for the value of Rs. 65 Mn (Note 27). Financial Reports 5 Page 173 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 16.2 Investment Properties Belong to Group 16.2.1 Investment Property Belong to Access Realties (Private) Limited Location: Access Towers and Land of Access Realties (Private) Limited, are located at Nos. 264/5, 266, 268, 278 and 278/4, Dr. Colvin R De Silva Mawatha (Union Place) and Nos. 116 and 118, Dawson Street, Colombo 02. Extent: (i) Lot 1 in Plan No. 5754: 1A 0R – 07.87P (0.4246 Hectares) (ii) Lot 1 in Plan No. 2824: 0A 0R – 04.50P (0.01138 Hectares) (iii) Lot 1 in Plan No. 3021: 0A 0R – 13.28P (0.03359 Hectares) Total 1A 0R – 25.65P (0.46957 Hectares) Floor Area: The total gross floor area of the Access Towers is 216,718 sq.ft. Valuation: Based on the observation of Board of Directors, Access Realties (Private) Limited decided that the sale price of comparative properties has not changed significantly during the year 2015/16. Therefore, the Company has decided that fair value of the investment property as at 31st March 2016 was similar to the carrying value as at previous Reporting date and no need to recognise gain/(loss) on fair value adjustment based on Section 75-e of the LKAS 40. Fair value of the investment property is ascertained by independent valuation carried out by K T D Tissera – FIV (Sri Lanka), F.R.I.C.S. (Eng.) an independent professional valuer on an open market value for existing use basis as at 31st March 2015. Land situated at No. 278/4, Union Place, Colombo 02, which is owned by the Company, has been pledged to Bank of Ceylon – Corporate Branch on behalf of Access Engineering PLC to increase the existing overdraft facility of Rs. 30 Mn (Note 27). 16.2.2 Investment Property Belong to Sathosa Motors PLC Location: Building of Sathosa Motors PLC, is located at No. 25/11, New Nuge Road, Peliyagoda. Floor Area: The total gross floor area of the building is 6,835 sq.ft. Valuation: Fair value of the investment property is ascertained by independent valuation carried out by R T K Sirisena, an independent professional valuer, on an open market value for existing use basis as at 31st March 2016. Page 174 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 16.2.3 Investment Property Belong to Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited Location: Land of Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited is located at No. 278, Weliwita Road, Weliwita. Extent: The total land area is 4 Acres 1 Root and 4 Perches. Valuation: The amount of investment property comprises the purchase value of property and no significant changes in the value of property has taken place as at the Reporting date. Group As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 16.3 Investment Properties – Work in Progress Balance at the Beginning of the Year 472,169,319 – Additions 719,557,404 472,169,319 Balance at the End of the Year 1,191,726,723 472,169,319 Investment property Work in Progress consists the construction of Access Tower 2 building at Dr. Colvin R De Silva Mawatha, Union Place, Colombo 2 by Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited. Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 17. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Leasehold Right (Note 17.1) 188,513,512 115,135,134 – – Software (Note 17.2) 76,445,099 88,006,025 72,638,543 83,087,853 Goodwill (Note 17.3) 1,089,204,227 1,089,204,227 – – 1,354,162,838 1,292,345,386 72,638,543 83,087,853 Group As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 17.1 Leasehold Right Balance at the Beginning of the Year 115,135,134 116,756,756 Additions 90,000,000 – Amortization for the Year (16,621,622) (1,621,622) Balance at the End of the Year 188,513,512 115,135,134 Leasehold right comprise leasehold land of the SML and prepaid lease payment of SML Frontire Automotive (Private) Limited. Leasehold land relate to the property persistently known and called ‘SATHOSA MOTORS WORKSHOP’ is located at No. 25/11, New Nuge Road, Peliyagoda acquired by Sathosa Motors PLC on a 99 years lease commencing from 1989. The total gross area of the land is 343.93 perches. The leasehold right has been revalued by an independent valuer R T K Sirisena – an independent professional valuer. Valuation has been done based on the demand and supply factors, current evidence of values, improvements and infrastructures etc. as at 31st March 2012. SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited recognized prepaid lease payments in respect of Welisara workshop premises which has been subleased by Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited. Remaining lease period as at 31st March 2016 is five years. Financial Reports 5 Page 175 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 17.2 Software Cost Balance at the Beginning of the Year 100,039,235 80,431,461 93,093,482 74,225,421 Acquisition through Business Combination – 298,909 – – Additions 387,201 19,308,865 – 18,868,061 Balance at the End of the Year 100,426,436 100,039,235 93,093,482 93,093,482 Accumulated Amortization Balance at the Beginning of the Year 12,033,210 1,211,922 10,005,629 742,824 Acquisition through Business Combination – 239,128 – – Amortization 11,948,127 10,582,160 10,449,310 9,262,805 Balance at the End of the Year 23,981,337 12,033,210 20,454,939 10,005,629 Carrying Value at 31st March 2016 76,445,099 – 72,638,543 – Carrying Value at 31st March 2015 – 88,006,025 – 83,087,853 Software balance in intangible assets mainly consist of the SAP Enterprise Resource Planning system software and SAP user license acquired by the Company. Amortization rate is disclosed in Note 3.3.3.2 Group 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 17.3 Goodwill Balance at the Beginning of the Year 1,089,204,227 432,588,101 Goodwill Arising on Acquisition through Business Combination – 656,616,126 Balance at the End of the Year 1,089,204,227 1,089,204,227 Company As at 31st March Number of Shares Effective Holding 2016 2015 % Rs. Rs. 18. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Sathosa Motors PLC 5,093,745 84.42 1,196,572,767 1,196,572,767 Access Realties (Private) Limited 82,422,532 100 3,296,901,280 2,996,901,280 Access Projects (Private) Limited 16,000,000 80 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited 29,000,000 100 290,000,000 – Horizon Knowledge City Limited 57,500,000 92 575,000,000 – 6,358,474,047 5,193,474,047 Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 18.1 Assessment of the Fair Value of Investments in Subsidiaries Quoted Investment Sathosa Motors PLC 1,528,123,500 1,401,289,250 Unquoted Investment Access Realties (Private) Limited 4,204,981,013 3,802,083,013 Access Projects (Private) Limited 562,718,124 458,418,274 Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited 289,857,925 – Horizon Knowledge City Limited 574,781,042 – 7,160,461,604 5,661,790,537 Fair value of the quoted investment has been decided based on the market value of the shares as at the Reporting date. Fair value of the unquoted investment has been decided based on the net assets attributable to the respective investment. Page 176 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company As at 31st March Number of Shares Effective Holding 2016 2015 2016 2015 % Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 19. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURE 19.1 Investment in a Joint Venture Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited 2,770,000 50 249,097,834 – 250,000,000 – 249,097,834 – 250,000,000 – The Group has invested on 30th June 2015, 50% interest in Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited, a joint venture involves in the business of property development. Group Company As at 31st March Number of Shares Effective Holding 2016 2015 2016 2015 % Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 19.2 Investment in an Associate ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited 5,546,544 30 83,553,736 72,533,965 55,465,410 55,465,410 83,553,736 72,533,965 55,465,410 55,465,410 The Group has a 30% interest in ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited, which has entered into a contract with Colombo International Container Terminal to service and maintain the Container Handling Equipment supplied by Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Company Limited of China (known as ZPMC). The following table illustrates summarized financial information of Associate and Joint Venture: ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 Rs. Rs. Rs. 19.3 Share of the Associate’s Joint Venture’s Statement of Financial Position Group Share of, Current Assets 86,277,647 80,898,056 270,049,695 Non-Current Assets 789,666 1,077,010 2,236,241 Current Liabilities (3,357,006) (9,212,682) (15,923,379) Non-current Liabilities (156,571) (228,419) (122,500,000) Net Assets 83,553,736 72,533,965 133,862,557 Goodwill – – 115,235,277 Equity 83,553,736 72,533,965 249,097,834 For the year/period ended 31st March ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited 2016 2015 2016 Rs. Rs. Rs. Share of the Revenue 51,885,010 51,807,923 21,250,000 Share of Profit, Net of Tax 12,184,545 11,112,685 (902,167) Carrying Amount of the Investment 83,553,736 72,533,965 249,097,834 Financial Reports 5 Page 177 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group/Company As at 31st March Number of Shares 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 20. OTHER LONG TERM INVESTMENTS Unquoted Investments Asia Pacific Golf Course Limited – Preference Shares 6 – 1,500,000 Less: Fair Value Adjustment – (1,500,000) – – Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 21. INVENTORIES Inventories 1,791,239,222 1,445,030,989 544,291,855 401,009,935 Work in Progress 591,622,895 742,022,072 295,554,675 527,785,540 Less: Provision for Inventories (6,723,763) (3,071,848) – – 2,376,138,354 2,183,981,213 839,846,530 928,795,475 22. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade Receivables (Note 22.1) 5,992,408,860 6,083,751,869 4,297,018,213 4,283,818,444 Other Receivables (Note 22.2) 138,821,273 95,372,416 82,815,861 6,548,440 Advances and Prepayments (Note 22.3) 444,723,930 343,166,811 193,066,371 250,005,989 6,575,954,063 6,522,291,096 4,572,900,445 4,540,372,873 22.1 Trade Receivables Trade Receivables 6,038,448,469 6,119,720,735 4,339,314,851 4,316,378,137 Less: Provision for Impairment of Receivables (46,039,609) (35,968,866) (42,296,638) (32,559,693) 5,992,408,860 6,083,751,869 4,297,018,213 4,283,818,444 22.2 Other Receivables Interest Receivables 59,686,514 9,969,887 57,363,220 6,285,337 Margin on Bond 219,807 263,103 219,807 263,103 VAT Receivables 28,771,878 12,978,503 25,232,834 – Other Receivables 50,143,074 72,160,923 – – 138,821,273 95,372,416 82,815,861 6,548,440 22.3 Advances and Prepayments Deposits and Prepayments 43,414,684 21,477,883 19,440,277 19,371,937 Advances 269,777,772 272,574,123 154,442,859 213,122,801 Refundable Deposit 131,531,474 49,114,805 19,183,235 17,511,251 444,723,930 343,166,811 193,066,371 250,005,989 Page 178 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 23. AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED PARTIES Access International (Private) Limited 6,377,854 6,325,961 880,484 837,692 Access Agencies (Private) Limited 6,645,856 785,747 6,550,827 – Access International Projects (Private) Limited 1,548,663 604,329 1,548,663 – ATSL International (Private) Limited 576,849 500,000 76,849 Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited 5,021,681 72,860,056 – – Mr. Sheran Fernando (Director) 380,046 65,902 – – Access International (Private) Limited – Networking 82,012 81,077 – – Access Real Estate (Private) Limited 65,730 57,024 – – Mr. D D S Ferdinando (Director) 30,805 8,000 – – Foresight Engineering (Private) Limited 5,200,000 – – – Asia Pacific Golf Course (Private) Limited – 13,843,107 – 13,843,107 China Geo – Salcon – Access JV – 58,446,604 – 58,446,604 Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited – 3,991,162 – – Eurometallic (Private) Limited – 2,324,418 – – Mr. D C N Ferdinando (Director) – 8,000 – – Access Projects (Private) Limited – – 14,388,937 30,924,996 SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited – – 1,428,000 977,620 Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited – – 443,524,725 463,461,873 25,929,496 159,901,387 468,398,485 568,491,892 Less: Provision for Impairment of Receivables – (13,843,107) – (13,843,107) 25,929,496 146,058,280 468,398,485 554,648,785 Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 24. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS 24.1 Other Non-Current Financial Assets Financial Assets Held-to-Maturity at Amortized Cost Investment in Debentures National Development Bank PLC 812,686,711 38,485,323 562,889,589 – Hatton National Bank PLC 543,477,724 43,007,423 300,277,397 – People’s Leasing and Finance PLC 2,621,431 2,620,757 – – Total Other Non-Current Financial Assets 1,358,785,866 84,113,503 863,166,986 – 24.2 Other Current Financial Assets Loans and receivables at Amortized Cost – Current – Retention Receivable 1,472,641,932 1,135,983,959 1,200,920,066 927,476,799 – Staff Loans 26,677,112 22,565,896 23,915,926 19,209,587 – Prepaid Retention Receivable Expenses 168,049,925 112,322,801 124,361,765 90,390,910 – Prepaid Staff Loan Expenses 3,936,957 4,532,231 3,936,957 4,532,231 Total Other Current Financial Assets 1,671,305,926 1,275,404,887 1,353,134,714 1,041,609,527 Financial Reports 5 Page 179 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Cost Market Value As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group/Company Number of Shares Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 25. SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS Quoted Investments Nation Lanka Finance PLC 12,300 453,009 453,009 12,300 54,120 Lanka Indian Oil Corporation PLC 36,600 1,035,414 1,035,414 1,189,500 1,474,980 Touchwood Investments PLC 21,600 414,108 414,108 – – Horana Plantations PLC 7,500 538,464 538,464 126,750 168,750 The Colombo Fort Land & Building Company PLC 5,000 499,533 499,533 97,482 126,000 Namunukula Plantations PLC 3,300 527,231 527,231 196,350 233,970 Richard Pieris & Co. PLC 50,000 798,848 798,848 360,000 370,000 Free Lanka Capital Holdings PLC 15,600 78,000 78,000 18,720 24,960 People's Merchant PLC 100 1,976 1,976 1,200 2,390 CIC Holdings PLC 204,000 23,517,007 23,517,007 19,482,000 15,504,000 Softlogic Holdings PLC 208,500 6,110,307 6,110,307 2,773,050 2,752,200 Vallibel One PLC 123,300 3,210,050 3,210,051 2,194,740 2,502,990 Central Investments & Finance PLC 1,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 500,000 700,000 People’s Leasing Company PLC 839,400 15,109,200 15,109,200 13,430,400 18,550,740 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 39 – – 4,895 6,451 Tess Agro Company PLC 80 – – 88 120 Textured Jersey Lanka PLC* 889,500 – 13,467,501 – 21,436,950 Total 62,293,147 75,760,649 40,387,475 63,908,621 (Less) Provision for Impairment (21,905,672) (11,852,028) – – Fair Value at the End of the Year 40,387,475 63,908,621 40,387,475 63,908,621 *Investment disposed during the year. Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 26. SHORT TERM DEPOSITS Fixed Deposits 6,691,265,553 947,061,547 6,553,907,509 746,945,915 Investment in Unit Trusts 100,976,031 100,866,731 100,976,031 100,866,731 6,792,241,584 1,047,928,278 6,654,883,540 847,812,646 Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 27. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Favorable Balance Cash at Bank 273,374,158 1,496,674,317 251,923,841 1,161,716,971 Cash in Hand 30,350,768 29,123,855 24,459,566 20,458,439 Investment in Repos 200,065,286 392,682,634 200,000,000 335,000,000 503,790,212 1,918,480,806 476,383,407 1,517,175,410 Unfavorable Balance Bank Overdraft (412,594,547) (276,320,248) – – Cash and Cash Equivalent for the Purpose of Statement of Cash Flows 91,195,665 1,642,160,558 476,383,407 1,517,175,410 Page 180 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Company Land situated at No. 278/4, Union Place, Colombo 02, which is owned by Access Realties (Private) Limited (Fully-owned subsidiary), has been mortgaged to Bank of Ceylon – Corporate Branch by Access Engineering PLC to increase the existing Overdraft facility (Rs. 30 Mn) (Note 16.2.1). Land situated at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralesgamuwa, which is owned by the Company has been mortgaged to Bank of Ceylon – Corporate Branch as back-up overdraft facility to accommodate any unsettled claims in respect of Letter of Guarantees issued or LC (term) bills for the value of Rs. 65 Mn (Note 16.1). Group Access Projects (Private) Limited Lender Account No. Facility Balance as at Securities Rs. 31.03.2016 Commercial Bank PLC 1107221801 20,000,000 (21,409,075) Corporate Guarantee of Access International (Private) Limited for Rs. 330 Mn Commercial Bank PLC 1415840701 80,000,000 (125,862,471) Personal Guarantee of Sumal Perera for Rs. 330 Mn Commercial Bank PLC 1415840701 50,000,000 (27,206,585) Personal Guarantee of Sumal Perera for Rs. 50 Mn As at 31st March 2016 2015 Number of Shares Value of Shares Number of Shares Value of Shares Rs. Rs. 28. STATED CAPITAL Issued and Fully Paid At the Beginning of the Year 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 At the End of the Year 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time time and are entitled to one vote per individual present at meetings of the shareholders or one vote per share in case of a poll. Group As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 29. DEFERRED GRANT Balance at the Beginning of the Year 6,581,652 6,801,041 Amortization (219,652) (219,389) Balance at the End of the Year 6,362,000 6,581,652 The above represents a Government grant received by Sathosa Motors PLC, for the construction of workshop at Peliygoda and are amortized over a period of fifty (50) years. Financial Reports 5 Page 181 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 30. INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS Payable Within One Year Term Loan (Note 30.2) 648,358,899 248,101,539 – – Finance Lease Obligation (Note 30.3) 4,132,179 3,626,134 – – 652,491,078 251,727,673 – – Payable After One Year Debentures (Note 30.1) 5,008,666,927 – 5,189,556,989 – Term Loan (Note 30.2) 176,107,134 94,498,400 – – Finance Lease Obligation (Note 30.3) 8,496,960 3,370,113 – – 5,193,271,021 97,868,513 5,189,556,989 – Group Company 2016 2016 Rs. Rs. 30.1 Debentures Debentures Issued During the Year 4,825,670,000 5,000,000,000 Balance at the End of the Year 4,825,670,000 5,000,000,000 Interest Payable 182,996,927 189,556,989 Carrying Value at the End of the Year 5,008,666,927 5,189,556,989 On 18th November 2015 the Company issued fifty million (50,000,000) rated senior unsecured redeemable debentures to the value of Rupees Five Billion (Rs. 5,000,000,000). These debentures are listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange. Sathosa Motors PLC has invested 1,743,300 Nos. of Type 01 – five years Tenor Debentures issued by the Company, amounting to Rs. 174,330,000/-. Carrying value of above debentures has been eliminated at the Group level. Details regarding the listed debentures are as follows: Instrument Type Value in Proportion Interest Frequency Coupon Rate Effective Annual IROCGS* as at Rs. % % Yield % Reporting Date % Type 01 – 5 Years Tenor 4,998,410,000 99.97 Semi-Annually 10.25 10.51 11.57 Type 02 – 6 Years Tenor 1,030,000 0.02 Semi-Annually 10.45 10.72 11.56 Type 03 – 7 Years Tenor 20,000 0.00 Semi-Annually 10.72 11.01 11.75 Type 04 – 8 Years Tenor 540,000 0.01 Semi-Annually 10.95 11.25 11.94 Total 5,000,000,000 * Interest rate of comparable Government Securities The Listed Debentures were not traded since issuing date. Therefore, Highest Traded Price, Lowest Traded Price, Last Traded Price for the year ended 31st March 2016 and Yield to Maturity of Trade were not available. Company For the year ended/as 31st March 2016 2015 Debt Security Related Ratios Debt to Equity Ratio 0.33 0 Quick Assets Ratio 3.6 3.0 Interest Cover 13.33 N/A Page 182 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. 30.2 Term Loan Balance at the Beginning of the Year 342,599,939 58,876,643 Acquisition Through Business Combination – 33,517,700 Obtained During the Year 2,297,706,327 459,262,242 Repayment During the Year (1,815,840,233) (209,056,646) Balance at the End of the Year 824,466,033 342,599,939 Loan Payable Within One Year 648,358,899 248,101,539 Loan Payable After One Year 176,107,134 94,498,400 824,466,033 342,599,939 Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 30.3 Finance Lease Obligation Balance at the Beginning of the Year 8,304,025 6,898,226 – 5,058,610 Acquisition Through Business Combination – 9,117,501 – – Obtained During the Year 15,645,356 – – – Repayment During the Year (8,694,302) (7,711,702) – (5,058,610) 15,255,079 8,304,025 – – Less: Interest in Suspense (2,625,940) (1,307,778) – – Balance at the End of the Year 12,629,139 6,996,247 – – Payable Within One Year 4,132,179 3,626,134 – – Payable After One Year 8,496,960 3,370,113 – – 12,629,139 6,996,247 – – 30.4 Analysis of Interest-Bearing Borrowings – Group Company Name Lending Institution Nature of the Interest Rate and Security Maturity Loan Value 2016 2015 Facility Rs. Rs. Rs. Access Projects Commercial Bank Bank Loan 11.75% Fixed Interest (Private) Limited Guarantee of Batching Plant 54 Months 9.5 Mn 6.134 Mn 8.51 Mn Commercial Bank Bank Loan PLR+2.25% (Variable Rate) Guarantee of T Bar Machine 48 Months 6 Mn 3.125 Mn 4.625 Mn Commercial Bank Bank Loan 12% Fixed Rate 48 Months 5 Mn 3.124 Mn 4.374 Mn Commercial Bank Bank Loan PLR+1.75% Variable Rate Vehicle No. CAB 0803 60 Months 12.9 Mn 7.095 Mn 9.675 Mn Commercial Bank Bank Loan PLR+2.25% Variable Rate Guarantee of Generator, Concrete Mixer, Roller and Rammer 48 Months 4.382 Mn 0.817 Mn 1.914 Mn Commercial Bank Bank Loan PLR+1.75% Guarantee of TATA Tipper WP PL 2499 48 Months 4.48 Mn – 0.179 Mn SML Frontier National Bank Loan 12.5% Fixed Interest Automotive Development Corporate Guarantee from (Private) Limited Bank Sathosa Motors PLC (PQ 105) for Rs. 200,000,000/12 Months 63.9 Mn 15.975 Mn 63.9 Mn Financial Reports 5 Page 183 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Company Name Lending Institution Nature of the Interest Rate and Security Maturity Loan Value 2016 2015 Facility Rs. Rs. Rs. National Import 13% Fixed Interest Development Loan Corporate Guarantee from Bank Sathosa Motors PLC (PQ 105) for Rs. 200,000,000/6 Months 150 Mn 143.2 Mn 63.2 Mn Hatton National Bank Loan AWPLR+2% (Renew Monthly) Bank Corporate Guarantee from Sathosa Motors PLC Rs. 200,000,000/84 Months 200 Mn 178.6 Mn 86.2 Mn Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 31. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Balance at the Beginning of the Year 159,264,174 120,948,303 112,510,177 95,347,263 Acquisition through Business Combination – 15,128,461 – – Current Service Cost 31,765,117 27,162,005 22,086,478 23,723,005 Interest Cost 15,788,048 12,056,497 11,251,019 9,534,726 Actuarial Gain (22,744,245) (8,029,753) (18,634,323) (10,511,919) 184,073,094 167,265,513 127,213,351 118,093,075 Less: Payments Made during the Year (15,343,388) (8,001,339) (7,690,271) (5,582,898) Balance at the End of the Year 168,729,706 159,264,174 119,523,080 112,510,177 31.1 Expense Recognized in Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Current Service Cost 31,765,117 27,162,005 22,086,478 23,723,005 Interest Cost 15,788,048 12,056,497 11,251,019 9,534,726 Expense Recognized in Statement of Profit or Loss 47,553,165 39,218,502 33,337,497 33,257,731 Actuarial Gain Recognized in OCI (22,744,245) (8,029,753) (18,634,323) (10,511,919) Total Provision for the Year 24,808,920 31,188,749 14,703,174 22,745,812 31.2 Company An independent actuarial valuation of the retirement benefit obligation was carried out as at 31st March 2016 by professional actuaries – Messrs K A Pandit, Professional Consultants and Actuaries. The valuation method used by the actuaries to value the retirement benefit obligation is the ‘Projected Unit Credit Method’. The method recommended by the LKAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’. The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were: 2016 2015 Discount Rate (%) 11 10 Expected Annual Average Salary Increment Rate (%) 8.50 8.50 Staff Turnover Factor (%) 1 1 Retirement Age (Years) 55 55 Page 184 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 31.3 Group (a) Sathosa Motors PLC An independent actuarial valuation of the retirement benefit obligation was carried out as at 31st March 2016 by professional actuaries – Messrs Actuarial & Management Consultants (Private) Limited, Professional Consultants and Actuaries. The valuation method used by the Actuaries to value the retirement benefit obligation is the ‘Projected Unit Credit Method’. The method recommended by the LKAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’. (b) Other Subsidiaries Employee benefit liabilities of other subsidiaries have been calculated applying the ‘Projected Unit Credit Method’ recommended by LKAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’. The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were: 2016 2015 Discount Rate (%) 11 10 Expected Annual Average Salary Increment Rate (%) 10 – 12 10 – 12 Staff Turnover Factor (%) 5 – 40 7 – 16 Retirement Age (Years) 55 55 31.4 Sensitivity of Assumptions Used A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at 31st March 2016 is as shown below: Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Effect on the Defined Benefit Obligation Liability Increase by One Percentage Point in Discount Rate (55,757,997) (50,648,595) (12,604,616) (12,760,930) Decrease by One Percentage Point in Discount Rate 61,235,881 59,596,339 14,874,419 15,171,117 Increase by One Percentage Point in Salary Increment Rate 61,514,796 59,694,111 15,096,136 15,246,700 Decrease by One Percentage Point in Salary Increment Rate (56,049,778) (50,742,883) (12,981,659) (13,032,724) The sensitivity analysis depicted above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on employee benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the Reporting period. The sensitivity analysis are based on a change in a significant assumption, keeping all other assumptions constant. The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another. The following payments are expected contributions to the employee benefit obligation in future years: Company 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Within the Next 12 Months (Next Annual Reporting Period) 9,384,736 8,022,990 Between 2 and 5 Years 25,158,184 20,425,824 Beyond 5 Years 100,738,859 78,018,306 Total Expected Payments 135,281,779 106,467,120 Financial Reports 5 Page 185 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 32. DEFERRED TAXATION Balance at the Beginning of the Year 250,705,784 230,151,886 242,831,592 226,536,003 Acquisition through Business Combination – (608,182) – – Provision/(Reversal) During the Year (Note 12.3) (15,799,970) 21,162,080 (38,303,932) 16,295,589 Balance at the End of the Year 234,905,814 250,705,784 204,527,660 242,831,592 Deferred tax provision as at the year end is made up as follows: As at 31st March 2016 2015 Temporary Tax Effect on Temporary Tax Effect on Difference Temporary Difference Difference Temporary Difference Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Group Property, Plant and Equipment 2,166,649,537 283,171,812 2,222,301,777 279,812,221 Revaluation of Building to Fair Value 36,106,212 4,374,455 36,106,212 4,418,426 Staff Redundancy Provision – – (55,865,190) (6,836,391) Provision for Doubtful Debtors (42,296,638) (5,124,457) (28,747,759) (3,517,950) Provision for Debenture Interest Expense (189,556,989) (22,965,811) – – Defined Benefit Obligation (164,833,917) (24,550,185) (154,202,860) (23,170,522) 1,806,068,205 234,905,814 2,019,592,180 250,705,784 Company Property, Plant and Equipment 2,003,416,758 242,724,313 2,145,372,826 262,535,715 Revaluation of Building to Fair Value 36,106,212 4,374,455 36,106,212 4,418,426 Staff Redundancy Provision – – (55,865,190) (6,836,391) Provision for Doubtful Debtors (42,296,638) (5,124,457) (28,747,759) (3,517,950) Provision for Debenture Interest Expense (189,556,989) (22,965,811) – – Defined Benefit Obligation (119,523,079) (14,480,840) (112,510,177) (13,768,208) 1,688,146,264 204,527,660 1,984,355,912 242,831,592 32.1 Company Provision has been made for deferred taxation under the liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from difference between accounting and tax base. Since the Company is liable for Income tax at different rates, the deferred tax liability is arrived at applying the income tax rates of 12% and 28% applicable for the construction income and other income respectively. The effective tax rate (weighted average) applicable is 12.12% (2014/15 – 12.23%). Potential Impact of Income Tax Rate Change As per the recent Policy Measures published on 29th April 2016 by the Ministry of Finance (www.treasury.gov.lk), the Company will be liable to pay current income tax at 17.5% instead of the prevailing concessionary rate of 12% on construction income whilst the tax rate on other sources of income will remain at 28% with effect from year of assessment starting 1st April 2016. Since the new tax rate had not been enacted through a Gazette by the Parliament as at the Reporting date, being 31st March 2016, the new rate was not considered to be substantially enacted as at that date. Accordingly, the Company has provided for deferred taxation at the existing income tax rates of 12% and 28% applicable for construction income and other income respectively, for the year ended 31st March 2016. Page 186 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements The potential impact on the deferred tax had the Group/Company applied the proposed rate of 17.5% is shown below: Group Company 2016 2016 Rs. Rs. Balance at the Beginning of the Year 244,686,180 242,831,592 Deferred Tax Charge/(Reversal) Recognized in Profit or Loss 52,419,248 51,885,004 Deferred Tax Charge/(Reversal) Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income 2,783,553 1,988,758 Balance at the End of the Year 299,888,981 296,705,354 32.2 Group Access Realties (Private) Limited No provisions have been made for deferred taxation, since the Company is liable for income tax at 2% on its revenue for next fifteen (15) years after completing the seven (7) years of income tax exemptions. The tax exemption ends at the end of 2010/11 year of assessment. Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited No provision has been made for deferred taxation, since the Company is exempt from tax for twelve (12) years, according to the Section 17 of Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012. Access Projects (Private) Limited Provision has been made for deferred taxation under the liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from difference between accounting and tax base. Since the Company is liable for Income tax at different rates, the deferred tax liability is arrived at applying the income tax rates of 12% and 28% applicable for the construction income and other income respectively. The effective tax rate (weighted average) applicable is 13.45% (2015 – 13.5%). Sathosa Motors PLC Provision has been made for deferred taxation under the liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from difference between accounting and tax base. Deferred tax has been computed at the rate of 28%. Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 33. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade Creditors 2,477,353,532 1,926,269,955 1,522,907,476 1,177,315,181 VAT Payable 16,533,371 16,808,913 – 8,926,139 Accrued Expenses 470,458,194 346,364,120 218,267,340 216,645,964 Mobilization Advance 1,950,623,331 1,737,045,853 1,676,100,986 1,312,809,739 Advances Received 246,209,164 185,110,503 72,305,015 44,001,947 Retention Payable 161,742,048 184,212,772 120,466,451 106,813,060 Provision for Warranty 20,722,989 12,672,989 – – Security Deposit 24,110,583 21,773,326 – – 5,367,753,212 4,430,258,431 3,610,047,268 2,866,512,030 Financial Reports 5 Page 187 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 34. AMOUNTS DUE TO RELATED PARTIES Access International (Private) Limited 23,905,988 8,765,310 22,927,836 6,813,872 Access Energy Solution (Private) Limited 7,941,009 6,648,401 – 2,666,888 Access Natural Water (Private) Limited 266,928 283,418 156,846 244,455 Access International Projects (Private) Limited 9,551,602 30,600,980 5,235,471 – Access Agencies (Private) Limited 443,673 1,259,957 – – Reprographics (Private) Limited 206,457 237,760 206,457 220,000 Euro Metallic (Private) Limited 34,000 – – – ECO Friendly Power Developers (Private) Limited – 118,386 – 118,386 Access Projects (Private) Limited – – 255,519 79,939 Access Realties (Private) Limited – – 1,877,475 1,582,971 42,349,657 47,914,212 30,659,604 11,726,511 Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 35. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES (ASSETS) Balance at the Beginning of the Year 83,640,939 133,786,973 (14,640,295) 71,235,762 Super Gain Tax Expense (SGT) 554,228,650 – 438,391,385 – Adjusted Balance at the Beginning of the Year 637,869,589 133,786,973 423,751,090 71,235,762 Acquisition through Business Combination – 18,053,912 – – Provision Made during the Year 460,183,602 300,119,186 308,407,587 157,762,618 Adjustment for the Prior Year 2,681,614 18,134,066 – 18,134,065 Payments Made during the Year (827,149,551) (371,959,603) (544,312,956) (250,776,595) Notional Tax (2,429,457) (2,811,458) (2,271,637) (2,811,458) WHT Recoverable (22,156,513) (11,682,137) (21,074,264) (8,184,687) Balance at the End of the Year 248,999,284 83,640,939 164,499,820 (14,640,295) Current Tax Liabilities 248,999,284 98,281,234 164,499,820 – Current Tax Assets – (14,640,295) – (14,640,295) Net Current Tax Liabilities/(Assets) 248,999,284 83,640,939 164,499,820 (14,640,295) Super Gain Tax Expense As per the provisions of Part III of the Finance Act No. 10 of 2015 which was certified on 30th October 2015, the Company and Group were liable for Super Gain Tax of Rs. 438,391,385/and Rs. 554,228,650/respectively. According to the Act, the Super Gain Tax shall be deemed to be an expenditure in the Financial Statements relating to the year of assessment which commenced on 1st April 2013. The Act supersedes the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards; hence the expense of Super Gain Tax is accounted in accordance with the requirements of the said Act as recommended by the Statement of Alternative Treatment (SoAT) on accounting for Super Gain Tax issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, dated 24th November 2015. Page 188 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 36. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 36.1 Company The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties: Amount (Paid)/Received Related Party Transaction Nature of Transaction 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Access International (Private) Limited Machinery Hiring Income 174,000 38,352 Sale of Readymix Concrete 2,192,950 3,873,869 Sale of Asphalt 644,407 334,665 Land Rent Income 1,020,000 – Construction Income 5,895,405 – Reimbursement of Insurance Premium Paid 56,981 – Purchase of Gabion, Fibertex, Geo MX & Tie Wire (12,253,384) (20,505,365) Purchase of Construction Plant and Equipment (191,500) (30,697,053) Clearing and Handling Charges Paid (22,804,496) (6,334,143) Purchase of Roller Bits, Bullet BKH85 (26,396,724) – Purchase of Steel Sheet Piles (27,011,950) – Purchase of Spare Parts (43,850) – Purchase of Safety Items (169,460) – Purchase of Street Light Fittings (738,000) – Purchase Consideration – Access Project (Private) Limited – (625,000,000) Access Realties (Private) Limited Dividend Received 13,486,056 3,034,014 Reimbursement of Insurance Premium Paid 329,957 – Office Rentals (48,354,294) (45,540,404) Reimbursement of Telephone and Electricity Charges (17,831,258) (19,438,284) Reimbursement of Maintenance Charges (292,000) (10,204) Subcontract Work – (Office Renovation) – (1,388,950) Investment in Shares (300,000,000) (300,000,000) Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited Construction Income 770,888,741 463,461,873 Access Natural Water (Private) Limited Purchase of Water Bottles (2,327,074) (4,359,676) Water Dispenser Service Charges (12,413) – Purchase of Electronic Dispenser – (153,844) Access Agencies (Private) Limited Sale of Readymix Concrete 21,432,145 440,181 Hiring of Vehicle, Machinery and Equipment 1,019,625 439,010 Access Projects (Private) Limited Sale of Readymix Concrete 22,081,495 55,625,747 Hiring of Vehicle Machinery and Equipment 1,064,200 3,696,677 Dividend Income 16,560,000 – Reimbursement of Staff and Other Cost 3,637,367 – Reimbursement of Electricity Bill (964,040) (751,516) Supply and Installation of Metal Ceiling – (187,568) Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited Sub-Contractor Charges (8,384,766) (75,760,856) Reprographics (Private) Limited Purchase of Toner (722,350) (291,800) Photocopy Machine Spare Parts and Service (486,775) (236,364) Purchase of Photo Copy Machine (1,793,000) (1,024,000) Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited Elevator Maintenance Fees and Spare Parts Supply (1,666,352) (10,300,000) Access Solar (Private) Limited Supply and Installation of Solar Power System – (2,113,378) Office Equipment Repair Service – (350,000) Access International Project Sale of Readymix Concrete 1,918,575 – (Private) Limited Hiring of Vehicle, Machinery and Equipment 156,348 – Subcontractor Charges (66,750,000) – Material Purchases – (74,850) Financial Reports 5 Page 189 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Amount (Paid)/Received Related Party Transaction Nature of Transaction 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited Dividend Received 1,048,296 648,946 Sale of Motor Vehicle – 2,678,571 ATSL International (Private) Limited Machinery Hiring Income 56,105 437,896 Sales of Crusher Products 231,900 – Sale of Readymix Concrete – 561,000 Sathosa Motors PLC Dividend Received 55,061,855 22,921,853 Vehicle Repair and Maintenance (2,595) (119,309) Purchase of Debentures Issued by AEL (174,330,000) – Interest Income on Debentures 6,560,062 – Purchase of New Machinery – (45,000,000) Vehicle and Machinery Service Provided by AEL – 110,160 SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited Vehicle Service Charges (168,102) (480,961) Rent Income 8,400,000 2,100,000 Refundable Deposit Received – 2,100,000 C R D S Development (Private) Limited Lease Rent (6,900,000) (6,300,000) 36.2 Group The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties, within the Group: Amount (Paid)/Received Related Party Transaction Nature of Transaction 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Access Realties (Private) Limited Access International (Private) Limited Rental and Services Income Made in the Ordinary Course of the Business 19,402,536 19,172,982 Reimbursement Telephone and Electricity Charges 6,700,778 – Data Wiring Charges 330,475 – Purchases of Water Pump and Materials (227,000) – Access Real Estate (Private) Limited Rental and Services Income Made in the Ordinary Course of the Business 3,663,360 3,212,160 Reimbursement Telephone and Electricity Charges 799,333 – Access Natural Water (Private) Limited Purchase of Mineral Water (259,824) (252,154) Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited Rental and Service Income Made in the Ordinary Course of Business 1,728,000 4,824,000 Reimbursement Telephone and Electricity Charges 230,306 – Purchase of Electrical Equipment – (651,500) Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited Elevator Maintenance Fees and Spare Parts Supply (9,494,531) (1,162,928) Access Solar (Private) Limited Rental and Service Income Made in the Ordinary Course of Business 661,500 2,646,000 Access Agencies (Private) Limited Rental and Service Income Made in the Ordinary Course of Business 2,440,000 – Reimbursement Telephone and Electricity Charges 108,916 – Access International Projects (Private) Limited Rental and Service Income Made in the Ordinary Course of Business 683,100 683,100 Reimbursement Telephone and Electricity Charges 6,666 – Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited Loan Granted/(Repayment) 23,300,000 (16,050,000) Investment in Shares (530,000,000) (300,000,000) Rental Income on Land Lease 1,200,000 – Page 190 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Amount (Paid)/Received Related Party Transaction Nature of Transaction 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Sathosa Motors PLC Access Natural Water (Private) Limited Purchase of Mineral Water 195,891 (144,022) Purchase of Electronic Dispenser 12,000 – Access International (Private) Limited Supply of Workshop Repair Services and Sale of New Vehicles 829,235 4,491,781 ATSL International (Private) Limited Construction of the Workshop at No. 25, Vauxhall Street – (23,965,000) Reprographics (Private) Limited Purchase of Photocopy Machine and Toners for the Printers (21,914) (120,855) Access International Projects (Private) Limited Vehicle Repair and Maintenance 15,919 – ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited Vehicle Repair and Maintenance 146,583 – SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited Vehicle Service Charge 39,605 32,403 Dividend Received 650,000 – Amount (Paid)/Received Related Party Transaction Nature of Transaction 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Access Projects (Private) Limited Access International (Private) Limited Email Charges (47,571) (47,299) Generator Repair Charges (14,000) (151,368) Purchase of Construction Plant and Equipment (28,638) – Panel and Submersible Pump – (1,729,967) Labour Charges – (1,298,772) Labour and Raw Material Charges – 15,559,003 Sub-Contractor Charges – 8,400,000 Access Agencies (Private) Limited Plumbing Contractor Charges – (25,760,000) Bathroom Fittings and Accessories (735,975) (2,269,281) Retention Charges of Aluminium Works – 785,747 Access Solar (Private) Limited Supply and Installation of Solar Power System – (1,083,600) Access International Projects (Private) Limited Supply and Installation Charges – (37,166,242) Supply and Installation of Metal Ceiling (42,002,377) 538,640 ATSL International (Private) Limited Provision of Ceiling Work – 2,385,467 Euro Metallic (Private) Limited Fund Transfers – 17,180,000 Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited Supply and Installation of Electricity (32,241,286) (85,458,563) Access Natural Water (Private) Limited Purchase of Mineral Water (1,517,382) (1,198,389) Reprographics (Private) Limited Photocopy Machine Spare Parts and Service (88,134) – SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited Refurbishment of Buildings (44,910,444) – Financial Reports 5 Page 191 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.3 Directorship Held by Directors in Other Group of Companies Company (AEL) Company Name Relationship SJS RJS DAR SHS SD Perera J C Joshua Gomez S D Perera Fernando Mendis Munasinghe Access Realties (Private) Limited Subsidiary        Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited Subsidiary       Sathosa Motors PLC Subsidiary       SML Frontier Automotive (Private) limited Subsidiary    Access Projects (Private) Limited Subsidiary   ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) limited Associate   Access International (Private) Limited Affiliate        Access Natural Water (Private) Limited Affiliate     Access Agencies (Private) Limited Affiliate   Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited Affiliate    Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited Affiliate   Access Solar (Private) Limited Affiliate   Access International Project (Private) Limited Affiliate   Access Real Estate (Private) Limited Affiliate   ATSL International (Private) Limited Affiliate    C.R.D.S. Development (Private) Limited Affiliate  Reprographics (Private) Limited Affiliate   Euro Metallic (Private) Limited Affiliate  36.4 Terms and Conditions of Transactions with Related Parties The sales to and purchases from related parties are made at terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest free and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. This Note should be read in conjunction with Notes 23 and 34 to these Financial Statements. Page 192 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.5 Transactions with Key Management Personnel LKAS 24 – ‘Related Party Disclosures’, Key Management Personnel include members of the Board of Directors of Access Engineering PLC and its subsidiary companies. Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Compensation Paid to Key Management Personnel Short Term Employee Benefits (Note 11) 51,745,060 55,822,800 25,666,500 35,805,000 Total Compensation Paid to Key Management Personnel 51,745,060 55,822,800 25,666,500 35,805,000 37. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 37.1 Company There were no material commitments and contingent liabilities as at the Reporting date except for the following: A. Legal Cases Filed Against the Company Case No: CHC706/10/MR The case of money recovery by GTB Colombo Corporation (Private) Limited Vs. Three Defendants, namely –1st Defendant: Asia Pacific Golf Course Limited, 2nd Defendant: Access Engineering PLC and 3rd Defendant: Urban Development Authority. The claim is made against the three Defendants jointly and/or severally in the High Court of Western Province for non-payment of material supplied and invoiced by the Plaintiff to the 1st Defendant. Access Engineering PLC is contesting the case, since the material purportedly supplied by the Plaintiff was not received by the 2nd Defendant and not invoiced to the 2nd Defendant. Further trial is on 10th October 2016. Case No. 25455/M The case of money recovery by S A Hansi Nadesha Madhushani, S A Devindi Thakshila Madhushani, S A Nahara Oshadi Madhushani appearing through D A Anusha Manel Dissanayake against two Defendants namely – 1st Defendant: Nalaka Priyantha Rajapaksha and 2nd Defendant: Access Engineering PLC. The claim is made against the 1st and 2nd Defendants jointly and/or severally in the District Court of Anuradhapura claiming damages for the death of the father S A Imesh Madhushan by an Accident which took place in Alankulama. 1st and 2nd Defendants are contesting the case since there is no negligence and/or any fault whatsoever on the part of the 2nd Defendant and/or the 1st Defendant who is an employee of the 2nd Defendant. Settlement was arrived at 17th June 2016. A sum of Rs. 800,000/was paid on 17th June 2016 in open court by Access Engineering PLC to the plaintiffs as an ex gratia payment without accepting any liability. Case No. 25409/M The case of money recovery by D A Anusha Manel Dissanayake against two Defendants namely – 1st Defendant: Nalaka Priyantha Rajapaksha and 2nd Defendant: Access Engineering PLC. The claim is made against two Defendants jointly and/or severally in the District Court of Anuradhapura claiming damages for her husband S A Imesh Madhushan by an accident which took place in Alankulama. 1st and 2nd Defendants are contesting the case since there is no negligence and/or any fault whatsoever on the part of the 2nd Defendant and/or the 1st Defendant who is an employee of the 2nd Defendant. Settlement was arrived at 17th June 2016. A sum of Rs. 800,000/was paid on 17th June 2016 in open court by Access Engineering PLC to the plaintiffs as an ex gratia payment without accepting any liability. Case No. 370/13 The claim of money recovery by Hamsarathani widow of Sinnarasa Sivarasa and Janarthai, Priyangan, Divyapriya, Thanalakshan, Loshan who are minors appearing through Murukananthavel Sivarani against five Defendants namely – 1st Defendant: Aviva NDB Insurance, 2nd Defendant: G G Athukorala, 3rd Defendant: Dasanayake Ariyadasa, 4th Defendant: Access Engineering PLC and 5th Defendant: Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau. The claim is made against five Defendants in the District Court of Malaklam claiming compensation for Sinnarasa Sivdasa who died in an accident occurred at Street AB 16 known as Kankesanthurai Street with a Water Bowser. Plaintiffs claim compensation of Rs. 7,000,000/from the 4th Defendant. 4th Defendant’s position is that the Plaint of the Plaintiff should be dismissed in limine as the Plaintiff is contrary to provisions of Sections 40 (d) and/or 46 (2) of the CPC the Plaint of the Plaintiffs discloses a mis-joinder of parties and the Plaint of the Plaintiffs does not disclose any cause of action against the 4th Defendant. Further trial is on 22nd September 2016. Financial Reports 5 Page 193 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Case No. 2361/15/M The case of money recovery by B G Ajith Prasanna against Defendant namely, Access Engineering PLC. The claim is made amounting Rs. 5,000,000/to recover damages for the Plaintiff by an accident which took place in Katubedda. The Defendant is contesting the case since there is no negligence and/or any fault whatever on the part of the Defendant. Further trial is on 19th September 2016. B. Legal Cases Filed by the Company Case No. 456/13/MR The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against five Defendants namely – 1st Defendant: V V K Karunaratne, 2nd Defendant: Udaya Karunaratne, 3rd Defendant: Susil Karunaratne, 4th Defendant: Mohan Karunaratne and 5th Defendant: T V T R Karunaratne. The claim is made against five Defendants jointly and/or severally for the non-payment of money for the works undertaken by the Plaintiff under the subcontract to complete 0.00 to 6.77 Kilometres stretch of the Velanai-Kyres Road. Access Engineering PLC is proceeding with the case since the Plaintiff has completed the designated work allocated to the Plaintiff under the subcontract to the entire satisfaction of the Defendants and the Defendants have failed and neglected to pay the Plaintiff the sum of Rs. 30,829,466.51 though obliged to do so. This matter was fixed for 19th September 2016 for settlement finally or trial. Case No. B506/14 The accused has been charged for fraudulently encashing a cheque for Rs. 3,600,000/of Access Engineering PLC and Company has filed a case against the Bank of Ceylon, Union Place Branch. This matter was fixed to be called on 22nd July 2016. Case No. DMR/02437/15 The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against Defendant namely the Bank of Ceylon. The claim is made to recover damages for honouring the cheque which had not been duly signed and authorized by the Plaintiff. This matter is fixed for trial or settlement on 22nd July 2016. Case No. HC228/14 The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against Defendant namely Allianz Insurance Lanka Limited. The claim of Rs. 48,000,000/is made against Defendant for the rejection of claims made under contractors ‘All Risk Insurance Policy’ bearing Policy No. CAR/12658. Further trial is on 2nd August 2016. C. Bank Guarantees Issued by the Banks on Behalf of the Company are as Follows: Amount Rs. Bank Nations Trust Bank PLC 957,988,019 Hatton National Bank PLC 1,078,911,706 Sampath Bank PLC 664,418,183 Bank of Ceylon 1,386,145,525 People’s Bank 1,636,588,061 Union Bank PLC 4,000,000 5,728,051,494 Corporate Guarantees issued by the Company on behalf of Access Projects (Private) Limited for banking facilities is Rs. 250 Mn. D. Tax Assessments PAYE Tax Assessment Received for Year of Assessment 2011/12 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised PAYE Tax Assessment to the Company for the year of assessment 2011/12, assessing shares gifted by three shareholders of the Company at that time to the employees of the Company and to external parties, to pay PAYE Tax of Rs. 471.9 Mn plus penalty of Rs. 236.1 Mn. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, the Directors are of the view that the Company has followed due process and acted in accordance with the prevailing laws and therefore, the above assessment have no rational basis in law. Page 194 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Income Tax Assessment Received for Year of Assessment 2012/13 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment on Income Tax for the year of assessment 2012/13, assessing the tax exemption claimed under Section 17A (2) (c) and qualifying payment claimed under Section 34 (2) (s) of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 for same investment, to pay income tax Rs. 152,394,432/plus penalty of Rs. 76,197,216/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Income Tax Assessment Received for Year of Assessment 2013/14 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment on Income Tax for the year of assessment 2013/14, assessing the tax exemption claimed under Section 17A (2) (c) and qualifying payment claimed under Section 34 (2) (s) of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 for same investment, to pay income tax Rs. 218,211,187/plus penalty of Rs. 109,105,593/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. 37.2 Group Sathosa Motors PLC Labour Tribunal Cases against the Sathosa Motors PLC W A Siriwardane Vs. Sathosa Motors PLC (Ref – Ct.78 (25) The above application was filed in the Labour Tribunal by an ex-employee W A Siriwardane who was a driver of the Company for terminating his services. He seeks reinstatement in service, monthly salary inclusive of the relevant allowances pending reinstatement in service. The Company filed answer on 25th June 2009. The Company is vehemently resisting the claim. After the trial and upon filing written submissions the Order was delivered on 25th August 2013 and the application of W A Siriwardane was dismissed. We have not been notified of any appeal. As regards any gratuity dues, these would be payable accordingly to law. The applicant has now appeal to the High Court of Colombo against the said Order and the matter was called before the High Court on 29th September 2014. Parties were directed to file written submissions on 27th November 2014. On 27th November 2014 the matter re-fixed again for written submissions on 13th February 2015. On 13th February 2015 parties filed written submissions and the matter was fixed for argument on 6th May 2015. On 6th May 2015 the matter was re-fixed for argument on 27th July 2015 and again for 16th November 2015 .On 16th November 2015 the matter was taken up for argument and Counsel of both parties submitted the salient points of the matter before Hon. Manilal Waidyathilleke High Court Judge. Thereafter the matter was fixed for judgment. Tax Assessments NBT Assessments 2009/10 and 2010/11 Revenue authorities are of the view two-third disallowance is applicable for NBT paid on imports. However, the Company is claiming the position that two-third disallowance is applicable for NBT paid quarterly only. Liability assessed by the revenue for the year of assessment 2009/10 is Rs. 7,350,762/and the penalty calculated Rs. 3,675,381/-. Liability assessed by the revenue for the year of assessment 2010/11 is Rs. 7,790,377/and the penalty calculated Rs. 3,895,189/-. Having sought professional advise, the management is confident that the said two-third disallowance is applicable for NBT paid quarterly only and as such no liabilities would arise. Accordingly, no provision has been made in the Financial Statements. Corporate Guarantee Corporate guarantees issued by Sathosa Motors PLC on behalf of SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited is Rs. 400 Mn. Access Projects (Private) Limited Legal Cases Filed Against the Company Case No. LT/M/26/30/2014 The above case was filled in the Labour Tribunal by D S Premasinghe who was Independent Contractor in the Company's two construction sites, alleging that his employment wrongfully and unjustly terminated by the Company. The above inquiry held by the Company in the Matara Labour Tribunal and that inquiry is now concluded. In the event, the aforesaid case is decided against the Company, it is likely that the Tribunal will award compensation to the said D S Premasinghe for wrongful dismissal. The amount of compensation to be paid by the Company will be decided by the Tribunal depending the period of service of the said D S Premasinghe, his salary and the relevant matters. Case No. DMR 3022/15 The above case has been instituted by Green Aircon (Private) Limited, claiming a sum of Rs. 3,643,983/on the premise that the Access Projects (Private) Limited has failed to settle an invoice pertaining to an installation of an air conditioning system at the Galle Face Hotel, Colombo. However, Company is in a position that Green Aircon (Private) Limited had failed to perform its obligation and due to that Financial Reports 5 Page 195 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Company took the steps to file the answer rejecting the claim of plaintiff and claiming damages for breach of contract. As the case is in very initial stage and it is due to be taken up for a trial once the said Green Aircon (Private) Limited files its replication before the District Court in response to the answer filed by the Access Projects (Private) Limited. Bank Guarantees On behalf of Access Projects (Private) Limited, bank has given Bank Guarantees to the Company’s customers amounting to Rs. 1,321,507,968/-. Bank Guarantees issued by the Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC on behalf of the Letter of Credit/Import Documents against Acceptance Facility and performance bid and retention bonds are Rs. 80,000,000/and Rs. 665,697,828/respectively. 38. EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no material events occurring after the Reporting date except for the following that would require adjustments to or disclosure in the Financial Statements: 38.1 Company Final Dividend Pursuant to the resolution adopted on 25th May 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the payment of a final dividend of fifty cents (0.50 cents) per share amounting to Rs. 500,000,000/for the year ended 31st March 2016. As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in accordance with Section 57 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, and has obtained a certificate from Auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend. In accordance with the LKAS 10 – ‘Events after the Reporting Period’, the final dividends has not been recognized as a liability in the Financial Statements as at 31st March 2016. Investment in Joint Venture The Company acquired 50% of the share capital of Blue Star Construction (Private) Limited, for a cash consideration of Rs. 800 Mn on 30th May 2016. Investment in Subsidiary The Company invested of the share capital of Access Realties (Private) Limited a fully-owned subsidiary, for a cash consideration of Rs. 300 Mn on 15th May 2016. 38.2 Group Sathosa Motors PLC Pursuant to a resolution adopted on 15th June 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the payment of first and final dividend of Fifteen Rupees (Rs. 15/-) per share amounting to Rs. 90,504,330/for the year ended 31st March 2016. As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in accordance with Section 57 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, and has obtained a certificate from Auditors, prior to declaring a first and final dividend. In accordance with the LKAS 10 – ‘Events after the Reporting Period’, the first and final dividends has not been recognized as a liability in the Financial Statements as at 31st March 2016. 39. BUSINESS COMBINATION – INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES On 30th June 2015, Access Engineering PLC invested 100% of equity stake of Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited amounting to Rs. 290 Mn is primarily involved in the business of property development. On 17th November 2015, Access Engineering PLC invested 92% of equity stake of Horizon Knowledge City Limited amounting to Rs. 575 Mn, is primarily for the business of higher education and providing infrastructure facilities for internationally recognized private universities. Page 196 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 40. NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST Ownership Interest Held by Non-Controlling Interest (NCI) Principal Place of Operating 2016 2015 Business Segment % % Access Projects (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Construction 20 20 Sathosa Motors PLC Sri Lanka Trading 15.58 15.58 Horizon Knowledge City Limited Sri Lanka Education 8 – The following table summaries the information relating to each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has non-controlling interest, before any inter-company elimination: Horizon Access Projects (Private) Limited Sathosa Motors PLC Knowledge City Limited For the Period/Year Ended 31st March 2016 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Revenue – 2,647,806,459 2,180,102,234 4,048,462,953 3,520,513,624 Profit for the Year (238,018) 149,445,712 145,408,870 327,111,196 269,804,804 Profit Attributable to NCI (19,041) 29,889,142 29,081,774 55,699,129 48,916,699 Other Comprehensive Income – 3,929,090 (1,615,859) (897,233) (456,065) Total Comprehensive Income (238,018) 153,374,803 143,793,011 326,213,963 269,348,739 Total Comprehensive Income Attributable to NCI (19,041) 30,674,960 28,758,602 55,627,530 48,774,857 As at 31st March 2016 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Statement of Financial Position Current Assets 53,665,499 2,029,550,356 1,604,235,652 1,879,023,035 2,032,034,392 Non-Current Assets 571,651,802 188,198,054 191,787,961 1,318,267,427 450,728,829 Current Liability 555,299 1,473,589,519 1,182,167,625 1,466,806,221 1,037,291,349 Non-Current Liability – 40,761,236 40,833,144 224,894,081 112,927,476 Net Asset 624,762,002 703,397,655 573,022,844 1,505,590,160 1,332,544,396 Net Asset Attributable to NCI 49,980,960 140,679,531 114,604,569 341,531,329 310,413,135 For the Period/Year Ended 31st March 2016 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Statement of Cash Flows Cash Flow from/(used in) Operating Activities (820,658) (251,128,846) (228,042,987) 460,393,368 141,542,395 Cash Flow from/(used in) Investing Activities (621,651,802) (14,601,360) (60,122,964) (787,846,025) (208,165,606) Cash Flow from/(used in) Financing Activities 625,000,020 319,408,019 74,574,342 53,045,641 105,458,241 Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 2,527,560 53,677,814 (213,591,609) (274,407,016) 38,835,030 Dividend Paid to NCI during the Year – 4,600,000 – 12,029,704 4,699,368 Financial Reports 5 Page 197 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial Assets and Liabilities – Accounting Classifications and Fair Value The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. Fair Value Hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable. Level 3: Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable Accounting Classification and Fair Valuation – Group As at 31st Carrying Amount Fair Value Hierarchy March 2016 Loans and Fair Value AvailableHeld-toOther Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Receivables through for-Sale Maturity Financial (L&R) Profit Financial Liabilities or Loss Assets (FVTPL) (AFS) Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Equity Securities – 40,387,475 – – – 40,387,475 40,387,475 – – 40,387,475 Unit Trusts – 100,976,031 – – – 100,976,031 100,976,031 – – 100,976,031 Financial Assets not Measured at Fair Value Trade and Other Receivables 6,503,767,501 – – – – 6,503,767,501 – – 6,503,767,501 6,503,767,501 Amounts due from Related Parties 25,929,496 – – – – 25,929,496 – – 25,929,496 25,929,496 Other Current Financial Assets 1,671,305,926 – – – – 1,671,305,926 – – 1,671,305,926 1,671,305,926 Short Term Deposits 6,691,265,553 – – – – 6,691,265,553 – 6,691,265,553 – 6,691,265,553 Cash and Cash Equivalents 303,724,926 – 200,065,286 – – 503,790,212 – 503,790,212 – 503,790,212 Corporate Debt Securities – – – 1,358,785,866 – 1,358,785,866 1,358,785,866 – – 1,358,785,866 Total 15,195,993,402 141,363,506 200,065,286 1,358,785,866 – 16,896,208,060 Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Corporate Debt Securities – – – – 5,008,666,927 5,008,666,927 5,008,666,927 – – 5,008,666,927 Financial Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value Bank Over Draft – – – – 412,594,547 412,594,547 – 412,594,547 – 412,594,547 Interest-Bearing Borrowings – – – – 837,095,173 837,095,173 – 837,095,173 – 837,095,173 Trade Payable – – – – 3,417,129,881 3,417,129,881 – – 3,417,129,881 3,417,129,881 Amounts Due to Related Parties – – – – 42,349,657 42,349,657 – – 42,349,657 42,349,657 Total – – – – 9,717,836,185 9,717,836,185 Page 198 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st Loans and Fair Value AvailableHeld-toOther Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total March 2015 Receivables through for-Sale Maturity Financial (L&R) Profit Financial Liabilities or Loss Assets (FVTPL) (AFS) Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Equity Securities – 63,908,621 – – – 63,908,621 63,908,621 – – 63,908,621 Unit Trusts – 100,866,731 – – – 100,866,731 100,866,731 – – 100,866,731 Financial Assets not Measured at Fair Value Trade and Other Receivables 6,487,834,710 – – – – 6,487,834,710 – – 6,487,834,710 6,487,834,710 Amounts due from Related Parties 146,058,280 – – – – 146,058,280 – – 146,058,280 146,058,280 Other Current Financial Assets 1,275,404,887 – – – – 1,275,404,887 – – 1,275,404,887 1,275,404,887 Short Term Deposits 947,061,547 – – – – 947,061,547 – 947,061,547 – 947,061,547 Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,525,798,172 – 392,682,634 – – 1,918,480,806 – 1,918,480,806 – 1,918,480,806 Corporate Debt Securities – – – 84,113,503 – 84,113,503 84,113,503 – – 84,113,503 Total 10,382,157,596 164,775,352 392,682,634 84,113,503 – 11,023,729,085 Financial Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value Bank Overdraft – – – – 276,320,248 276,320,248 – 276,320,248 – 276,320,248 Interest-Bearing Borrowings – – – – 349,596,186 349,596,186 – 349,596,186 – 349,596,186 Trade Payable – – – – 2,693,212,578 2,693,212,578 – – 2,668,212,578 2,668,212,578 Amount Due to Related Parties – – – – 47,914,212 47,914,212 – – 47,914,212 47,914,212 Total – – – – 3,367,043,224 3,367,043,224 Accounting Classification and Fair Valuation – Company As at 31st Loans and Fair Value AvailableHeld-toOther Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total March 2016 Receivables through for-Sale Maturity Financial (L&R) Profit Financial Liabilities or Loss Assets (FVTPL) (AFS) Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Equity Securities – 40,387,475 – – – 40,387,475 40,387,475 – – 40,387,475 Unit Trusts – 100,976,031 – – – 100,976,031 100,976,031 – – 100,976,031 Financial Assets not Measured at Fair Value Trade and Other Receivables 4,528,227,334 – – – – 4,528,227,334 – – 4,528,227,334 4,528,227,334 Amounts due from Related Parties 468,398,485 – – – – 468,398,485 – – 468,398,485 468,398,485 Other Current Financial Assets 1,353,134,714 – – – – 1,353,134,714 – – 1,353,134,714 1,353,134,714 Short Term Deposits 6,553,907,509 – – – – 6,553,907,509 – 6,553,907,509 – 6,553,907,509 Cash and Cash Equivalents 276,383,407 – 200,000,000 – – 476,383,407 – 476,383,407 – 476,383,407 Corporate Debt Securities – – – 863,166,986 – 863,166,986 863,166,986 – – 863,166,986 Total 13,180,051,449 141,363,506 200,000,000 863,166,986 – 14,384,581,941 Financial Reports 5 Page 199 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31st Loans and Fair Value AvailableHeld-toOther Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total March 2016 Receivables through for-Sale Maturity Financial (L&R) Profit Financial Liabilities or Loss Assets (FVTPL) (AFS) Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Corporate Debt Securities – – – – 5,008,666,927 5,008,666,927 5,008,666,927 – – 5,008,666,927 Financial Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value Trade Payables – – – – 1,933,946,283 1,933,946,283 – – 1,933,946,283 1,933,946,283 Amounts Due to Related Parties – – – – 30,659,604 30,659,604 – – 30,659,604 30,659,604 Total – – – – 6,973,272,814 6,973,272,814 As at 31st Loans and Fair Value AvailableHeld-toOther Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total March 2015 Receivables through for-Sale Maturity Financial (L&R) Profit Financial Liabilities or Loss Assets (FVTPL) (AFS) Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Equity Securities – 63,908,621 – – – 63,908,621 63,908,621 – – 63,908,621 Unit Trusts – 100,866,731 – – – 100,866,731 100,866,731 – – 100,866,731 Financial Assets not Measured at Fair Value Trade and Other Receivables 4,521,000,936 – – – – 4,521,000,936 – – 4,521,000,936 4,521,000,936 Amounts due from Related Parties 554,648,785 – – – – 554,648,785 – – 554,648,785 554,648,785 Other Current Financial Assets 1,041,609,527 – – – – 1,041,609,527 – – 1,041,609,527 1,041,609,527 Short Term Deposits 746,945,915 – – – – 746,945,915 – 746,945,915 – 746,945,915 Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,182,175,410 – 335,000,000 – – 1,517,175,410 – 1,517,175,410 – 1,517,175,410 Total 8,046,380,573 164,775,352 335,000,000 – – 8,546,155,925 Financial Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value Trade Payables – – – – 1,553,702,290 1,553,702,290 – – 1,553,702,290 1,553,702,290 Amounts Due to Related Parties – – – – 11,726,511 11,726,511 – – 11,726,511 11,726,511 Total – – – – 1,565,428,801 1,565,428,801 42. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES Financial risk management is the practice of economic value in a firm by using financial instruments, manage exposure to risk faced by the Group. The major financial instruments used by a group including equity securities, corporate debt securities, short term investment, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial investments is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. The Board of Directors has established Group risk management policies to identify analyze the risk faced by the Group and set appropriate risk limits and controls. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly, and aim to develop a disciplinary constructive control environment, in which all employees understand their roles and obligations through training, management standards and procedures. Page 200 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements The Group Audit Committee oversees how the management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures, and reviews the risk management framework in relation to the risk faced by the Group. The Group Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit. Internal Audit undertakes both regular and adhoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the result of which are reported to the Audit Committee. The Committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities. The Group is exposed to key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. The Board of Directors reviews, verifies, agree the policies for managing each type of risk which are summarized bellow. 42.1 Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. 42.1.1 Trade Receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business units subject to the Group’s established polices, procedures and controls. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Each business unit monitor the customers’ financial standing (financial insolvency) analyze requirement for an improvement at each Reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogeneous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The minimum exposure to credit risk at the Reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed in Note 41. The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several industries and operate in largely independent markets and material payments being backed by guarantees and enters contractual agreements with client before starting the operations. Further, ongoing monitoring of the status of receivables the Group’s exposure to risk of uncollectible receivables is minor. 42.1.2 Short Term Deposits and Cash and Cash Equivalents Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury management in accordance with the Group’s policy. Treasury Department established ‘Investment Policies’ in place, funds invest with high liquidity and high level of safety. The funds may invest in investments grade assets with a rating award by rating agencies or awarded internally by the fund management company. The Group held short term deposits and cash and cash equivalent as at 31st March 2016 which represents its maximum credit exposure on these assets. As at 31st March 2016, 99% (2015 – 97%) of the favorable balances of banks and financial institutions were rated ‘AA-’ or better for the Group. 2016 2015 In Rs. % In Rs. % Fitch Rating – Group AAA – 0 422,108 0 AA+ 1,563,728,555 22 1,830,205,177 75 A+ 20,369,405 0 – 0 AA 939,115 0 3,805,471 0 AA5,307,781,965 76 534,659,175 22 A 71,401,974 1 74,512,158 3 BB+ 418,697 0 – 0 BB – 0 131,774 0 Total 6,964,639,711 99 2,443,735,863 100 Financial Reports 5 Page 201 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 31 March 2016, 99% (2015 – 96%) of the favorable balances of banks and financial institutions were rated ‘AA-’ or better for the Company. 2016 2015 In Rs. % In Rs. % Fitch Rating – Company AAA – 0 422,108 0 AA+ 1,409,219,714 21 1,320,947,614 69 A+ 18,746,264 0 – 0 AA 507,002 0 3,163,920 0 AA5,305,537,699 78 513,399,412 27 A 71,401,973 1 70,729,830 4 BB+ 418,697 0 – 0 Total 6,805,831,349 100 1,908,662,884 100 42.2 Liquidity Risk The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tools. The Group’s approach of managing liquidity risk is to ensure as far as possible that it will always have sufficient liquidity meets its liability when due, and maintaining the balance between financial assets and liabilities and forecasting cash flows from operating activities, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damages to the Group’s reputation. The Group aims to maintain the level of its cash and cash equivalents and other highly marketable debt instruments at an amount in excess of expected cash flows on financial liabilities. To measure and mitigate liquidity risk, the Company closely monitors its net operating cash flow, forecasting and maintaining a level of cash and cash equivalents and secured committed funding facilities from financial institutions. The table below summarize, the maturity profile of Group's/Company's financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Carrying Amount Contractual 6 Months or Less 6 12 Months More than 1 Year Cash Flows Non-Derivative Financial Liabilities – Group Trade and Other Payables 5,367,753,212 – 3,417,129,881 1,950,623,331 – Amounts due to Related Parties 42,349,657 – 42,349,657 – – Interest-Bearing Borrowings 5,845,762,100 – 631,253,654 21,237,425 5,193,271,021 Income Tax Payables 248,999,284 248,999,284 – – – Unclaimed Dividends 20,704,935 20,704,935 – – – Non-Derivative Financial Liabilities – Company Trade and Other Payables 3,610,047,268 – 1,933,946,283 1,676,100,986 – Amounts due to Related Parties 30,659,604 – 30,659,604 – – Interest-Bearing Borrowings 5,189,556,989 – – – 5,189,556,989 Income Tax Payables 164,499,820 164,499,820 – – – Unclaimed Dividends 3,535,322 3,535,322 – – – 42.3 Market Risk Market risk is the risk that fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market price. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the return. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Risk Management Committee. Market risk comprise the following types of risks: I. Interest rate risk II. Currency risk III. Commodity price risk IV. Equity price risk Page 202 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in the market interest rates. The exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rate relates primarily to the Group long term debt obligation with floating rate. The Group has its investment portfolio, range of financial instruments both fixed rate and variable rate. The Group treasury designed capital structure guidelines for each project at the planning stage and thereby maintains optimized level of gearing in the Group. The Group manage its interest rate risk by monitoring and managing cash flows, negotiating favorable rates on borrowings and deposits, including and maintaining on appropriate combination of fixed on floating rate risk. Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Capital Structure Interest-Bearing Borrowings (Note 30) 5,845,762,100 349,596,186 5,189,556,989 – Bank Overdraft (Note 27) 412,594,547 276,320,248 – – Total Borrowings 6,258,356,647 625,916,434 5,189,556,989 – Equity 17,994,691,308 16,694,506,470 15,936,055,794 15,021,330,943 Debt/Equity 34.78% 3.75% 32.56% N/A At the Reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group's/Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments were: Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Fixed Rate Instruments Financial Assets 8,250,116,706 1,423,857,684 7,617,074,495 1,081,945,915 Financial Liabilities 5,845,762,100 349,596,186 5,008,666,927 – Variable Rate Instruments Financial Liabilities 412,594,547 276,320,248 – – Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group exposes to the foreign currency risk on purchases, foreign operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. These currencies primarily are the Euro, US Dollars (USD), Pound (GBP) and Djiboutian Franc. The Group hedges its exposure to fluctuations on the translation of its foreign operations by forward contracts and matching sales and purchases to same currency. Group Treasury management closely monitors the exchange rate fluctuations and advices the management regular basis. Equity Price Risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market prices arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. The Treasury management monitors the mix of debt and equity securities in investment portfolio based on market indicators and manage risk through diversification of portfolios. Financial Reports 5 Page 203 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 42.4 Capital Management Capital management is financial strategy aimed at ensuring maximum efficiency in a company’s cash flow. The Group’s objective of capital management is to maintain a strong financial position and healthy capital ratios in order to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to maximize shareholder value. Capital consists of share capital, reserves, retained earnings and non-controlling interests of the Group. The Group’s management and Board of Directors monitor the return on capital and dividends to ordinary shareholders. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in the light of changes in economic conditions. 43. COMPARATIVE INFORMATION The presentation and classification of the Financial Statements of the previous years have been amended, where relevant for better presentation and to be comparable with those of the current year. The following table summarizes such classification changes. As Previously Change Reclassified Reported/Restated Rs. Rs. Rs. Group Current Liabilities Interest-Bearing Borrowings 151,727,673 100,000,000 251,727,673 Trade and Other Payables 4,405,258,431 25,000,000 4,430,258,431 Bank Overdraft 401,320,248 (125,000,000) 276,320,248 Post dated cheque of Access Projects (Private) Limited, which was previously recognized under bank overdraft was reclassified to interest-bearing borrowings and trade and other payables. Page 204 5 Financial Reports Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Access Engineering PLC Construction Production of Construction Related Material Access Realties (Private) Limited For the Year/Period Ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 44. SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment Revenue 9,999,709,838 10,046,416,575 2,837,848,716 2,538,954,365 211,406,193 200,445,574 Inter-segment Revenue (771,952,941) (467,158,550) (1,255,243,618) (1,396,123,892) (48,354,294) (45,540,404) Revenue 9,227,756,897 9,579,258,025 1,582,605,098 1,142,830,473 163,051,899 154,905,170 Segment Results 1,817,648,537 1,390,918,479 384,533,318 442,016,000 152,421,185 312,313,746 Intercompany Dividend – – – – – – Consolidation Adjustment – – – – – – Net Finance Income 152,403,713 111,013,798 – – 7,768,624 9,008,260 Share of Profit from Associate and Joint Ventures, Net of Tax – – – – – – Profit Before Tax 1,970,052,250 1,501,932,277 384,533,318 442,016,000 160,189,809 321,322,006 Income Tax Expense (267,802,039) (191,224,052) – – (7,398,515) (7,435,847) Consolidation Adjustment – – – – – – Profit for the Period 1,702,250,211 1,310,708,225 384,533,318 442,016,000 152,791,294 313,886,159 Capital Expenditure 413,489,491 704,418,720 199,641,968 28,331,758 730,612,652 478,797,648 Depreciation and Amortisation 635,161,419 523,965,617 96,484,434 81,825,513 1,146,390 1,270,824 Consolidation Adjustment – – – – – – 635,161,419 523,965,617 96,484,434 81,825,513 1,146,390 1,270,824 Access Engineering PLC Construction Production of Construction Related Material Access Realties (Private) Limited As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Segment Assets 24,123,036,486 17,535,228,697 1,135,369,051 721,726,979 4,703,967,999 4,325,683,349 Investment in Subsidiary – – – – – – Consolidation Adjustment – – – – – – Revaluation of Leasehold Right – – – – – – Goodwill – – – – – – Share of Profit from Associate and Joint Ventures, Net of Tax – – – – – – Intersegment – Elimination – – – – – – 24,123,036,486 17,535,228,697 1,135,369,051 721,726,979 4,703,967,999 4,325,683,349 Segment Liabilities 9,018,553,429 2,962,793,198 303,796,314 272,831,536 498,986,988 523,600,335 Intersegment – Elimination – – – – – – 9,018,553,429 2,962,793,198 303,796,314 272,831,536 498,986,988 523,600,335 Financial Reports 5 Page 205 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Sathosa Motors PLC Access Projects (Private) Limited Horizon Holdings Horizon Knowledge Group Total Venture (Private) City Limited Limited 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2016 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 4,048,462,954 3,502,513,624 2,647,806,458 2,180,102,234 – – 19,745,234,159 18,468,432,372 (168,102) (45,504,613) (44,910,444) – – – (2,120,629,399) (1,954,327,459) 4,048,294,852 3,457,009,011 2,602,896,014 2,180,102,234 – – 17,624,604,760 16,514,104,913 460,529,000 383,031,067 240,924,044 179,805,481 (142,075) (770,621) 3,055,143,388 2,708,084,773 – – – – – – (86,106,449) (26,604,727) – – – – – – (80,673,235) (39,474,746) 1,835,992 (859,087) (67,029,946) (9,539,377) – 739,726 95,718,109 109,623,595 – – – – – – 11,282,378 11,112,685 462,364,992 382,171,980 173,894,098 170,266,104 (142,075) (30,895) 2,995,364,191 2,762,741,580 (134,463,913) (112,367,176) (25,060,983) (24,857,234) – (207,123) (434,932,573) (335,884,309) – – – – – – (9,567,385) (2,956,081) 327,901,079 269,804,804 148,833,115 145,408,870 (142,075) (238,018) 2,550,864,233 2,423,901,190 320,283,441 190,404,634 15,072,554 34,183,550 285,193,000 571,651,802 2,535,944,908 1,436,136,310 65,763,266 32,421,008 32,271,307 14,902,165 – – 830,826,816 654,385,127 – – – – – – 17,067,538 14,091,834 65,763,266 32,421,008 32,271,307 14,902,165 – – 847,894,354 668,476,961 Sathosa Motors PLC Access Projects (Private) Limited Horizon Holdings Horizon Knowledge Group Total Venture (Private) City Limited Limited 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2016 2016 2015 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 3,196,855,924 2,482,763,220 2,217,424,723 1,796,023,613 289,939,425 625,317,301 36,291,910,909 26,861,425,860 – – – – – – (6,358,474,047) (5,193,474,046) – – – – – – (126,375,304) (55,649,981) – – – – – – 114,332,390 114,332,390 – – – – – – 1,089,204,227 1,089,204,227 – – – – – – 11,282,378 11,112,685 – – – – – – (679,027,992) (499,127,399) 3,196,855,924 2,482,763,220 2,217,424,723 1,796,023,613 289,939,425 625,317,301 30,342,852,561 22,327,823,736 1,691,189,142 1,150,218,826 1,514,026,573 1,223,000,771 81,500 555,299 13,027,189,245 6,132,444,665 – – – – – – (679,027,992) (499,127,399) 1,691,189,142 1,150,218,826 1,514,026,573 1,223,000,771 81,500 555,299 12,348,161,253 5,633,317,266 Page 206 6 Annexes Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Six Year Summary Six Year Summary 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Highlights Revenue Rs. Mn 3,651 7,320 13,900 16,373 16,514 17,625 Gross Profit Rs. Mn 1,296 2,121 3,061 4,186 3,815 3,977 EBITDA Rs. Mn 1,498 2,159 2,883 3,771 3,322 3,748 EBIT Rs. Mn 1,359 1,931 2,433 3,180 2,653 2,900 Net Finance Income Rs. Mn 22 102 239 136 110 96 Profit After Tax Rs. Mn 1,167 1,737 2,412 2,902 2,424 2,551 Profit Attributable to Owners Rs. Mn 962 1,733 2,376 2,833 2,346 2,465 Statement of Financial Position Highlights Property, Plant and Equipment Rs. Mn 1,229 2,672 3,741 3,787 4,222 4,791 Total Non-Current Assets Rs. Mn 4,029 6,641 7,579 7,349 9,155 12,357 Cash and Cash Equivalent Rs. Mn 225 1,641 703 1,521 1,918 504 Short Term Deposits Rs. Mn 96 883 1,371 1,140 1,048 6,792 Total Assets Rs. Mn 5,767 14,284 16,642 20,204 22,328 30,343 Stated Capital Rs. Mn 3,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 Retained Earnings Rs. Mn 1,144 1,670 3,486 5,815 7,169 8,362 Equity Attributable to Owners Rs. Mn 4,344 10,670 12,486 14,916 16,269 17,462 Interest-Bearing Borrowings Rs. Mn 625 13 8 65 350 5,846 Total Non-Current Liabilities Rs. Mn 525 174 259 359 514 5,603 Statement of Cash Flow Highlights Cash Flows from Operating Activities Rs. Mn 745 638 1,301 1,608 3,243 3,168 Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Rs. Mn (1,329) (3,332) (1,721) (341) (2,337) (9,251) Cash Flows from/(used in) Financing Activities Rs. Mn 309 4,116 (513) (459) (762) 4,532 Key Financial Ratios EPS Rs. 1.20 1.83 2.38 2.83 2.35 2.47 DPS Rs. 2.00 0.27 0.50 0.50 1.00 0.75 Net Assets per Share Rs. 7.24 10.67 12.49 14.92 16.27 17.46 Dividend Payout % 167 15 21 18 43 30.36 ROE % 22.1 16.2 19.0 19 14.4 14.1 ROCE % 27.9 17.5 18.9 20.5 15.4 12.3 Gearing % 14.4 0.1 0.1 0.58 3.7 34.8 Current Ratio Times 1.9 2.3 2.4 2.8 2.6 2.7 Quick Ratio Times 1.6 1.8 1.9 2.3 2.1 2.3 Price per Share Rs. N/A 26.7 19.7 22.5 19.2 20.8 Investor Highlights Total Number of Shareholders No. N/A 1,838 2,153 2,196 4,610 5,757 Percentage of Public Holdings % N/A 36.52 36.52 35.53 37.92 37.92 Value of Shares Traded Rs. Mn N/A 45 1,265 2,148 14,900 4,570 Number of Trades No. N/A 975 13,535 10,229 49,154 36,018 Annexes 6 Page 207 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Operating Structure Operating Structure Construction Projects PMD I Asphalt Production Unit I Aggregate Production Unit I Construction Projects Fabrication Unit PMD II Concrete Production Unit Piling Unit Scaffolding Unit PMD III Construction Projects Board of Directors HR Planning and Recruitment Personal Administration HR Employee Grievances Department Corporate HRD Management CSR Tendering Business Business Promotion Development Investor Relations Subsidiary Management Finance Commercial Finance and Financial Reporting and Procurement Commercial Compliance Treasury and Working Capital Department Budget Management Revenue Tax Planning and Compliance Payments Fixed Assets Financial Audits Internal Audit Technical Audits Department Systems Audits Corporate Design Office Project Project Monitoring Management Office Contract Management IT Services/ Premises Management Page 208 5 Annexes Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Awards and Accolades Awards and Accolades Business Today Top Twenty Five 2014/15 CIMA LMD 100 Engineering Excellence Awards – 2015 Construction & Engineering Sector No. 01 Excellence in Engineering for Organizations' Construction – Large Annexes 5 Page 209 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Awards and Accolades Annual Report Awards – 2015 Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award – 2015 Construction Companies – Gold Sector Winner – Construction National Award for Construction Performance for the Year 2015 Design, Supply and Construction of the Veyangoda Flyover Project Page 210 6 Annexes Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Awards and Accolades NATIONAL AWARDS People Development Award – 2014 Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Silver Award Award 2013 Engineering Excellence Awards – 2015 Awarded by the SLITAD Certificate of Merit – Mentoring Programme at UoM Excellence in Engineering for Organizations’ Awarded by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Construction – Large Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awarded by IESL Award – 2014 Mahabimani 2013 Sector Award Winner – Infrastructure Award for Innovative Techniques in Construction National Award for Construction Performance (Urgent Renovation at UCT – New North Pier in Awarded by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce for the Year 2015 Colombo Port) Design, Supply and Construction of the Veyangoda National Engineering & Technology Awarded by ICTAD Flyover Project Award – 2014 Mahabimani 2013 Awarded by ICTAD Overall Performance – Gold Construction Performance Award Awarded by IESL (ADB Funded Eastern & North Central Provincial Roads Techno Sri Lanka Awards – 2015 Project – Phase I) As an expression of gratitude and appreciation for National Occupational Safety & Health being the Silver Sponsor Awards – 2014 Awarded by ICTAD Awarded by IESL Merit Award – Polduwa Bridge Project Mahabimani 2013 Awarded by the NIOSH Construction Performance Award CIMA LMD 100 (Rehabilitation & Improvements to Ambepussa-KurunegalaFinancial Year 2014/15 National Occupational Safety & Trincomalee Road A06 from 157+000km to 167+280km & Construction & Engineering Sector No. 01 Health Awards – 2014 Kantale to Ganthalawa Road) Excellence Award Awarded by ICTAD Business Today Top Twenty Five 2014/15 Winner – Construction Sector – Medium Scale 24 Access Engineering (Kadawatha – Nittambuwa Road Project) Mahabimani 2013 Awarded by the NIOSH Construction Performance Award Annual Report Awards – 2015 (Construction, Completion & Commissioning of Gated Construction Companies – Gold Business Today – Best Twenty-Five Salinity Barrier Across Walawe River at Ambalanthota) Awarded by The Institute of Chartered Companies Awards 2013/14 Awarded by ICTAD Accountants of Sri Lanka Access Engineering – Ranking 20 Mahabimani 2013 Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award – 2015 Construction Performance Award National Business Excellence Awards 2013 Less than Rs. 15 Bn turnover – 2nd Runner Up (Urgent Renovation at UCT – New North Pier in Overall Winner – Gold Colombo Port) Awarded by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Awarded by the NCCSL Awarded by ICTAD Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award – 2015 National Business Excellence Awards 2013 Sector Winner – Construction National Engineering & Technology Extra Large Category – Winner Awarded by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Award 2013 Awarded by the NCCSL Overall Performance – Gold 6th Asia Best Employer Brand Awards Awarded by IESL National Business Excellence Awards 2013 12th August 2015, Pan Pacific, Singapore Construction Sector – Winner National Engineering & Technology Mahabimani 2014 Awarded by the NCCSL Award 2013 Construction Performance Award Silver Sponsor at Techno 2013 National Business Excellence Awards 2013 [Transmission and Distribution of Kanthale Ganthalawa Pipe Laying (KGPL)] Excellence in Business & Financial Awarded by IESL Awarded by ICTAD Results – Winner Engineering Excellence Award 2013 Awarded by the NCCSL Merit Award for Excellence in Engineering Mahabimani 2014 Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability for Organizations Construction Performance Award (Dialog Optical Fiber Network Project Phase II and III) Award 2013 Awarded by IESL Awarded by ICTAD Category of Ten Best Corporate Citizens Chartered Accountants – Annual Report Awarded by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Awards 2013 Mahabimani 2014 Construction Performance Award Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Construction Companies – Gold [Construction of Kadurugaldola Mini Hydro Award – 2013 Awarded by The Institute of Chartered Power Project (KMHP)] Less than Rs. 15 Bn Turnover Category – Accountants of Sri Lanka Awarded by ICTAD 1st Runner-Up Chartered Accountants – Annual Report Awarded by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Awards 2014 Construction Companies – Gold Awarded by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Annexes 6 Page 211 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Milestones Milestones April 2015 October 2015 Commencement of work on • Commencement the Towns East of Colombo of rehabilitation of December 2015 District water supply project spillway, supply and installation of new • Commencement of piling radial gates and works of ITC Colombo One automation of spill • Received the ‘Sector & sluice gates of Award – Infrastructure’ at June 2015 Iranamadu Reservoir the Best Corporate Citizen Acquisition of 50% Sustainability Awards 2015 & 100% of Horizon • Received the ‘Gold award for Holdings (Private) Construction Companies’ at Limited & Horizon CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Holdings Ventures Awards (Private) Limited • Recognized at Business Today Top 25 – 2014/15 • Received the ‘Construction & Engineering Sector No. 01’ Award at CIMA LMD 100 2014/15 January 2016 Awarded three flyovers funded by the Spanish July 2015 Government at Rajagiriya, • Commencement of design and Polgahawela and Ganemulla construction of Kapparathota Jetty • Commissioning of cranes by ZPMC in Qatar November 2015 • Acquisition of 92% of Horizon Knowledge City Limited February 2016 • Initial Public Offering of Commencement of Rs. 5 Bn worth construction on the first Debentures PPP project in public sector housing in Borella August 2015 • Commencement of rehabilitation work of downstream and upstream dam embankments of Iranamadu Reservoir Page 212 6 Annexes Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index This report contains ‘Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines’. This is the Organization’s first attempt to comply with the guidelines and hence is not in accordance with core or comprehensive criteria. GRI Indicator Description Page No./ Explanations GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 13 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Inner Back Cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 4–5 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Inner Back Cover G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 10 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Inner Back Cover G4-8 Markets served 72 – 73 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 6–7 G4-10 Workforce 75 – 76 G4-11 Employees covered by collective agreements None G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 80 G4-13 Changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership 21 G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 127 – 136 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives 3 and 8 G4-16 List of memberships of associations 81 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidation financial statements 204 – 205 G4-18 Process of defining the report content 8 G4-19 List of all material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 9 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 10 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 10 G4-22 Restatements of previous information 10 G4-23 Significant changes to the scope and boundary from previous reporting periods 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 57 G4-25 Basis of identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 57 G4-26 Organization’s approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 59 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 60 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 8 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 8 G4-30 Reporting cycle 8 G4-31 Contact point regarding the report 8 GRI CONTENT INDEX G4-32 Compliance with GRI G4 guidelines 8 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to external assurance 10 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 96 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 98 Annexes 6 Page 213 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Description Page No./ Explanations SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 65 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 154 Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 83 G4-EN6 Reductions in energy consumption 83 Aspect: Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 84 Aspect: Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 85 Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 85 Category: Social Sub-category: Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 76 and 77 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 77 Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training 77 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees for each employee category by gender, 76, 101 and 102 age and other indicators of diversity Subcategory: Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken None Aspect: Child Labour G4-HR5 Incidents of child labour None Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-HR6 Incidents of forced or compulsory labour None Category: Social Subcategory: Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 79 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust and monopoly practices and other outcomes None Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations None Category: Social Subcategory: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services None Page 214 6 Annexes Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Description Page No./ Explanations Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data None Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of None products and services Issue Areas GC Principles Relevant GRI Indicators Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights G4-56, G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA9, G4-LA12 Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses G4-HR3, G4-HR5, G4-HR6 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right _ to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour G4-HR6 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour G4-HR5 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation G4-HR3 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges G4-EN6, G4-EN10, G4-EN31 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility G4-EN6, G4-EN10, G4-EN31 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies G4-EN6, G4-EN10, G4-EN31 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery G4-SO3 Annexes 6 Page 215 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notice of Meeting Notice of Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the fifth Annual General Meeting of Access Engineering PLC will be held at the auditorium of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, No. 30A, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 7 on 10th August 2016 at 3.00 p.m. and the business to be brought before the Meeting will be: 1. To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2016 and the Report of the Auditors’ thereon. 2. To re-elect as a Director Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe who retires by rotation in terms of Article 88 (i) of the Articles of Association of the Company. 3. To authorise the Directors to determine donations for the ensuing year. 4. To reappoint Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. By Order of the Board, Access Engineering PLC P W Corporate Secretarial (Private) Limited Directors/Secretaries 10th July 2016 Colombo Notes: 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote instead of him/her. 2. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 3. A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. 4. The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No. 278, Union Place, Colombo 2, not less than thirty-six (36) hours before the time fixed for the commencement of the Meeting. Page 216 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes Notes Page 217 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes Page 218 Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Notes Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Form of Proxy I/We the undersigned .........................................................................................……...................... NIC No. …................................................... of .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................…. being a member/s* of Access Engineering PLC hereby appoint: ..........................................................................................................................................................…………….................................................... of........................................................................................................................................................................……………...... or failing him/her Mr. Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera of Colombo or failing him* Mr. Ranjan John Suriyakumar Gomez of Colombo or failing him* Mr. Joseph Christopher Joshua of Colombo or failing him* Mr. Shevantha Harindra Sudhakara Mendis of Colombo or failing her* Mr. Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando of Colombo or failing him* Mr. Saumaya Darshana Munasinghe of Colombo or failing him* Prof. Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe of Colombo or failing him* Mr. Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne of Colombo or failing him* Mr. Suresh Dilhan Perera of Colombo or failing him* Mr. Dinesh Stephan Weerakkody of Colombo my/our* Proxy to vote as indicated hereunder for me/us* and on my/our* behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 10th August 2016 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid Meeting and at any adjournment thereof: For Against Resolution 1 To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2016 and the Report of the Auditors’ thereon Resolution 2 To re-elect Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe who retires in terms of Article No. 88 (i) of the Articles of Association of the Company, as a Director Resolution 3 To authorise the Directors to determine donations for the ensuing year Resolution 4 To reappoint Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as Auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. In witness my/our* hands this ................................................... day of ............................................. Two Thousand and Sixteen. .......................................................... Signature of Shareholder/s *Please delete the inappropriate words. Instructions as to completion appear on the reverse. Access Engineering PLC / Annual Report 2015/16 Form of Proxy INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION 1. This Form of Proxy must be deposited at No. 278, Union Place, Colombo 2 not less than thirty-six (36) hours before the time fixed for the Meeting. 2. In perfecting the Form of Proxy please ensure that all details are legible. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than a Director of the Company as your Proxy, please insert the relevant details in the space provided. 4. Please indicate with an ‘X’ in the space provided, how your proxy is to vote on the resolution. If no indication is given, the Proxy in his discretion will vote as he thinks fit. 5. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the Proxy must be under its Common Seal, which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. In the case of a Proxy signed by an Attorney, the Power of Attorney must be deposited at The Secretaries’ Office (i.e. P W Corporate Secretarial (Private) Limited, 3/17, Kynsey Road, Colombo 8) for registration. 7. In the case of joint holders the Form of Proxy must be signed by the first holder. Corporate Information NAME OF COMPANY BOARD OF DIRECTORS BANKERS Access Engineering PLC S J S Perera Bank of Ceylon J C Joshua Nations Trust Bank PLC REGISTERED OFFICE D A R Fernando Sampath Bank PLC Access Engineering PLC S H S Mendis Hatton National Bank PLC Access Towers S D Munasinghe Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 278, Union Place, Colombo 02, R J S Gomez People’s Bank Sri Lanka. Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Tel: +94 11 7606606 N D Gunaratne Corporation Limited Fax: +94 11 7606605 S D Perera DFCC Bank PLC Web: www.accessengsl.com D S Weerakkody National Development Bank PLC E-mail: investor.relations@accessengsl.com Union Bank of Colombo PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE CAC International Bank LEGAL FORM N D Gunaratne – Chairman International Commercial Bank A public limited liability company Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe incorporated in Sri Lanka on D S Weerakkody SECRETARIES 31st July 2001 under the Companies S D Perera P W Corporate Secretarial (Private) Limited Act No. 17 of 1982 and re-registered 3/17, Kynsey Road, under the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Colombo 08, on 6th February 2008. D S Weerakkody – Chairman Sri Lanka. Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Tel: +94 11 4640360 Ordinary Voting Shares are listed on the Main N D Gunaratne Fax: +94 11 4740588 Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange. S D Perera AUDITORS Rated Senior Unsecured Redeemable RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Messrs KPMG Debentures are listed on the Colombo REVIEW COMMITTEE Chartered Accountants Stock Exchange. N D Gunaratne – Chairman 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Colombo 03, COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER D S Weerakkody Sri Lanka. PB 200 PQ J C Joshua Tel: +94 11 2426426 D A R Fernando Fax: +94 11 2445872 STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE S J S Perera – Chairman J C Joshua D A R Fernando Prof. K A M K Ranasinghe Access Engineering PLC Access Towers Phone : +94 11 7606606 278, Union Place, Colombo 02 Fax : +94 11 7606605 Sri Lanka Web : www.accessengsl.com E-mail : investor.relations@accessengsl.com
