Sustainability Report 2014 / 2015 The Agrokor Group is the largest privately owned company in Croatia and one of the leading companies in Southeast Europe. Quality, sustainable growth, development and business responsibility are basic corporate values of Agrokor. TM Network Croatia Croatian Business Council WE SUPPORT for Sustainable Development Sustainability Report for 2014 and 2015 prepared in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI), Core option Content I. General Standard Disclosures II. Specific Standard Disclosures 4. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4 1 INDICATORS Statement by the President 19. Category: Economic EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC5, EC6, EC8, EC9 5. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4 3-16 Name of the organization and location of the organization’s headquarters 24. Category: Social Legal form and nature of ownership Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Scale of the organization and its workforce LA1, LA3, LA4, LA6, LA9, LA10, LA11, LA12, LA13, LA16 Business structure Sub-category: Human Rights HR3, HR4, HR12 Operational organizational structure Sub-category: Society SO4, SO6, SO7, SO8 Primary market brands and products Sub-category: Product Responsibility Countries and markets where the organization operates PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5 11. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4 17-23 41. Category: Environmental Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial EN1, EN3, EN5, EN6, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN11, EN12, EN15, EN16, statements EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, EN22, EN23, EN29, EN30, EN31 Defining the report content and aspect boundaries 217. Implementation of the UN Global Compact – List of identified material aspects Communication on Progress project in the Republic of Croatia 12. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 24-27 Basis for identification and selection 219. Annexes of stakeholders with whom to engage Annex 1: Agrokor Group Ownership Structure List of stakeholder groups Annex 2: List of Cerified International Standards engaged by the organization Annex 3: List of Employees Involved in 15. REPORT PROFILE G4 28-33 Drawing up the Report Reporting period and cycle Contact point for questions regarding the report and its contents ‘In accordance’ option GRI Content Index External Assurance Report externally assured by the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development 16. GOVERNANCE G4 34-55 Governance structure and composition of Agrokor d.d. Mechanisms for communicating critical concerns and recommendations to the Supervisory Board 17. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4 56 3 G4 1 General Standard Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement by the President Dear all, I present to you the fourth Sustainability Report of the Agrokor Group covering 2014 and 2015. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Just like in the previous reports, the economic, employment, workforce, human rights, society and product responsibility indicators are presented as consolidated figures for the entire Group, while the environmental disclosures are presented separately for each company belonging to a particular group of related companies in order to allow for relevant intra-divisional comparisons and trend monitoring over time. During the reporting period, we have faced various challenges arising from complex business circumstances in the countries where our companies operate. Moreover, the company also suffered the consequences of bad weather conditions, which adversely affected the economies in the entire region and therefore the business operations of some of our compaand producers, and, above all, the customers and buyers of our nies as well. Still, the relevant period was mainly marked by products and services. Our social responsibility is also reflectthe acquisition and full integration of Mercator, not only from ed in the manner in which we perform our everyday operations. the aspect of successfulness of the merger performed, but also You can read more on the subject in our Report. because of the synergy potential affecting the wider business I believe that by preparing a report of this kind we community. Our partners, local and regional producers and demonstrate our dedication to achieving long-term sustainsuppliers, also benefit from the newly acquired market strength ability of our operations and that by disclosing the details of the merged companies. More precisely, having strengthened concerning our business decisions and choices we influence and improved our competitiveness in the retail division, we can our environment and the community we operate in since, as a now introduce them to new markets and ensure opportunities leading entity, we contribute to setting the pace and direction for growth and sustainable operations. We have become a leadfor business development. Through our membership in variing entity in the strategic retail and food production business ous associations that emphasize sustainability as one of the segments, and have also confirmed our position as one of the cornerstones of their business operations, we are committed leading companies in Central and Eastern Europe. to ensuring continuous enhancement and improvement in all We have continued pursuing our clearly defined plan our activities. In addition to the biannual report, we also prethat envisages achievement of the goals and objectives we have pare annual reports prescribed under the UN Global Compact set for our company, such as income growth, production modagreement, in which we demonstrate our acceptance of the UN ernization, competitiveness improvement, cost rationalization Global Compact principles and present the efforts invested to and business efficiency. I am happy to say that, in this period promote the same. as well, we managed to affirm the chosen direction and achieve After reading and reviewing the Report, I kindly encourall the main strategic goals. I am also happy to see that the age you to send us your suggestions and comments. Agrokor family is developing into the largest business community in the countries where we operate, with impacts on the wider regional and European level. The Agrokor family does not only include the employees who contribute to achieving positive Ivica Todorić business results, but also all our business partners, suppliers President of the Agrokor Group 4 G4 3-16 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Name of the organization and location of the organization's headquarters Agrokor d.d. (parent company) is a joint stock company established in the Republic of Croatia and entered in the register of the Commercial Court in Zagreb under Reg. No. 080020970, PIN 05937759187. The parent company's registered office address is Zagreb, Trg Dražena Petrovića 3. Legal form and nature of ownership The majority owner of the parent company is Adria Group Holding B.V., a company based in the Netherlands with an ownership share of 95.52%. The ultimate parent company is Agrokor projekti d.o.o., Zagreb, Croatia, and the ultimate owner is Mr. Ivica Todorić. The main activities of the parent company and its subsidiaries (the Group) include retail sale, production and wholesale of food products. Scale of the organization and its workforce On December 31, 2015, Agrokor employed a total of 58,635 workers in all countries where it operates, including also the temporary and occasional workers. Most employees were once again recorded in the Republic of Croatia (28,550), followed by Slovenia (11,623), Serbia (11,466), Bosnia and Herzegovina (5,305), and other countries. 90.5% of all employees are covered by collective agreements. A grokor remained true to its long-term strategy of store platform in 2015. The next step in this key area is the acting as a market leader in all its activities by offedevelopment of a new online shopping center that will offer ring the highest quality of products and services at the most recognizable regional and international non-food favorable prices in its primary markets. The company places product brands. The company also made a strategic decision emphasis on maintaining and increasing the market shato direct more attention to wholesale operations in Croatia res of companies within both its business groups by impleby transferring the said activities to a separate legal entity. menting proactive measures in the form of efficient markeAgrokor believes that wholesale business has a great potenting strategies, by investing in prices as well as by ensuring tial, particularly if successful long-term cooperation is estaadequate product portfolio management. We increased our blished with buyers from the HoReCa segment, considering market shares and maintained our leading positions in all Croatia's tourism potential. business segments of the Food Production and Distribution If measured by its net sales, the Agrokor Group is the Business Group, whereas the market shares in the Retail and largest private company in the Adria Region. The revenues Wholesale Business Group increased as a result of the acquachieved in 2015 clearly reflect the impact of the acquisitiisition of Mercator. on and integration of Mercator in the Group. The Group incThe significant impacts of the acquisition of Mercator ludes some of the leading producers of food and beverages were felt throughout 2015. The efforts were mainly directed and some of the leading entities in the retail and wholesato achieving further integration of retail operations, with an le market segments in Central and Eastern Europe. Our priemphasis on achieving synergies. Among other, Agrokor's mary markets are Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia and business development goals also include making upgrades Herzegovina. In our primary markets, our neighboring marto its online store platforms. As a result, the company starkets and more than 45 export markets, we serve more than ted the first phase of operations using an upgraded online 30 million customers. Total revenues of the Agrokor Group Total structure of liabilities broken down by own and in HRK 000 external sources in HRK 000 2013 2014 2015 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2015 Total revenues 30,730,523 36,309,874 51,286,388 Total liabilities 33,084,027 50,403,615 52,819,676 Obligations 28,558,866 43,211,178 45,300,578 Equity 4,525,161 7,192,437 7,519,098 5 G4 3-16 General Standard Disclosures ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Operational organizational structure in 2015 I n the past ten years, Agrokor has made significant investand innovation, Agrokor devotes special attention to research ments in all companies, thus creating the foundations for and development in the effort to achieve its long-term vision, achieving growth and using the benefit of lower costs to i.e. to ensure competitive advantage and the highest producadditionally increase profitability and efficiency. Recogniztion and quality standards. ing the correlation between customer needs, market trends The business structure of the Agrokor Group: Agrokor Ownership in Subsidiary Companies BUSINESS GROUP BUSINESS GROUP OTHER RETAIL FOOD BUSINESS Ambalažni servis d.o.o. HR................... 96.93% Agrokor Zagreb d.o.o. ...................... 80.34% Agkor d.o.o. ....................................... 55.30% Ambalažni servis d.o.o. BIH................ 100.00% Agrolaguna d.d................................... 85.22% Agrokor AG ...................................... 100.00% Ambalažni servis d.o.o. Srbija................. 96.93% Belje d.d............................................. 94.23% Agrokor Energija d.o.o.................... 100.00% Angropromet d.o.o. .............................. 96.93% Dijamant a.d....................................... 96.14% Agrokor kft. ...................................... 100.00% Euroviba d.o.o. ................................... 91.57% Frikom d.o.o. ..................................... 55.30% Agrokor trgovina d.o.o.................... 100.00% Idea d.o.o............................................ 96.93% Fonyodi kft. ........................................ 80.44% INIT d.d. ............................................. 67.00% Frikom Beograd dooel......................... 55.30% Irida d.o.o. .......................................... 55.30% Kor Broker d.o.o. .............................. 100.00% Jamnica d.o.o. Beograd....................... 80.44% Jamnica d.d. ...................................... 80.44% Kron d.o.o. ....................................... 100.00% Jamnica d.o.o. Maribor........................ 80.44% Kikindski mlin a.d............................... 82.74% L.G. Moslavina d.o.o. ........................ 100.00% Konzum d.d. ....................................... 96.93% Ledo d.d............................................. 55.30% M-profil SPV d.o.o............................. 100.00% Konzum d.o.o. Sarajevo......................100.00% Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk ............................... 55.30% mStart d.o.o. .................................... 100.00% Krka d.o.o. .......................................... 79.88% Ledo kft.............................................. 55.30% Projektgradnja d.o.o............................ 80.86% Ledo d.o.o. Kosovo.............................. 55.30% Ledo d.o.o. Podgorica ......................... 55.30% Ledo d.o.o. Ljubljana............................ 55.30% Mladina d.d. ....................................... 48.98% Multiplus card d.o.o............................. 72.70% Nova Sloga d.o.o............................... 100.00% PIK BH d.o.o. Laktaši ........................... 96.93% PIK Vinkovci d.d.................................. 70.87% Poslovni sistem Mercator d.d..................59.47% PIK Vrbovec d.d. ................................. 96.93% Roto dinamic d.o.o. ............................. 80.44% Sarajevski kiseljak d.d........................ 80.34% Roto ulaganja d.o.o. .......................... 100.00% Sojara d.o.o......................................... 51.84% Super Kartica d.o.o. BiH......................100.00% Solana Pag d.d. .................................. 96.93% Super Kartica d.o.o. Srbija.................... 64.95% Vupik d.d............................................ 88.34% Tisak d.d............................................. 67.35% Zvijezda d.d........................................ 51.84% TPDC Sarajevo d.d. ............................. 51.00% Velpro-centar d.o.o.............................. 96.93% Zvijezda d.o.o. Ljubljana....................... 51.84% 78.9% Retail Zvijezda d.o.o. Sarajevo....................... 51.84% 16.9% Food and Drink Žitnjak d.d........................................... 86.68% 4.2% Other Business 6 G4 3-16 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Primary market brands and products, and the most significant awards Waters and Soft Drinks Meat and Meat Products Retail Jamnica PIK svježe pakirano meso Konzum, Mercator, Idea, Roda Sensation PIK VOLIM ROŠTILJ Jana PIK šunka K Plus, K Plus Volim najbolje, K Jana voda s okusom voća PIK Mortadela Home, Standard, Dax, Olea, Bebe, Jana Ice Tea PIKO manXtreme, Buddy, Kitty, Era, Jamnica Prosport PIK hrenovke Dentoral, Natur, Ukusi mog kraja Sarajevski kiseljak PIK Trajne kobasice Dream Factory Sky PIK kobasice za Konzum Benz, Konzum Klik Sky selection kuhanje i pečenje Velpro, Rial Ski Sljeme MultiPlusCard, Super Kartica, Pika Mg Mivela Panona kartica Fonyodi Rustika Tisak centar usluga, Tisak paket, Tisak Ginger Media Belje Baranjski kulen Konzum Hrvatska Belje Homemade Smoked Bacon Konzum BiH Baranjska kobasica Ice Cream K Plus, K Plus Volim najbolje, K and Frozen Food ABC Fresh Cream Cheese Home, Standard, Dax, Olea, be be, ABCela manXtreme, Buddy, Kitty, Era, Vajkrem Dentoral, Natur, Dream Factory Idea Roda Mercator Ledo – Snjeguljica, Silk Milk, Maximo, Flour and Salt Ukusi mog kraja King, Kornet, Macho, Rumenko, Konzum Benz Kontiki, Quattro, Grandissimo, Twice; Kikindski mlin Flour Konzum Klik Kikindski mlin Pasta Velpro, Rial Frikom – Kapri, King, Maximo, Macho, Super Kartica Rumenko, Sneško, Leni, Čoko Moko, Pag Sea Salt MultiPlusCard Cmok, Šarenko, Rum koktel, Korneti, Solana Pag Salt Flower Pika kartica Calipso, Bla bla, Quattro, Grandissimo, MultiPlus mobile Strauss, Fantasy, Vulkano, Twice; Tisak Centar usluga, Tisak paket Viticulture and Tisak Media Wine Production Oil, Margarine and Belje Mayonnaise Products, Vina Belje, Cheeses Vina Belje Goldberg Agrolaguna Zvijezda, Margo, Omegol, Vina Laguna, Ol Dalmatia Vina Laguna Festigia Dijamant, Dobro jutro Mladina Ol Istria, Sir Laguna Gaj, Poy, Podrum Mladina 7 G4 3-16 General Standard Disclosures ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE The most significant awards received by the Group companies Solana Pag 2015 big gold medal at the Novi Sad Fair for Solana Dijamant My Choice, Serbian customer choice award for sunPag fine sea salt flower oil and corporate award for Dijamant in 2014; My Choice, Serbian consumer award for sunflower oil Jamnica Mineral Water Challenge Portugal 2015: in 2015; The Best from Vojvodina award for Dijamant gold medal for the best carbonated mineral water oil in 2014 and 2015; QUDAL 2014/2015 for the highest quality of the Dijamant mayonnaise Sensation Mineral Water Challenge Portugal 2015: gold medal for the best flavored carbonated water Kikindski Novi Sad International Agricultural Fair 2015: mlin large trophy for the high quality of mill and pasta prodJana Valicon No. 1 brand in Croatia 2015; Mineral Water ucts, big gold medal for quality for wheat semolina and Challenge Portugal – 4th place in 2015 wheat grits; gold medal for wheat flour T-500, graham flour, macaroni pasta, Grkljančići pasta Jana flavoured Mineral Water Challenge Portugal water silver medal in 2015 PIK Vrbovec European Business Award for innovativeness and excellence in the category: customer orientation award Sarajevski iTQi – International taste and quality institute, kiseljak Crystal Taste Awards 2014 and 2015, award for the Baranjski Kulenijada food festival highest appraisals of taste and quality in the past three kulen in Jagodnjak in 2015, gold medal years for Sarajevski kiseljak and Sky Cola ABC Fresh 2014 Superior Taste Award, Bruxelles, 3 stars Mivela Global Bottled Water Awards, Lisabon 2015, Cream awarded (maximum); Best Buy Award 2014/2015 Cheese Croatia, label awarded; World cheese championship, Ledo International Ice Cream Consortium 2014, Hohhot, USA, fourth place in the category of spreadable cheeses; Kina, award for the most innovative ice cream Ice Snack Superbrands Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, label awarded; QUDAL no. 1 in quality in 2013 and Frikom 2014 award for the best technical solution for 2014, Croatia 2013/2014, label awarded; 12th Business King Prestige Brownies ice cream, International Ice Fair in Grubišno polje, ABC svježi krem sir kulen (ABC Cream Producer Association; gold medal for Frikom's Fresh Cream Cheese Dry-cured Red-pepper Flavored Narandžica ice cream Prodekspo 2014 International Salami), champion title; Exhibition of Food and Beverages, Moscow; silver medal 2015 Superior Taste Award, Bruxelles, ABC svježi for Frikom's Parfe in the category of product packaging krem sir classic (ABC Fresh Cream Cheese Classic), 3 design innovation and convenience, Prodekspo 2014 stars awarded (maximum); Novi Sad International International Exhibition of Food and Beverages, Agricultural Fair, Serbia, two gold medals and the Moscow; My Choice consumer award in the category of champion title; 13the Business Fair in Grubišno fruit and vegetables; polje, ABC svježi krem sir hren (ABC Fresh Cream 2015 the Frikom Basket project won first place for Cheese Horseradish), champion title; ABC svježi krem sir the best sports sponsorship in Serbia Sports Awards; kulen (ABC Fresh Cream Cheese Dry-Cured Red-pepper the Frikom Basket project won silver medal for the best Flavored Salami), gold medal; ABC Spužva Bob Skockasports sponsorship in Europe European Sponsorship ni (ABC Sponge Bob Squarepants), gold medal Association (ESA); YouTube video King was declared the best commercial in 2015, The Night of the Ad Eaters; Vina Belje 2015 Emozioni dal Mondo: Merlot e Cabernet insieme: gold medal for Goldberg Merlot 2012; MunZvijezda Best Buy Award, General Survey Croatia dus vini, gold medal for Goldberg Graševina 2006 and 2014/2015 for the best price and quality ratio 2011; 16, VinAgora International Wine Competiin the margarine and mayonnaise category tion, Budapest: gold medal for Goldberg Merlot 2012; DECANTER World Wine Awards, London: silver Ol Istria 2014 Liquor d'Ulivi, Associazione Internazionale medal for Goldberg Chardonnay 2006 and High Quality Ristoranti dell’Olio (International Association of Oil Graševina 2013; Chardonnay du Monde, Chaintreu Restaurants), Italy Ol Istria Ascolana, the best foreign – France: silver medal for Goldberg Chardonnay 2012 extra virgin olive oil; Povenjak, Ol Istria Pendolino, and 2013; Vinalies Internationales, Pariz, France: the best store-sold olive oil; Olive d'Or, Canada silver silver medal for Goldberg Chardonnay 2012 and 2013 medal for the Ol Istria Selection extra virgin olive oil in 2014 Emozioni dal Mondo: Merlot e Cabernet the international competition; insieme: gold medal for Goldberg Merlot 2012; Mundus 2015 Olive d’or Canada: gold medal for Ol Istria vini, Njemačka: gold medals for High Quality GraševiPendolino; New York International Olive Oil Comna 2006, Goldberg Merlot 2012, Goldberg Frankovka petition, gold for the Ol Istria Picholine, silver for Ol 2012 and Goldberg Graševina 2012; DECANTER World Istria Ascolana; Flos Olei 2015 – Ol Istria Pendolino; Wine Awards, London: regional trophy and gold medTERRA OLIVO 2015, International Extra Virgin al for Goldberg Graševina 2006; Selections Mondiales Olive Oil Competition, gold medal for Ol Istria Ascoldes vins Canada: Vina Belje Goldberg Frankovka, 2012 ana, gold medal for Ol Istria Picholine; Los Angeles selection; Vinalies Internationales, Pariz, FrancusExtra Virgin Olive Oil, bronze medal for Ol Istria ka: silver for Cabernet Sauvignon 2009, High Quality Picholine, silver medal for Ol Istria Istarska bjelica Graševina 2012 and High Quality Graševina 2006 8 Vina 2015 DECANTER World Wine Awards, London: Laguna gold medal and regional trophy for Vina Laguna Castello 2012; Emozioni dal Mondo: Merlot e Cabernet Insieme: gold medals for Vina Laguna Festigia Castelo 2013, Festigia Merlot 2013 and Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon 2013; Mundus Vini – springtasting, Germany: five gold medals for the following whites: Vina Laguna Festigia Malvazija 2013, Vina Laguna Festigia Riserva Malvazija Vižinada 2011, Vina Laguna Festigia Riserva Malvazija Akacija 2012, Festigia Riserva Malvazija Vižinada 2013, and one red wine: Vina Laguna Festigia Merlot 2012; Mundus Vini, Germany: Vina Laguna Cabernet sauvignon Festigia 2010; 2014 International Wine Challenge, London: gold medal for Vina Laguna Festigia Malvazija Vižinada 2011; Mundus Vini 2014 – Spring Tasting, Germany: gold medal for Vina Laguna Malvazija 2013, Festigia Malvazija 2013 and Festigia Vižinada 2011 Podrum 2014 Continental Croatia Wine Exhibition, Sv, Mladina Ivan Zelina: POY Premium, gold medal; POY Rose Selected, gold medal; Jastrebarsko Wine Games: POY Rose Selected, gold medal and the Sparkling Wine Champion title; 2015 Portugieser Du Monde Pecs: Portugizac 2014, silver medal; Continental Croatia Wine Exhibition, Sv, Ivan Zelina: POY Premium, silver medal; POY Selected, silver medal; Jastrebarsko Wine Games: POY Selected, silver medal; POY Rose Selected, silver medal Mineral Water Challenge Portugal 2015 Idea Best Buy Award 2013/2014 gold medal for the best flavored carbonated water Best Buy Award 2015/2016 Mercator-S Superbrands 2015/2016 Konzum 2014/2015 Best Buy Award, Fresh Meat Department; Best Buy Award, Fish Department; Qudal: best commercial chain – Fish Department Konzum Best Buy Award, no. 1, the best price and quality ratio BiH 2015/2016 in the Retail Chain and Internet Shopping categories; Quadal 2014/2015, no. 1 in quality, Retail Chain categor; Posao,ba, title of the Most Desirable Employer in 2015; Directorate of the Agency for the Selection of the Best managers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Southeast and Central Europe awards in the Best Company of the Decade and Best Manager in 2015 categories MultiPlus Loyalty Awards 2014: Best Coupon or Voucher Based Loyalty Programme; Best Loyalty Industry Innovation; Loyalty Awards 2015: finalist in the Best Coupon or Superior Taste Award 2015, Voucher Based Loyalty Programme and Best Loyalty ABC Fresh Cream Cheese Classic, Industry Innovation categories 3 stars awarded 9 G4 3-16 General Standard Disclosures ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Countries where the organization operates T he Agrokor Group operates in the entire Adria ReThe Agrokor Group cooperates with more local than gion. In terms of the significance of business operaforeign suppliers. Although guided by the principle of comtions, Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzepetitiveness at all times, it's in line with the Group's policy govina are the company's primary markets. In these markets, to give preference to local suppliers, thus encouraging comAgrokor achieves results and impacts that are considered plete, quality and solid growth and development in the marparticularly important in terms of sustainability. ket where it operates. Considering its engagement in various fields of business, each of which is characterized by distinctive features, Supply chain Agrokor operates with different types of suppliers. In order to ensure the most favorable scenario for the Group, Agrokor I n the Retail Business Group, a Category Management funcand Agrokor companies insist on establishing business relation was put in place for the purpose of ensuring adequate tionships with entities that are, in terms of the distribution commercial goods supply management. Different teams channel, as close to the source as possible, i.e. the producer have thus been assigned responsibility for different groups itself. If such business process organization is not possible, of products. These teams perform all activities related to the Agrokor and Agrokor companies also cooperate with various relevant group of products, from negotiating the terms of sale agents, wholesalers, subcontractors and distributors. and prices, to determining the required amounts, and similar. Because of the complexity and diversity of individual The Central Procurement function is responsible for all Group companies and the fact that they operate in different goods and services supplied for the Group's own purposes. sectors, the Group's supply chain is rather diversified. While These supplies are used by a large number of Group comthe retail operations of the Group are very labor intensive, panies and have been recognized as the goods and servicthe FMCG part, on the other hand, is rather capital-intensive es that are best supplied centrally because, in doing so, the and high-tech oriented. Group takes advantage of the impact of quantity. The centrally procured goods include, for example, energy sources, vehicles and equipment, while the centrally procured serSignificant changes relating to vices include, for example, communication, security, maintenance and cleaning services. The goal of the Central Prothe supply chain during the reporting period T curement function is to create synergy effects for the benefit he Agrokor Group fosters lasting and stable relations of Group companies by arranging the purchase of particuwith all its key suppliers since they represent our exlar goods under more favorable terms compared to those that ceptionally important business partners. We should individual Group companies could negotiate in the market note that, compared to the previous period, there were no maacting independently. In order to arrange the most favorable terial changes that affected the supply chain in 2015. The terms for the Group companies, in its negotiations with supGroup maintained its existing supply chain structure and orpliers Central Procurement emphasizes its need for substanganization since it is founded on solid foundations and ential volumes. Non-commercial goods used by only one or a sures satisfaction of all partners involved. small number of Group companies are supplied independently through local procurement departments. Considering the large volume of retail operations performed within the Group, it is not surprising that Agrokor coMembership in local and international operates with a large number of suppliers at the regional and organizations and associations particularly at the national level. In 2015, the Group cooperated with more than six thousand suppliers. HUP (Croatian Employer's Association) Pursuant to its business policy, the Agrokor Group alHGK (Croatian Chamber of Commerce) ways strives to cooperate with suppliers that use ecologicalHR PSOR (Croatian Business Council ly acceptable and environmentally friendly energy sources. for Sustainable Development) Supplier values perceived by the Group as advantages include GIUPAK (Economic Interest Grouping efforts to ensure reduction of pollution and adverse environfor Packaging and Environmental Protection) mental impacts, human and labor rights protection, and simGIUPPH (Economic Interest Grouping ilar. If the competitiveness criterion is met, Agrokor prefers of Croatian Beverage Producers) to include in its supplier portfolio the suppliers that foster Eko-Ozra sustainability as one of their core values. HKK PPS (Croatian Food Sector A portion of the Group's electricity supplies refers to ZelCompetitiveness Cluster) En (Green Energy), a type of electricity produced by HEP OpskrFoodDrinkEurope ba exclusively from renewable sources at hydro power plants. UN Global Compact 10 G4 17-23 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the organization's groups of related companies (e.g. the frozen food production segment encompasses four companies), which helped deterconsolidated financial statements mine the specific features common to a particular segment, A ll business entities listed in Annex 1 (Business Strucwhile also taking into consideration the distinctive features of ture of the Agrokor Group) are included in the Coneach individual company in it. solidated Financial Statements of the Agrokor Group. Material Aspect Boundaries have been determined on the basis of the estimated impacts of Group companies and their materiality to the identified stakeholder groups. EnviDefining the report content ronmental Aspect Boundaries were therefore determined as and aspect boundaries the immediate environment of the point of impact. It can T he application of the G4 Sustainability Reporting therefore be asserted that such environmental impacts are Guidelines has allowed Group companies more freedom limited to the local level, except for the impacts of energy in identifying material aspects compared to the requireproduction which have a global dimension because it generments of the previous version of GRI Guidelines. The reporting ates greenhouse gas emissions. The economic and social asteams initially met at the training in the implementation of pects of the Agrokor Group are limited to the region in which new guidelines that was based on the application of the Rethe Group companies perform their activities. porting Principles for Defining Report Content, after which In order to improve the reporting process in the next they proposed the indicators they considered material to their period, Agrokor will define particular goals for different aroperations. Thereafter, two more rounds of consultations were eas and regularly report on the related goal achievement held across Group companies in order to make the final idenprogress. We believe that, in doing so, we will facilitate the tification of material business aspects and the selected matemanagement of our operations and ensure that the activities rial aspects were revised once more after the 2014 UN Global performed to achieve the set goals and their contribution to Compact Annual Report had been prepared,. The entire process sustainability of operations are presented in a more transwas greatly supported by concerted efforts of colleagues from parent way. The following material aspects have been identified: • Economic impacts • Occupational health and safety • Procurement practices • Training and education • Materials • Diversity and equal opportunity • Energy • Equal remuneration for men and women • Water • Labor practices grievance mechanisms • Biodiversity (only Belje) • Non-discrimination • Emissions • Human rights grievance mechanisms • Effluents and waste • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Compliance • Local communities • Transport • Compliance • Overall • Customer health and safety • Employment • Products and services labeling • Labor/management relations • Compliance 11 G4 24-27 General Standard Disclosures STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT I Trade Unions n accordance with our sustainable development strategy and the key aspects of the same, the content of the Report Once again we are proud to emphasize that Agrokor was defined in consultation with Agrokor's most important companies are the first companies in Croatia that have stakeholder groups. Stakeholder inclusion still represents, as integrated collective bargaining in their business models in the case of most reporting companies, a special challenge. for managing relationships with employees and unions. We Although the companies are in everyday contact with various apply the same practices in other countries in the region stakeholder groups and thus continuously maintain a certain as well, subject to local laws and regulations however. At level of communication with the same, it is quite challenging Agrokor companies, trade unions are involved in the decision to achieve a good response to a special invitation for consulmaking process through Workers' Councils and they also have tation purposes. Stakeholder engagement therefore remains an opportunity to supervise company operations through an area where further intensive efforts are required to get an memberships in Supervisory Boards. The Agrokor Group understanding of the needs of the stakeholders we find relesupports and finances charity, educational and sporting vant for our operations, as well as to make them more familactivities responding to trade union initiatives. iar with the logic behind certain of our business decisions. It is only through transparent communication that we can get an understanding necessary to achieve such business develSuppliers and partners opment that also meets the needs of the stakeholder groups We cooperate closely with our suppliers and partners in that the companies are associated with. order to create values for our customers and stakeholders Just like in our previous reports, we provide information that are adjusted to their needs. Joint commitment to on various stakeholder groups that Agrokor companies have sustainable development and compliance with the highest defined, in their separate mission and vision statements, as esquality standards are the core requirements set for Agrokor sential for their operations and success. Due to our mutual incompanies, and they also apply to the partners that we terests and the wish to better understand each other, we try to cooperate with. Through intensive cooperation we create keep regular contacts with the following stakeholder groups: and improve business relationships, thus contributing to the achievement of direct business results and long-term goals associated with sustainable development. Customers Customers are an extremely important stakeholder group for all Agrokor companies. Their comments collected through Shareholders and financial institutions various surveys make the basis for improvement of our The long-term strategy of the managements of Agrokor existing products and development of new ones. We adjust companies is directed towards increasing the value of the products and services to the needs of our customers shareholder capital. We have been earning the trust of our and changes in their habits and trends. We dedicate special shareholders, investors and financial institutions for years, attention to the quality of our products. For that purpose, confirming our dedication to creating new values on the basis we have made free customer phone lines available to our of our results. Through regular reporting and making sure customers in all our companies as well as ensured that the that information about our business operations is available customers have the opportunity to submit their suggestions to all our stakeholder groups as well as through mutual and comments via electronic mail and online interface. In interaction with the same, we ensure that mutual needs addition, customer cards are used to follow the habits and and demands are satisfied and we build trust which is the needs of individual customers. Based on such information, cornerstone of our relationships. our retail chains design special deals, discounts and benefits for their customers. Local and central authorities Each Agrokor company is closely associated with the Employees environment in which it operates because it participates in its Agrokor companies always emphasize and prove that employees development and efforts aimed at raising the quality of living are their most valuable resource. By providing opportunities in the same by employing local population and paying local for continuous advancement and additional education as well contributions. As one of the largest business entities in the as through career development planning, we try to motivate region, the Agrokor Group carries additional responsibility our employees and increase their satisfaction and efficiency. In to create a transparent, fair and motivating business return, we expect them to demonstrate the highest standards of environment. Our employees and companies continuously excellence. Our employees, from all levels, are actively involved cooperate with all relevant institutions in the countries where in the process of proposing and creating improved solutions, we operate, and provide the required professional assistance and their working environment offers them opportunities for and expertise depending on the requirements and needs of the continuous business and personal development. state institution concerned. Through our dialogue with local 12 and central authorities, we help create business conditions for the benefit of all interest groups. Community The Agrokor Group is closely associated with the communities in which we create new economic value. Participation in local initiatives is therefore integrated in our corporate culture. Through various activities, our employees impact community development and contribute to raising the quality of living in their respective communities and propose financing of activities they consider truly important. Such activities are primarily associated with charity, protection of cultural heritage, preservation of environmental resources, art and culture, and projects pertaining to children and youth. By being actively involved in the activities carried out in their local communities, our employees and companies contribute to further development of the same, at all levels and in all spheres where such efforts are required. In that way, we help create a positive and sustainable business and living environment. Let us mention, as one of the examples of our interaction with our stakeholders, the situation when a citizen of Zagreb living at Gupčeva Zvijezda complained to Konzum that the early delivery of goods to the nearby store, which usually started at 5:45 a.m., disturbed the night rest of the people living in the vicinity, thus significantly affecting the quality of living of the tenants of her and the neighboring buildings. In response to the complaint and respecting the wishes of the people concerned, Konzum not only rescheduled the delivery time to after 8 a.m., but also reduced the number of deliveries to the relevant store by optimizing the arrangement of transported goods. In addition, in November 2014, Konzum supported the initiative “Mali hrvatski proizvođač” (Small Croatian Producer), allowing the participants to hold a Domestic Products Fair with a Sales Exhibition in a specially decorated space in front of the Konzum Store at Črnomerec in Zagreb, gathering Customers are an extremely more than 50 exhibitors. The smallest companies and family farms thus got an opportunity to present themselves to a important stakeholder group for all large number of visitors. Konzum is dedicated to supporting Agrokor companies. Their comments domestic production and often and gladly gathers small producers that make the finest traditional products in its stores. collected through various surveys This type of support gives the small producers an oppormake the basis for improvement tunity to present themselves to a large number of visitors and acquire new buyers. Producers of traditional delicacies of our existing products and such as honey, wine, cheese, meat and meat products, sweets, eco-cosmetics and handiwork come from all parts of Croatia, development of new ones. from Slavonia, Međimurje, Zagorje, Lika and Gorski kotar, to far southern parts of Dalmatia. In doing so, Konzum supports the efforts to preserve the traditional way of producing food and other products. 13 G4 28-33 General Standard Disclosures REPORT PROFILE O Contact point for questions ur Sustainability Report contains consolidated data for the entire Group presenting a set of indicators associated with economy, employment, workforce, human regarding the report and its contents rights, community and product responsibility. EnvironmenFor all questions regarding this report, please contact: tal indicators are once again presented separately for each Marta Bogdanić company in order to allow comparison with the data from Agrokor d.d. previous reports as well as keep their material value and relTrg Dražena Petrovića 3 evance. In doing so, we have allowed monitoring of environ10000 Zagreb mental impacts of each presented Agrokor company in this Croatia reporting period as well. marta.bogdanic@agrokor.hr This Report is based on the data collected from the following companies: 'In accordance' option This is the first report that we have prepared in accordance AGRICULTURE: Agrolaguna, Belje, PIK Vinkovci, with the requirements prescribed under the G4 Sustainability Vupik, Solana Pag, Kikindski mlin; Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. We ICE CREAM AND FROZEN FOOD: Ledo, Irida, Frikom, have opted for the core option, and have asked the Croatian Ledo Čitluk, Ledo Kft; Business Council for Sustainable Development (HR PSOR) to OIL, MARGARINE AND MAYONNAISE PRODUCTS: assure the report content. Zvijezda, Dijamant, Sojara Zadar; WATERS AND SOFT DRINKS: Jamnica, Sarajevski kiseljak, GRI REPORT CONTENT INDEX Fonyodi, Nova sloga, Mladina; For all questions regarding this report, please contact: MEAT AND MEAT PRODUCTS: PIK Vrbovec; General Standard Disclosures RETAIL: Konzum, Mercator, Mercator S, Konzum BiH i Tisak; Strategy And Analysis (G4-1) OTHER ACTIVITIES: Agrokor trgovina, mStart, Agrokor Energija. Organizational Profile (G4-3 G4-16) Identified Material Aspects And Boundaries (G4-17 G4-23) Just like in the previous reports, the companies performing Stakeholder Engagement (G4-24 G4-27) different business activities were classified according to the Report Profile (G4-28 G4-33) activity with the most significant volumes achieved. Governance (G4-34) Ethics And Integrity (G4-56). Reporting period and reporting cycle Agrokor opted to report in two-year cycles. This is our fourth Sustainability Report. It covers two reporting years, namely 2014 and 2015. The previous report was prepared for 2012 and 2013 and was published in September 2014. In our companies, business and calendar year mean the same. 14 G4 28-33 REPORT PROFILE Opinion on the Agrokor 2014/2015 Sustainability Report Agrokor’s fourth Sustainability Report brings us novsegments during the reporting period by organizing a number elties regarding the results achieved by 61 Group subsidiaries of professional conventions and conferences in Croatia and its over the past two years. Due to their highly complex structure, surrounding region. the transition to reporting under the G4 Guidelines of the GlobA particular focus was placed on retaining and recruital Reporting Initiative (GRI) required additional efforts from ing experts and additionally training employees for the purthe entire team involved in the preparation of the Report. pose of attaining the highest level of readiness to achieve the The Agrokor 2014/2015 Sustainability Report applies Group’s strategic objectives. In addition, the Group launched all relevant reporting principles and its content is in compliand supported numerous cultural and humanitarian initiaance with the GRI G4 compliance guidelines – the Core Option. tives within the social community. By considering the particuA positive aspect of this is that each new Report helps enhance larities of each environment in which a Group entity operates a process by offering improvements in its presentation and apand identifying the needs of the local community, Agrokor plication of socially responsible business practices. demonstrated its commitment to taking actions important to A particular challenge involved in the transition from the stakeholders. Reports of interactions with the local comthe G3 version of the Guidelines to the G4 version was to determunity in the Society segment also build stakeholder trust mine the material aspects and consider what is truly relevant and stimulate development. to the company’s business, as well the aspects it is able to affect Being the most comprehensive part of the Sustainabilithe most. One of the benefits provided is the fact that corporaty Report, the third part addresses environmental aspects for tions are no longer required to disclose information in a broad 25 Group subsidiaries. The reader will learn in detail about range of topics and are thus able to focus on a smaller number each company’s environmental impacts, how each company of key performance indicators having the greatest impact on resolves its issues concerning its production processes, and the stakeholders and the environment. about their respective environmental targets for the next periThe first part of the Agrokor Report provides general od. Substantial investments were made in the environmental information where the reader learns about the governance management systems used by Group companies during the reand organizational structure of the Group, its business areas, porting period and their positive results are also noticeable in corporate culture and the profile of the Sustainability Report. Group companies’ yards that now feature green containers for Irrespective of changing the guidelines version, the data are modern waste management. comparable to Agrokor’s earlier Reports, but also to informaIt is also worth mentioning the announcement that the tion for other companies having a similar structure or operatnext Report will define targets for each business area in all ing in similar business areas. One of the novelties is that this categories and will report the levels of attaining these tarReport defines 26 aspects identified as material and representgets. This will help make the Report more lively and interesting a framework for the second part. ing and will increase the level of understanding the statistical Good economic indicators recorded during the relevant data presented in consolidated reports, which implies a further two-year period contributed to the stability of the business step forward in making Agrokor Group’s impacts transparent and the enlargement of the Group, both in terms of business and increasing the credibility of its sustainable development entities (Mercator) and the number of employees. At the end of concept. It is necessary to continue developing the process 2015, the large Agrokor Group family employed over 58,000 of involving the stakeholders in defining aspects and setting people, which makes it the largest private corporation in this Agrokor’s sustainable development targets to make the process part of Europe. As the Group holds a large share in the food fully compliant with the GRI Guidelines. sector, Agrokor made a significant contribution to providing training in the food production and environmental protection Commission, Steering Board, CBCSD TM Network Croatia Croatian Business Council WE SUPPORT for Sustainable Development 15 G4 34-55 General Standard Disclosures GOVERNANCE Governance structure of Agrokor d.d. T he Supervisory Board of Agrokor d.d. is composed Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Manageof five members. All members are elected at the Sharement Board of Agrokor d.d. may consist of up to eleven holders’ Meeting on the basis of the simple majority of members. Management Board Members are appointed and votes of the shareholders present. Supervisory Board Members dismissed by the Supervisory Board. They are appointed for are elected for a term of four years. They choose the Chairman a term of five years, and can be reappointed without limitaand Vice Chairman among themselves. The Chairman of the tions. In order to comply with its right and obligation to run Supervisory Board in 2015 was Mr. Ivan Todorić, with Mrs. the Company's affairs, the Management Board is authorized Ljerka Puljić as his Vice Chairwoman. The Articles of Associand obligated to perform all measures, carry out all activities ation of Agrokor companies envisage that Supervisory Board and make all decisions required to ensure successful operaMembers may also be elected and dismissed by the Company's tion of the Company. The Management Board regularly reShareholders’ Meeting, and one member may be elected by emports to the Supervisory Board, particularly about the busiployees in accordance with the provisions of the Labor Law. ness policy and strategy, profitability and current operations The function of the Supervisory Board is to supervise the of the Agrokor Group, and all other extraordinary matters relmanagement of company operations. The Supervisory Board is evant for business operations. authorized to review and inspect company business books and documents, treasury, securities and other. It can also authorize Agrokor's Management Board in 2015: particular members or experts to perform the said activities. Ivica Todorić, The Supervisory Board issues an order to the auditor to review President of the Management Board the annual financial statements of the company and the Group. Ante Todorić, The Supervisory Board submits a written report on the superviDeputy President of the Management Board sion of the manner in which the company’s operations are manHrvoje Balent, aged and a review of financial statements. It also has the right Executive Vice President for Central Procurement and Services to convene the Shareholders’ Meeting and, in consultation with Ivan Crnjac, the Management Board or independently, propose decisions to Executive Vice President for Finances, Strategies and Capital Markets be adopted by the Company’s Shareholders’ Meeting that fall Piruška Canjuga, within the scope of competence of the Shareholders’ Meeting. Executive Vice President for Business Operations and Development The Articles of Association of Agrokor d.d. and the Articles of Mislav Galić, Association of other Agrokor companies prescribe that the SuExecutive Vice President for the Food Business Group pervisory Board, as a governance body, is responsible for the Darko Knez, election and dismissal of Management Board Members. Executive Vice President for Retail Business Group In Agrokor companies in which minority shareholders Ivica Sertić, own more than 10% of the shares, the recommendations and inExecutive Vice President for Markets, Sales and Logistics structions of the same are submitted to the Supervisory Board via their representative, namely the Supervisory Board MemAll Agrokor companies have adopted, comply with and ber nominated by such shareholders and elected by the Sharepublish their own Corporate Governance Code, as recommendholders’ Meeting. In companies where shareholders have less ed by the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the Croatian Financial than 10% of the shares, the shareholders claim their rights at Services Supervisory Agency. the Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with the Companies Agrokor d.d. implements the Binding Operational InAct and Articles of Incorporation of the company concerned. structions for implementing antitrust regulations, as a reMost of Agrokor companies employ more than twenty sult of Agrokor's business policy which is based on the highest workers who, in accordance with the Labor Law, have the right standards pertaining to familiarity and compliance with valid to participate in making decisions concerning their economregulations. The adoption of the said document has contributic, labor and social rights and interests. To that end, the emed to raising the awareness of employees at all levels concernployees elect members of the Workers' Council who then noming the importance of being familiar with and properly applyinate an Employee Representative to be appointed as a Supering various antitrust regulations. Agrokor companies are envisory Board Member. His/her responsibility is to protect emcouraged to consider adopting and implementing the Binding ployee interests and promote the suggestions and instructions Operational Instructions and thus ensure proper application proposed at workers' assemblies. Agrokor d.d. does not have a of the Antitrust Act, which will be equivalent to Agrokor's in Workers' Council. The Employee Representative can be elected content and include any necessary changes and adjustments and dismissed by the workers in free and direct elections based (e.g. different legislation). on the secret voting system, as envisaged by the Labor Law. In its Corporate Governance Policy, Agrokor d.d. dediAll Supervisory Board Members share the responsibilcates a lot of attention to the implementation of anti-corrupity for supervision, strategy, organizational monitoring and tion measures. Its commitment will be additionally confirmed sustainability of operations, as well as other areas relevant by the adoption of internal regulations for the implementation for the Company's business. of the anti-corruption policy in the next period. 16 G4 56 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY A grokor devotes significant attention to socially responsibilities and obligations, as well as the regulatory responsible business and compliance with ethical quirements relevant for doing business in particular markets. standards of honorable and responsible treatment of Employees are required to comply with the highest standards employees as well as compliance with laws and regulations, of professional behavior at all times, so that even the slightparticularly those aimed at curbing corruption. Our business est appearance of indecency is avoided. Actions and behavprogress is closely associated with the welfare of the commuiors of employees must be exceptionally professional at all nities and protection of the environment in which we opertimes in order to avoid the possibility of being wrongly interate. Pursuing our business practices, we wish to prepare our preted by third persons. own Code of Conduct in which we will define and supplement Keeping a professional promise is key to business comthe corporate rules and procedures aimed at ensuring that, in munication, which must be maintained regardless of the difperforming their activities, our employees comply with high ficulties which may arise. The employees are required to adstandards of conduct. here to the following core principles: During this reporting period, Agrokor's Management Board adopted the Corporate Business Principles and the Corporate Governance Principles. Both documents are available establish and nurture permanent value, at Agrokor's website (http://www.agrokor.hr/en/the-agrokorrespect people – co-workers and subordinate workers, group/mission-vision-and-corporate-values/), Agrokor comparefrain from misusing their hierarchical or status position, nies listed on the stock exchange and Agrokor, as an umbrella take into account the interests of the Company, company, have also adopted the Code of Ethics in Business of the team and the Group, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. respect the dignity and rights of all people, In the wider sense, business ethics integrate the rules respect the natural environment, about what is considered good or bad, fair or unfair and morrespect and keep trade secrets, al or immoral in a company's business environment. Busimeet customer needs with minimum risk for their safety, ness actions are judged in accordance with the general ethidentify and solve problems; amicable operations, ical standards of the society and not a special set of norms keep promises. that can be interpreted in different ways. Agrokor has made the strategic decision to operate in The employees are required to perform the activities a socially responsible manner. The employees are required to regulated under their Employment Contracts in a conscienpledge adherence to ethical principles simply because non-ethtious, professional and timely manner, in accordance with the ical strategies and behaviors are incompatible with the definilaw as well as general and internal acts. Tasks and responsition of socially responsible business. Agrokor's social responbilities may not be avoided or transferred onto colleagues. sibility strategy is based on socially beneficial activities for The employees take care of the Company's property by which the Group sets aside both money and time with the aim making sure that damage and destruction of goods, working of increasing the quality of life in the communities where it capital, small inventory and other assets is avoided. At work, operates through various humanitarian campaigns, environthe employees must act with the care of a prudent businessmental protection or improvement campaigns, working enviman and make sure that their colleagues, buyers and busironment improvement initiatives, and similar. ness partners behave the same way. In performing its business operations, Agrokor devotes Employees may not misuse their position in the Coma significant amount of attention to the issue of corruption pany for their own benefit or for the benefit of others. Under as a harmful social phenomenon that undermines core social no circumstances whatsoever may an employee overstep his/ values. Corruption jeopardizes the rule of law, undermines her authorities and rights. the trust in public institutions and legal state, fairness, The employees must consistently keep the Compaequality and safety of its citizens. Corruption particularly ny's trade secrets in accordance with the Company's internal reduces cost efficiency and effectiveness. Agrokor wishes to acts, refrain from harmful and competitive actions, as well get actively involved in the fight against corruption. One of as make efforts to protect the image and good reputation of the ways to do so is to ensure employee education and adopt Agrokor, their colleagues, buyers and business partners, both internal rules that will apply to all Agrokor's employees and at work and in their free time. In addition, the employees are all third persons associated with Agrokor in any way whatsorequired to carefully store all data and information relevant ever. We believe that, in doing so, we can eliminate the risks for Agrokor, particularly those marked as confidential. we could be exposed to in our operations, as well as pave the The employees must treat their colleagues, buyers and road to successful business development in the future. business partners with respect and maintain a relationship Agrokor and its associated companies offer a wide with them which is based on kindness and fairness. The emrange of services and products on markets in different counployees must avoid all discriminatory types of behavior and tries. All employees are required to be familiar with and unrespect the personal integrity and dignity of all those they derstand the laws and regulations relevant for their work recome in contact with in performing their business activities. 17 G4 56 Specific Standard Disclosures ETHICS AND INTEGRITY The employees must be ready to share their knowledge Agrokor and its employees may not promise, offer, give with their colleagues and consistently comply with health or approve, directly or indirectly, a bribe or any kind of valand safety-at-work regulations. ue to anyone, including government officials, workers or repAn employee who experiences problems in claiming resentatives, government-owned or government-controlled the rights guaranteed to him/her under a law and/or other companies, private persons or workers of any business entity, internal act, must inform his/her immediate superior manin order to improperly influence the actions or decisions of ager about such problems who will then be responsible for such person with the aim of achieving, retaining or ensuring taking all the necessary steps in order to eliminate the obstaany kind of inappropriate benefit for Agrokor. cles preventing the relevant employee from claiming his/her Just as it is forbidden to offer a bribe to government guaranteed rights, within the scope of available possibilities. officials, it is also forbidden to bribe private persons or comNon-compliance with the said rules may result in impanies. Under no circumstances may an employee of Agrokor plementation of disciplinary measures, even termination of offer, promise, give or pay any kind of value in return for an employment. All the required measures will be carried out inappropriate benefit. by the Human Resources Department in cooperation with the In addition to its employees, Agrokor often engages responsible manager or director. other persons to perform its business activities. With the Anti-corruption activities and measures are aimed aim of ensuring successful prevention of corruption, adeat setting up Agrokor's business standards pertaining to quate measures must be taken in selecting third persons and the prevention of corruption. The defined rules refer to all it must be ensured that they are not giving bribes or comAgrokor employees and the operations and activities Agrokor mitting any other type of illegal activities in relation with performs in all countries where it operates. Agrokor's business activities. It is therefore necessary to be particularly careful when engaging and selecting third parties and determining their fees, as well as ensure that their activities are adequately monitored. 18 Category: ECONOMIC 19 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Specific Standard Disclosures In spite of the unfavorable climatic increasing efficiency and profitability, while continuing the process of systematization, reorganization and improved utiand macroeconomic conditions, lization of mutual synergies within the Group. In the second half of 2014, after the acquisition of Mercator, Agrokor strongAgrokor was able to maintain its ly focused on the integration of Mercator's business processes sales revenues and profitability at in the operations of the rest of the Group companies. In 2015, Agrokor managed to increase its market stable levels, while the consolidated shares. All the companies within the Food Production and results were mainly influenced Distribution Business Group have maintained their leading positions, while the companies within the Retail and Wholeby the acquisition of Mercator. sale Business Group increased their market shares due to the acquisition of Mercator. Further regulation and adjustment T his reporting period was marked by extremely bad of pricing policies and marketing activities (campaigns and weather, particularly in the spring and summer of innovative solutions) and a sales offer adjusted to all envi2014. Such unfavorable weather conditions caused ronments in which the Group operates have additionally large-scale flooding in the entire area of our primary marstrengthened Agrokor's retail business. The year was signifkets, namely Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, icantly marked by the acquisition of Mercator, while the acand also had an adverse effect on the tourist season in Croativities were mainly directed to further integration with the tia. Moreover, the macro-economic conditions remained unemphasis on achieving synergies. favorable with the GDP trend continuously dropping, thus The weather conditions, that significantly affect the adding pressure on consumption. consumption of ice cream, water and drinks, improved after a At the consolidated level, total sales revenues increased in long time and thus contributed to the activities of the teams 2014 from HRK 30,144.8 million to HRK 34,969.1 million, repreworking in the Food Business Group and the successful realsenting an increase of 16%. EBITDA increased by 5.9 % reachization of plans. Agrokor's agricultural companies managed ing HRK 3,164.6 million, while the EBITDA margin dropped to achieve profitability growth despite the market developfrom 10 % to 9.1 % as a result of an increased share of income ments which resulted in oversupply and significant reduction from retail operations in total revenues of the Agrokor Group. in prices of all commodities, and therefore all categories of In 2014, Agrokor companies continued implementing agricultural products as well. the strategy that focuses on increasing and/or maintaining At the consolidated level, total sales revenues increased market shares by implementing proactive measures, such as from HRK 34,969 million to HRK 49,013.6 million, representefficient marketing and promotional campaigns, investments ing an increase of 40.1%. EBITDA increased by 33.2%, reachin prices, continuous innovation, production program expaning HRK 4,216.2 million, while the EBITDA margin fell from sion and private brand offer development. The management 9% to 8.6%, also as a result of the increased share of income put a strong focus on cost and business process optimization, from retail business in total revenues of the Agrokor Group. EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2013 2014 2015 change (HRK 000) (HRK 000) (HRK 000) % Direct economic value generated 30,641,428 35,761,727 50,674,306 a) Revenues 30,641,428 35,761,727 50,674,306 41.7% Economic value distributed 29,675,925 35,100,623 48,066,885 36.9% b) Operating costs 24,959,636 29,313,101 40,473,655 38.1% c) Employee wages and benefits 2,696,341 3,286,319 4,704,998 43.2% d) Payments to providers of capital 1,785,775 2,276,007 2,552,067 12.1% e) Payments to government (by country) 234,173 225,196 336,165 49.3% f ) Community investments 18,257 23,010 22,585 -1.84% Economic value retained 965,503 661,104 2,607,421 294.4% (calculated as direct economic value generated less economic value distributed) 20 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC T he revenues include income from sale, other income, inlarge irrigation projects are implemented by counties and are terest income, net income from the sale of tangible assets expected to be executed with generous support from the Ruand subsidiaries, the Group's share in the profit/loss of acral Development Fund. However, no tenders for such projects quired companies, income from dividends and excess fair value were announced in the reporting period. The existence of the of acquired assets in relation to the cost of acquisition less the public infrastructure is a precondition for the implementagoodwill that has been written off. In 2015, direct economic valtion of the irrigation system by plots of individual agriculturue generated grew by HRK 14,912.6 million or 41.7% compared al producers. Our agricultural companies have improved the to 2014, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Mercator. possibility of irrigation on their own plots by investing in digOperating costs include the cost of material, services, ging wells and purchasing appropriate pump stations to cut other costs (excluding the cost of salaries, taxes and contributhe cost of irrigation in crop and vegetable farming. tions paid in addition to salaries and cost of amortization/deBy the end of 2015, we invested in five biogas plants: preciation), investment value adjustments and net exchange through proper disposal of all types of by-products and waste rate differences. The increase in operating cost of 38.1 % and from agricultural production and food industry, biogas is prothe increase in employee wages and benefits of 43.2 % were duced in the following plants: Gradec near Vrbovec, Mitrovac, primarily caused by the acquisition of Mercator. Payments Popovac, Ovčara and PIK Vinkovci. Total installed power of to the government include the profit tax, which increased in our biogas plants is 9.8 MW. 2015 compared to the same period the year before as a result of more taxable profits. Payments to providers of capital include the accrued interest and paid dividends. As a result of EC3 Coverage of the Organization's the above-mentioned factors, in 2015 Agrokor achieved an inDefined Benefit Plan Obligations P crease in retained economic value of 294% compared to the previous year, which is mainly due to the adjustments made ursuant to the regulations applicable in the countries after the acquisition of Mercator. where we operate, all employees are registered with the More precisely, in accordance with IFRS 3, Sections state pension fund. In the Republic of Croatia, the pen45 and 49, the Purchase Price Allocation of Poslovni sistem sion contribution rate still amounts to 20% and, depending on Mercator d.d. was performed on September 30, 2015, so that the age of the insured, refers to either mandatory Pillar I penfinally the non-tangible assets in the appraised value of HRK sion insurance, which amounts to 15%, and voluntary Pillar 1,589,899 were recognized. Brand appraisal was performed II pension insurance, which amounts to 5% of the base used by a renowned independent appraiser. The end surplus of to calculate the contribution. Pension contributions are paid the fair value of the PS Mercator d.d. PPA amounts to HRK by employers in the name and at the cost of the employee. In 1,798,629. A fair valuation surplus of HRK 514,757 was recSerbia, the employees are registered with the state Retirement ognized in the previous period, so that finally the difference and Disability Fund. 14% of the employee's gross salary is paid in the amount of HRK 1,283,872 was recognized. into the fund at the cost of the employee and another 12% at the cost of the employer. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, all emEC2 Financial Implications and other Risks ployees are registered with the Federal Pension and Disability Insurance Institute. 17% of the employee's gross salary is paid and Opportunities for the Organization's at the cost of the employee, 6% at the cost of the employer, and Activities due to Climate Change 18.5% at the cost of employees in Republika Srpska (Serb ReI n this reporting period, extreme floods in 2014 demonpublic). According to the provisions of collective agreements strated the scale of the possible impact of climatic changand general acts, the employees are entitled to a bonus on their es on economy. Not only that the floods have affected all base salary for each effective year of insurance. our primary markets and thus directly influenced the possiAt the time of retirement, pursuant to the collective bility of producing food and raw materials for the food indusagreement and general acts, workers in Croatia are entitled try, but they also adversely impacted the tourism sector that to a severance pay in the amount envisaged under the Income consequently recorded a significantly smaller turnover that Tax Regulations, i.e. up to three monthly salaries paid prior to year. The weather conditions were much more favorable in termination of employment. The entitlement to jubilee bonus2015, but it will nevertheless be remembered as an extraores is approved on the basis of continued service for the same dinarily challenging year for the agricultural sector because employer in the duration of full 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 of the decrease in the price of almost all commodities, sancyears without discontinuations. The conditions of entitlement tions against Russia affecting the agricultural goods in the and the amount of the jubilee bonus are determined on the EU and the resulting imbalance of global supply/demand of basis of collective agreements and are paid in the maximum almost all agricultural products. non-taxable amount determined in accordance with the approAs far as agricultural production is concerned, we have priate Regulations of the Ministry of Finance. Retiring workcontinued preparing investments for growing vegetables in ers in Serbia are paid a non-taxable severance pay determined closed spaces (greenhouses) which we plan to realize using in the amount of two monthly salaries. In the Federation of non-refundable EU funds in the next period. The investments Bosnia and Herzegovina, severance pay amounts to last 3 net in public irrigation infrastructure are under the control of insalaries as published in the statistical bulletins. In Republika stitutions from the public sector. More precisely, most of the Srpska, severance pay amounts to last 3 net salaries paid. 21 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Specific Standard Disclosures EC4 Financial Assistance Received from Government I n this period too, the countries where we operate finan2013 2014 2015 cially supported particular economic activities of busineTotal financial assistance ss entities operating on their respective territories. Agro136,051 124,903 196,381 (HRK 000) kor companies received subsidies for activities in the field of Tax relief and tax credits agricultural production and cattle farming, while financial incentives were received for employing disabled persons, inSubsidies 120,688 120,932 185,893 vesting in eco-friendly vehicles and training in eco-driving, investments in more energy-efficient production equipment Cattle fattening 49,414 49,209 59,985 and participation in cooperation projects with the scientific Agricultural production (harvest, community. The data presented in the table below refer excorchards and vineyards) 71,274 71,723 125,908 lusively to financial assistance and support received by AgroInvestment grants, research and kor companies in Croatia and Slovenia. development grants, and other 2,420 172 106 relevant types of grants It is important to note that the government is not directly present in the ownership structure of any of Agrokor Awards 0 0 0 companies. Royalty holidays 0 0 0 At the beginning of 2015, the first call for applications for non-refundable grants for rural development from the EuFinancial assistance from Export 0 0 0 ropean Agricultural Fund was announced. Four Agrokor comCredit Agencies (ECAs) panies (Zvijezda, PIK Vrbovec, Agrolaguna and Vupik) submiFinancial incentives 12,943 3,799 10,382 tted their applications and were awarded grant funds in the total amount of HRK 40.3 million. These amounts are not preOther financial benefits received or receivable from any 0 0 0 sented in the table above since the said funds will only be paid government for any operation out if it is established that the implementation of the relevant Source: Finance Department of Agrokor d.d. investment projects complies with EU regulations. EC5 Ratios of Standard Entry Level Wage by Gender Compared to Local Minimum Wage at Significant Locations of Operation A As far as the ratio of the minimum entry level wage in while the minimum entry level wage paid to men was 24.3% our companies in relation to minimum wages paid in compared to the minimum wage. the countries where we operate is concerned, it can be In 2014, the average minimum gross wage in Serbia asserted that in all the relevant countries we offer higher enamounted to RSD 26,941. In our companies, the minimum entry level wages compared to the minimum guaranteed wage. try level wage paid to women was at least 33.2% higher comIn 2014, the minimum gross wage in the Republic of pared to the minimum wage, while the minimum entry level Croatia amounted to HRK 3,017. In our companies, the minwage paid to men was even 35% higher. In 2015, the average imum entry level wage paid to women was at least 13.9 % minimum gross wage in Serbia amounted to RSD 28,430. In higher, while the minimum entry level wage paid to men was our companies, the minimum entry level wage paid to womeven 14.3% higher. In 2015, the minimum gross wage in the en was at least 27.4% higher, while the minimum entry level Republic of Croatia amounted to HRK 3,029. In our compawage paid to men was even 31.6% higher compared to the nanies, the minimum entry level wage paid to women was at tional minimum. least 11% higher, while the minimum entry level wage paid to The minimum entry level wage received by Agrokor men was even 14.5% higher compared to the minimum wage employees in Slovenia and Montenegro is the same as the at the national level. national minimum since Mercator Slovenija and Mercator In 2014 and 2015, the minimum gross wage paid in Crna Gora, two companies that have not been integrated into Bosnia and Herzegovina was KM 523.57. In our companies, Agrokor's Retail Business Group, were acquired only in the the minimum entry level wage paid to women in 2014 was fall of 2014. We have therefore maintained the conditions as 22.5 % higher than the minimum, while the minimum entry we found them in those companies. The minimum gross wage level wage paid to men was even 23.6% higher. In 2015, the in Slovenia is EUR 790, while the minimum gross wage in minimum entry level wage paid to women was 24.9% higher Montenegro is EUR 288.05. 22 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC EC6 Proportion of Senior Management Hired results of our contractors. By transferring good practices, we also influence the farmers operating in our environment and from the Local Community at Significant contribute to the improvement of their results. Locations of Operation By investing in waste disposal from agricultural lands N and from food processing plants through biogas plants, we all labor markets where Agrokor companies operate, we have achieved significant environmental improvements, i.e. apply the principles of recruitment and local employreduced the possibility of pollution through adequate disposment. Through our official and non-official activities, al solutions. As the largest retail chain in the region, we make we also continuously recognize and point at the challenges sure that various product price categories are available in our and new solutions pertaining to national and local employment offer. Besides, our retail locations continue to provide a 10% policies. We participate in career days and job fairs, and acdiscount to retired people once a month in order to make all tively support the development and needs of the communities our products available to low-income customers. As a reliable where we operate by employing local population and purchasand desirable business system, we make an interesting parting local products and services. As a result of such approach, ner for foreign investors. Joint investments with foreign commost employees in our companies are hired from the local companies in our activities in Croatia and the region where we opmunity, both those working at entry level and senior manageerate indirectly promote the relevant areas as desirable areas ment positions. The Agrokor Group has the advantage of being for direct foreign investments, not only in our system, but also inter-regionally and internationally present, which ensures our in other companies in our environment. employees numerous opportunities for inter-location development and advancement regardless of whether it refers to different towns, regions within the country or countries. EC9 Proportion of Spending on Local In the structure of our senior management (both high Suppliers at Significant Locations of Operation T and middle level), there are employees who have assumed positions in other towns or countries where the Group operahe Agrokor Group and its companies procure more than tes, as a result of career development, promotion within the 70% of all goods and services from local suppliers. The system or personal reasons. A certain number of our specialiterm local refers to the entire region in which Agrokor sts and experts, not necessarily members of the management, achieves most of its revenues, including Croatia, Bosnia and transfer their expertise and competences from their domicile Herzegovina, Serbia and, after the acquisition of PS Mercacompany to support the operations of other companies within tor, Slovenia and Montenegro as well. Each supplier based the Agrokor Group, working at such locations for a specific in any of the named countries is considered a local supplier. period of time or as needed, until specific investments or proAgrokor adjusts to each of these markets individually. jects are completed, and similar. We see such opportunities as Considering its size, it has direct or indirect impact on the additional employee development possibilities. same. We make a direct impact by selecting primarily local suppliers for all types of goods that we place in the market. Percentage of senior management Country In this manner, the suppliers get an opportunity for a staemployees hired from the local community (%) ble business growth. Indirect impacts include encouragement Croatia 99.12 to development and new hiring, which contributes to the Serbia 97.42 strengthening of the local economy. Strong local suppliers Bosnia and Herzegovina 93.67 are key to the growth of the Agrokor Group, as they continuously support Agrokor companies with their developed sales Slovenia 89.65 and after-sales networks. Hungary 66.66 When entering new markets, such as the Slovene marMacedonia 100 ket through the acquisition of PS Mercator, Agrokor makes sure that local suppliers of acquired companies are taken care Montenegro 100 of. It maintains good business relationships with such entities, thus additionally improving their operations in the local EC8 Significant Indirect Economic Impacts, market and introducing them to other markets in which the Group companies are present. There are, of course, certain exIncluding the Extent of Impacts ceptions in procurement practices. Since Agrokor strives to S ince the Agrokor Group is the largest private compaensure high quality standards, 80% of industrial equipment ny in this part of Europe, it is not surprising that our is procured from the leading global suppliers. In addition, operations result in certain indirect economic impacts. global markets are being accessed when the local market ofOver the years, Agrokor has invested significant funds in agfers no local suppliers for a particular product. Lasting partricultural development. In doing so, it did not only increase nerships between the Agrokor Group and local suppliers guarthe yields on its own fields and farms, but has indirectly, by antee job security and a stable local economy, with a positive transferring its expertise to contractors, influenced their progrowth outlook. In this manner, Agrokor also ensures susgress and improvement as well. By demanding an increase in tainable development of the Group and its members at signifproductivity, we also directly influence the operations and icant locations of operation. 23 Specific Standard Disclosures 24 Category: SOCIAL CATEGORY: SOCIAL At the end of this reporting period, the After the Group's business structure had changed through the acquisition of Mercator, Agrokor adjusted its Group had 58,635 employees. Our organizational structure, while the Human Resources functions, as strategic and business partners, have worked intenemployees are the ones responsible for sively on attracting and retaining experts and talents at all the progress and success of the Group. levels of the organization in order to create the foundations for further growth and development in changed market conThey continuously work on and create ditions. innovative solutions, ideas, products The human resources management strategy and policy, which have been implemented by the Group for many years and services, thus ensuring successful already and are based on the readiness and willingness of employees to achieve the organization's strategic goals and results and improved quality of living operational plans, have provided us with the means to timely for our stakeholders and buyers. and successfully overcome the changes and prepare the organization for future endeavors. A t the end of this reporting period, the Group had 58,635 We are intensively and continuously working on all asemployees. Our employees are the ones responsible for pects of sustainable business. Since concern about employthe progress and success of the Group. They continuees is considered one of the material aspects, the Human Reously work on and create innovative solutions, ideas, products sources Department directed its activities to new areas in and services, thus ensuring successful results and improved 2015 as well. We initiated additional activities with the aim quality of living for our stakeholders and buyers. of raising the level of informedness and communication toIn 2014 and 2015, the activities of the Human Resourcwards and among our employees at the individual, operationes Department were primarily marked by the successful acal and corporate level, we exchanged and applied good emquisition and integration of the companies and employees of ployee inclusion practices at all levels and in all areas and the Mercator Group. Through this acquisition, the Agrokor countries where the Group operates, being aware of the imGroup confirmed its leading position in the regional retail portance of communication as the best success measurement market. In 2015, Agrokor continued providing employee deparameter in all aspects of our operations. By strengthening velopment opportunities, as well as ensured further develthe autonomy and cooperation through additional responsiopment of its systems and organization based on knowledge bilities, better mutual understanding and motivation, we creand innovation, adjustment and continuous strategic orientaate an integrated environment in which the employees cooption towards achieving excellence. erate and develop creative solutions to adequately respond to We hold leading positions in five regional markets and modern business challenges. the entire retail market of Southeast Europe. The Group perEducation and development at all levels and in all areas formed the acquisition and integration of Mercator successand a working environment that appreciates and merits work, fully, efficiently and in compliance with the best global praccommitment, development and innovativeness have always tices in a rather short period of time. Material synergy effects been and have remained the focus of our activities. were achieved for the benefit of the Group and its employees The success of our ambitious and dynamic developas well as all our partners and stakeholders. ment projects, completed during this reporting period, is a The Human Resources functions continue to provide result of the efforts of our employees who, united in their acshort-term and long-term support services to bothemploytivities and processes, once again demonstrate their flexibilees and management, encouraging lifelong learning, develity and readiness for adjustment in order to ensure long-term opment and striving for regional and global leadership, so growth and development of the company. that they could successfully promote and achieve the Group's Our commitment to developing competences, respectmission and vision. ing the values and a culture in which results are merited Furthermore, in its efforts to ensure further business and an appropriate remuneration system is in place are our growth and desired business results, the Group continued strongest advantages and strengths. Furthermore, continuworking on optimizing and simplifying its organization and ous monitoring of the latest trends, strategic deliberations business processes. It also makes efforts to harmonize the and modern human resources management processes help us system and its efficiency with the Group's strategy and availachieve a competitive advantage which rests precisely on our able resources. employees. 25 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work The number of employees by Growth Trend in the Number of Employees, Dec. 31, 2000 2015 type of employment contract, 60000 age, qualification and gender, 50000 and the share of employees by 40000 type of business activity and 30000 country is in proportion with the 20000 acquisition activities. 10000 0 2000 2005 2010 2015 Employees Employees by Employees by Employees by by state, 2015 business sector, employment contract, qualification level, 2015 2015 2015 Croatia ............................. 49% Retail and Wholesale .......... 64% Permanent........................ 75% BA, MA, PhD ...................... 64% Slovenia............................ 20% Food and Beverage............ 17% Fixed-term ....................... 21% Elementary........................ 34% Serbia............................... 19% Kiosk sector and services... 11% Temporary and Secondary........................... 7% Bosnia and Herzegovina...... 9% Agriculture........................... 7% Occasional.......................... 4% Montenegro........................ 3% Other business..................... 1% Hungary............................>1% Macedonia........................>1% Employess by Gender, 2015 Employees by Age, 2015 10000 8000 6000 4000 61% 39% 2000 0 >19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60> 26 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total Number and Rates of New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover by Age Group, Gender and Region W ith the significant increase in employment caused by Total employee fluctuation, regardless of the type of the integration of the Mercator Group (by 61.58%), employment, region and gender amounted to 14.78% in 2014 the rate of new employee hires in 2014 amounted to and 18.01% in 2015, and more than 55% of employees who left 33.94%, with an almost equal share of newly employed men the Agrokor Group refers to the natural outflow of workforce, in relation to newly employed women (50.37 : 49.38). i.e. retirement. In 2014, the largest share of new employee hires was The Group records a total female employee turnover recorded in the Republic of Croatia (65%), Bosnia and Herzeof 20.87% and a total male employee turnover of 25.90%. In govina (19%) and the Republic of Serbia (15%). In 2015, the 2014, the employee turnover rate recorded in the Republic of largest share of new hires was recorded once again in the ReCroatia was 21.58%. It amounted to 15.46% in the Republic public of Croatia (58.21%), the Republic of Serbia (25.08%) and of Serbia and 9.75% in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 2015, the Montenegro (6.69%), followed, with minimum differences in employee turnover rate recorded in the Republic of Croatia shares, by the Republic of Slovenia (5.66%) and Bosnia and was 28.37%. It amounted to 14.75% in Bosnia and HerzegoviHerzegovina (4.34%). The ratio between the newly employed na, 10.79% in Slovenia and 26.79% in the Republic of Serbia. men and the newly employed women is almost identical to All employees who left, regardless of the manner and that recorded in 2014. type of employment (employment contract, temporary and The Group's employment rate and employee turnover part-time employees, seasonal employees, and similar), were are directly associated with the type of activities performed taken into account in the calculation. by our companies, particularly those whose operations are New employee hires and employees who left are, among oriented towards seasonal employment (summer jobs, agriother, a reflection of the natural employee outflow, continucultural jobs and holiday jobs) to a large extent. ous employment of persons of all profiles, educational qualSeasonal employees are classified as workers employed ifications and age, depending on the relevant business activon a fixed-term basis. The monthly average yoy was 1,072 in ities, reorganization processes, investments, introduction of 2014 and 1,775 in 2015. In both reporting years, the number new technologies and products, as well as optimization and of seasonal employees at Group level was the largest in the improvement projects within particular business segments third quarter (over 2,000). The ratio between men and women and business processes. in the structure of seasonal employees is 50:50. Consequently, All employees from this category were timely informed the largest share of workers who left the Group was employed about the rights and possibilities associated with career endon a fixed-term basis (53.97% in 2014 and 44.40% in 2015). ings and the support provided by professionals within the Over the year, constant fluctuation of temporary and occacompanies. They are also entitled to an adequate termination sional employees is recorded as well. pay determined in accordance with the valid laws, company Fluctuation Rates in 2015 (seasonal employment included): acts and Collective Agreement. The companies make sure that Men 34.02 employees who will continue working in other or similar poWomen 20.52 sitions within Agrokor companies are timely and adequately Workers employed on a permanent basis 14.28 educated and prepared. Workers employed on a fixed-term basis 79.13 LA1 New Employee Hires and Employee LA1 New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover, Employees who Left Turnover, Shares by Country and Gender, Total Gender and Age Structure, 2015 Number of Employees who Left, 2015 100 100 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 Croatia Serbia Montenegro Bosnia and Slovenia Hunagary % % > 30 30 50 > 50 Herzegovina 27 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures LA10 Transitional Assistance Programs Provided to PIK Vrbovec is an example of good practices and cooperation with the local community. It provides scholarships to Support Employees in Managing Career Endings pupils of the Vrbovec Secondary School during all three years I of schooling, as well as offers and ensures them a position in n 2014, the monthly average of temporary and occasional emthe company after graduation. ployees was 2,289. The largest number of such employees was recorded in July and August, reaching above 3,500. In 2015, the monthly average of temporary and occasional employees In both reporting years, pupils of was 3,581, while the largest number of such employees was resecond and third grades attended, in corded in June, August and September, reaching above 4,000. the framework of the Erasmus+ project Support Program implemented by the Agency for Mobility Pre-retirement planning for intended retirees and EU Programmes, a two-week Retraining for those intending to continue working within the Agrokor system vocational practicum at the Danish Severance pay Meat Trade College, one of the leading If severance pay is provided, does it take into schools for butchers in Denmark. account employee age and years of service Agrokor companies throughout the region offer emJob placement services ployment to physically and intellectually impaired people, Assistance (such as training, counseling) persons disabled as a result of occupational activities, as well on transitioning to a non-working life as military and civilian was invalids in particular countries. Depending on the type and level of health damage and their For many years now, Agrokor has been actively particiremaining ability to work, persons with disabilities perform pating in projects envisaged under public youth employment various types of activities at all organizational levels of the policies and measures, as well as their transition from the eduGroup and in all areas of our operations, i.e. retail and wholecational system to the labor market, with the aim of providing sale, food and beverage production, and agriculture segments. opportunities for acquisition of practical skills and experience Immediately after the competent institutions anto the same. In addition to continuous and regular employnounced that a new Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of young people, one of our longtime practices is also ment of Persons with Disabilities Act will be adopted and the to engage in additional campaigns with the aim of providing news was spread by various communication channels, the opportunities for employment and acquisition of the required Group got actively involved in the entire process. During the initial experience to young people of various educational properiod of transition, Agrokor companies were regularly infiles, from those holding a master’s degree in science, those formed about all novelties by means of various notices, meetholding a vocational master's degree and engineers, to eduings and workshops conducted in order to screen the current cated salespersons, butchers or drivers, in the sales, logistics, situation and eliminate any possible obstacles to employing finance, marketing, development, retail, food and beverage persons with disabilities in particular areas of our operations. production and agricultural production segments. At the level of the Agrokor Group throughout the region In February of 2014, Agrokor Group carried out its secand wider, the share of persons with disabilities was 0.87% in ond employment campaign offering jobs to several hundred 2014 and 1.84 % in 2015. The ratio of men to women in the young people for the purpose of acquiring initial experience. structure of this employee category is 53% to 47%. Out of the total number of applicants (16,527), 600 young perAs a socially responsible company, Agrokor actively parsons were employed Konzum, Jamnica, Ledo, Zvijezda, PIK ticipates, by cooperating with the competent institutions and Vrbovec and PIK Vinkovci, more than a hundred of whom reassociations of the countries in which it operates, in projects mained working within the Group. envisaged under public employment policies and measures, inWe have also continued providing opportunities for cluding initiatives whose aim is to ensure equal opportunities practical training, i.e. traineeship, apprenticeship and practifor persons with disabilities in the labor market, eliminate the cums for young people with vocational education and highly associated obstacles and create equal possibilities. educated young people of all profiles. Our cutting-edge techZvijezda d.d. has been awarded the title of the Employer nology and professional staff are extremely important for of the Year for hiring persons with disabilities and continues practical training of pupils and students in the real world of to implement its project aimed at employing and mentoring food industry and distribution, retail and agriculture. Ensurpersons with disabilities through the Association for the Proing adequate practical training is particularly important in motion of Inclusion of, in this particular case, persons with the efforts to encourage young people to choose vocational severe mental difficulties performing auxiliary activities in professions in demand as their careers. production. 28 CATEGORY: SOCIAL LA12 Composition of Governance Bodies and Breakdown of Employees per Employee Category According to Gender and Age Group, Minority Group Membership, and other Indicators of Diversity I n the governance structure (different management levels) Share of women in management (%) 2014 2015 of the Agrokor Group, most employees are aged between 30 and 50 (75% in 2014; 72% in 2015) and the share of women TOP MANAGEMENT 26.50 29.81 is 38-39%, which is an increase of approx. 1% compared to the MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 38.09 36.83 previous reporting period. LINE MANAGEMENT 41.33 40.01 Composition of Governance Bodies and Breakdown of Employees, Gender Structure, 2015 > 30 ................................. 6 % 30 50............................ 72 % 38% 62% > 50................................ 22 % Top Middle Line Seasonal Other Other % management management management workers fixed-term permanent 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 2014 2015 Women (%) fixed-term permanent fixed-term permanent < 30 18.89 6.65 37.52 4.96 30-50 30.47 41.65 53.37 40.69 > 50 3.75 12.52 9.10 14.74 29 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures LA13 Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men by Employee Category, by Significant Locations of Operation T he salaries paid in Agrokor companies depend on the Croatia in 2015 were higher than the national average salary type of business activity performed, relevant regulapaid in the Republic of Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and tions and collective agreements applicable in the counSerbia by 30.91%, 63.81% and 45.11% respectively. tries in which we operate. During this reporting period, the There are no differences concerning the entitlements to average gross monthly salary of workers employed by Agrokor and amount of the basic salary between men and women, but in 2014 were higher than the national average by 38.46% in if we consider the Group as a whole, the average monthly gross the Republic of Croatia, by 36.60% in the Republic of Serbia, salary paid to women was on average 11.35% lower compared by 27.63% in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and by 3.19% in the Reto the amount paid to men in 2015. In 2015, the figure dropped public of Slovenia. In 2015, the salaries of workers employed to 8%. As we have already explained in our previous reports, in companies engaged in retail and wholesale business, food this is a result of the type of job at which most female employand beverage production and agriculture were higher by ees are employed, which is retail and kiosk operations. As far 43.68%, while the salaries of employees of companies that beas the management population is concerned, in the previous relong to the IT, Health and Other Services Business Group are porting period women recorded slightly higher gross monthly by 150% (and more) higher compared to the national average. salaries in the segment of middle and line management above The average gross monthly salaries paid in the Republic of 50 year of age and top management under 30 years of age. EC5 Ratio of Minimum Entry Level Wage by Gender and Local Minimum Wage at Significant Locations of Operation A As far as the ratio of the minimum entry level wage in higher, while the minimum entry level wage paid to men was our companies in relation to minimum wages paid in 24.3% higher compared to the minimum wage. the countries where we operate is concerned, it can be In 2014, the average minimum wage in Serbia amountasserted that in all the relevant countries we offer higher ened to RSD 26,941 gross. In our companies, the minimum entry level wages compared to the minimum guaranteed wage. try level wage paid to women was at least 33.2% higher comIn 2014, the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia amountpared to the minimum wage, while the minimum entry level ed to HRK 3,017 gross. In our companies, the minimum entry wage paid to men was even 35% higher. In 2015, the average level wage paid to women was at least 13.9 % higher, while the minimum wage in Serbia amounted to RSD 28,430 gross. In minimum entry level wage paid to men was even 14.3% highour companies, the minimum entry level wage paid to womer than the national minimum. In 2015, the minimum wage in en was at least 27.4% higher, while the minimum entry level the Republic of Croatia amounted to HRK 3,029 gross. In our wage paid to men was even 31.6% higher compared to the nacompanies, the minimum entry level wage paid to women was tional minimum. The minimum entry level wage received by at least 11% higher, while the minimum entry level wage paid Agrokor employees in Slovenia and Montenegro is the same to men was even 14.5% higher compared to the minimum wage as the national minimum since Mercator Slovenija and Merat the national level. In 2014 and 2015, the minimum wage paid cator Crna Gora, two companies that have not been integrated in Bosnia and Herzegovina was KM 523.57 gross. In our cominto Agrokor's Retail Business Group, were acquired only in panies, the minimum entry level wage paid to women in 2014 the fall of 2014. We have therefore maintained the conditions was 22.5% higher, while the minimum entry level wage paid as we found them in those companies. The minimum wage in to men was even 23.6% higher than the national minimum. In Slovenia is EUR 790 gross, while the minimum wage in Mon2015, the minimum entry level wage paid to women was 24.9% tenegro is EUR 288.05 gross Top Middle Line Other Other Other % management management management occasional fixed-term permanent 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 > 30 30-50 > 50 30 CATEGORY: SOCIAL LA11 Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews, by Gender and by Employee Category I n the efforts to achieve business objectives based on the specialist seminars, conferences, post-graduate studies, and clearly defined individual and group goals, we try to moother), opportunities for advancement, and other types of bentivate our employees as well as increase their operational efits for employees and members of their families (employee productivity and efficiency through regular reporting and recreation, quality additional healthcare insurance, and simevaluation of their key performance indicators and adequate ilar). remuneration. In the Agrokor Group, depending on the type The activities of HR functions are directed towards raisof business activity performed by the relevant company, eming employee competences, working on understanding and ployee remuneration is determined on the basis of the level upholding values and improving the company's culture in orof achievement of business and personal development goals. der to pave the road to success, leadership and achievement of This type of remuneration is also determined on the results of new values. We are determined in our efforts to continue imthe Annual Interviews with employees, in which the immediplementing our multi-year strategy, whose goal is to ensure ate manager talks with the employee and together with him that all our employees achieve their full personal and professets his/her business and personal development goals at an sional potential in order to be able to follow the set strategy, annual or semi-annual level. mission and vision. Education and development are the key One of the main objectives to be accomplished at the components of such an approach, whereas lifelong learning level of the Group in the next period is precisely the improveis the basic concept creating, at all levels and in all areas of ment of the management performance evaluation system for our operations, sustainable employee competitiveness, work those employed at managerial positions in Agrokor compapossibilities and opportunities for advancement, i.e. ability to nies and cascadingly to all other employees in accordance work in several different position in different companies withwith their professional, developmental and business compein the Group. tences and results. Every day, we invest efforts to improving our working In addition to monetary rewards, the remuneration sysenvironment that appreciates and merits work, commitment, tem also includes various forms of material and non-material growth, development and innovativeness. We focus on the derewards: opportunities for quality professional development velopment of competences, upholding of values and the imthrough additional education (Agrokor's internal academy, inportance of building a culture that values results and ensures ternal academies of Agrokor companies, internal education, adequate remuneration. LA11, 2014 Top Middle Line Other Other Other management management management fixed-term permanent seasonal workers Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women 30.60 33.33 49.51 92.49 9.12 9.80 47.13 68.27 10.80 6.38 29.66 14.44 LA11, 2015 Top Middle Line Other Other Other management management management fixed-term permanent seasonal workers Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women 39.87 36.92 53.54 100 13.95 18.70 51.10 84.96 13.21 8.69 15.77 7.39 31 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures LA9 Average Hours of Training per Year per Average hours of training per year per Employee by Gender, and by Employee Category employee by employee category, 2015 Top Management 32.92 I n 2014 and 2015, on average 85,976.50 employees particiMiddle Management 22.33 pated in various types of educational and development programs, of which 64% were organized through internal acadLine Management 14.19 emies, training courses, workshops and meetings. Other employees 13.52 Since education and internal training in the retail segment are very specific in terms of the topic, structure and duration, the average number of hours of employee training is consequently smaller, but the analysis of investments in educaAverage hours of training per year per employee, 2015 tion by business groups shows that 73% of total hours of trainEmployees (total) 18.09 ing are recorded in the Retail Business Group through short training courses provided to a large number of employees, i.e. Women 18.47 79% of the total number of Group employees, when new servicMen 13.48 es, operations, technologies and systems are introduced. Average Hours of Training per Shares of Investments Shares of Investments in Employee Shares of Investments Year per Employee by Gender, and in Employee Education and Education and Development by Program Type, 2015 by Employee Category, Share by Development by Country by Type of Business Activity, 2015 Employee Category, 2015 Top management ............... 6% Croatia.............................. 41% Retail ................................ 73% Training, team building ...........24% Middle management........... 4% Serbia............................... 17% Agriculture........................... 6% Associate's, Bachelor's, Line management............... 3% Slovenia............................ 33% Kiosk sector and services... 19% Master's degree......................21% Other employees............... 87% Bosnia and Herzegovina...... 9% Other................................... 2% Seminars, Conferences...........20% Foreign languages....................6% IT Courses................................3% LA10 Programs for Skills Management and Lifelong Learning Individual/Executive Coaching...3% that Support the Continued Employability of Employees and Assist Other......................................23% them in Managing Career Endings A s part of Agrokor's Futura A Academy, attended by 130 Executive Vice President for the Food Business Group. Together participants from all Agrokor companies in 2015 alone, with 16 professional internal lecturers, distinguished managfour programs intended for selected, young and highly ers and experts, they introduced the new generation of Futueducated Group employees from the entire region were conra A Academy participants to the mission and vision, strategy, ducted with an additional goal to extend their knowledge of significance and role of various business functions of Agrokor. the corporate organization, operations and culture. In 2015, Mercator employees from the entire region participated in the Training/Assistance Programs Futura A Academy program for the first time. Internal training courses provided through Agrokor's Academy, All the employees who participated in the 2015 Futura A internal training courses, workshops and practical training with the aim of acquiring knowledge, skills and competences Academy program were given a chance to meet the Members of Funding support for external training or education, as regulated Agrokor's Management and Supervisory Boards, who are also under internal documents and procedures relating to education and longtime lecturers, as well as raise questions. Special contribudevelopment of employees at the level of each company tion to the program was given by Ivan Crnjac, Executive Vice Provision of sabbatical periods with guaranteed return to employment, President for Finances, Strategy and Capital Markets, Damir as regulated under internal documents and procedures relating to education and development of employees at the level of each company Kuštrak, Agrokor Supervisory Board Member, and Mislav Galić, 32 CATEGORY: SOCIAL LA6 Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, is promoted. In practice, all issues pertaining to health and safety at work are resolved through mutual cooperation beOccupational Diseases, Lost Days, and tween the Management Board or a person authorized by the Absenteeism, and total number of work-related Management Board and the Health and Safety at Work Officer fatalities, by region and by gender (appointed by the Union). In proportion with the growth and expansion of our C ollective responsibility and a high level of awareness business operations and the increase in the number of emdemonstrated by all stakeholders concerning the imployees across the region (by 61.58% as a result of the inteportance of ensuring healthy, safe and humane worgration of the Mercator Group), we record a growth in indicaking conditions is based primarily on appropriate laws and tor values associated with the lost days and absentee rates. At subordinate legislation of the countries in which we operathe Group level, there was only one work-related fatality in te, and such provisions are also transposed into company 2014 caused by actions of the deceased employee that were acts and collective agreements. not in compliance with the prescribed procedures and work During the reporting period, the injury rate ranged from rules, which led to an accident with a fatal outcome. In 2015, 1.32 to 1.41 at the Group level, and the indicators prescribed unwe recorded another fatality. After the inspection conducted der the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines were as follows: by competent institutions, it was established that the employee died a natural death. Indicator 2014 2015 All matters pertaining to protection of privacy and dignity of employees, protection of health and safety at work, elecIR 3.20 3.66 tion or appointment of Health and Safety at Work Officers and ODR 0.00051 0.00412 Coordinators, training for working in a safe way, participation in the preparation of danger studies, selection and procureLDR 90.12 134.13 ment of personal protective gear, periodic medical examinaAR* 10,823.56 10,731.15 tions of employees in positions with special working conditions, protection of particular employee categories, right to re*In the calculation of AR, the number of lost days included ALL fuse working in case life is at stake, proposing measures for the lost days due to incapacity of any kind, not only work-related the improvement of safety at work conditions, continuous coinjury or disease (excluded categories: allowed leave, vacation, paoperation with authorized employer representatives and saferental leave, death in the family leave). ty at work specialists, and other matters have been regulated. Legend: (IR) Injury Rate, (ODR) Occupational Diseases Rate, Professional health and safety at work activities are (LDR) Lost Days Rate, (AR) Absentee Rate performed by one or more HSE professionals, including the performance of all the standard HSE activities, keeping of preLA6 Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, scribed records, conducting inspections of the working equipLost Days, and Absenteeism, 2014 and 2015 ment and working environment, preparing work instructions, referring employees to medical examination in accordance with the HSE and sanitary regulations, supervision and coordination of activities of all management representatives and employees participating in the implementation of health and safety measures. Women....................... 61 % The Personal Protective Equipment Regulations preMen............................ 39 % scribe equipment for each working position. The Training Plan and Program defines the HSE topics of job-specific safety at work training programs, while the Health and Safety at Work Officer has the right, if required, to call the labor inspector if he I n accordance with the provisions of Collective Agreements identifies any failures that the employer refuses to eliminate. and the regulations of the respective countries in which The HSE Coordinator participates in labor inspection Agrokor companies operate, the company established Safeprocedures in case of serious occupational injuries, while the ty at Work Committees. The conditions are constantly moniemployees participate in the preparation (review) of risk studtored and measures are being taken to achieve efficient imies prepared for individual positions. Persons responsible for plementation and organization of health and safety at work inspecting machines and high-risk devices are defined for protection programs with the aim of ensuring prevention, reeach activity separately. ducing the number of all types of injuries and avoiding the Agrokor supports promotion and presevation of the most severe occupational injuries. Implementation of safehealth of its employees, their family members and the wider ty at work rules is being planned and monitored, measures community. We have arranged for more favorable health insuraimed at preventing occupational injuries and diseases are beance terms and complete and specialist examinations in various ing proposed, and continuous improvement of safety at work health institutions for our employees and their family members. 33 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures LA3 Return to Work and Retention Rates HR3 Total Number of Incidents of after Parental Leave, by Gender Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken T P he Group makes its best efforts to promote equality of ursuant to the law, Agrokor systematically promotes, in sexes, particularly the right of all employees to parental the first place through prevention, informing, education leave, on the basis of its internal acts, activities, positive and training, a psychological and social climate in which climate and culture. employee care is a professional responsibility of each individAgrokor companies devote care and attention to the ual and the organization as a whole. health and safety at work of pregnant women and new moms. When violations of labor and human rights, discrimThe Group tries to facilitate the return to work after parental ination and mobbing are reported, we make efforts to find leave as much as possible, allowing use of additional free days appropriate consensual solutions by implementing adequate or the possibility of shorter working hours. The number of faprocedures, mediation mechanisms and rely on the help of thers using their right to paid parental leave is on the rise. The competent personnel, witnesses and other persons involved. aim is to promote responsible parenting by both women and men without putting their further professional progress and development at risk. After using their right to parental leave, the duration of which depends on the personal wishes and LA16 Number of Grievances about Labor needs, employees, regardless of their gender, regularly return Practices Filed, Addressed, and Resolved to work in consultation with their superiors and the employer through Formal Grievance Mechanisms without the fear of losing their employment, benefit or careers. LA3 Indicator 2014 2015 The number of grievances by indicator 2014 2015 Total number of grievances about labor Rate of return to work after parental leave 92.45 93.96 practices filed through formal grievance 111 224 mechanisms during the reporting period Rate of retention after parental leave 93.41 94.13 Number of grievances addressed during the reporting period 223 182 2014 2015 LA3 Indicator / Gender Number of grievances resolved 56 40 Men Women Men Women during the reporting period Number of grievances about labor practices Total number of persons entitled to parental leave 1,100 4,815 404 2,228 field prior to the reporting period that were 70 122 resolved during the reporting period T Total number of persons that took parental leave 143 2,539 94 2,132 he grievances about labor practices recorded in this reporting period mainly refer to employee damage comTotal number of persons who pensation claims or other monetary claims arising from returned to work after parental 132 1,833 83 1,717 leave ended their work relationship, and grievances resulting from disciplinary procedures instigated against employees. During the Total number of persons who returned to work after parental reporting period, the number of disputes initiated was signifleave ended who were still 104 1,844 100 1,567 icantly reduced as a result of systematic and comprehensive employed 12 months after their return to work approach implemented locally, at the level of companies, and globally, at the level of the Group. Through systematic planning and implementation of measures aimed at preventing psychological abuse and reducing the level of stress at work, as well as through timely and adequate conflict resolution, we ensure working conditions in which an employee's dignity is protected. 34 CATEGORY: SOCIAL HR12 Grievances about Impact on Human Rights Filed, Addressed, and Resolved through Formal Grievance Mechanisms I n 2014, only one incident of discrimination and two grievporting period. From the four grievances reported, one was reances about the impact on human rights and employee dignisolved pursuant to internal procedures, whereas in one case, ty were reported, and all three were resolved in the course of addressed in accordance with the remediation plan, it was that the reporting period. After conducting the relevant procedure discrimination was not committed. The remaining two grievand considering the allegations of the injured party and depoances about mobbing have been referred to court resolution afsitions by persons named in the complaint, it was established ter all procedures and processes aimed at determining and rein all three cases that the employer ensured continuity of busisolving the same have proved in vain. ness processes and operations and that there were no actions Taking into consideration the entire region in which we that violated or jeopardized the dignity of employees. operate and the types of business activities performed, the In 2015, four grievances about the impact on human Group recorded no incidents of forced, mandatory or child larights were filed and addressed, and one was also successfulbor, or any other types of violations of the convention of the ly resolved through formal mechanisms already during the reInternational Labor Organization. REPORT ON THE RELATIONSHIP WITH TRADE UNIONS IN 2014 AND 2015 I n 2014 and 2015, Agrokor continued the practice of mainIn accordance with valid collective agreements, the taining good relationships and social dialogue with trade workers employed in our companies are entitled to a numunions both at the level of the Group and at the level of inber of rewards: Easter bonus, vacation regress, Christmas bodividual companies. Participation in collective agreements at nus, Christmas present for children, jubilee rewards, retirethe level of individual companies is voluntary. The employees ment-based severance pay, private health insurance, compenare not bound by sectoral or state collective agreements, and sation for travel expenses to and from work, one-off assisthe agreed working conditions are more favorable compared tance for sick-leave in the duration of more than ninety days, to statutory requirements applicable in the countries where financial assistance in the event of death in the family, allowwe operate. ance for a warm meal, right to an increase in salary due to Just like in the previous years, Agrokor maintains comovertime, work on Sundays and holidays, right to a paid leave munication with the leading trade union associations and in the duration of up to seven days per year in case of special participates in joint activities which include, among other, needs, such as the birth of a child, death in the family, movpreparation of proposals for amendments to labor related reging, education, and similar. In 2014 and 2015, the acquired ulations. Trade unions are free to establish their branches in entitlements and levels of the same were maintained. Accordour companies, depending on the interest expressed by the ing to publicly disclosed information, the trade unions that employees. The implementation of policies and practices in we cooperate with have assessed their efforts successful, as enforcing decisions of individual companies, which are conthey managed to maintain the acquired salary entitlements sidered relevant in terms of the economic and social position and material rights of workers. of workers and which require any form of participation by It can be concluded that, in 2014 and 2015, we maintrade unions or elected employee representatives, is managed tained a good relationship with the trade unions that we coactively, and centrally. operate with (32 trade unions active in the countries of the reThe companies are expected to comply with the Group gion in which Agrokor companies operate). There are no unrepolicy in the field of social dialogue and enforcement of desolved open issues and valid collective agreements are in place cisions concerning labor rights, irrespective of the local regin all companies. In addition to trade union representatives, ulations of the country in which they operate. Trade union the companies have also elected their own employee reprerepresentatives appointed in individual companies keep regsentatives. Furthermore, we maintain regular communication ular contact with the Group concerning any open issues. In and dialogue with the trade unions and are recognized in the 2014 and 2015, as in the previous years, there were no unresociety as a company that has established and maintains a fair solved open issues involving trade unions or appointed emrelationship with the trade unions. Furthermore, various trade ployee representatives. unions have more than 26,000 members in our companies. 35 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures There are 17 active trade unions in Croatia: PPDIV We actively cooperate with three trade unions in BosTrade Union, Commercial Trade Union of Croatia, Croatian nia and Herzegovina: PPDIVUT, Trade Union of Workers in Association of Trade Unions of Industrial and Trade Workers Commercial and Service Activities of Bosnia and Herzegoviof Croatia, Ledo Independent Trade Union, Trade Union of na, Commercial Trade Union of the Republic of Serbia. Croatian Workers, The New Trade Union, Trade Union of IsWe actively cooperate with ten trade unions in Serbia: tria and Kvarner, Novine Trade Union, Union of Workers EmDijamant PPDIV Independent Trade Union, PPDIV Frikom ployed in Graphic and Publishing Activities, Trade Union of Autonomous Trade Union, PPDIV Nova Sloga Autonomous Slavonia and Baranja, HUS DZZP Independent Trade Union, Trade Union, PPDIV Kikindski mlin Autonomous Trade UnCroatian Trade Union of Traffic and Communication, Workion, Association of Autonomous and Independent Trade Uners' Trade Union of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Autonions of Serbia, Autonomous Commercial Trade Union of Seromous Trade Union of Workers Employed in Service Activibia, Association of Trade Unions, Independent Trade Union of ties, Croatian Trade Union of Workers Employed in AgriculSerbia, Frikom Industrial Trade Union, Serbian Trade Union tural and Food Industry, Trade Union of Workers Employed in of Commercial Workers. Tourism and Hospitality. We actively cooperate with two unions in Slovenia: Commercial Trade Union of Slovenia and Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia 90. LA4 Minimum Notice Periods Regarding Operational Changes, Including whether these are Specified in Collective Agreements T he employees are timely and regular informed about try and type of business activity, ranging from two, four or all important operational changes. They are timely ineven six weeks. Such notice periods are defined under valid volved in such changes and joint efforts are invested in legal regulations, collective agreements and internal acts, preparing the employees for managing the same. The compadepending on the country and the type of business activity. nies are required to inform the Workers' Council or the EmIf minimum notice periods are not defined under collective ployee Representative about decisions relevant for the ecoagreements, the prescribed minimum notice periods must be nomic and social status of workers. specified in the provisions of legal regulations pertaining to The minimum notice period in which employees must labor and work relationships, as well as provisions related to be informed about significant operational changes is eight employee counseling and negotiation. days (1 week). It may however vary depending on the coun36 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-category: Product Responsibility PR1 Percentage of Significant Product and Service Categories for which Health and Safety Impacts are Assessed for Improvement B alanced nutrition, i.e. optimum intake of all nutrient and customers acquire better categories, from macro-nutrients such as carbohydietary habits. drates, proteins and fat, to minerals, vitamins and oth„Baranjski kulen“ a reder essential micro-nutrients, is essential for health protecpepper-flavored dry-cured meat tion during a person's lifetime. This is particularly important product made by Belje, a memtoday, when the rate of metabolic diseases associated with ber of the Agrokor Group, and nutritional habits, such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, the Association of Producers osteoarthritis and some types of tumors as well (endometriof Baranjski kulen, is entered osis, breast cancer, colon cancer), is constantly increasing in the register of protected (Source WHO, http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs311/en/, trademarks of designated geZEMLJOPI downloaded on March 18, 2016). On the other hand, deficiency ographic origin at the EU levKA S O ENA ZNA G PODRIJ in essential micro-nutrients caused by a monotonous diet is a el. Baranjski kulen is not only IĆ NO significant risk factor in developing a disease. a food product of high nutriAs a regional leader in the production, distribution and tional value, it is also part of • • ZAŠ LA T sale of food, we are aware of our influence on the community the cultural and historic heritET and our obligation to help the wide population of our buyers age of Baranja. WHAT WE DO – OUR APPROACH WHAT WE HAVE ACCOMPLISHED We continuously improve the nutritional composition of our During this two-year reporting period, positive steps were products in the effort to: made in all aspects of our approach to raising the nutrition• reduce the content and improve the quality of fats, al quality of our products, without jeopardizing their high• reduce the quantity of sugar, ly recognizable taste and quality. The innovativeness of our • reduce the quantity of salt, research and development teams, in combination with high • enrich the products with micro-nutrients quality standards, played a key role in that process. In the (vitamins, minerals), text below we provide examples of nutritionally improved • use natural ingredients, products by different product categories. • adjust the products to persons with special dietary needs, • educate our customers. PRODUCTS WITH IMPROVED NUTRITIONAL CONTENT FATS In 2014, Dijamant launched its Dobro jutro Dijet spreadIn 2014, Zvijezda launched Omegol with flax seeds, a able margarine enriched with functional ingredients, vitamins premium quality product with premium quality content, inB6 and B12. The product's total nutritional content meets the cluding flax seeds and millet, rapeseed rich in omega-3, vitaEuropean quality requirements prescribed for products on mins A and D relevant for normal functioning of the immune which approved health statements may be printed. The product system. It is also naturally gluten-free. thus indicates: „Vitamins B6 and B12 contribute to the normal maintenance of energy metabolism“. Omegol with flax seeds Dobro jutro Dijet margarine rich in non-saturated fats rich in vitamins B6 and B12 rich in vitamins A, D and E Vitamins B6 and B12 contribute to the rich in omega-3 fatty acid ALA (alpha-linolenic acid) that normal maintenance of energy metabolism contributes to maintaining the normal cholesterol level in blood 37 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures Sub-category: Product Responsibility BEVERAGES In our Jamnica product mix, we are very close to achieving the goal of using only natural ingredients. We have thus replaced sweeteners such as sodium cyclamate, sodium saccharin, acesulfame-K and aspartame in Jana Ice Tea peach with sugar. In Zeleni čaj, the Green Tea, launched in the Hungarian market, we have increased the percentage of natural green tea extract and enriched it with natural roiboos tee extract. Sarajevski kiseljak has enhanced its product mix by launching SkyCola Green, a non-alcoholic carbonated beverage with herbal extracts and reduced caloric value. A 30% reduction in caloric value was achieved by replacing a portion of the sugar content with natural sweetener steviol glycoside, which has no caloric value and is produced from the leaves of stevia. The Jamnica product mix has also been enriched with ICE CREAM new low-calorie products containing stevia. Only 2.5 g sugar Suitable for diabetics in 100 ml. Frikom enriched its ice cream product mix with a new line of ice creams suitable for diabetics in which the sucrose content was reduced by 55%. Instead, natural sweeteners such Sky Cola Green as maltitol, erythritol and steviol glycoside were used. The first beverage on the Suitable for customers with special dietary needs market of Bosnia and In 2015, Ledo launched its first ice cream suitable for perHerzegovina with natural sons with special dietary needs in a family package of 500 ml. sweetener steviol glycosides Frikom Strauss čoko-lešnik is an ice cream in which milk from Stevia plant leaf proteins were replaced by pea proteins. It is also gelatin-free and there are no other ingredients of animal origin either. It Jana Mint Lime has however preserved the recognizable taste of the Strauss Low-calorie flavoured water ice cream product line. The product is equally good as the othwith reduced sugar content er Strauss products based on milk. MEAT PRODUCTS PROMOTIONAL AND PIK Vrbovec started a campaign called „Less is More“, EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES which resulted in products that do not contain taste enhancers, artificial colors, gluten or soybeans in the entire PIK In addition to product development activities, we carry brand product mix. out numerous marketing campaigns covered by the media and accompanied with printed materials such as brochures, flyers and posters, as well as promotional tastings in various points of sale and attractive outdoor locations, where we interact with our visitors and engage the entire local community. The educational aspect of our activities is significantly contributed by numerous lectures at conferences, professional meetings of national and international character, at schools and other educational institutions. Here are but a few: • Mg Mivela – lecture, educational workshop for the press, Opatija, February 2015 • „Natural Mineral Waters“, lecture for students of the School of Medicine, 6th Student Congress „Nutrition and Clinical Diet Therapy“, Rijeka • „Our Food“, lecture for pupils from 5th to 8th grades, The project Less is More was created based on the Borovje Elementary School, Zagreb recognized consumer requirements and needs for healthier, but equally good and tasty products. 38 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-category: Product Responsibility • „Health Benefits of Bottled Natural Mineral Waters from the OUR GOALS FOR THE NEXT Perspective of EU Regulations“, „Mineral Waters of Serbia REPORTING PERIOD -180 years of Science“ – International Conference, Belgrade • „Integration of Contemporary Trends in the Croatian Meat Industry“, lecture presenting the educational project called We will invest continuous efforts in improving the taste and „Less is More“ to professional public, which emphasizes nutritional quality of our products, and will gradually increcustomer care, „3rd International Congress of Nutrition“, ase the share of products that meet the highest nutritional Zagreb, November 6 – 8, 2015 standards in our entire product mix. In order to achieve this We are active members of a large number of professiongoal, we will attempt to ensure: al national and international associations, such as the European Federation of Bottled Waters, in the framework of which we participate in the project called Diversity of Minerals in Bottled Waters implemented by the Clitravi International LESS SALT LESS SUGAR Meat Industry Association, Croatian Biotechnology Association, Croatian Microbiology Association, and other. In May of 2015, the Konzum Academy conducted a workshop on the topic of trademark product quality, which was orMORE NATURAL ganized for the purpose of transferring the relevant know-how. MICRO-NUTRIENTS INGREDIENTS It gathered 120 representatives of sixty suppliers from Slovenia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Croatia. The workshop also included lectures by guests from competent ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of CUSTOMER INCREASED QUALITY Health, as well as from the leading analytical laboratories, and EDUCATION STANDARDS various consultants and professionals from Agrokor companies. PR2 Total Number of Incidents of Non-compliance with Regulations and Voluntary Codes concerning the Health and Safety Impacts of Products and Services during their Life Cycle, by Type of Outcomes D uring the relevant reporting period, there were no incirelevant Group policy, which puts customer trust, safety and dents of non-compliance with the relevant national or product quality first, preventive activities, including pulling European laws and regulations or standards concernback certain products from the stores, were carried out to ening the quality, safety and possible health impacts of prodsure additional customer protection. ucts offered by Agrokor companies. In accordance with the PR3 Type of Product and Service Information Required by the Organization's Procedures for Product and Service Information and Labeling, and Percentage of Significant Product and Service Categories Subject to such Information Requirements B y accepting all regulatory national guidelines and Euducts to comply with the requirements of the Halal Standard ropean regulations, all Agrokor companies have fully defined for the group of products distinguished by specific harmonized and adjusted the information on the pacquality attributes. The same were also made suitable for conkaging of products in terms of content, depending on the casumption by followers of the Islam religion. In addition, 11 tegory, origin and the relevant technological process applied. Agrokor companies also include a list of Kosher certified proThe new order of listing nutritional values, information on ducts, which means that they were produced in accordance how to use the product and indicating allergenic ingredients with Jewish nutritional requirements. (if any) and other arbitrarily selected labels, in combinatiIn companies engaged in agricultural activities, more on with modern design and innovative packaging materials, and more emphasis is placed on monitoring and control of raw bring additional value to the wide product portfolio of own materials in accordance with the international Global G.A.P. brands, particularly the trademarks of regional character, Standard that prescribes good agricultural practices and is a thus also ensuring a more competitive market position. key element in conducting agricultural and processing produIn response to specific demand and identified needs for ction processes. The implementation of the said standard has specific products, five Agrokor companies Belje, Dijamant, resulted in an award of the related certificate in four of our Frikom, Ledo BiH and PIK Vrbovec – have adjusted their procompanies: Belje, Vupik, PIK Vinkovci and Frikom. 39 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Specific Standard Disclosures Sub-category: Product Responsibility PR4 Total Number of Incidents of Non-compliance with Regulations and Voluntary Codes Concerning Product and Service Information and Labeling, by Type of Outcomes PR9 Monetary Value of Significant Fines for Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations Concerning the Provision and Use of Products and Services D uring the reporting period, there were no incidents of labeling. Also, no fines were imposed since no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary conon-compliance with laws and regulations were recorded eides concerning product and service information and ther. PR5 Results of Surveys measuring customer Satisfaction T he Agrokor Group and its member companies devote cleanliness, staff communication with customers, communispecial attention to customer satisfaction. We distincation between staff members to get the better understandguish between corporate customers and end customing of customer needs and succeed in their efforts to meet the ers of our products and services. Agrokor's Market Research same, provision of adequate feedback information to customfunction conducts regular customer satisfaction surveys ers, cash register service, etc. The research results are moniin defined intervals applying pre-defined mechanisms, i.e. tored over time at the level of companies and at other levels standardized instruments and objective measuring methods. (regions and business areas), and they help us respond timely Standardization of the measuring process allows us to collect by improving particular elements of service at the location of results and systematically monitor the same, which results in operation concerned, with the aim of increasing the satisfactwo important benefits for the Group and its companies: all tion of our end customers. comparable Group companies apply the standardized valuaThe other large project concerns the evaluation of the tion method, which allows mutual comparison of the resultsatisfaction of our B2B customers, i.e. corporate customers of ing effects. The results obtained can also be systematically our production companies, such as partners and buyers in the monitored over time. The objectivity in data gathering is also wholesale, retail, hotel, restaurant, and other similar busiat the top of our priorities, and is realized by collecting and ness segments. The survey is conducted by the Ipsos Puls interpreting data from renowned international research inagency, one of the five leading research agencies at the globstitutes and agencies. al level using the computer-assisted telephone interviewing Agrokor Group carries out two major customer satismethod (CATI). faction monitoring projects: continuous monitoring of comThe results of B2B customer satisfaction surveys conpliance with retail service standards and a two-year customducted in previous years have demonstrated high satisfaction er satisfaction survey focusing on large customers of our prorates at the general level and at the of particular aspects of duction companies. The first project concerns the evaluation our products and services. Key contributors to customer loyof the level of compliance with standards at various points alty and priority areas for improvement in each of the compaof sale by applying the mystery shopping method and is connies have also been identified. Taking into consideration the ducted regularly in commercial chains in Croatia (Konzum), overall results achieved and the findings identified on the Bosnia and Herzegovina (Konzum BiH), Serbia (Mercator S) basis of various surveys and research activities conducted in and Slovenia (Mercator). The research is conducted by indeindividual companies and at the Group level, we will continpendent research agencies respecting the highest market reue to improve particular aspects of our services and products search standards, while the purpose of the project is to evalubecause we have recognized customer satisfaction as one of ate various aspects of the service standard: store tidiness and the cornerstones of the Group's success. 40 Category: ENVIRONMENTAL 41 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Specific Standard Disclosures Together and in balance with inent environmental standard ISO 14001:2004. These certificates, symbolically referred to as “Green Emeralds”, confirm the social and economic aspect the establishment of high business criteria which, if properly set up, bring significant improvements and have thus beof business, Agrokor’s firm come an important tool for better management of companies. environmental pillar continues to ISO 14001 is a fundamental environmental management system in Agrokor’s companies, underlying all other standards responsibly promote the sustainable directly or indirectly associated with environmental matters. development concept. Energy efficiency is an integral part of the environmental management system. The purpose of systematic energy efficiency management according to ISO 50001:2011 is to adA grokor’s environmental management systems (EMS) ditionally improve management efficiency, use and consumpwere given significant new improvements in 2014 and tion. We thereby aim to minimize our greenhouse gas emis2015. These improvements were confirmed by attainsions and other adverse environmental impacts, as well as our ing the environmental targets and implementing environcosts. Three Agrokor’s companies – Zvijezda d.d., Jamnica d.d. mental programs and resulted in reduction of adverse enviand PIK Vrbovec d.d. – received their first ISO 50001:2011 ronmental impacts and pollution, i.e. reduction of waste genenergy efficiency certificates in late 2015. Their energy maneration, reduced use of raw materials, water and energy, and agement systems were effectively integrated with the existincreased levels of knowledge, responsibility, safety and reading underlying systems. iness in ordinary and extraordinary situations. This SustainPIK Vinkovci d.d. successfully passed its first certifiability Report provides an overview of the systems relevant cation audit of its occupational health and safety systems acto the critical G4 GRI environmental impact indicators in 25 cording to the requirements of the OHSAS 18001:2007 incompanies in five countries (Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, ternational standard in November of 2014 and has thus beMacedonia, Slovenia and Serbia). come the fifth company within the Agrokor Group system to During this reporting period, Agrokor’s companies comply with OHSAS. Risks were identified and assessed for were awarded two new environmental management system each position and made available to each employee and meascertificates according to the ISO 14001:2004 international ures were undertaken for risk minimization whereby the emstandard. In May of 2014, Kikindski mlin a.d. was awarded its ployees were made aware of the risks at their respective workfirst ISO 14001 certificate, as well as Nova Sloga d.o.o. in May places for the purpose of additionally reducing the number of of 2015. The system implemented in Kikindski mlin resulted workplace injuries. Another PIK (industrial agricultural sysin significant improvements in waste management and extem) within our system – PIK Vrbovec d.d. – played an imporcellent Instructions for Employees and Visitors providing an tant role and provided assistance and coordination in the imoverview of the entire integrated management system, which plementation of OHSAS, once again highlighting our internal may serve as a role model for all other companies. Nova Slosynergies and knowledge transfer. PIK Vrbovec and PIK Vinkga was awarded certificates for both its plants – the Mg Miovci are an excellent example of first-class management of a vela Natural Mineral Water Bottling Plant and the Refrigercompany where individual systems are highly effective. ation Plant. Improvements are also noticeable in systematic In 2015, Belje d.d., PIK Vinkovci d.d. and Vupik d.d. waste management, better monitoring and higher safety levwere awarded certificates for two new systems – ISCC and els. In addition, Nova Sloga optimized its technological proDS. ISCC (International Sustainability and Carbon Certification cesses and enlarged it production capacities at the MG MiSystem) is a leading certification system covering the entire vela Plant, thus quickly achieving savings of electricity per supply chain and all types of bio feedstock and renewable enliter of finished product in this reporting period. The acquired ergy sources. Independent third party certification ensures Mercator d.d. is the first retail company in Slovenia and the compliance with high environmental and social sustainabilentire region to be awarded an ISO 14001 certificate back in ity requirements and demonstrates company’s responsibility 2009, with very impressive professional environmental proin relation to the minimization of greenhouse gas emissions, tection. Frikom a.d., Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk, Solana Pag d.d., Sasustainable use of land and protection of natural biospheres. rajevski kiseljak d.d., Dijamant a.d., Belje d.d., and AgrolaguDS (Dunav Soja) confirms the development and security of na d.d. successfully completed their ISO 14001 recertification supplying controlled-origin soybean from the Danube Basin. audits in 2014; Ledo d.d. of Zagreb, Mercator d.d. of LjubljaThe Dunav Soja association intends to promote sustainable na, Mercator-S d.o.o. of Belgrade, and Konzum d.o.o. of SarajeGMO-free soybean growing in Europe. vo completed these audits in 2015. The other companies sucBELJE d.d., PIK Vrbovec d.d., Vupik d.d. and Frikom a.d. cessfully completed their scheduled surveillance audits. Tocontinue to successfully pursue their good agricultural pracday, 21 Agrokor companies use environmental management tices and were awarded certificates under the GlobalGAP systems (EMS) certified according to the world’s most promstandard. The global partnership for safe and sustainable ag42 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL riculture directs us toward the careful management of soil, so we once again made positive use of the synergies enabled air and water with a global sustainable goal of leaving them by the size of our Group. to be used by future generations. In 2014, some forty executives from seventeen Numerous statutory audits were conducted in Agrokor’s companies in Croatia received training in alignAgrokor’s companies (integrated IPPC audits, environmenment of the environmental management system with tal protection, water protection, occupational safety and fire the new legislation of the Republic of Croatia. During that protection, sanitary audits, etc.). No cases of legal noncomsame year, training was provided on the preparation of suspliance were found, while minor objections concerning nontainability reports according to the G4 GRI Guidelines for all conformities were responded to by taking quick and effecAgrokor’s companies. In early 2015, training was provided for tive corrective measures, so no fines of non-monetary sancAgrokor’s companies in Serbia with respect to the alignment tions were imposed. The general conclusion arising from the of the environmental management system with the environfindings of independent inspectorates, certification audits mental legislation applicable in Serbia. The training included and banking trade institutions is in compliance with the rellectures about the EMAS (Eco Management Audit Scheme) evant statutory and all other requirements. This compliance certificate and about the upcoming ISO 14001 audit. In early allows for the control of all environmental and environmen2015 in Zagreb, we provided an in-house training on the subtal impact aspects. The environmental regulations relevant ject of more efficient energy management, process optimizato Agrokor’s companies in Croatia in this reporting period tion and cost minimization, energy management system and included the Environmental Permit Regulation (Official Gathe ISO 50001 international energy management standard for zette no. 08/2014), the Project Environmental Impact Assessall our large enterprises. ment Regulation (Official Gazette no. 61/2014), the Energy Agrokor’ Futura Academy continued with its programs. Efficiency Act (Official Gazette no. 127/2014), and the Large In 2015, four groups of our employees learned, amongst other Enterprise Energy Auditing Ordinance (Official Gazette no. topics, about environmental protection, management systems 123/2015). Such regulations in Serbia and Slovenia include and sustainable development. This is a program designed for the Integrated Environmental Pollution Prevention and Conyoung employees of the Group that gives them an opportunitrol Act (Official Journal of the Republic of Serbia 135/2004 ty to acquire new knowledge and quickly learn about the most and 25/2015) and the Waste Regulation (Official Journal of important elements of Agrokor Group. the Republic of Slovenia no. 37/2015), respectively. Companies prepare their environmental reports on an individual basis. Such reports are an excellent mechanism We will highlight the second edition of for controlling the effectiveness of EMS because they deterthe Agrokor Environmental Protection mine the positive and negative shifts in company’s activities relating to environmental protection and beyond in a simple, Days held in Poreč in May of 2015. accurate and measurable manner. The preparation of these The three-day event was attended by 56 experts coming reports confirms a higher level of systematic management in from 28 Agrokor Group companies. This year, the lectures a company and is also used as a tool for making new improvewere subject-specific and mostly associated with the defining ments in future periods. and attaining of environmental targets, including as many In 2014, twelve of our companies prepared the Envias fourteen lectures from the Agrokor Group system and ronmental Report 2013: Dijamant a.d., Belje d.d., Pik Vinkovci three external ones. CO2 Print of Montenegro presented a d.d., Ledo d.o.o. BiH, PIK Vrbovec d.d., Ledo d.d. Zagreb, Sasuccessful carbon footprint pilot project with our Jamnica, rajevski Kiseljak d.d., Vupik d.d., Zvijezda d.d., Jamnica d.d., while a partnership of the Cleaner Production Center of Serbia Idea a.d. (Mercator-S d.o.o.) Srbija, and Solana Pag d.d. In and the Croatian Cleaner Production Center presented the 2015, eight of our companies prepared the Environmental Repossibility of achieving more feedstock-efficient and cleaner port 2014: Belje d.d., Pik Vinkovci d.d., Ledo d.d., Ledo d.o.o. production as a path toward sustainable development. We also BiH, PIK Vrbovec d.d., Sarajevski Kiseljak d.d. BIH, Vupik d.d., heard an excellent motivational lecture given by the famous Zvijezda d.d., and Jamnica d.d. mountaineer Stipe Božić about organizing the ascents to the In 2014 and 2015, Agrokor prepared its Annual Report highest seven summits in the world on all continents. 2013 and Annual Report 2014, prominently featuring the We will also mention the presentation of Agrokor’s chapters “Integrated Management System” and “Environe-Kolektor d.o.o. company to Agrokor’s companies. As a commental Management System”. pany specializing in waste management, e-Kolektor is a The environmental training processes were very powerful addition to Agrokor’s environmental management intensive during the relevant period. In addition to important systems. The critical points of their mission and vision stateexternal training courses attended by our employees, we will ments are to ensure top service quality in the process of waste highlight our in-house training course held exclusively for collection, treatment and disposal and to help it focus on beour employees. Most of the trainers were also our employees, coming a leading waste management company in the region. 43 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Specific Standard Disclosures Positive results are visible in the yards of all Agrokor’s sites: tion, fifty Jamnica’s drivers completed eco-driving training. the distinctive green containers and modern facilities improvSarajevski kiseljak built and put into service an aling the waste management activities. kali regeneration plant which provided savings of alkali and In addition to our regular trainings for environmenfresh water and reduced wastewater saturation. A waste baltal executives, employees responsible for important aspects ing press was also installed as part of a modern waste manof environmental protection, internal environmental auditors agement eco-corner. and new employees, but also our customers, suppliers and Mladina completed their tank enclosure in the pestipartners, our senior management (Vupik d.d., Kikindski mlin cide storage area. a.d., Nova Sloga a.d., Ledo d.d.) also received training. TrainFonyódi reduce the weight of their secondary packaging continues to drive our efforts toward improving our sysing materials and reconstructed their CIP unit. tems on all business levels. Roto Dinamic began to systematically track their waste Agrokor is a party to the UN Global Compact Network, a management and appointed their Environmental Officer. member of the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable DeThe Belje business complex in Mitrovac, Baranja, is an velopment (CBCSD), and takes an active part in the activities example of successful synergy because the largest dairy farm of the Environmental Protection Association attached to the in Croatia provides part of the materials necessary to make biCroatian Chamber of Economy, GIU PAK (Economic Interest ogas, the Agrokor – Energija biogas plant produces electricGrouping for Packaging and Environmental Protection), EKO ity and heat, and the greenhouse uses heat to grow tomatoes Ozra, and other institutions. on a year-round basis. Beside all this, the farm also includes We are now in our fourth year of collecting plastic bota solar power plant. Belje’s Dairy Factory put into service an tle caps in Agrokor companies in Croatia for the benefit of the equalization pool and started to use gas at five pig farms. A 2 Croatian Leukemia and Lymphoma Patients Association. This MW biogas plant next to the Popovac farm in Belje was also is a humanitarian campaign intended to improve the lives of put into service. Agrokor – Energija built two more biogas leukemia and lymphoma patients, but also to improve the sepplants – Vinka within the eponymous plant near Vinkovci and aration of this type of waste which used to end up in municOvčara next to Vupik’s dairy farm near Vukovar. ipal waste. Vupik completed the process of obtaining a number of In 2014 and 2015, our companies made numerous imwater management licenses which were issued for all sites. provements in the area of environmental protection. ProfesThe implementation of a quality management system accordsionally managed environmental protection yields results – ing to ISO 9001:2015 is in its final stage. many interesting projects were designed within Agrokor’s inThe primary energy source at the Sopot site within tegrated systems. PIK Vinkovci was replaced by a more environmentally more At the Fifth National Socially Responsible Business acceptable energy source (pellets), thus reducing CO2 emisConference held on 25 March 2014 at the Esplanade Hotel in sions. Improvements are also noticeable in remote facilities: Zagreb, Ledo d.d. won an Indeks DOP Award for 2013. at PIK Vinkovci we will highlight the roofing of the diesel fuel Thanks to adhering to high production quality and innotank at the Polača site in Ravni kotari. PIK Vrbovec extended vation standards, but also those relating to environmental the scope of their EMS to their sales centers (Osijek and Rimanagement, Ledo was included in the prestigious list of jeka), reconstructed part of the internal sewage system, and award-winners in the Responsible Environmental Managecommissioned a wastewater treatment plant. In early 2014, ment Policies and Practices category. That same year, forty PIK Vrbovec also obtained an Integral Environmental AuLedo’s drivers completed eco-driving training aiming to rethorization for its existing plant in Vrbovec, a so-called Enviduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. In 2014, Irida sucronmental Permit according to the IPPC Directive. That same cessfully had its new FSSC (Food Safety System Certificayear, 50 PIK Vrbovec’s drivers received eco-driving training. tion) 22000 system certified. Frikom reassembled their heatZvijezda organized an interesting project for reducing ing line in a part of the factory, which significantly reduced waste pallet volumes. A new steam boiler was commissioned, heat and water losses. Ledo d.o.o. of Čitluk improved their which resulted in lower air emissions. A training project tiwaste storage area as part of a project associated with the extled “Eco-Driving” included training of twenty cargo vehicle ports of fish to EU member states. drivers who may significantly contribute to the reduction of In cooperation with the Croatian Cleaner Production fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by changing their drivCenter and UNIDO’s consultants, Jamnica completed its Low ing style. Carbon Technologies project. The project aims to provide Dijamant launched a useful initiative for regularbest-practice examples for Low-Carbon (LC) technologies in ly meeting with residents of communities around the factoselected Southeast European companies. CO2 Print of Montery where neighbors are given an opportunity to learn about negro completed a successful carbon footprint pilot project for the company’s activities with respect to environmental procarbonated natural mineral water, also with Jamnica. In additection. The amount of wastewater at Dijamant was reduced 44 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL by using an appropriate operating method and reviewing the suring energy efficiency at all major facilities, replaced the technological operations. lighting at 23 facilities, and purchased 27 commercial vehiAgrolaguna completely resolved its problems regardcles featuring EURO 6 engines, thus achieving a reduction in ing wastewater coming from the Špin Farm because wasteemissions generated by freight vehicles. water generated by milking and milk storage at the farm was Mercator-S Srbija trained their employees at all levconnected to the wastewater treatment plant at the cheese els about the relevant amendment to the legislation concernplant at the same site. Works are in progress at the winery ing food safety and environmental protection and increased and the oil mill for the construction of new collectors and the volumes of collected and recycled waste. wastewater treatment plants. In addition to purchasing old paper, in 2015 Tisak beAs part of a coarse salt irrigation facility project at gan to purchase textile and purchase 30% more nonhazardSolana Pag the existing equipment was replaced and a new ous waste in 2014 and 2015 than in 2013. 58 Tisak’s drivers drying facility was installed, thus making additional positive received eco-driving training. In addition, three Group comshifts with respect to reducing energy consumption and uspanies (Konzum, Jamnica and Aviva) purchased a total of seving new energy sources. enteen hybrid vehicles to reduce the environmental impact of Konzum Hrvatska trained 215 drivers for eco-driving driving and exhaust fumes. and thus reduced their CO2 emissions from cargo vehicles, These are just some of the important Agrokor’s enviheating oil was replaced by more energy-efficient and less ronmental projects implemented during the reporting period. harmful natural gas, the existing exterior lighting was reMore details are provided below, in the company-specific replaced by LED bulbs, the fluorescent tubes were replaced by ports. In future, we plan to focus even more on quality by setmore energy-efficient tubes, etc. Konzum d.o.o. BiH demonting new environmental targets and implementing new enstrated their social responsibility by taking part in the “Let’s vironmental programs, on quality audits under international Plant One Million Trees in 1 Day” and “Let’s Clean the Earth in standards, in particular ISO 14001:2015, on energy-efficien1 Day” projects. 306 employees were trained for the environcy, and on greater involvement of management of our compamental management system. In addition, they installed 14 nies in this segment of business. grease traps for separating waste grease and oil. Together and in balance with the social and economic Mercator Slovenija increased the share of their sortaspect of business, Agrokor’s firm environmental pillar coned waste at 206 retail stores, conducted a central audit of tinues to responsibly promote the sustainable development their technical refrigeration equipment for the purpose of enconcept. For the fourth Sustainability Report, the Agrokor Group companies gathered data representing a total of eighteen environmental indicators as follows: EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions EN3 Energy consumption within the organization EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) EN5 Energy intensity EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions EN6 Reduction of energy consumption EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or with environmental laws and regulations adjacent to, protected areas and areas of EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products high biodiversity value outside protected areas and other goods and materials for the organization’s EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and operations, and transporting members of the workforce services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and high biodiversity value outside protected areas investments by type EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 45 Specific standard disclosures Category: ENVIRONMENTAL Retail 46 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum K onzum is the largest national and regional retail chain ing of freight vehicle drivers resulted in reduced CO2 emiswhich presently operates over 750 stores. In late 2014, sions generated by cargo vehicles. Between May and Novemthe Mercator retail chain was merged into Konzum, ber of 2014, 215 cargo vehicle drivers attended an eco-driving which additionally reinforced Konzum’s regional position. A course (held by ORYX Group) in five cities (Zagreb, Osijek, Ritotal of 75 additional stores were included in the system (12 jeka, Poreč and Split). Super Konzum stores, 12 Maxi Konzum stores, two Velpro CenThanks to the integration of the ISO 14001 and HACCP ters and 49 small stores). Management systems had been imdocumentation and its availability in electronic format on the plemented in all former Mercator stores (ISO 140001 and ISO intranet portal, the volume of printed documents was reduced 22000). In 2015, each Mercator store received an ISO 14001 and less paper waste is now generated. According to the target certificate, while 12 Super Konzum stores and three Velpro set and the relevant statutory requirements, R-22 was comCenters received ISO 22000 certificates. Some of the Mercator pletely phased out in all equipment. We did not fully achieve stores had implemented and certified HACCP systems, but had our objective of implementing an energy-efficient managenot received an ISO 14001 certificate with respect to environment system because the legal framework is vague (not all mental protection (their business was in compliance with the necessary regulations were put in place), so the attainment of statutory requirements, but the system was not formally certhis objective was transferred to the next period. tified). In August of 2015, the Kozmo stores, which had also In 2015, we began to prepare for the implementation of implemented environmental management and food safety sysan energy-efficiency system according to the requirements of tems, were merged into Konzum’s system (their systems will 50001. The implementation and certification of this system are be certified in 2016). Kozmo conducted their business in comscheduled for late 2016. In late 2015, a new Ordinance was put pliance with the relevant legislation, but their management in place that defines the possibility of donating food, wheresystems were not implemented or certified. by Konzum became even more actively involved in cooperation Konzum continues to improve its services and introwith the local community – in addition to the primary goal of duce innovations, as confirmed by the management systems helping people with lower income, this should also help reduce implemented and certified during the past period. An ISO the amount of retired assets. In addition to their intensified ac14001:2004 environmental management system was impletivities regarding food donation, Konzum continues to particimented and certified in all company facilities back in 2010 pate in the campaign for collecting plastic bottle caps for the and successfully recertified in 2013, so Konzum will continue Croatian Leukemia and Lymphoma Patients Association. One of to undertake its activities in this respect. A 22000:2005 food the most important future objectives is to fully computerize the safety management system was implemented in all company flow of all types of waste on all levels, which is why we expect stores and certified in Velpro Centers, Super Konzum stores to improve our control of the entire waste management system. and in warehouses. Konzum also had its occupational safety In late 2015, the former Mercator P-3200 store on Radsystem certified according to OHSAS 18001:2007 and its innička Street in Zagreb was redesigned and it is now quite difformation security system according to ISO/IEC 27001:2013. ferent than the other stores – the fresh product departments The objectives of the environmental management syswere improved and new services were offered (for example, the tem in 2014 and 2015 were to train drivers for eco-driving, imjuice bar, the coffee corner in the winter garden. etc.). A prize plement new technological solutions and achieve savings by contest was organized for the opening ceremony at the redeusing nonrenewable energy sources. Savings were achieved signed Super Konzum Radnička where the main prize was a by regularly maintaining equipment, reconstructions (heatTesla electric car, whereby we made it clear to our customers ing system, installation of LED lighting and motion sensors) that we are an environmentally conscious company promotand training the employees. The heating plants in four stores ing the use of alternative energy sources. The store’s parking were reconstructed and heating oil was replaced by more ener­ lot features the first Konzum electric vehicle charging station, gy-efficient and less harmful natural gas in four stores. In representing an important service now available to environ57 stores the existing exterior lighting was replaced by LED mentally aware citizens who will surely appreciate this. 10 bulbs, T8 fluorescent tubes were replaced by more energy-effimore charging station are planned to be installed in 2016 in cient T5 tubes, and motion sensors were installed in the least parking lots or garages of Konzum stores. used areas. Motion sensors were installed in the garages of six A new web shop (Konzum Klik) was opened in late 2015 Super Konzum stores and LED bulbs replaced the former lightin the former Getro Vrbani building in Zagreb. In addition to ing at the Fruits & Vegetables departments in 18 stores. Trainhome delivery, the shop offers a drive-in service. 47 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 ket than in the preceding reporting period. The packaging Materials for packaging purposes 11,448,950 11,417,338.29 presented for this indicator is packaging of marketed products directly imported by Konzum, for which it pays a charge Total 11,448,950 11,417,338.29 to the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. The reduction of packaging weight is a result of reduced imIn 2014 and 2015, we put 0.05% more packaging on the marports and a trend of using less packaging. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization (GJ) Year Diesel Natural gas LPG Electricity ELHO Steam 2014 4,189,410 111,551 897 898,139 14,973 20,725 2015 4,358,870 143,203 1,139 1,029,412 19,839 17,891 Total 8,548,280 254,754 2,036 1,927,551 34,812 38,616 Energy consumption increased by 14.48% during this regas and district heating steam decreased (gas by 4.77% and porting period due to an increased number of stores (Mersteam by 6.96 %). Consumption of heating oil (14.69%) and cator was integrated in the system in late 2014 – 75 stores electricity (18.05%) increased compared to the preceding rewith around 80,000 m2, while Kozmo was integrated in 2015 porting period due to an increased number of stores. – 70 stores with around 17,000 m2). Consumption of natural EN5: Energy intensity (GJ/turnover) Energy intensity was not presented for the preceding reporting Year Energy intensity (GJ/HRK 100,000) period. Energy intensity was calculated by dividing total energy 2014 9 consumption denominated in GJ (electricity, gas, heating oil…) by the turnover expressed in HRK 100,000. This line of business 2015 10 recorded higher energy intensity by 11.11% than in 2014 as a result of the acquisition of Mercator and Kozmo stores. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption The installation of motion sensors and more efficient lighting ing plants and replacement of energy sources (eight stores) (LED bulbs, T8 fluorescent tubes replaced by more energy-effiresulted in reduced heating oil consumption in these stores by cient T5 tubes) at six Super Konzum stores resulted in reduced 62.71% compared to the preceding reporting period. electricity consumption by 6.37%. The reconstruction of heat48 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Public water Total volume of Water consumption increased by 23.95% compared to the Year supply system water withdrawn preceding reporting period. This is a result of an increased 2014 416,860 416,860 number of stores (acquisition of Mercator and Kozmo in 2015). 2015 509,336 509,336 Total 926,196 926,196 Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse in buildings are heating plants and boilers where emissions 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CO2) were reduced by 19.37%, while vehicle emissions decreased Buildings 3,411.29 3,104.27 by 1.2%. This result was achieved by training drivers and Transport 11.19 11.62 thus reducing vehicle greenhouse gas emissions, while the Total 3,422.48 3,115.89 results for the heating plants were achieved by regularly inspecting and maintaining our heating plants. In 2014, the Greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 19.32% compared fleet comprised 389 cargo vehicle, which number increased to the preceding reporting period. The sources of emissions to 406 vehicles in 2015. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse A total of 419,590.44 tons of CO2 was emitted to produce the 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CO2) electricity used in Konzum stores during this reporting peFor electricity 195,507.38 224,083.06 riod. Total 195,507.38 224,083.06 EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity was not recorded during Year (t/HRK 100,000) the preceding reporting period, so no data comparison is available. Intensity was reduced by 16.13% in 2015 compared 2014 0.031 to 2014 as a result of regular maintenance of heating plants 2015 0.026 and training of freight vehicle drivers. 49 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Specific standard disclosures EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Compared to the preceding reporting period, greenhouse gas sulting in a reduction of emissions by 19.37% (1565.64 t of emissions were reduced by 1565.94 t of C02, i.e. by 19.32%. CO2). A lesser reduction in CO2 emissions was achieved for The greatest reduction was achieved with respect to the vehicles (1.2%, i.e. 0.3 t of CO2) as a result of our freight vehiemissions from heating plants and boilers used to heat premcle driver training which continues on an ongoing basis. ises and water. Eight heating plants were reconstructed, reEN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Only permitted refrigerants are used in refrigeration equipprevent air emissions of substances. Compared to the precedment and air conditioners (R404a, R407c, R410a). Regular sering period, R22 was phased out in all company stores in accorvicing and maintenance, as well as proper use of equipment, dance with the relevant legislation (2851 kg still remains). EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Air emissions (t) Air emissions were reduced by 36.38% compared to the preceding reporting period. The reduction is a result of regularly Year SO2 NO2 CO servicing heating plants and boilers, reconstructing heating 2014 1.3 2.72 0.23 plants, and replacing heating oil by more energy-efficient 2015 1.25 2.58 0.21 and environmentally less harmful natural gas. In four heating plants, heating oil was replaced by gas (P-603, P-521, Total 2.55 5.3 0.44 P-24 and P-904). Four heating plants were reconstructed. They continue to use heating oil but they are now much safer and more efficient (P-462, P-181, P-494 and P-1310). EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Wastewater discharged from company facilities is not subdangerous substances is discharged into sewerage systems ject to the Ordinance on Emission Limit Values for Wastewaor septic tanks (no direct discharge into natural recipients). ter Discharges, does not exceed 30 m3 per day, and does not In stores operating gastro departments, wastewater is disrequire a water management license. This is why wastewacharged through grease traps, thus reducing the possibility ter amounts are not directly recorded and no exact figures of discharging harmful substances to a minimum. 33% more are available – the amounts may be estimated based on the grease traps were used in this reporting period than in the water use figures (EN8). Wastewater not contaminated by preceding one. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) e-Kolektor, Unijapapir, Metis, Cezar, Tisak, Unija Nova, Agroproteinka, Ekoflor plus, Nonhazardous waste R4, R13 12,020.55 12,960.64 ZG Holding, Odvodnja, Jolly JBS, CIOS, CIAK, Friš Hazardous waste R3, R4, R5, R12 Flora VTC, CIAK, Friš 31.09 18.56 Total 12,051.64 12,979.20 Compared to the preceding period, Konzum produced 38.33% and Kozmo, such results were expected. Konzum pays a great more nonhazardous waste and 36.56% more hazardous waste deal of attention to sorting waste at source, thus enabling the in company facilities. As the system now includes Mercator extraction of maximum amounts of useful waste and reduc50 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum tion of municipal waste. The focus on reducing municipal portant to continuously train employees – a great emphasis waste will remain present in the next period as well. After will be placed in the next period on intensified training and implementing a digital application, control will be more efawareness of employee on all levels. Compared to the precedfective and it will be possible to respond more quickly, which ing reporting period, our revenue from selling sorted useful is why we are expecting even better results, i.e. more usewaste increased by 42.26%. ful waste and less municipal waste. It is also of utmost imCompliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No cases of noncompliance with any environmental laws and or sanctions in the preceding reporting period either, there is regulations were recorded during 2014 and 2015. No fines or no difference. nonmonetary sanctions were imposed. As there were no fines Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Year Fuel for transport (GJ) In 2014 and 2015, 313,196.44 GJ was used for transport, 2014 153,661.81 which is 12.75% more compared to the preceding reporting period. At the same time, CO2 emissions were reduced by 2015 159,534.63 1.2% as a result of training freight vehicle drivers. Total 313,196.44 Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type In 2014 and 2015, the costs of waste transport and disof landscaping, green surface cleaning and snow cleaning posal and the costs of utility equipment amounted to HRK decreased by 17.30% compared to the preceding reporting pe46,470,101.10, which is 28.38% more compared to the preriod and amounted to HRK 6,381,000. These costs were lower ceding reporting period. HRK 17,852,240.14 was spent on because the snow cleaning costs were lower as a result of the equipment maintenance (heating plant servicing, chimney weather conditions. As no environmental incidents were resweeping services, emission measuring, maintenance of recorded, no funds were spent on remediation of damage (one frigerating and air conditioning equipment), which is 3.92% spill occurred in the preceding reporting period and HRK more compared to the preceding reporting period. This in1,036,972.25 was spent to remediate it). crease in costs is a result of network enlargement. The costs Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs management costs (HRK) (HRK) 2014 23,041,576.37 8,816,446.18 2015 23,428,524.73 9,035,793.96 Total 46,470,101.10 17,852,240.14 51 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Specific standard disclosures Targets for the next period: • The targets for the next period are reduction of fuel consumption for freight vehicles and reduction of air emissions as a result of switching to more environmentally acceptable fuel. We plan to install autogas systems in around 150 cargo vehicles and expect to thereby reduce our fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. We will also continue to provide training to our freight vehicle drivers to achieve even greater reductions. • In the context of waste management, we plan to implement a fully computerized system for monitoring the flow of all types of waste in all facilities. This will facilitate document preparation on the store level, however, the greatest benefit provided will be full control at all stores at all times, which will allow for better results with respect to the organization of sorting and transport of waste from each site. • We also plan to intensify our activities regarding food donations which should have a social effect of helping citizens with low income and result in better discard planning in stores, i.e. reduction of Class 3 waste. We will continue with our campaign for collecting bottle caps to help leukemia patients, but it will be extended to additional sites. We are also planning to conduct marketing campaigns to mark environment-relevant dates (Environment Day, etc.) to make Konzum a prominent leader in the area of environmental protection as well. • The management systems implemented and certified during the preceding period will continue to be maintained and improved. An ISO 14001 recertification is scheduled for May/June of 2016. Surveillance audits to be conducted by the ISO 22000 certifier are planned in two phases – in February and July of 2016. In the next reporting period, we also plan to introduce a new management system – an energy efficiency management system according to ISO 50001. 52 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Sarajevo Konzum Sarajevo K onzum d.o.o. Sarajevo operates in the retail and wholemanagement system. We also installed 14 grease traps for sale segments on the market of Bosnia and Herzegovseparating waste grease and oil. ina. They closed the year 2015 with 258 retail stores In 2014, we worked on preparing a technical and technoand seven wholesale facilities. logical project for a banana ripening plant. This implied The most important activity to be highlighted in this designing the layout for all rooms and arranging the pallet reporting period is the acquisition of 90 Mercator retail spaces in the ripening facility. An environmental impact stores in late 2014, which significantly reinforced the netassessment was made and a proposal was submitted for the work in the context of size and market position. management of all management aspects. These aspects perIn 2014, a natural disaster occurred in Bosnia and Hertain to potential emissions of refrigerant and ethylene gas, zegovina – a flood that destroyed three retail stores along hazardous and nonhazardous types of waste to be generated the Bosna River (Doboj, Maglaj and Žepče). One of the stores (paper, plastic, fluorescent bulbs, EE waste, wood and biowas completely destroyed, while the other two suffered subwaste), and wastewater discharge. stantial damage. All destroyed stores were fully reconstructIn 2015, we successfully had our ISO 14001 environed. All products affected by the flood and all waste resulting mental management system recertified. According to the tarfrom the renovation were disposed of in an environmentally gets set for the preceding period, we installed a heat recovery acceptable manner. A post-flood inspection found no emissystem and a VAR compensator. LED lighting was installed sions of dangerous substances. in 20 retail stores and containers were made available for volThis reporting period was marked by preparations for untary disposal of EE waste in 10 retail stores. Useful waste alignment with the legislative requirements in the area of selection (paper, nylon, bottle caps) was launched in the adchemicals management, a database of the chemicals we use ministration building. The forklift trucks are equipped with in our business was created, and the relevant documents sound and light signals as an occupational safety measure were verified for compliance with the relevant statutory reand office areas were equipped with certified power cables. quirements. For the purposes of presenting the environmental indiAccording to the targets set for this reporting period, cators, the information about the input and output categories preventive surveillance was established over the discharge pertain to the entire system including the retail and wholeof refrigerant from equipment in Maxi and Super stores sale networks and the administration building. It should be within the retail network and all Velpro Centers. We trained noted that most of the indicators in 2015 were higher as a re306 employees on the requirements of the environmental sult of the sales network enlargement in late 2014. 53 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Sarajevo Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume In the context of the basic materials used to provide the serity stabilization, while the increase by 17% compared to the vices performed by Konzum, they primarily refer to the packpreceding reporting period is a result of the rapid growth of aging materials of marketed and sold products. the sales network in late 2014 when an increase occurred due to the initial stocking of standard assortment. Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 In February of 2014, a regulation came into force that defines payment of charges for disposable bags based on Raw materials their thickness and prohibits purchasing of disposable shopAssociated process materials ping bags thicker than 20 μm because all disposable bags Materials for packaging purposes 2,818,140 2,361,569 exceeding this figure are considered to be multipurpose. This practice allowed for the multiple use of bags because The amounts of packaging material used that were 16% less the defined price of a disposable bag encouraged the conin 2015 than in 2014 are a result of sales network and capacsumer to reuse it. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization (GJ) Year Electricity Diesel Steam 648,559 liters of diesel fuel were used to drive 3,444,610 kilometers in 2015, and 721,072 liters of diesel fuel were used to 2014 210,720 32,390 17,086 drive 3,243,275 kilometers in 2014. Compared to the preceding 2015 316,278 29,557 23,615 reporting period, our diesel consumption increased by 62% as Total 526,998 61,947 40,701 a result of more vehicles and a larger sales network. As energy products, hot water and steam are used Compared to 2014, in 2015 we recorded an increase in electo heat premises as a product of the combustion of differtricity consumption by 50% as expected, since 2015 was the ent fuel types (extra light heating oil, coal, gas). 48 stores first year with an increased number of retail stores. Electricused these types of fuel in 2015, consuming a total of ity consumption increased by 110% compared to the pre23,615 GJ. The surface area to which this figure pertains is ceding reporting period. Electricity is necessary to operate 41,930.50 m2. A 38% increase compared to 2014 is a result of all equipment and lighting fixtures, as well as cooling and a long heating season. Compared to the preceding reporting heating. period, our indirect energy consumption increased by 65% as The nonrenewable energy source used for transport is a result of more stores using it. diesel. The fleet comprises cars, light commercial vehicles As a renewable energy source, pellets were used in and freight vehicles. In 2015, we used 60 own freight vehi14 stores during the 2015 heating season. The surface area cles, compared to 49 in 2014 and in the preceding reporting heated was 13,389.00 m2. In 2014, 11 stores used pellets. The period. The number of cars and light commercial vehicles consumption levels can only be stated financially. Volatile varies, with the average number of vehicles in 2014 being 94 biofuel prices year after year prevent a comparison in conand 110 in 2015. sumption. 54 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Sarajevo EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity pose of transporting goods within the retail and wholesale 2014 2015 (GJ/turnover) networks and delivering them to other wholesale network GJ of direct nonrenewable energy/ customers. 0.00009 0.00007 Another organization-specific figure is GJ of indirect EUR of turnover electricity used to operate equipment, cooling and heating GJ of indirect electricity/ 0.0006 0.0007 per square meter of the surface area of the stores using it for EUR of turnover such purposes. Organization-specific intensity expresses GJ of direct nonThis figure was not calculated in the preceding reportrenewable energy (diesel fuel) per turnover used for the puring period. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Change of the tariff model and the supplying/measuring voltities using a total of 10,000 kWh of active power per month. age network, replacement of meters, installation of reactive The meter replacement also results in financial savings bepower compensators and an integrated meter, and transport tween 10% and 20%. route optimization are the measures undertaken on an ongoThe installation of compensators is an investment with ing basis for the purpose of reducing costs and consumption a payback period of 12-15 months. It provides financial savof fuel of all forms and sources. ings because it eliminates reactive power by 2-3%, but also The tariff model change, i.e. switching to a model extends the equipment lifetime. The installation of an intewhere power is not measured to a model with power meagrated meter initiates savings of around 20% due to the measurement provides financial savings of around 10% for facilsuring of both expensive and cheap daily tariffs. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Public water Total volume of Water is supplied from the public water supply system, for Year supply system water withdrawn drinking and as process/sanitary water. An increase by 6% in 2014 140,010 140,010 2015 compared to 2014 is a sole result of a sudden increase in the number of fuel consuming devices, i.e. enlargement of 2015 148,041 148,041 the retail network. Compared to the preceding reporting period, water consumption increased by 51%, also as a result of the retail network enlargement. 55 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Sarajevo Specific standard disclosures Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse hicles comprising the fleet, i.e. cargo vehicles, light commer2014 2015 gas emissions (t CO2) cial vehicles and cars. Transport 2,400 2,187 The noticeable reduction is equivalent to the fuel consumption reduction in 2015 compared to 2014. Compared to Total 2,400 2,187 the preceding reporting period, our greenhouse gas emisDirect CO2 emissions relate to transport and emissions resions increased by 65% as a result of increased fuel consumpsulting from diesel combustion. The estimate includes all vetion due to fleet enlargement. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse The increase is equivalent to the increase in the amount of 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CO2) supplied electricity in 2015 compared to 2014. Compared to Electricity 45.87 68.84 the preceding reporting period, our greenhouse gas emissions increased by 110%, which is consistent with the elecTotal 45.87 68.84 tricity consumption increase percentage as explained in EN3. Indirect CO2 emissions relate to kWh of electricity supplied to the company and used. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Organization-specific emission intensity indicates the ratio 2014 2015 (t/turnover) between CO2 emitted and turnover obtained. CO2 emitted rept of emitted CO2 / EUR turnover 1.33x10 -7 1.58x10 -7 resents greenhouse gases resulting from direct and indirect emissions. Compared to the preceding reporting period, our greenhouse gas emissions intensity increased by 50%. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions By technically improving our equipment and using sourccomposition, creation and use, we aim to reduce emissions es with less adverse environmental impacts thanks to their generated by company’s daily activities. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Number Number In 2014, all refrigeration devices using R-12 were completeReplenished Replenished Year of devices of devices ly discontinued; three were used the year before. The comwith R 12 with R 22 using R 12 using R 22 pany has refrigeration devices using R-22 and their number 2014 0 0 8 677 remained the same as in 2013. Compared to the preceding 2015 0 0 8 519 reporting period, R-22 consumption was reduced by 10% as a result of preventive maintenance. Total 0 0 8 1,196 56 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Sarajevo EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Direct emissions (t NO2) 2014 2015 The calculation is based on the disclosed emission factors per Transport 0.426 0.389 kilometer considering the engine displacement and average consumption for all vehicles comprising the fleet. Compared Total 0.426 0.389 to the preceding reporting period, our direct emissions increased by 38% as a result of using more vehicles. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Wastewater generated at all company sites is discharged into Several facilities use separators operating on a decanting the public sewerage system or a particular recipient, dependbasis, i.e. mechanically separating large impurities, which is ing on the location. Wastewater quality is not subjected to one of the preventive measures positively affecting wastewaregular analysis because this is not a legal requirement. ter quality. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Cardboard/paper and plastic (polypropylene and polyetha greater number of sites generating it and improvements of ylene) account for most of our nonhazardous waste. An inmethods for its management. crease by 27% in selective collection of cardboard and plastic Nonhazardous wastes include waste edible oil and packaging in 2015 compared to 2014 is primarily a result of small household appliances that are found to be defective, rethe network enlargement, but also of ongoing improvements tired and classified as EE waste. of the management system relative to that type of waste. Hazardous wastes include gas light bulbs and batteries Compared to the preceding reporting period, the amount of that are disposed of in an environmentally acceptable mannonhazardous waste collected increased by 85% as a result of ner after being replaced. Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Temporary storage, Alba, Ekosirovina, Grand turnover, Čistoća AD Nonhazardous waste 1,661.8 2,123.75 selection, compacting Banja Luka Zeos, Mulalić, Ladanušić Hazardous waste Temporary storage Zeos 0.830 0.480 Total 1,662.63 2,124.23 Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations As of 1 January 2015, we have updated information about identified and recorded and that appropriate corrective or all official audits in the company (Management, Retail and preventive actions are taken. The information provided Wholesale). We designed an operating procedure that all emin such audit records include the audited site, audit date, ployees are required to comply with within the scope of their audited area and subject matter of the audit, auditing auassignments and responsibilities. thority’s level, document number, and any nonconformities The operating procedures defines how to act in case identified. a representative of a competent auditing authority visits As of mid-2015, we began to maintain such records the company and manage nonconformities and corrective/ using an application allowing us to send audit report sumpreventive actions to ensure that any nonconformities are maries to all stakeholders. 57 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Sarajevo Specific standard disclosures Area and number of audits in 2015 Audit information Retail Management Sarajevo Mostar Tuzla Banja Luka Wholesale No. Area/Number of audits Region Region Region Region 1, Sanitary 182 2 78 35 24 37 6 2, Veterinary 305 0 198 18 29 58 2 3, Agriculture 21 0 2 13 2 4 0 4, Market 121 1 43 19 19 37 2 5, Environment 61 1 23 4 12 21 0 6, Labor 45 6 14 5 8 11 1 7, Tax 3 10 1 1 0 1 0 Aggregate 2015 738 10 359 95 94 169 11 Aggregate 2015 738 10 717 11 “Environment” refers to audits conducted by the Environmental Protection Inspectorate, Urban Planning Inspectorate, Fire Protection Inspectorate, Occupational Safety Inspectorate and the Electricity Inspectorate. Summary of results Environment: Total number of audits Number of Total number % of audits with Fines imposed Area Region with noncompliance stores of audits noncompliance found (KM) found Management 1 0 0% 0 Sarajevo 135 23 10 43.5 0 Banja Luka 40 21 13 61.9% 800 Retail Mostar 47 4 2 50.0% 0 Tuzla 31 12 6 50.0% 0 Wholesale 7 0 0 Reason for noncompliance – number of audits with noncompliance found / % fines Occupational Protective Noise Waste Documentation Hygiene Područje Regija safety equipment Fines Fines Fines Number Number NumberFines (KM) NumberFines (KM) NumberFines (KM) Number (KM) (KM) (KM) Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sarajevo 2 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 4 0 1 0 Banja Luka 1 0 2 0 3 0 3 800 3 0 1 0 Retail Mostar 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tuzla 1 0 3 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 Wholesale The first table presents the share of audits with identified table specifies the number of audits by segment/subject of noncompliance in the number of audits conducted by inspecaudit. The fine imposed related to our failure to snow outside torates auditing environmental aspects, while the second a retail store. 58 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Konzum Sarajevo Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce In 2015, 23,646 GJ of diesel fuel was used as directly proThe significant increase in 2014 compared to 2013 is a result duced energy by 60 trucks, which resulted in air emissions, of a sudden enlargement of the retail network. The 10% denamely 1.749 t CO2/year, 1.838 t CO/year, and 0.219 t NOx / crease in 2015 compared to 2014 is a result of process optiyear. In 2014, the emissions were 1.945 t CO2/year, 2.043 t mization. CO/year, and 0.243 t NOx /year. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (KM) management costs (KM) 2014 586,243 908,031 2015 866,340 1,231,431 Total 1,452,583 2,139,462 The figures under “Waste disposal, emissions treatment and sult of prevention, regular maintenance of refrigerating and remediation costs” relates to municipal waste disposal and air conditioning equipment, forest exploitation charges, and treatment. The 82% increase compared to the preceding reriver basin burdening charges. porting period is a result of significant network enlargement The charge paid for disposable bags put into circulaand additional waste generators. tion in 2014 amounted to KM 38,605. In 2015, the sale of The figures under “Prevention and environmental disposable bags subject to such charge, i.e. bags less than 20 management” relate to the aggregate costs incurred as a remicrons thick, was discontinued. Plans for 2016 and 2017: • audit the compliance with the ISO 14001 requirements on a sample of at least fifty stores, including a summary by format; • regularly maintain a chemicals registry; • install two new EE waste containers (small household appliances) intended for Konzum customers; • dispose of batteries collected from consumers; • replace the waste oil collecting operator; • equip a park in Sarajevo Canton with benches; and • take part in voluntary environment cleaning campaigns in municipalities across Bosnia and Herzegovina. 59 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Specific standard disclosures Mercator Slovenia M ercator Group operates as part of the Agrokor Group In 2014 and 2015, the environmental management system and is one of the largest business entities in Slovenia. was developed by undertaking the following crucial activities: In the Slovenian market, the Group is present with • For the purpose of reducing costs and optimization in the 11 companies, with nine other subsidiaries operating in other area of packaging waste management, in early 2014 the comSoutheast European markets. In late 2015, Mercator in Slovepany joined the Unirec collective packaging waste scheme. nia operated 861 retail stores, 222 of which were franchised For the purpose of efficiently managing over 10,000 tons of stores. As regards the formats of the stores, 65% are neighpackaging waste generated by Mercator every year, 25 staborhood stores, 26% are supermarkets, and 5% are hypermartionary screw presses of 32 m3 were installed in distribution kets. In addition to their core business of selling fast moving centers and at retail sites. These presses are able to reduce consumer goods, Mercator is also present in Slovenia with the the volume of packaging up to 10 times, thus also reducing following brands: Intersport, Modiana, M Tehnika, Maxen and the frequency of packaging waste transport. Using revised Beautique. 143 such stores operate on the Slovenian market, internal documents, our employees were trained for proper 47 of them being home product stores, 42 textile stores, and 35 packaging waste sorting; sporting goods stores. • For the purpose of complying with our mid-term plan for On the Serbian market, which is Mercator’s most important marreducing mixed municipal waste by 10%, 206 retail stores ket beside Slovenia, the company operates three store formats in optimized the volume of their mixed municipal waste conthe FMCG segment: Mercator, Roda and Idea. The company has tainers, installed containers for small packaging waste and a total of 377 retail stores, 92% of which sell FMCG. Mercator is bio-waste, and thus increased the share of sorted waste and also present in Serbia with the following brands: Intersprot, Moreduced the cost of mixed municipal waste disposal; diana, M Tehnika and Beautique, with a total of 30 retail units. • 23 renovated retail stores installed separate waste baskets We have no franchised stores in this market. Due to market confor customers; solidations within Agrokor Group, since July of 2015 Mercator • According to the requirements of the Waste Electrical and has only been present on the Croatian market with the Intersport Electronic Equipment Regulation (Official Journal of the and Modiana brands with 63 retail units and only conducted its Republic of Slovenia no. 55/2015), collection of small-volnon-core business in the market of Bosnia and Herzegovina unume waste electrical and electronic equipment is available der the Intersport, Modiana and Beautique brands with 25 retail in retail stores where at least 400 m2 of the sales area is inunits. In Montenegro, Mercator operates its Roda, Intersport and tended for selling electrical and electronic equipment, i.e. M Tehnika formats with a total of 104 retail units. equipment not exceeding 25 cm, exclusive of any removable As a responsible trader, the company operates according to attachments; sustainable development principles. It is actively involved in • Different activities were undertaken for the purpose of minits greater economic, social and natural setting. The company imizing and/or optimizing our energy consumption; adheres to sustainable commerce principles and endeavors to • We regularly conduct central audits of refrigeration equipmake its activities sustainable and environmentally harmless ment in all major facilities within the RetailCare project; on a daily basis, while encouraging its suppliers to engage in • We implemented and completed a project for the replacesustainable production and its customers to practice sustainment of lighting in interior and exterior elements of the enable consumption. tire graphic image on all 23 stores as planned; The management of environmental aspects in Mercator has • According to the annual fixed asset purchasing plan, in been systematically defined since 2009 and confirmed by a cer2015 we purchased 27 commercial vehicles featuring EURO tificate for its established environmental management system 6 engines; according to ISO 14001:2004. • Our withdrawal from well BM-1/72 (DC Maribor) was tested For the purpose of effectively managing the environmental asfor the purpose of obtaining an authorization to increase the pects, we assessed the environmental risks. The greatest enviamount of water withdrawn for building cooling purposes; ronmental risk we identified for 2015 was the risk in the area of • Initial wastewater measurements were carried out at the electricity, heating and waste management. The only identified carwash on Slovenčeva Street in Ljubljana, identifying the critical risk was the risk associated with less efficient consumpgeneration of industrial wastewater. As the daily water tion of electricity due to sub-optimally designed business proconsumption levels are very low and statutory measures cessed and installed technologies. are regularly undertaken, it was not necessary to monitor This is the first time Mercator provides its sustainable developwastewater in our plants or pay environmental charges for ment report according to the GRI Guidelines as part of Agrokor environmental pollution resulting from wastewater sepaGroup. ration; 60 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Mercator Slovenia Specific standard disclosures • We established more suitable records of safety data sheets the environment and weather conditions 2014-2020. The listing the dangerous chemicals we use in our internal proproject aims to permanently make consumers aware of the cess, such as energy, refrigerants, gases, etc.; importance of disposing of and sorting e-waste and waste • A firm licensed for measuring noise emitted into the natural batteries and establishing effective infrastructure for colenvironment performed 200 noise measurement at Mercalecting this type of waste, which will be convenient for intor’s business sites; dividuals. This five-year project will be funded by the Eu• The LIFE e-WASTE GOVERNANCE project involving Merropean Commission and the Ministry of the Environment cator was successful at a competition of LIFE programs for and Space. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume The total amount of packaging materials used in 2015 decreased by 1.06% compared to the total amount in 2014 as a Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 result of divesting the Pekarne Grosuplje plant and arranging Raw materials 11,890,490 8,966,711 the data about product packaging in the new GOLD applicaAssociated process materials tion. The total amounts of raw materials recorded in 2015 were 24.60% lower than those recorded in 2014, also as a result of Materials for packaging purposes 15,990,457 15,821,455 divesting the Pekarne Grosuplje plant. As this its Mercator’s Total 27,880,947 24,788,166 first reporting period, we cannot compare it with the preceding one. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption in Mercator includes the consumpturn resulted in less business trips. Natural gas consumption of electricity, heating oil (ELHO), natural gas, LPG for tion decreased by 10% as a result of a project for producing heating and industrial machinery, remote heating, fuel for heat and electricity through a system of 25 cogenerations. product and workforce transport, and fuel for working maRemote heating consumption (a method of heating buildchinery. ings where heat is transmitted to the consumer from a large source of heat via a pipeline; the heat transmission medium Energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 is normally water or steam; the heat source is a boiler or a Fuel (gasoline) 1,646 1,231 central heating plant) was specified as being 71.3% higher Diesel 63,086 63,953 compared to 2014, however, this is a result of an error in entering consumption data in the SAP MM application due to Natural gas 84,533 76,135 a lower average temperature in 2015 and implementation of LPG 10,828 12,923 new cogenerations, which in turn resulted in lower natural Electricity 728,592 712,736 gas consumption and higher remote heating consumption due to a defective meter (calorimeter) at Mercator Center Heating oil 59,853 59,111 Ljubljana. Consumption of LPG that powers forklift trucks Remote heating 121,096 207,401 increased as a result of redirecting the distribution of fresh Total 1,069,634 1,133,490 products from DC Zalog to DC Maribor and DC Ptuj which have no loading ramps, so products are loaded and unloaded Mercator is a major energy consumer in Slovenia. In 2015, using forklift trucks. In 2015, consumption of other enerthe company used 1,333,490 GJ of energy, which is a 6% gies, according to the activities undertaken and described in increase compared to 2014. The reason for such increase other indicators, decreased compared to 2014, i.e. remained is assumed to be an error in entering data about heating comparable. It was found in 2014 that incorrect data was and heating LPG consumption in the SAP MM applicaused for analyses in earlier years, which is why it is impostion. Gasoline consumption decreased by 25% as a result sible to compare the figures for this reporting period with of outsourcing some of the maintenance services, which in the figures for 2013. 62 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Mercator Slovenia EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is presented as energy consumption per As regards energy consumption in Mercator in 2015, energy EUR 1000 of Mercator’s gross turnover. efficiency was 2.5% higher than in 2014. The reason for such increase is an error in entering data about heating and heatEnergy intensity (GJ/turnover) 2014 2015 ing LPG consumption in the SAP MM application. Gasoline Fuel (gasoline) 0.0008 0.0005 consumption decreased by 35% as a result of outsourcing Diesel 0.0297 0.0292 some of the maintenance services. Natural gas consumption decreased by 13% as a result of a project for producing heat Natural gas 0.0399 0.0347 and electricity through a system of 25 cogenerations. ConLPG 0.0051 0.0059 sumption of LPG that powers forklift trucks increased as a Electricity 0.3439 0.3253 result of redirecting the distribution of fresh products from DC Zalog to DC Maribor and DC Ptuj. In 2015, consumption Heating oil 0.0282 0.0270 of other energies, according to the activities undertaken and Remote heating 0.0572 0.0947 described in other indicators, remained comparable to 2014. Total 0.5048 0.5173 It was found in 2014 that incorrect data was used for analyses in earlier years, which is why it is impossible to compare the figures for this reporting period with the figures for 2013. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption For the purpose of ensuring efficient energy consumption, -lighting optimization; and improving the cost-effectiveness and optimizing business ac-employee training on efficient energy consumption; tivities, the following measures were undertaken during this • We completed a pilot project for controlling devices in our reporting period: food warmer displays for the purpose of optimizing the ac• As part of the “Upgrading of existing energy accounting tion of respective devices to minimize our energy costs; with detailed specific monitoring of energy consumption • We regularly conduct central audits of refrigeration equipand undertaking of measures for efficient energy consumpment in all major facilities within the RetailCare project; tion” project implemented in cooperation with a contractor, • We obtained heat and electricity from a system of 25 cowe established an energy accounting system for monigenerations; and toring the specific energy consumption levels for each • According to the annual fixed assets purchasing plan, facility. This upgrade of the energy accounting system in 2015 we purchased 27 commercial vehicles featuring will establish supervision of efficient energy consumption EURO 6 engines. measures undertaken by employees at all times. The projAs a result of undertaking these activities, our electriciect also included efficient energy consumption measures ty consumption in 2015 decreased by 2.18% compared to 2014, in the area of: our consumption of heating oil (ELHO) decreased by 1.24%, optimization of refrigeration equipment and the ventiand our consumption of natural gas decreased by 9.93%. lation system; Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source In Mercator, water is primarily used as potable water and Total water withdrawal (m3) 2014 2015 for sanitary purposes. Certain sites also use it for cooling From wells 2,776,091 1,737,466 their premises (DC Zalog, DC Maribor and Maximarket), making products (the Pekarna Grosuplje plant), and for From the public water supply system 673,976 690,606 washing cargo vehicles (workshop on Slovenska Street). Total volume of water withdrawn 3,450,067 2,428,072 Most of the sites are supplied with potable water via the public supply system, while water for DC Zalog, DC As a result of a fire at DC Zalog and its inability to operate for Maribor and Maximarket is withdrawn from watercourses seven months in 2015, the amounts of water withdrawn from (groundwater and surface water). watercourses were 37.41% lower during the seven-month peWater consumption depends on the number of active riod compared to 2014. The amounts of water supplied from sites, process optimization, production capacities and exterior the public water supply system in 2015 were comparable to temperatures. those recorded in 2014 (2.74% higher). 63 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Mercator Slovenia Specific standard disclosures Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse system. The error was detected during the preparation of 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) this report and data alignment is in process. As regards our consumption of gasoline in 2015, direct emissions decreased Electricity and Heating energy 128,751 133,867 by 25% compared to direct emissions in 2014 as a result of Fuel Gasoline 116 87 outsourcing some of the maintenance services, which in turn Fuel Diesel 4,624 4,688 resulted in less business trips. As regards the consumption of diesel in 2015, direct emissions were comparable to (1.3% Fuel LPG 62 73 higher than) direct emissions in 2014. As regards the consumption of LPG powering forklift trucks, direct greenhouse As regards the consumption of electricity and other forms gas emissions were 17.54% higher than in 2014. The conof heating energy in Mercator’s facilities in 2015, direct sumption of LPG for forklift trucks increased as a result of emissions were 3.97% higher than in 2014. This increase is redirecting fresh product distribution from DC Zalog to DC a a result of an error in entering remote heating data in the Maribor and DC Ptuj. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 2014 2015 the optimization of cooling equipment and the ventilation system, optimization of lighting and optimization of certain Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 158,600 155,149 devices for the purpose of reducing the energy cost of food (t CDE) warmer displays and regular central surveillance of refrigerIndirect greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 2.18% ation equipment in all major facilities as part of the Retailin 2015 as a result of lower electricity consumption due to Care project. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity The emissions relative to the consumption of electricity and 2014 2015 (t CDE / EUR 1000) heating power in our facilities in 2015 are comparable to those recorded in 2014 (1.67% higher). The emissions relative Electricity and heating energy 0.060000 0.061000 to gasoline consumption in 2015 decreased by 26% compared Gasoline 0.000049 0.000036 to the emissions recorded in 2014 as a result of outsourcing Fuel diesel 0.002000 0.002000 certain services. The emissions relative to the consumption of LPG powering forklift trucks increased as a result of rediFuel LPG 0.000029 0.000033 recting fresh product distribution from DC Zalog to DC Maribor and DC Ptuj. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions During this reporting period, the following activities ensured lished an energy accounting system for monitoring the efficient energy consumption and maintenance of greentarget consumption levels for each facility. This upgrade house gas emissions on a comparable level: of the energy accounting system will also accelerate the • Quarterly informing of employees about efficient energy supervision of energy consumption measures undertaken consumption and adjustment of annual operating regimes; by employees. 359 sites are presently included in the ems. • As part of the “Upgrading of existing energy accounting energea.si system through data about fifteen-minute meawith detailed specific monitoring of energy consumption surements on primary subscriber sites using the electricity and undertaking of measures for efficient energy consumpsupplier GEN I, and 29 sites with additional electricity metion through the contractor MakedEnergea”, we estabters in a fifteen-minute interval, with a total of 60 meters 64 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Mercator Slovenia (the total number of sites with installed additional meters • We completed our pilot project for controlling the food is 55 and these sites contain a total of 200 meters); warmer display devices for the purpose of optimizing the • The measures for efficient energy consumption, e.g. optioperation of particular devices to reduce our energy costs. mization of cooling equipment and ventilation systems, We also regularly conduct central audits of refrigeration optimization of lighting, efficient energy consumption equipment in all major facilities within the RetailCare projtraining, etc., were accepted. They are being undertaken in ect. Heat and electricity are produced by a cogeneration a total of 172 sites; and system. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) In Mercator, all refrigeration and air conditioning devices are R-22. The equipment containing R-22 has not been replaced only replenished with fluorinated greenhouse gases in accoryet and may be used until the end of its lifecycle, but Reguladance with the applicable statutory requirements, without ustion (EC) No. 1005/2009 on substances that deplete the ozone ing any ozone-depleting substances. In 2015, measures were layer does not allow for replenishment of R-22. undertaken to replace or retrofit the equipment containing EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Mercator conducts all statutory measurements of emissions Air emissions (t) on its heating devices. Year SO2 NOx The SO2 and NOx emissions recorded in 2015 were 2014 0.28 0.03 comparable to those recorded in 2014. 2015 0.28 0.03 Total 2.55 5.3 EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination The wastewater resulting from Mercator’s activities is primarrates after it is used, which is why this site does not generate ily municipal wastewater. Mercator is connected to the public any wastewater. sewerage network at most of its sites, while wastewater at sites with no sewerage network is discharged into wastewater treatEffluents (m3) 2014 2015 ment plants or septic tanks. Each site is immediately connectFrom wells 2,758,691 1,717,841 ed to the network as soon as it is established. From the public water supply system 673,976 690,606 Certain Mercator’s sites used grease traps for treating wastewater before discharging them. Total water discharge 3,432,667 2,408,447 The amounts of wastewater are not measured using water meters – instead, records of wastewater quantities As a result of a fire at DC Zalog, the total amounts of water are maintained, which equal the quantity of sanitary wadischarged in 2015 were 29.84% lower compared to 2014. The ter purchased. Records are also maintained of the amounts amounts of water discharged from the public water supply of industrial wastewater, which equal the amounts of water system in 2015 were comparable to (2.47% higher than) those withdrawn from watercourses at the DC Zalog and Maximarrecorded in 2014. ket sites. At the DC Maribor site, all water withdrawn evapo65 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Mercator Slovenia Specific standard disclosures EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Mercator has established fundamental principles with reingly, our fundamental principles are prevention, resolving spect to waste management and treatment of the environwaste issues at source, and waste sorting. ment, which are based on the strategic guidelines of the Presented below are the quantities of waste generated by Republic of Slovenia concerning waste management. AccordMercator in 2014 and 2015: Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R, D Unirec, Biotera, Zeos, utility companies… 101,146 51,484 Hazardous waste R, D Zeos, Saubermacher, Slopak, EKO-TEH… 91 133 Total 101,237 51,617 The amounts of nonhazardous waste generated in 2015 were creasing the share of sorted waste and reducing the costs of not comparable to those generated in 2014 (they are 49.1% mixed municipal waste management; higher) or those recorded in the preceding reporting peri• In 23 redesigned retail units we put in place baskets for od because errors were found in accounting for and entering waste sorting for customers; data into the SAP MM application. The amounts of hazard• Pursuant to the requirements of the Waste Electrical and ous waste generated in 2015 were 45.09% higher than those Electronic Equipment Regulation (Official Journal no. recorded in 2014 and the preceding reporting period as a re55/2015), we now collect very small waste electrical and sult of a fire at DC Zalog. electronic equipment in our retail units where at least In 2015, we optimized our waste management by un400 m2 of the sales area is intended for selling electrical and dertaking the following crucial activities and achieving the electronic equipment; following results: • To ensure effective management of environmental aspects, • In 70 retail units we optimized the volume of the mixed we prepared, updated and standardized our internal envimunicipal waste containers and put in place appropriate ronmental records. containers for small packaging waste and biowaste, thus inCompliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Mercator regularly reviews their compliance with the applicase, a fine of EUR 700 was paid for inadequate waste mancable statutory and other requirements and maintains reagement. A tax/customs audit was also conducted and no ircords of such statutory requirements in the Mercator Enviregularities were found with respect to environmental levies. ronmental Legislation Registry (REGOZ-0-01). An external review of the environmental management In 2015 we recorded intensified environmental audit system according to ISO 14001 was conducted by SIQ. No activities compared to 2014. Several audits were conducted nonconformities were found in 2015 and 16 recommendations (Index 179). The Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for were issued. 94% of the recommendations were positively the Environment and Space and inter-municipal environmenresolved. As part of an internal review conducted in 2015, 13 tal inspectorates conducted 12 audits in 2015. No irregularorganizational units were reviewed. No major inconsistenities were found in one case, while the other cases resulted cies were found. A total of 23 recommendations were issued. in a request for additional information or a request to rectify Environmental compliance is also monitored by our Internal irregularities. The irregularities found were rectified. In one Control Department. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Mercator’s environmental impacts in the area of transport passenger vehicles within our car fleet, and use of industrial include impacts resulting from transporting products using machinery (diesel and LPG powered forklift trucks). cargo vehicles within our fleet, transport of employees using 66 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Mercator Slovenia We selected the following transport environmental impact range from DC Zalog to DC Maribor and DC Ptuj, which have indicators: no leading ramps, so all goods were loaded and unloaded us• consumption of fuel (gasoline, diesel) and LPG in GJ; and ing forklift trucks. • we do not yet calculate our greenhouse gas emissions in Energy intensity (GJ/turnover) 2014 2015 tons of CO2 equivalent. Our consumption of gasoline and diesel and the relFuel for transport gasoline, diesel (GJ) 64,809 65,829 evant amounts of such fuels in 2015 are comparable to our Fuel for transport LPG (GJ) 996 1,175 consumption and emissions in 2014. Our consumption of Total CO2 emissions LPG and the relevant emissions were higher in 2015 com4,740 4,775 (t CDE for fuel – gasoline, diesel) pared to 2014 (consumption by 17.97 % and CO2 emissions by 17.74 %). Our consumption of LPG used to power forklift Total CO2 emissions 62 73 trucks increased as a result of distributing our fresh product (t CDE for fuel – LPG) Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Mercator is committed to including environmental protection Total investments, current expenditures 2014 2015 in its development strategy and annual management plans and revenue € (VAT excl.) defining the measures, funds, contractors and time limits for Investments 696,907 6,140,166 the purpose of minimizing adverse environmental impacts of Current expenditures 4,289,695 4,192,219 our activity. In this reporting period, our environmental investRevenue from activities 1,288,047 1,056,688 ments, current expenditures and revenue were as follows: • Investments (for implementing RetailCare, lighting optimiCompared to 2014 and the preceding reporting period, our zation…); environmental investments increased in 2015 as they includ• Current expenditures (for monitoring, waste disposal, EMS ed new devices installed as part of reconstruction projects. certification …); and Our current environmental expenditures and revenue from • Revenue from the activities undertaken (disposal of packagour environmental activities were comparable. ing waste, sale of waste raw materials…). Targets for the next reporting period: Mercator set the following targets for its next reporting period: • Reduce air emissions by purchasing cargo vehicles with EURO 6 engines (in accordance with the annual fixed assets purchasing plan). In 2016, we plan to purchase 19 cargo vehicles (8 N2-class cargo vehicles and 11 N3-class cargo vehicles); • Establish a system for central management of in-store electricity consuming equipment and reduction of electricity consumption by approximately EUR 60,800 (pizza ovens, bread and meat ovens, warmers and lighting in refrigerating equipment); • Install waste sorting baskets for customers in our redesigned stores (around 30 stores); • Ensure more appropriate waste identification at waste sources in Mercator; • Comply with the requirements of the Chemicals Notification Ordinance (Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia no. 35/11, 49/13, 18/15, 69/15, 97/15); • Ensure regular maintenance of the APZ system and obtain certificates of eligibility; and • Maintain intranet sites (the Varstvo okolja portal) and websites featuring environmental contents. 67 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Idea – Mercator S Specific standard disclosures I n our earlier sustainability reports, the Group was repreIn 2015, we selected the Quality Austria certification firm sented by Idea in Serbia. After Agrokor acquired Mercator, of Belgrade to externally audit our implementation of ISO a new company was established which includes Mercator’s 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, and the HACCP system. Before and Idea’s activities in Serbia, titled Mercator-S. Mercator-S being integrated, Mercator-S had had its HACCP system certid.o.o. Novi Sad is the largest retail chain in the Republic of fied by Quality Austria and its ISO 9001:2008 by SIQ Slovenia, Serbia, employing around 9000 people. Mercator-S operates ISO 14001:2004 was certified at Idea by TUV Sud Germany, 296 Idea stores, 36 Roda megamarkets, two Mercator Centers, while the HACCP system was integrated and maintained, but nine wholesale centers, three logistic & distribution centers, not certified. 17 to 19 November 2015, Quality Austria conand two central fruit & vegetable warehouses including baducted a recertification audit, found no nonconformities, and nana ripening plants. only issued recommendations for improvements, which will The Idea stores are retail units with a sales area of less be implemented in 2016. than 1500 m2, while the Roda megamarkets are retail units with an area of more than 1500 m2. The wholesale centers are In 2015, we disposed of hazardous waste from two sites: FMCG facilities intended for wholesale and corporate custom1. 28.12 t of hazardous waste was delivered for harmless disers, while the logistic & distribution centers supply goods to posal from the bankrupt bicycle factory “Partizan” in SubMercator-S retail units. The central fruit & vegetable wareotica, followed by soil and groundwater quality testing; houses are located in Belgrade and Niš and supply the entire 2. 36.06 t of hazardous waste and 20 t of nonhazardous retail network. These centers include banana ripening plants. waste were delivered for harmless destruction from the Initiated in late 2014, the process of conditionally al“Prvi Partizan” facility in Užice. lowed concentration of Idea d.o.o. Novi Beograd and MercaThese sites had been owned by Mercator-S before the conditor-S d.o.o. was completed in 2015, resulting in major orgationally allowed concentration. The Subotica site had been nizational changes and alignment of operating processes on dangerous and was cleared at request of Mercator-S manageall levels. In the phase of conditionally allowed concentration ment, while the site in Užice was cleared after a small fire, as of Idea d.o.o. and Mercator-S, an operating control area was ordered by the environmental inspectorate. The site in Subotestablished, whose employees were assigned to the following ica is now used as an equipment warehouse, while the hall in organizational units: Užice remains empty. • Quality Control Division; • Security Department; We accomplished the following targets defined for this re• Internal Control Department. porting period: 1. Recertification of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and The employees of the Quality Control Division were assigned HACCP; to four departments: 2. Training of employees on all levels on amendments to the • Retail Quality Control Department; legislation applicable to food safety and environmental • Wholesale, Logistic & Distribution Center and Brand Qualprotection; ity Control Department; 3. Conclusion of cooperation agreements with waste collect• Standard Implementation Department; and ing firms and accredited laboratories; and • Fruit & Vegetable Quality Control Department. 4. Increased amounts of collected and recycled waste sorted at each site. 68 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mercator S Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 tons of packaging for imported products as follows: 4.40 t of plastic packaging, 375.76 t of glass packaging, 217.36 of metRaw materials 0 0 al packaging, 1578.33 t of paper packaging, and 615.86 t of Associated process materials 0 0 wooden packaging. Including the goods imported during this reporting period, we put a total of 7143.82 t of packaging on Materials for packaging purposes 4,348,500 2,795,311 the market of the Republic of Serbia, compared to 5497.65 t of Total 4,348,500 2,795,311 packaging imported in the preceding reporting period, which is an increase by 16.5%. Such increased import of packagA total of 3046.8 t of paper packaging, 733.5 t of wooden ing materials is a result of greater imports of store brand packaging, 340.7 t of glass packaging, 198.4 t of metal packitems and plastic bags because the number of business sites aging, and 28.85 t of plastic packaging was used for products increased after the conditionally allowed concentration and imported by Mercator-S in 2014. In 2015, we used 2795.32 opening of new stores during the reporting period. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization 2014 2015 Our consumption of diesel in this reporting period was Diesel 80,206.00 90,465.62 170,671.62 GJ, compared to 170,883.75 GJ in the preceding period. The information presented shows no actual savings Electricity 656,366.00 643,489.00 achieved during this reporting period. It should, however, Gas 8,560.46 7,693.14 be noted that all goods were transported from our logistic & Heating oil 263.00 123.77 distribution centers using vehicles in our own fleet after the conditionally allowed concentration, without any increase in Our total consumption of gas for heating in 2014 and 2015 diesel consumption. was 16,253.60 GJ, compared to 24,958.69 GJ in 2012 and In 2014, we used 656,366.08 GJ of electricity, com2013. Our consumption of gas for heating was reduced by pared to 643,489.10 GJ in 2015. The figures for 2014 include 53.56% because we discontinued the use of our heating boilthe energy used during all 12 months for all IDEA business ers at our wholesale centers in Čačak and Niš and three boilsites and for the Mercator-S business sites during the Sepers in IDEA Extra stores. Dec 2014 period, as of the effective date of the conditionally Our consumption of heating oil in this reporting periallowed concentration. Our total consumption of electricity od was 386.77 GJ, compared to 1105.22 GJ in the preceding in this reporting period was 1,299,855.18 GJ, compared to reporting period. This triple reduction of our heating oil con608,463.23 GJ in the preceding period. Such 114% increase in sumption is a result of termination of facilities using heating electricity consumption is a result of newly opened stores and oil as energy or transition to other forms of energy, electriciconditionally allowed concentration. ty or pellets. EN5: Energy intensity (GJ/turnover) Organization-specific intensity expresses the ratio between Year Energy intensity GJ / EUR turnover) the energy used (EN3) in GJ and the turnover obtained. In 2014 7.33 x 10 -4 2014, our turnover was EUR 1,016,885,639 and our energy consumption was 745,395.50 GJ. In 2015, our turnover 2015 7.90 x 10 -4 was EUR 938,705,675 and our energy consumption was 741,771.53 GJ. 69 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mercator S Specific standard disclosures EN6: Reduction of energy consumption In 2015, we established our Utility Costs Management and • Installation of medium-voltage permanent compensators Energy Efficiency Department whose employees are responat 15 sites; sible for monitoring energy consumption and designing proj• The DANFOSS RETAIL CARE project including optimizaects aiming to reduce our energy consumption and financial tion of refrigeration systems featuring ADAP COOL techcosts of purchasing energy, as well as our utility costs. nology; this project provides monthly savings of 136,000 The most important projects and activities completed in kwh and is based on optimizing refrigerated display cases 2015: in our stores. The Danfoss system automatically adjusts • Savings achieved by temporary reduction of approved powand optimizes the operation of refrigerated display cases ers for 2015; based on several factors; • Switching the meters from the lessor to Mercator-S (better • Negotiations with the Supply Division of Elektroprivreda commercial terms); Srbije; • Repair of the permanent compensator in the administra• Separation of meters of the Heineken brewery and the adtion building in Belgrade; ministration buildings in Novi Sad – electricity calculation • Installation of variable compensators to save reactive powaccording to the actual consumption; and er (99 sites); • Converting MP258 Jagodina and MP454 Požega from • Instructions for the rational use of electricity in buildings heating oil to pellets – installation of pellet boilers. (internal procedures for temperature regimes and lighting The key activities and projects completed in 2015 reoptimization); sulted in savings of EUR 248,353.23. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) For process Public water Total volume of Year From wells purposes supply system water withdrawn 2014 0 0 181,818 181,818 2015 0 0 743,742 743,742 Total 0 0 925,560 925,560 Mercator-S uses water from the city water supply system as Our total water consumption in this reporting period was potable water and sanitary water. In 2014, we used a total of 925,560 m3, compared to 419,138 m3 in the preceding peri181,818 m3 (Idea stores). Our water consumption in 2015 was od. The 120.83% increase in water consumption is a re743,742 m3 (Mercator-S, all sites). The number of sites at the sult of the conditionally allowed concentration and newly end of this reporting period doubled (Mercator-S stores acopened stores. In 2015 we also began to maintain vehicle quired following the concentration and newly opened stores). hygiene internally. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Greenhouse gas emissions are a result of using energy to obTotal direct greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t) tain heat. In 2014, we emitted a total of 207.5 t of CO2, 1.7 t of SO2 and 0.15 t of NOx , compared to 206.1 t of CO2, 1.65 of SO2 Year SO2 NO2 CO2 and 0.14 of NOx in 2015. 2014 1.7 0.15 207.5 We emitted a total of 413.6 t of CO2 in this reporting 2015 1.6 0.14 206.1 period, compared to 10.96 t in the preceding reporting period. Such increase is a result of more passenger and freight vehiReduction of 5.88 % 6.66 % 0.67 % cles and more facilities where fuel combusts to obtain heat. emissions (%) 70 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mercator S EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on 200,828,289 kWh in 2014. In 2015, our indirect emissions statistical data which show that 1 t of carbon dioxide is emitwere reduced by 5.14% compared to the preceding year as a ted by producing 1276.08 kWh of electricity. result of a reduction in electricity consumption achieved by 2014 2015 undertaking the relevant activities intended to reduce our energy consumption. Indirect greenhouse 157,379.08 149,293.21 In 2014 and 2015, our emissions amounted to 306,663 gas emissions (t CO2) t of CO2. No information is available for the preceding period Indirect emissions are presented for all electricity used. because we did not present this indicator, so it is impossible In 2015, we used a total of 190,523,442 kWh, compared to to make a comparison with the preceding period. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Expressed in tons of CO2, the greenhouse gas emissions inGreenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 tensity is presented as a sum of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (EN15 and EN16) compared to the CO2 (t ) emissions / EUR turnover 1.55 x 10 -4 1.60 x 10 -4 turnover obtained for the relevant period. As no data was calculated for the preceding period, it is impossible to make a comparison. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is directly assoand temperature in the combustion area), our trucks use up ciated with the reduction in the consumption of combustible to 5% less fuel and produce much less soot. This technoloenergy forms, but also with their quality and the purchase gy allows for reaching the emission limits –3.5 g NOx /kWh of vehicles featuring new-generation engines. During the for Euro 4 and 2.0 g NOx /kWh for Euro 5. These parameters reporting period, we used energy forms of controlled and imare checked during regular technical inspections of vehicles. proved quality because oil derivative controls are more strinDuring this reporting period we also conducted regular ingent in the Republic of Serbia. The fleet comprises passenspections of all fuel combustion boilers (at the beginning and ger cars featuring new-generation engines, while our freight at the end of the heating season). No information is available vehicles use Euro 4 or Euro 5 engines. Ad Blue, a urea-based for the preceding reporting period (prior to the conditionally additive, is used for all our cargo vehicles, aiming to convert allowed concentration) about greenhouse gas emissions for nitrogen oxide to atmospheric nitrogen and steam almost Mercator-S sites. Mercator-S did not have its own fleet at the completely. Thanks to better combustion (higher pressure time, so it is impossible to compare data for the two periods. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Mercator-S stores do not use R-12 as refrigerant in their kg in the preceding reporting period. This reduction in the refrigerated display cases. 53 kg of R-22 was present in the share of R-22 is a result of disinvesting old facilities and rensystem in 2014 (Idea d.o.o.), compared to 120 kg in 2015 (all ovations where old installations were replaced by new ones Mercator-S sites). In this reporting period, the system conusing R 404A. tained a total of 173 kg of refrigerant, compared to 312.60 71 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mercator S Specific standard disclosures EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination The total amount of wastewater withdrawn from 10 septic to the city sewerage system and closing our facilities ustanks in 2014 was 94,836 m3, compared to 4139 m3 from six ing septic tanks. retail units in 2015. In 2015, we discontinued our operations Wastewater quality is tested in 35 business facilities in four facilities using septic tanks. three times a year. Tests showed a number of noncompliant Year Total water discharge (m3) analyses performed during the period following the conditionally allowed concentration, so the drainage pipes and 2014 94,836 grease separators were rewashed and the wastewater was 2015 4,139 retested. This large number of noncompliant analyses is a Total 98,975 result of the fact that some of the separators and their drainage pipes had not been adequately maintained for an extendDuring this reporting period, we withdrew a total of ed period of time and contained a large amount of deposited 98,975 m3 of wastewater from our septic tanks, compared grease that was gradually washed out. No noncompliant analto 193,362 m3 in the preceding period. This reduction in yses were found in the last quarter of 2015. water withdrawal is a result of connecting three facilities EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method In 2015, we cleaned two warehouses containing large Waste by type 2014 2015 amounts of hazardous waste. We disposed of 28.12 tons of Paper packaging waste 2,548.87 t 3,512.08 t hazardous waste at the Subotica site. This is a bicycle production plant where we performed surface metal treatment (galPlastic packaging waste 99.92 t 218.39 t vanization, protection, painting and coating). At our site in Waste edible oil 4,750 lit 6,309 lit Užice we disposed of 36.06 t of hazardous waste. This plant Waste metal 2.81 t was used to make all parts necessary for assembling kitchen and bathroom faucets. Electronic and electrical waste 6.44 t 3.46 t The figures concerning the amounts of waste generAnimal-origin waste 250 t 497.29 t ated in 2014 were calculated by adding the amounts for Idea Oiled mixtures from separators 80 t 2.32 t and Mercator-S sites based on the records maintained for each entity prior to the concentration. Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Papir servis, Set reciklaža, Dimničar, Prekon, Nonhazardous waste R 2,645,538 4,240.34 Napredak, AIK Bačka Topola Hazardous waste D Set reciklaža, Kemis 6,435 64.18 Total 2,645,544.4 4,304.52 During this reporting period, we collected and delivered for collected is a result of cleaning two plants in Subotica and recycling 2,649,778.3 t of nonhazardous waste, compared to Užice that had been owned by Mercator-S prior to the condi1,946,876.6 t during the preceding reporting period. The figtionally allowed concentration. ures for 2014 and 2015 relate to all facilities after the concenIn 2014, around 80 tons of oiled mixture was disposed of tration of the two companies, while the figures for the prefrom a total of 17 separators that are cleaned three or four ceding period relate only to IDEA stores, which is why they times a year, classified as nonhazardous waste. In 2015, are not mutually comparable. 2320 m3 of nonhazardous waste was withdrawn from a total During the preceding reporting period we delivered of 36 separators. 5.31 t of hazardous waste, compared to 70.62 t in this reportAs regards the data concerning the separators, in ing period. This increase in the amount of hazardous waste 2012/2013 we withdrew 193,362 m3 of oiled grease, com72 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mercator S pared to 82,320 m3 in 2014/2015. The data for the preceding between the two reporting periods. Oiled mixture is subperiod only applies to IDEA before the conditionally allowed jected to numerous physical-chemical processes where the concentration, while the data for this reporting period inoily phase (input for biodisel production) is extracted, while cludes Mercator-S after the concentration. In addition, we wastewater is treated by the municipal treatment plant. replaced the firm withdrawing oiled grease from separators Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed in this reporting period for noncompliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emissions Year Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 GJ GJ equivalent for fuel equivalent for LPG 2014 80,206 0 5.7 0 2015 90,465 0 6.5 0 Total 170,671 0 12.2 0 In 2014, our consumption of diesel fuel was 80,206.25 GJ compared to 170,883.75 GJ in the preceding period. The total and the total number of passenger and freight vehicles was number of vehicles used for transport in the preceding re298; our consumption in 2015 was 90,465.62 GJ and the total porting period was 650, compared to 688 in this period. Such number of passenger and freight vehicles was 390. increase is a result of the conditionally allowed concentration In 2014, our emissions from stationary sources were of the two companies, where Mercator-S did not have its own 5.7 t of CO2, 0.05 t of NOx and 0.009 t of solid particles, while vehicles for transporting goods. No spills of oil, chemicals, the relative values recorded in 2015 were as follows: 6.5 t of fuel or wastewater into the ground or water were recorded CO2, 0.85 t of NOx and 0.09 t of solid particles. during this reporting period. In this reporting period, we used a total of 170,671.87 GJ diesel fuel for passenger and freight transport, 73 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mercator S Specific standard disclosures Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type In 2014, our waste management costs amounted to RSD quality testing, air emissions, waste classification and noise 54,168,020.85 compared to RSD 153,098,436.51 in 2015 (the measuring) amounted to RSD 1,358,000, compared to RSD cost of disposing of hazardous waste was RSD 19,586,399.11). 18,880,240.26 in 2015. Analogously to the previous indicaWe spent RSD 1,050,000 to purchase utility equipment, comtors, the costs in 2014 are costs incurred prior to the condipared to RSD 2,280,970 in 2015. In 2014, our environmental tionally allowed concentration and those in 2015 are costs protection costs (packaging put on the market, special enviincurred thereafter. ronmental protection and improvement charge, wastewater Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and Prevention and environmental management costs Year remediation costs (EUR) (EUR) 2014 444,209 8,400 2015 1,375,830 18,248 Total 1,820,039 26,648 Targets for the next two-year period: • Phase out R-22; • Revise the documentation and obtain recertification according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015; • Open a logistic & distribution center for fresh meat and delicacies in Novi Banovci just outside Belgrade from where fresh bulk ungulate meat in reusable packaging will be distributed to all retail stores using vehicles in our own fleet. This project also includes the exclusion of category 3 external waste carriers from three interim facilities, which should reduce the amount of Class 3 waste, as well as the costs of and the indirect emissions resulting from their transport. 74 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Tisak T isak d.d. is the largest retail chain of newsstands and a ly newspapers, leaflets, magazines, catalogs, office paper and leading Croatian distributor of print, tobacco products, textile. After collection, paper is treated, pressed and baled, prepaid telecom vouchers and other commercial goods. and then sold in the open market to companies engaging in As a result of our ongoing development of our own retail netpaper processing. This activity provides multiple social benework, we have set new trends on the market and have supplefits by reducing the amount of landfilled waste, enabling the mented the distinctive offerings of Tisak with new attractive use of waste as a raw material for the production of new paproducts and services designed for modern customers. In adper, and by raising environmental awareness among citizens. dition to their wide product range, Tisak newsstands also offer In 2014 and 2015, Tisak purchased 30% more nonhazardous many unique and innovative services at over 1,300 retail units waste than in 2013. To maximize its scope, Tisak provided old across Croatia. paper collection boxes in all its offices, which paper is then In 2014 and 2015, Tisak continuously worked on develsent for recycling. These boxes are also available in the adminoping new services such as money transfer, parking payment istration buildings of other Agrokor Group members and Tisak and bus ticket sale, but also further improved its existing sercollects and disposes of that old paper as well. vices such as delivering parcels to newsstands and internaIn this reporting period, Tisak continued to conduct its tional shipping. Tisak also continued to sell commercial goods “Plastic Bottle Caps for Expensive Medicines” campaign orsupplied by local suppliers and toys for which Tisak is an exganized by the Croatian Leukemia and Lymphoma Patients clusive agent, which it distributes to other customers’ retail Association. The project aims to use the money raised by botunits in addition to its own retail units, which makes Tisak tle cap recycling to purchase expensive medicines for Patients unique in this area. Association members, but also to encourage our employees to As of 2013, Tisak has purchased old paper from individavoid throwing away plastic PET packaging caps. uals at purchasing stations across Croatia. In 2015, they startTisak collects other waste resulting from its business ed to purchase textile from individuals. At the end of the reactivities and has it properly disposed of by using licensed porting period, Tisak had a total of 33 purchasing stations on companies: toner, CDs, IT equipment, etc. the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Tisak purchases daiMaterials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 2014 and by 21% compared to 2013. The absence of alumiFilm 71,406 69,117 num cans in 2014 and 2015 compared to 2013 is a result of changes in product packaging (we now use polymeric mateCardboard packaging 147,156 195,713 rials), while the reduction in incoming pallets is a result of Strapping machine ribbon 32,003 27,857 reduced amounts of goods received from European suppliers. Paper 132,791 130,765 The total increase in the amount of paper/cardboard packTotal 383,356 423,452 aging and other polymeric materials is a result of increased container imports. The weight of the materials used in 2014 was 383,356 kg, compared to 432,452 kg in 2015, which is an increase by Packaging materials used for imports 10% in 2015 compared to 2014, and 11% in 2014 compared to 2013. The increase recorded in this reporting period is a Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 result of an increased scope of work and implementation of AL – cans 0 0 new operating methods. This is why we recorded increased Paper/cardboard 129,676 187,867 consumption of all types of materials used. Wood (wooden pallets) 35,838 32,953 The materials used relate to imports and are denominated in kg. In 2014, the total weight of the packaging mateOther polymeric materials 57,927 94,089 rials used for imports was 223.441 kg, compared to 314,908 Total 223,441 314,908 kg in 2015, which is an increase by 41% in 2015 compared to 75 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Tisak Specific standard disclosures Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Direct energy consumption is the total consumption of enerIndirect energy is energy produced outside Tisak and obgy from primary sources (fuel and natural gas). tained outside the company. Direct energy consumption by primary source (nonrenewable energy Indirect energy consumption by primary source (indirect energy supplied sources) and used from nonrenewable energy sources) Year Fuel (GJ) Natural gas (GJ) Year Electricity (GJ) Steam (GJ) 2014 91,399 6,910 2014 14,038 460 2015 92,930 8,098 2015 16,185 627 Total 184,329 15,008 Total 30,223 1,087 In 2014, our direct energy consumption by primary source For this reporting period, our electricity consumption was was 98,309 GJ, compared to 101,028 GJ in 2015, which is an 14.038 GJ in 2014 and 16,185 GJ in 2015, which is an increase increase by 3% in 2015 compared to 2014 and by 21% comby 15% in 2015 compared to 2014 and an increase by 21% pared to 2013. compared to 2013. This increase in electricity consumption is This increased fuel consumption is a result of an ina result of the acquisition of 25 retail units of Glas Istre and creased number of distribution routes following an increase in additional cold display cases installed in retail units, which the distribution of newspaper subscriptions and parcels, as well we now use on a year-round basis. as enlargement of Tisak’s fleet. The decrease in natural gas conOur consumption of heating steam was 460 GJ in 2014, sumption compared to the preceding reporting period is a result compared to 627 GJ in 2015, which is an increase by 36% in of heating optimization in the administration building and the 2015 compared to 2014 and a decrease by 29% compared to logistic & distribution center in Zagreb, as well as a decrease in 2013. The decrease is a result of not using the business premthe surface area of the warehouses heated using natural gas. ises heated by steam. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity (GJ/t) 2014 2015 Energy intensity is presented as a ratio between total fuel, natural gas and electricity used in a year and total turnover Total energy used (GJ) 112,807 117,840 obtained in that year. Energy intensity is calculated by dividTotal turnover (HRK billion) 3.77 3.72 ing absolute energy consumption by Tisak’s total turnover in Energy intensity (GJ/HRK billion) 29,905 31,656 HRK billion for each year. The increase is a result of reduced total turnover and somewhat higher energy consumption. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption In 2014, Tisak began to control the management of its air of controlling central system management and consumption conditioning systems and to control its use of electricity in rationalization, as well as controlling its use by end users. its business premises. Such controls resulted in the purchase The calculation was made based on the consumption rates of air conditioners of higher energy standards and replacerecorded for larger facilities using data obtained by internal ment of standard lighting fixtures by energy-efficient light measurements and information provided by suppliers for the bulbs or LED lighting. The decrease in natural gas consumprespective reporting years. tion compared to the preceding reporting period is a result Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source Retail units account for most of the consumption in Tisak, if es. The administration and Management Board offices are any. As they use no water, there is no withdrawal from sourclocated in a building not owned by Tisak, so our consumption 76 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Tisak can only be expressed financially – HRK 244,571 was paid in are an increase in the scope of work and more employees due 2014 and HRK 318,350 in 2015. The reasons for this increase to the expansion of parcel and subscription distribution. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Total air emissions compared to 2014 and an increase by 41% compared to 2013. 2014 2015 (t ekv CO2) This increase in emissions is a result of fleet enlargement in Fuel for transport 3,234 3,288 Tisak required by an increased scope of work with respect to newspaper subscription and parcel distribution. At the end of Total 3,234 3,288 the 2015 reporting period, Tisak’s fleet comprised 313 freight Our total greenhouse gas emissions expressed in tons of CO2 vehicles and 277 motorcycles, which means that the average equivalent were 3234 t for the 2014 reporting period, comnumber of vehicles in 2015 is greater by 14 freight vehicles pared to 3288 t in 2015, which is an increase by 2% in 2015 and 197 motorcycles compared to 2013. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Electricity consumption 2014 2015 our greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our use of natural gas, denominated in tons of CO2, increased by 13.07% Electricity (kWh) 10,132,452.00 10,355,730.00 as a result of moving to a new building, greater warehouse areas and a colder winter. CO2 (in tons) 5,066.23 5,177.86 Potrošnja plina 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 Gas (m3) 104,500.00 131,200.00 (t ekv,CO2 /billion) CO2 (in tons) 1,910.07 2,398.09 Total air emissions (tons of CDE) 3,234 3,288 Total turnover (HRK billion) 3.77 3.72 The increase in greenhouse gas emissions denominated in Greenhouse gas emissions intensity tons of CO2 equivalent for the 2015 reporting period com857.82 883.87 (tons of CDE/billion) pared to the 2014 reporting period was 8.6% as a result of expanding our business in the parcel distribution segment, acquisition of Glas Istre’s retail units, and additional cold disEmissions intensity is presented as a ratio between total play cases installed at our retail units, which we now use on greenhouse gas emissions and total turnover obtained in a a year-round basis. year. Greenhouse gas emissions intensity was calculated by Compared to the preceding reporting period, our dividing absolute greenhouse gas emissions and Tisak’s total greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our use of electricturnover in HRK billion for each year. The increase is a result ity, denominated in tons of CO2, decreased by 10.88%, while of reduced total turnover and somewhat higher emissions. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG-a) Tisak is gradually replacing its vehicles by new ones that 10 vehicles were replaced by vehicles featuring Euro 5 enemit exhaust fumes according to the relevant environmental gines, compared to 35 vehicles replaced in 2014. standards – new vehicles featuring EURO 5 engines. In 2015, EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Freon is used as refrigerant in our refrigeration equipment our suppliers and Tisak insists that they use environmental(air conditioning). We phased out R-12 and R-22 and replaced ly acceptable gas. In 2014, Tisak purchased 200 cold display them by environmentally acceptable R-407 and R-410. Some cases using environmentally acceptable gas. of the cold display cases at Tisak’s retail units are owned by 77 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Tisak Specific standard disclosures EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination As a retail chain and distributor whose operations do not inAs specified in EN8, Tisak’s core business is its retail units volve any manufacturing or processing, Tisak has no signifiacross Croatia which have no water connections and therecant air emissions. fore discharge no water. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Hazardous waste Ciak 0 2.55 M SAN EKO 0 1.22 Materials unsuitable for consumption or Ciak 0 0 processing Unija Nova 61.87 21.04 e-Kolektor 0 14.04 Total 61.87 38.85 During the 2014 reporting period, Tisak disposed of 61,870 Waste disposal Type of waste 2014 (t) 2015 (t) contractors kg of hazardous waste and materials unsuitable for consumption or processing, compared to 38,845 in 2015, which is a Hartmann d.d. 430.98 0 decrease by 37% in 2015 compared to 2014 and an increase Hamburger recycling 0 0 by 126% compared to 2013. Unijapapir d.d. 169.02 0 Tisak is only able to present its municipal waste disposal figures financially. The total value of waste disposed of Vipap Videm 74.04 0 in 2015 was HRK 3,473,332, HRK 2,888,595 in 2014 and HRK Slr Steyrermuhl 368.04 0 3,239,211 in 2013. This decrease in municipal waste disposPaper and Bunzl&Biach gmbh 256.77 0 al costs in this reporting period is a result of separation and cardboard sorting of waste for reuse and waste separation for further Waste paper trade 549.91 0 recycling and reuse. Pak Papir d.o.o. 8.28 0 In addition to collecting old paper from individuals, in Vetel d.o.o. 17,253.31 18,070.74 2015 Tisak launched its campaign for collecting textile from Univerzal d.o.o. 4.84 0 individuals. 22 purchasing stations were in place across Croatia at the end of 2014, where a total of 5425 t of print was eKolektor d.o.o. 0 0 purchased from individuals. In 2014, Tisak purchased 5919 Hamburger recycling 0 28.3 0 t of paper from various companies and recorded 9077 t of Waste paper trade 253.34 0 paper from returns. A total of 20,421 t of old paper was purchased in 2014. At the end of 2015, we had 33 purchasing staPlastic packaging Vetel d.o.o. 17.62 176.41 tions where a total of 5927 t of print and office paper, 2 t of e-Kolektor d.o.o. 1.52 0 cardboard and 624 t of textile were purchased from individUniverzal d.o.o. 0 uals. In 2015, Tisak purchased a total of 5023 t of paper, 512 Hamburger recycling 0 0 t of cardboard and 133 t of polyethylene film from various companies and recorded 6318 t of paper from returns. A total Unija papir d.d. 0 0 of 17,268 t of old paper was purchased in 2015. Vetel d.o.o. 686.92 487.77 The revenue obtained from collecting, treating and Paper and cardboard e-Kolektor d.o.o. 259.05 139.13 selling nonhazardous waste in 2014 was HRK 10,886,749, packaging compared to HRK 10,707,046 in 2015. Univerzal d.o.o. 8.78 0 Bunzl&Biach gmbh 20.54 0 Waste paper trade 44.92 0 Regeneracija d.o.o. 0 384.18 Textile Trgo-Sirovina 0 125.62 Total 20,436.18 19,407.97 78 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Tisak Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations During the 2014/2015 reporting period, Tisak did not receive any fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Tisak does not provide organized workforce transport beprint to retail units and to our wholesale customers’ sites, as cause its business units are dispersed and some of its sites presented in the calculations of oil consumption and the calare not easily accessible. The other environmental impacts of culation of greenhouse gas emissions resulting from distritransport relate to the transport of goods. In Tisak, this perbution activities. tains to the transport and delivery of commercial goods and Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 2014 2015 The environmental protection expenditures and investments during this reporting period pertain to the cost of disposing Waste disposal, emission treatment, and 154,950.00 69,409.30 of goods written off. In 2014 they totaled HRK 145,950 comremediation costs (HRK) pared to HRK 69,409.30 in 2015, which is a decrease by 55% Prevention and environmental in 2015 compared to 2014 and an increase by 14% compared 0 0 management costs (HRK) to 2013. The decrease in 2015 compared to 2014 is a result Total 154,950.00 69,409.30 of smaller quantities of goods written off and replacement of our waste disposal contractor. Targets for 2016 and 2017: • Increase the volume of our purchasing of nonhazardous waste from individuals and corporations by 20%; • Purchase new Euro 6 vehicles; • Purchase electric delivery vehicles (motorcycles) for courier services provided in urban areas; • Increase the share of our electricity-powered warehousing machinery; and • Dispose of e-waste (IT equipment): computers, printers, toner, mobile phones and other equipment. 79 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Roto dinamic Specific standard disclosures R oto dinamic d.o.o. is a company established in 1992 unThe logistic segment currently uses 145 cargo vehicles, 60 der the name of Roto-promet d.o.o. During the 1990s, light commercial vehicles and 125 forklift trucks. We supply the company recorded constant growth and developover 5000 customers, which figure rises up to 7500 during the ment and became a leading distributor of all drinks and bevertourist season. ages in the region, while extending its business to retail and Roto dinamic distributes products to its customers services. In the course of its further growth, the company exthrough five sales channels: HoReCa, independent retailers, tended its business through exclusive agency arrangements retail chains, public procurement and redistributors. for globally renowned brands such as Capri-Sonne juices, Roto dinamic employs 548 people. Montes and Kaiken wines, and Astoria prosecco. The company holds a HACCP certificate and conducts As of May of 2013, Roto dinamic has been a member of regular audits of the entire distribution process for the purAgrokor Group. In early 2015, Roto dinamic became a wholly pose of maintaining its service quality at the highest level. In owned subsidiary of Jamnica d.d. 2015, six internal audits of the business management system Roto dinamic operates through 20 sale & distribution (quality/HACCP) were conducted. SGS conducted one external centers and 22 retail discount stores in Croatia. These specialHACCP audit. ized discount stores and their product ranges are designed for As this is our first Sustainability Report, we are unable hospitality businesses and offer discount prices. to make a comparison to the preceding period. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Our total consumption of materials includes packaging mateType of material used (kg) 2014 2015 rials. We purchase these materials from external suppliers. Materials for packaging purposes 23,900.15 27,219.05 In 2015, our consumption of materials used increased Total 23,900.15 27,219.05 as a result of increased sales volumes. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization 2014 2015 GJ, compared to 43,077 GJ in 2015. The fuel consumption Fuel 28,246 32,570 levels remained stable and the slight increase is a result of increased turnover in 2015. Natural gas 1,596 2,207 Roto dinamic uses LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) powLPG 2,366 2,601 ered forklift trucks and environmentally acceptable electric Electricity 4,923 5,699 forklift trucks for indoor areas in its warehousing operaTotal 37,131 43,077 tions. LPG consumption depends on logistic processes and product handling rates. As an alternative fuel, LPG results in less greenhouse gas emissions than any other fossil fuel, Our total energy consumption includes fuel, natural gas, LPG its combustion is clean, and is a high-grade environmentaland electricity. The energy consumption levels depend on the ly acceptable fuel we use in reusable 10 kg bottles. The use type of product, type of packaging, and their volumes. of electric forklift trucks reduces our fuel costs. In addition, Our total consumption of fuel obtained from nonrethey are less noisy and their use improves the quality of air newable sources (fuel, natural gas, LPG) in 2014 was 37,131 in the warehouse. 80 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Roto dinamic EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is expressed as electricity consumption Energy intensity 2014 2015 per HRK 100,000 of turnover for the entire company (in (GJ/HRK 100,000 turnover) 2014 turnover was 7737,5 in thousands of HRK, and in 2015 Electricity 0.64 0.67 8503,3 thousands of HRK). Fuel 3.65 3.83 Energy intensity is expressed as electricity and fuel consumption per HRK 100,000 of turnover for the entire company. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Roto dinamic d.o.o. is preparing its first Sustainability Report data. Our energy consumption levels increased in 2015 as a for the 2014/2015 period, which will be considered the referresult of increased turnover. ence period for future comparisons of energy consumption Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source For process From the public water Total volume of Year From wells purposes supply system water withdrawn 2014 4,567 4,567 2015 4,220 4,220 Total 0 0 925 560 925 560 Roto dinamic uses water from the public water supply sysmanaged rationally. Water is used for sanitary and hygienic tem for its operations. Being an important resource, water is purposes. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) (područje 1) CO2 equivalent is a measure used to compare emissions of Our total direct CO2 emissions by weight relate to the transdifferent greenhouse gases based on their Global Warming port of materials and products and were calculated by estiPotential (GWP), equaling 1 for the next one hundred years. mating the CO2 emissions resulting from combustion. As a sum of all direct emissions, total greenhouse gas Direct greenhouse emissions are denominated in tons of CO2 equivalent. 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CO2) In 2015, our greenhouse gas emissions increased as a Fuel for transport 1,941 2,238 result of increased turnover and sales network expansion. We LPG 141 155 opened three retail discount stores and one sales & distribution center. CO2 equivalent 2,082 2,393 In 2014, our vehicles completed 5,043,466 km compared to 5,630,495 km in 2015. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Year CO2 emissions (t)/turnoverr 2014 0.27 2015 0.28 81 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Roto dinamic Specific standard disclosures EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) In 2015, Roto dinamic worked on optimizing their routes and subishi Fuso Canter Eco Hybrid vehicles. We also intensified minimizing the distances traveled. our control of fuel consumption for all company vehicles. We We provided our drivers with internal eco-driving redesigned the sales & distribution center in Samobor and training and ordered two environmentally acceptable Mitmade it more thermally efficient. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) According to the Code of Good Practice for Ozone-Depleting for the use of the controlled substances specified in Annex C, Substances, the Ozone-Depleting Substances Regulation and Group I: Hydro-chlorofluorocarbons until 31 December 2015. the Waste Electrical and Electronic Devices and Equipment By aligning its environmental aspects with the relevant legManagement Ordinance, a Report is prepared on the inspecislative and other requirements, Roto dinamic discontinued tion of our refrigerating and air conditioning equipment by a the use of equipment containing such substances and properlicensed firm. ly disposed of it. The Ozone-Depleting Substances and Fluorinated Four such devices were removed in October of 2015 Greenhouse Gases Regulation (Official Gazette 92/12) allows from three sites. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Roto dinamic does not have any production or use any heatWastewater resulting from using sanitary facilities and ing plants. As the most significant emissions come from wastewater resulting from the washing process are disproduction processes, Roto dinamic does not measure these charged into the sewerage system. In 2014, we used 4567 m3 emissions. of water, compared to 4220 m3 in 2015. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Presented below are the amounts of waste for Roto dinamic: Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R Unija papir, Val-sol, 54.45 96.37 Hazardous waste D e-Kolektor 2.62 Total Spectra Media d.o.o. 54.45 98.99 Waste is sorted at source, collected separately and tempo39,400 compared to HRK 69,890 in 2015. As regards hazardrarily stored in areas designed for temporary storage of each ous waste, we disposed of IT equipment and office furniture. type of waste. Improved sorting at source increases the amount of By signing and amending our contracts with licensed nonhazardous waste, which is sold to licensed collecting orwaste collecting organizations, purchasing containers for ganizations as secondary raw materials. systematic sorting of all types of waste at source and disThis substantial increase in the amount of waste collectposing of waste at precisely defined sites within the proed in 2015 compared to 2014 is a result of better training process area, we obtained profit by selling recyclable types of vided at specific sites and organization of waste collection. waste (paper packaging, PET, film…). In 2014, we earned HRK Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations The Ministry of Agriculture, the Sanitary Inspection Adwith any laws or regulations, so no fines or nonmonetary ministration of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of sanctions were imposed, except for one case where we were Environmental and Nature Protection conducted several instructed to rectify defects, which was done within the time audits during the year and found no cases of noncompliance limit set. 82 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Roto dinamic Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce The environmental impacts of Roto dinamic are a result of transporting products using its own vehicles. Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emissions Year Tons of CO2 equivalent Tons of CO2 equivalent GJ GJ for fuel for LPG 2014 28,246 2,366 1,941 141 2015 32,570 2,601 2,238 155 Total 60,816 4,967 4,179 296 These parameters are presented according to the following The increase in CO2 emissions is a result of increased turncriteria: over and market expansion. • use of energy in GJ, and • greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type In 2014, Roto dinamic began to implement its Waste Manwhich is why we recorded no significant environmental proagement System and conducted internal employee training, tection expenditures or investments. Waste disposal, emission treatment, Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs management costs 2014 160,467.50 2015 174,008.00 11,100 Total 334,475.50 11,100 Environmental targets and programs for 2016: • adopt an integrated environmental and energy efficiency management policy; • align with the provisions of the Sustainable Waste Management Act; • align with the provisions of the Chemicals Act; and • complete energy audits of all sites by the end of 2016. 83 Specific standard disclosures 84 Category: ENVIRONMENTAL Food CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Zvijezda Z vijezda d.d. is the largest producer of vegetable oil and were recertified in late 2015. As required by retail chains, we fat and the only producer of different types of margarine, also implemented IFS Food, a food safety management sysmayonnaise, salads and mayonnaise-based dressings in tem, thus increasing the level of safety for Zvijezda products. Croatia, having a tradition of almost a hundred years. In 1993, In 2015, we completed the implementation of our energy Zvijezda became part of Agrokor Group. By continuously inefficiency management system according to ISO 50001:2011 vesting in production, product safety and customer satisfacand had it certified. This reinforced the environmental protection, Zvijezda provides its customers with high-quality, safe tion position at Zvijezda and we also complied with the statuand nutritionally balanced standardized products. Production tory requirement of conducting energy audits or implementincludes processing raw sunflower, rape and soybeans and ing energy efficiency management systems at major organizamaking margarine, mayonnaise and mayonnaise-based delitions. In late 2014, the Energy Efficiency Act (Official Gazette cacies. Our longstanding experience in producing high-quali127/14) was promulgated, which defines the requirements of ty products meeting the market requirements allows us to deconducting energy audits at major organizations. velop new products based on health, nutritional and environThe quality and environmental protection targets set for mental trends to provide our customers with full satisfaction the 2014 reporting period were attained. and value for money and to extend the range of our products • We put into service a new steam boiler at the heating plant available on the market. (installed in late 2013); after the burner parameters were adOur production plants are located at Marijana Čavića 1, justed, the results became noticeable in 2014. Our reduction Zagreb. Zvijezda’s production facility comprises three basic of emissions is proportional to our reduction of energy conunits: oil refining plant, oil bottling plant and margarine and sumption (natural gas) and using a new combined burner. delicacy production plant. This combined burner (natural gas/heating oil) allows us to In 2014, distribution and storage of Zvijezda products switch between these two energy forms in risky situations were outsourced to PIK Vrbovec for the purpose of rationalizing when natural gas supply is disrupted, in particular during our costs by using the synergic effects within Agrokor Group. the winter months. PIK Vrbovec took over the entire fleet, including all trucks (77 • A training project titled “Eco-Driving” was conducted and trucks of different load capacities) and forklift trucks (31 elecco-funded in cooperation with the Environmental Protectric and gas forklift trucks). All Zvijezda’s and PIK Vrbovec’s tion and Energy Efficiency Fund. We trained 20 freight veproducts are distributed together to our distribution centers hicle drivers who will be able to significantly reduce our in Osijek, Rijeka and Split and to our major customers’ (retail fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by changing their chains) central warehouses. This reduced the amount of fuel driving style. used for our vehicles in our balance sheet, which was much • We also successfully completed our Pallet Management and higher in earlier years. We now only present the amount of fuel Monitoring target, achieving savings in excess of 30%. used by our company cars. Accordingly, we reduced the amount Most of the targets set for 2015 were attained, except for of greenhouse gas emissions denominated in tons of CO2. major investments such as the margarine plant modernization Environmental protection is one of the key targets in projects, which will be completed in 2016. Zvijezda and is practiced by adhering to the principles of susWe attained the following targets: tainable development and cleaner production, as well as by • We implemented ISO 50001 – Energy Efficiency Managepreventing any environmental pollution at all times. Our sysment; tematic monitoring of environmental risks and impacts al• We built a waste container dock outside the margarine lowed us to define the aspects that have or may have environplant; mental impacts, which now represent a base for environmen• We built an awning to cover pallets and waste margarine tal management by defining the targets and meeting them by in barrels; conducting programs. • We replaced R-22 by an environmentally acceptable refrigOur quality, environmental and food safety manageerant for the air conditioning system in the administration ment system certificates demonstrate our compliance with building. ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and HACCP, as well as the Codex AlimenWe are very much focused on improving our technologtarius. In addition, Zvijezda holds a Kosher certificate for its ical processes and training our employees, in particular with products and had its information security management sysrespect to environmental matters. Our management systems tem certified according to ISO 27001:2011. All these systems are improved and upgraded on an ongoing basis. 85 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Zvijezda Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Materials used include raw materials, associated process pared to this reporting period. This decrease in production materials and materials for packaging purposes used in the mostly concerns oil production. production of primary products. All materials our supplied by external suppliers. Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 These figures show that the total amounts of materials Raw materials 46,985,390 39,063,925 used in 2015 were reduced compared to 2014. This is a result Associated process materials 910,559 502,164 of a decrease in total production, which is in line with the trend recorded during the preceding reporting period where Materials for packaging purposes 4,569,161 6,057,499 the amount of materials used decreased by around 10% comTotal 52,465,110 45,623,586 Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Our total energy consumption is denominated in GJ and premostly used for the deodorization phase in the raw oil refinsented for 2014 and 2015. ing plant. In 2013 we installed a new boiler having a capacity (10 t/h) lower than the previously used one, which resulted in 2014 2015 noticeable reduction of gas consumption in 2014. Our reducNatural gas 103,888 90,060 tion of emissions is directly proportional to our reduction of energy consumption (natural gas). Electricity 24,410 21,243 Electricity is mostly used to power machines, lines Fuel 24,739 6,321 and pumps, mainly in the margarine and delicacy producTotal 153,037 117,624 tion plant. Some of the electricity is used for cooling the raw materials and finished products warehouses. Our electricity In the processes of producing edible vegetable oil, margarine consumption depends on the season and is greater during the and industrial vegetable fats we use superheated steam for summer months than during the winter months due to the heating pipelines and tanks that heat operating areas intendseasonal nature of production. ed for production and storage of finished products. The entire A significant decrease was also recorded in transport steam generation process takes place at the heating plant and fuel consumption because PIK Vrbovec transported Zvijezda’s steam is used wherever necessary. The form of energy used products in this reporting period. Reductions were recorded in the heating plant to make steam is natural gas, which is for other energy forms as well, however, not so substantial. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is presented as consumption of electricity Energy intensity (GJ/t) 2014 2015 and gas per product unit. Energy intensity is presented as electricity and natuElectricity 0.49 0 ral gas consumption per ton of product. A slight decrease was Gas 2.11 1 recorded in 2015 compared to 2014, which may be associated with reduced production quantities. 86 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Zvijezda EN6: Reduction of energy consumption As a responsible corporation, Zvijezda undertakes measures agement system was successfully certified in November of for efficient use of energy. Our ongoing plant moderniza2015. During the implementation of the energy efficiency tion, production rationalization and batch size optimization management system, an energy audit was conducted at Zviresult in improved energy efficiency and our employees are jezda, large energy consuming devices were identified, and a continually trained on responsible conduct and rational use reference base was set, which is used to prepare measures to of energy. In late 2014, we began to implement our energy improve energy efficiency and energy efficiency indicators. efficiency management system. Our energy efficiency manEN8: Total water withdrawal by source Zvijezda uses water from two sources: Like any other food industry, Zvijezda uses large amounts • the public water supply system, and of water for washing to comply with hygienic standards and • its own onsite well for which it holds a concession. ensure product safety. Our water is under constant control of Water is used as part of products, for cooling, for washour own laboratory and external licensed laboratories, as reing plants and plant lines, as sanitary water, and for drinking. quired by the relevant regulations. Water is also used to make steam at the heating plant. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Process water Public water Total volume of Year (well water) supply system water withdrawn 2014 55,596 29,868 85,464 2015 47,370 24,870 72,240 As a result of undertaking systematic rational water conconsumption of water (public and well water). Part of this sumption measures, complying with all applicable hygienic reduction is associated with the reduction in production and and safety standards, regularly maintaining our pipelines part is a result of improved utilization of condensate recovand quickly intervening in case of an accident, the amounts ery, repair of leaks on the public and well water pipelines, of water used/consumed are constantly decreasing, as shown and training our employees for the rational use of water by the figures concerning the amounts of water used. Com(plant washing, timely closing of any water sources, faucets, pared to the preceding reporting period, we reduced our total etc.). EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Zvijezda systematically monitors and rationalizes its water tion to a sustainable level. We have water meters in place consumption – recirculation was performed in earlier periand constantly monitor our consumption, which allows us to ods, whenever possible. When we purchase new lines and detect any illogical consumption caused by ruptures and to technologies, they practically already contain closed water repair them immediately. We regularly inspect and maintain systems (new refinery), which reduces our water consumpour pipelines. EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused The water used in the heating plant to make steam and for as mentioned above, we utilized the condensate optimally, production purposes is recirculated condensate, accounting which resulted in reduced water consumption. We continue for 25% and 30%. The same amount of condensate was reto examine the options of using/recirculating condensate in circulated during the preceding reporting period, however, other process locations. 87 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Zvijezda Specific standard disclosures Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse gas emissions from Zvijezda’s plants invant heating devices (medium-sized or small) used in Zvijezclude emissions from stationary sources and emissions reda’s plants by a licensed organization. sulting from fuel combustion in mobile combustion sources. Direct greenhouse The impact of air greenhouse gas emissions at Zvijezda in2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) cludes emissions from stationary sources and emissions resulting from transporting materials and products using own Production plants 5,068 4,662 vehicles and transporting workforce members to and from Fuel for transport 1,757 464 work using cars owned by Zvijezda. Direct greenhouse gas Total 6,825 5,126 emissions were calculated taking into account the combustion of natural gas used to power the heating plant and fuel (diesel) for transport using freight and passenger vehicles. As a sum of all direct emissions, total greenhouse gas emisEmissions are regularly monitored in accordance with sions are denominated in tons of CO2 equivalent. the national legislation and CO2 equivalent is calculated by Our total CO2 emissions were reduced by 30% comusing the methodology specified in the Guide for Preparing pared to the preceding reporting period. This reduction of Plant Greenhouse Gas Emissions Monitoring Plans issued by total emissions is a result of: the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning • reduced emissions asociated with transport because the and Construction according to the following formula: distribution of Zvijezda products was outsourced to PIK VrCO2 (combustion emissions) = consumption * size of combovec during the 2014-2015 reporting period; bustion * emission factor * oxidation factor • reduction of total production; CO2 equivalent is a measure used to compare emissions • using a new boiler with a smaller capacity (to make steam); of various greenhouse gases based on their Global Warming and Potential (GWP), equaling 1 for the next one hundred years. • rational use of steam, which is directly related to the heatOur total direct CO2 emissions are measured on an annual or ing plant’s operating mode. biannual basis, depending on the size and power of the releEN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions in Zvijezda is Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 presented as a ratio between total emissions in tons of CO2 (CO2 emission (t) / ton of product) and the amount of products made in tons. Compared to the CO2 emission 0.1009 0.1007 preceding reporting period, the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions was reduced in this reporting period, which is directly associated with the above indicator. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions After installing a smaller-sized boiler in the heating plant and the figures concerning or CO2 emission (t)/ton of product (10 t/h) and adjusting the burner parameters, our natural show a roughly equal decrease. Total CDE recorded during gas consumption in 2014 decreased by around 19%. Our gas the 2012/2013 reporting period were 10% higher than total consumption is directly proportional to our emissions of CDE CDE recorded during the 2014/2015 reporting period. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Our onsite refrigeration devices have been cataloged and ing Equipment and Heat Pumps (Form SK 1). In September are systematically supervised by licensed servicers and our of 2013, we reported to the Ministry of Environmental and equipment is inspected and maintained according to the Nature Protection all our stationary equipment and systems schedule defined by law. Each refrigeration device is assigned containing 3 kg or more of ozone-depleting substances or flua Maintenance Card for Refrigerating and Air Conditionorinated greenhouse gases (Form PNOS). 88 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Zvijezda Zvijezda’s production plants use refrigeration devices conpleting HCFC-22 (hydrochlorofluorocarbon). For all other taining refrigerants allowed to be used under the Ozone-Derefrigeration equipment, ODS = 0. In April of 2015, Zvijezda pleting Substances and Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases Regreplaced the refrigerant by an environmentally acceptable ulations (Official Gazette 90/14). Only the air conditioner in refrigerant and thus complied with the requirements of the the administration building contained 14 kg of the ozone-deRegulation. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Emission of pollutants from stationary sources are measured the permitted limits and were reduced compared to 2014 and every year for the boiler in the heating plant because it is compared to the preceding reporting period. classified as a medium-sized heating device, while the other Total greenhouse gas emissions (t) heating devices are small and the measurements for them are carried out on a biannual basis by a licensed organization for Year SO2 NO2 CO CO2, NO2 and CO emissions. 2014 5,106 2.84 0.28 According to the measurements of pollutant air emis2015 4,295 2.60 0.25 sions for all heating equipment, the air emissions are within EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination The total amount of water discharge is determined on the baYear Total water discharge (m3) sis of data about the amount of water supplied from the water 2014 81,191 supply system and water withdrawn from wells minus 5%, 2015 68,628 which is the amount of water incorporated in products and loss from evaporation on the cooling towers. Total 149,819 The consumption of water and other forms of energy has been systematically monitored in Zvijezda since 2001 The quality of treated process wastewater is checked accordand strategic water reduction tasks were set based on such ing to the schedule defined by the water management license data. Wherever possible, the plants worked on water recirby the licensed Andrija Štampar Laboratory (twice a year). culation procedures as a measure to reduce the total amount Zvijezda’s internal laboratory conducts analyses of wastewaof water used. Production on production lines is planned by ter. Compared to the preceding reporting period, the amounts allowing for making products one by one without washing of water discharge recorded in this reporting period were dithe line or maximizing the size of each batch. This resulted rectly dependent on the amounts of water used and decreased in water savings without affecting the safety of our products. as the production quantities decreased. All wastewater is treated by a wastewater treatment plant (physical-chemical treatment). EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R 697.54 589.14 Hazardous waste D 14.16 12.75 Total 711.70 601.89 Waste is sorted at source, collected separately and tempoimproved waste sorting and constant reduction of landfilled rarily stored in areas designed for temporary storage of each waste. A comparison between the reporting periods shows type of waste. Improved waste sorting increases the amount that the amount of nonhazardous or hazardous waste and the of nonhazardous waste, which is sold to licensed waste coltotal of amount of waste are constantly decreasing (by 13% lecting organizations as secondary raw materials. Our waste for hazardous waste and 25% for nonhazardous waste). management plan and ongoing employee training resulted in 89 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Zvijezda Specific standard disclosures Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations In 2014, a coordinated audit was conducted at Zvijezda, as with the legal requirements and no sanctions were imposed, presented in the table below. All audits showed compliance which is also the case for 2015. Auditor Audit date Audit Reports Ministry of the Interior Zagreb Fire Protection Inspectorate 02/06/2014 Police Administration Ministry Of Health Sanitary Inspectorate (dangerous chemicals 02/06/2014 Sanitary Inspection Administration audit) City Of Zagreb Department Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection Environmental Protection Inspectorate 03/06/2014 Industrial Contamination, Environmental Impact and Sustainable Waste Management Inspection Department Ministry of Agriculture Veterinary Inspectorate 04/06/2014 Veterinary Inspection Department Ministry of agriculture Water Management Inspectorate 04/06/2014 National Water Management Inspection Department Ministry of Labor and Pension System Occupational Safety Inspectorate 05/06/2014 Labor Inspectorate Occupational Safety Department Ministry of Economy Electricity Inspectorate 06/06/2014 Electricity Supervisory Department State Inspectorate Vessels-Under-Pressure Inspectorate 06/06/2014 Electricity, Mining and Vessels-Under-Pressure Department Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Zvijezda’s environmental impacts of transporting products as greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent for and other goods and transporting workforce are presented transport (fuel) in EN15. 90 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Zvijezda Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Zvijezda constantly monitors its environmental protection • emission measurements and the charge for air emissions costs to ensure further economic progress based on the susfrom stationary sources; tainable development principles. Our waste disposal costs are • cleaning sewers and separators; decreasing because we separate several more types of plastic • operating our WTP; waste which does not burden mixed packaging waste. • certifications and trainings for the environmental manageOur total environmental protection costs include the costs of: ment system; and • waste disposal; • environmental protection investments. • laboratory analyses of waste and wastewater; A comparison between the reporting periods shows • the charge for packaging and waste packaging disposal that the environmental protection investments were roughly (Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund); on the same level. Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 1,307,697 675,503 2015 1,080,395 466,098 Total 2,388,092 1,141,601 We set our environmental targets for 2016 and the last two Each year Zvijezda sets its targets for the next onetargets set for 2016 were feasibility analyses. If they show it year period (2016) and prepares its investment plan. Targets is feasible to begin to implement these investments, they will may only be set after the investment plan is accepted. We are be made in 2017. We aim to modernize our margarine plant therefore unable to make our plan for 2017 until late 2016. and replace the pool evaporator and ice water pool – these are major investments to be completed in 2016. The targets are: • modernize the margarine plant; • replace the pool evaporator and ice water pool; • utilize waste heat from air compressors for superheating process or sanitary water; • analyze the feasibility of modernizing our lighting and its operating mode within the margarine and delicacies department (LED lighting). 91 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Dijamant Specific standard disclosures D ijamant A.D. is an oil, vegetable fat, margarine and mayWe managed to reduce the amount of our municipal waste onnaise industry headquartered in Zrenjanin. Dijamant by increasing the share of secondary raw materials extracted has operated within Agrokor Group since 2005 and is from it, improving our management or our working processes one of the largest oleaginous plant processors and vegeta(less wasting), introducing reusable packaging for raw mateble fat producers in this part of Southeast Europe. The report rials, etc. This resulted in a decrease by 21% compared to the shows data for 2014 and 2015. The indicators prepared demonpreceding reporting period; strate Dijamant’s focus on environmental protection. It is reWe conducted an internal employee training about the flected in reduced pollution, proper waste management, direct importance of waste sorting as a prerequisite for efficient disinvestments in equipment and processes generating less noise posal. We regularly inspect the factory area and instruct our and designed to prevent any leaks, etc. employees on how to handle waste. In 2014, we launched regIn 2014, Dijamant successfully had its existing stanular meetings with individuals residing near the factory for dards (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, GMP+, FSSC22000, the purpose of obtaining feedback on the performance of DiHACCP and HALAL) recertified and added Kosher to the list jamant’s environmental management policy. This primarily of certified standards. concerns the control of noise, unpleasant odors and dust emisAs regards its targets set in the preceding reporting pesions; riod, Dijamant attained as follows: Although we planned to, we did not plant trees or underIn 2014, we put into service our wastewater pumping take any activities regarding the excessive noise and dust in station which allows for precise measuring of wastewater disDijamant’s plants. This includes facilities not located in Zrencharge and adjusting the discharge mode; janin for which Dijamant is responsible (as the owner or lesWe started to separate polypropylene (packaging waste) see). They are the following sites: Odžaci, Bački Sokolac, Novo from municipal waste – during this reporting period we sepMiloševo, Novi Bečej, and Uljma; arated five tons of waste polypropylene and delivered it to liIn 2015 we had our existing standards successfully recensed collecting organizations; certified. In addition, the HALAL food standard was extended The chemicals we purchase and use are reported and to all products made by Dijamant A.D. We implemented Koregistered in the Chemicals Registry. MSDS (Master Safety sher as a new standard. Kosher only applies to fats and oils Data Sheets) are updated on an annual basis and solid and liqmade in Dijamant. This decision was made because, technouid chemicals are particularly monitored. We also maintain logically, only this product group is made under conditions rerecords of the circulation of chemicals and biocides. Chemiquired by Kosher. No ISO 18001 training was held; and cals are supplied in reusable packaging; For the purpose of obtaining a water management liFor this reporting period, we plan to precisely detercense, in 2015 we created a document titled “Water Managemine our consumption of electricity as an environmental indiment Requirements” as the first document to be used to comcator for each production process (chemical water preparation, plete that task. A decision was made to establish a team that oil extraction, compressor operation, etc.). We are still workwill prepare an action plan to resolve our wastewater issues in ing on this environmental indicator because we have not yet 2016. Unlike the 2015 plan, we did not work on obtaining an provided for the measurement of all parameters for each prointegrated license because it is conditional upon holding a waduction line. In other words, some parameters are still meater management license. sured on a plant basis and then calculated for each product and process (electricity consumption, water consumption). 92 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Dijamant Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume The amount of materials used in 2015 was 3.6% lower comType of material used (kg) 2014 2015 pared to 2014 and 0.25% lower compared to the preceding Raw materials 203,075,241 194,727,962 reporting period. These differences in amounts are a result of Associated process materials 1,048,120 1,066,608 different structures of the materials supplied and inventories carried forward. Materials for packaging purposes 3,788,901 4,538,623 Dijamant does not use any raw materials or secondary Total 207,912,262 200,333,193 materials made of recycled materials in its processes. As regards production input, only a small share of secondary packaging (cardboard boxes and trays) contains recycled paper. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Dijamant uses steam resulting from using natural gas and from shell in 2015 was insignificantly lower than in 2014 sunflower shell in its production processes. The other forms due to a different production structure and shell quality (the of energy used are electricity, diesel, gasoline and LPG for moisture content in the shell affects the amount of energy motor vehicles. obtained). Total consumption of fuel from nonrenewable energy sources Indirect energy consumption by primary source (Direct energy consumption by primary source) (indirect energy supplied and used from nonrenewable energy sources) Diesel Gasoline LPG Natural gas Year Electricity (GJ) Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) 2014 92,725.93 2014 29,860.13 1,365.58 5.44 90,040.95 2015 104,650.30 2015 27,677.21 1,256.97 6.01 82,793.15 Total 197,376.23 Total 57,537.34 2,622.55 11.45 172,834.10 Our electricity consumption in 2015 increased by 12% comIn 2015 we continued to reduce our consumption of natural pared to 2014 and 5% compared to the preceding reporting gas, by approximately 8% compared to 2014 because our inperiod as a result of an increased scope of work in Dijamant’s creased levels of sunflower seed purchasing generated more silos which operate using electricity only. The scope of tradsunflower shell used as energy instead of natural gas. ing agricultural products stored in the silos also increased. During this reporting period, we reduced the number of diesel-powered passenger vehicles (our diesel consumption Indirect energy consumption by primary source decreased by 5%) and invested in vehicles combining gaso(indirect energy supplied and used from nonrenewable energy sources) line and LPG. The trucks used to transport our products conYear Steam (GJ) tinue to be the main consumers of diesel fuel. 2014 76,926.77 Total consumption of fuel from renewable energy sources 2015 71,300.00 (Direct energy consumption by primary source) Total 148,226.77 Year Sunflower shell (GJ) 2014 282,260 Our consumption of energy from nonrenewable sources 2015 274,673 (natural gas) decreased by 8% in 2015 and by approximately Total 556,933 55% compared to 2013. The main reason for this is a higher amount of sunflower shell purchase, which is why the In 2015, we increased our share of energy obtained from reamount of fuel available from renewable sources increased newable sources (sunflower shell) by 20% compared to the proportionally. preceding reporting period. The amount of energy obtained 93 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Dijamant Specific standard disclosures EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is presented as the total amount of energy commercial seed in our silos. Our consumption of natural gas used per product unit. The total amount of energy is a sum decreased by 8% in 2015 as a result of an increased scope of of the energy obtained from electricity, fuel and natural gas, sunflower processing which generates shell as a form of eneri.e. from nonrenewable sources. A product unit is the total gy much cheaper than natural gas. amount of production in tons. Considering that the amount of goods produced and In this reporting period, the total energy intensity dethe structure of products varied during the reporting period, creased by 30% compared to the preceding reporting periit may be concluded based on the energy intensity recorded od. Our electricity consumption in 2015 increased by 12% in during this period that the total amount of energy used per 2015 compared to 2014 as a result of increased turnover of product unit did not change significantly. Energy used per Total energy used Total amount Year Energy form unit produced (GJ) of products (in tons) (GJ/ton)) Electricity 92,725.93 0.201 Fuel for transport 31,231.15 461,097.17 0.067 2014 Natural gas 90,040.95 0.195 Total 213,998.03 0.464 Electricity 104,650.30 0.246 Fuel for transport 28,940.19 424,830.79 0.068 2015 Natural gas 82,793.15 0.194 Total 216,383.64 0.509 EN6: Reduction of energy consumption During this reporting period, Dijamant was primarily fomakes the greatest contribution to electricity consumption cused on reducing its electricity and natural gas consumpoptimization and we endeavor to maintain production contition. In 2014, additional electricity meters were installed and nuity, without any unnecessary interruptions or restarting consumption levels in our plants were recorded. We check for because this requires substantial amounts of electricity. any variations in consumption on a daily basis and regularly By practicing constant monitoring of the condition of check samples. The organization of our production process our equipment, we find any steam leaks and repair them. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source From the public water Total volume of Year Own wells supply system water withdrawn 2014 350,507 103,305 453,812 2015 382,900 97,300 470,200 Total 733,407 200,605 924,012 Water is sourced from the public water supply system as poeries. After we overhauled the oil refinery and implemented table water and sanitary water. automated replenishment of cooling water in the system, the The total amount of water withdrawn is affected by total water consumption decreased by 18% compared to the the scope and structure of production, but also the average preceding reporting period. temperature because a higher temperature requires more water. Water is mainly used for cooling processes in our refin94 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Dijamant EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Dijamant does not use any recycled water, which means that all water is only used once. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) The CO2 emissions generated by the production plants are Total air emissions 2014 2015 reflected in the figures concerning the consumption of nat(t CDE) ural gas as a nonrenewable energy form. We reduced our Production plants 3,221.31 2,961.84 consumption of gas and used more sunflower shell, which is Fuel for transport 2.43 2.28 energy obtained from a renewable source. Compared to the preceding reporting period, we reduced our greenhouse gas Total 3,223.74 2,964.12 emissions by approximately 50%. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity is presented as the preceding reporting period, the total amount of CDE in the total amount of CO2 emitted per product unit. Total CO2 tons did not affect greenhouse gas emissions intensity beis the amount of direct greenhouse gas emissions. While it cause of a reduced scope of production, which neutralized the tended to decrease during this reporting period compared to effect. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Tons of CDE per unit Year Total CDE in tons Total CDE in tons produced 2014 3,223.74 461,097.17 0.00699 2015 2,964.12 424,830.79 0.00697 Total 6,187.86 885,927.96 0.01396 EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Dijamant uses the following ozone-depleting substances: Ozone-depleting substances by weight (kg) Year Refrigerant R12 Refrigerant R 134a Refrigerant R22 Refrigerant R404 Refrigerant R407C Total 2014 16 16 2015 39 26 143 208 Total 39 26 159 224 These substances are used in certain Dijamant’s refrigeration into the air and replacing it by new refrigerant. In normal opsystems. The increase in 2015 compared to 2014 is associateration, no refrigerant is emitted into the air so any extraored with the maintenance of refrigeration equipment and each dinary emissions may be considered accidental. maintenance job implies emitting the existing refrigerant 95 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Dijamant Specific standard disclosures EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions The above table presents data for emissions generated by ic filter in 2013, which increased our operating efficiency in Dijamant’s boilers. No significant investments were made in this reporting period the steam production plant during this reporting period. The level of NO2 in 2015 decreased compared to 2014 because we Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight improved our management of the boiler combustion process, (in tons) sunflower shell was more homogeneous as energy, and greatYear SO2 NO2 CO PM er control was established over burner temperature. Inho2014 0 50.07 11.67 2.10 mogeneous energy results in unwanted overheating of the 2015 0 42.83 17.23 1.80 boiler, which generates nitrogen oxides. The reduced levels of powdery substances are a result of repairing the electrostatTotal 0 92.90 28.90 3.90 EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination No changes were made during this reporting period with reYear Total water discharge (m3) spect to treatment plant technology or chemicals used (coag2014 262,915 ulants and flocculants). 2015 263,700 The decrease in wastewater contamination is a result of improved management of grease resulting from the proTotal 526,615 duction process. Waste grease from products passes directly through a grease trap and is channeled to processing for In 2014 and 2015, we continued to reduce our wastewater animal feed production. This grease was previously incorpolevels as a result of reconstructing our water cooling sysrated in wastewater, thus putting an additional burden on the tem. The abovementioned refinery overhaul (automation of treatment plants. cooling water dosage) resulted in decreased consumption of On the other hand, as technology developed and busiclean water and, consequently, less wastewater. The amount nesses for biogas production emerged, the grease and grease of wastewater recorded in 2015 decreased by 33% compared deposits collected from wastewater now have their commerto the preceding reporting period. cial value, which justified the additional cost of investing in treatment plant chemicals. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method We did not significantly change our waste management creased amount of pallets disposed of compared to the earlier method in this reporting period compared to the precedyears. The ordinary production process in Dijamant does not ing reporting period. We identified all types of waste and generate and hazardous waste. The hazardous waste generdetermined their EWC codes. The increase in the amount of ated is a result of replacing our lubricants (mineral oil), old nonhazardous waste disposed of in 2015 is a result of an inelectrical materials and old IT equipment. Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Luna doo, Bačka Palanka; Grand grupa, Bačka Palanka; JKP Čistoća i zelenilo , Zrenjanin; Centar za reciklažu , Beograd; Dren Eco , Čelarevo; Zvezda , Zrenjanin; Nonhazardous waste R/D Pan Riko , NoviSad; Papir Servis FHB; 2,727.54 2,685.80 Dogama , Zrenjanin; Pima , Čačak; Pneutech , Vrbas; Jugo-impex , Niš; Esotron , NoviSad; Metal Đurđevo, Novi Sad; Repro Miš, Beograd Centar za reciklažu Železnik, Beograd; BIS, Hazardous waste R Pančevo; Delta eko sustav, Kladovo; SCT7.43 1.94 CERT, Kikinda Total 2,734.97 2,687.74 96 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Dijamant Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or any other sanctions were imposed during this any associations about Dijamant’s operations as they relate to reporting period for noncompliance with any environmental environmental pollution. regulations. No complaints were received from individuals or Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Total CO2 emissions The decrease in fuel consumption in 2015 compared to the Year Fuel for transport (GJ) (tons of CDE for fuel) preceding reporting period is a result of improved organiza2014 31,231.15 2.43 tion of transport routes, but also of changes in fuel used for transport (increased use of LPG). 2015 28,940.20 2.28 Total 60,171.35 4.71 Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (RSD) management costs (RSD) 2014 43,139,712.34 8,682,618.81 2015 36,913,766.74 7,896,775.50 Total 80,053,479.08 16,579,394.31 We recorded a noticeable decrease in the costs of waste disOur emission treatment cost was 24% higher in 2015 than posal, emission treatment, remediation and pollution. This in 2014 as a result of more accurate measuring of electricity decrease is primarily a result of reduced wastewater charges. consumption for the plant and of taking into account the elecAll environmental management prevention, investtricity used by other devices indirectly connected to the elecment and management costs remained at approximately the trostatic filter. The electrostatic filter’s scope of operation in same level. The differences in monetary values are a result 2015 did not significantly change compared to 2014. The 66% of different amounts of environmental parameter monitoring increase recorded in this reporting period compared to the costs. preceding reporting period is a result of installing additional Compared to 2014, in 2015 the cost of waste treatment electricity meters and more accurate measuring of consumpand disposal was slightly higher as a result of the structure tion, which is why it should not be considered an increase in of waste and disposal costs. Pursuant to the Waste Managecosts but rather improved allocation of air emission treatment Act, we outsourced our organic waste disposal activiment costs. In 2015, our cost of water from the public water ties as of 2015, which primarily relates to expired products. supply system decreased by 5% compared to 2014, which is In 2015, we disposed of 8.8 tons of waste, which is 21% more a direct result of increased use of water from our own wells. than in 2014. Compared to the preceding reporting period, our water costs 97 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Dijamant Specific standard disclosures decreased by 41% because we started to use more well water The institute costs are the costs of external laboratories and compared to public water in 2014. institutes hired to conduct mandatory measurements of enThe costs of wastewater discharged into the public vironmental parameters. These costs increased by 12% in sewerage system during this reporting period decreased by 2015 compared to 2014 as a result of doubling the number of 68% compared to the preceding reporting period due to a emission analyses on Dijamant’s boilers as directly required change in the legal status of the wastewater recipient. by the relevant authorities. No substantial changes were recorded compared to the preceding reporting period. Plans for 2016 Dijamant set the following targets for the next reporting period: • Continue pursuing our activities toward obtaining a water management license; • Continue with our efforts toward obtaining an integrated license – these activities are primarily related to the water management license which must be obtained as a condition precedent to obtaining an integrated license; • Finalize our activities with respect to measuring environmental indicator parameters by production line. In 2016, we plan to conduct a statistical analysis of the process parameters measurement results (consumption of electricity, water, energy, etc.), based on which we will determine the efficiency of managing environmentally relevant parameters; • Revise our management of waste grease and oiled process water for the purpose of determining whether or not the changes in waste grease management were effective. • Implement the following new standards and extend the scope of the following existing standards: Dunav Soja / a standard for the management of producing and processing non-GMO soybean grown on the territory of the Danube Basin. GMP+ B3 / an extension to the existing GMP+ B2 standard. The scope of certification will extend to primary agricultural product trade. 98 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sojara S ojara d.o.o. Zadar is a company transporting oleaginous As no production activities were undertaken during the reportplants and all kinds of cereals and storing and handling ing period, but only handling, transport and storage activities, goods in silos and under-floor warehouses. Until 2012, Sojara’s environmental impacts were significantly reduced. Sojara processed domestic or imported soybeans into soybean In 2001, Sojara was certified according to the ISO meal, soybean oil and lecithin. The processing capacity is up 9001:2008 quality management standard. The most recent reto 1100 t per day. On 1 July 2014, a decision was made to uncertification was carried out in 2015, while surveillance audits dertake no processing activities in 2014 and 2015 due to the are conducted every year. In 2010, we had our environmental planned investments and for the purpose of obtaining the remanagement system certified according to ISO 14001:2004, quired documentation for the new plant. Sojara is convenientwhile surveillance audits are also carried out every year. Our ly located near Zadar Port and very close to railway and road ISO 14001 was last recertified in 2013. Sojara has also impleroutes used for transporting and handling oleaginous plants mented an HACCP system and is subject to the IPPC Directive and cereals. In addition, Sojara is equipped with its own transand the Kyoto Protocol. shipment tower on a port pier, which is able to receive the largThe targets set for 2014 and 2015 were as follows: est freight ships. Our silo for storing oleaginous plants, cere• Improve our waste management system by providing onals and flour, having a capacity of 38.000 m3, offers opportunigoing training of all employees with respect to the need to ties in the context of imports and exports of goods. sort municipal and other waste, provide more containers for Sojara Zadar started its production activities in 1977. In specific types of waste and improve our solid waste depos1991, Sojara d.d. became part of Agrokor Group, thus estabitory. This target was partially met. Trainings are provided lishing better cooperation with companies such as Belje, Zvion an ongoing basis and we did not purchase new containjezda, etc. In late 2013, Sojara changed its legal status as a ers or improve of solid waste depository for financial reajoint-stock company to a limited liability company. In Novemsons. We trained all our employees and also conduct interber of 2012, Sojara discontinued its processing activities. As of nal trainings as necessary; 2013, Sojara only transports oleaginous plants and all kinds of • Improve our hazardous waste depository by cementing and cereals and stores and handles goods in silos and under-floor roofing it and providing it with water, electricity and fire warehouses. Before this report was written, a location permit alarm installations to comply with the relevant regulations. was issued for a new heating plant and the relevant building The target was not met for financial reasons; permit is still pending. The indicators provided in the report • Reduce our wastewater emissions and our direct impact on thus only relate to transport, handling and storage. the recipient (the sea) by connecting to the common wasteSojara is particularly committed to quality control, enviwater treatment plant in Gaženica Port as soon as it becomes ronmental protection and product safety. It reduces its adverse available. The availability of the treatment plant is up to the environmental impacts by constantly training its employees City of Zadar. This target was not met because the wastewaand optimizing its energy and natural resource consumption. ter treatment plant in Gaženica Port is still unavailable. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 in 2014 was 101,735,000 x 103 kg, compared to 74,012,771 x 103 kg in 2015. The quantity of goods decreased by around Raw materials 0 0 26% for financial reasons and due to the prices of commodiAssociated process materials 250 200 ties in the market. Materials for packaging purposes No comparison is possible to the preceding reporting Total 250 200 period because the data for the preceding reporting period was based on the amount of soybean processing in the We did not use any raw materials during this reporting peproduction plant. The factory discontinued its operations in riod because we did not undertake any processing activities, late 2012. including soybean as the raw material to be processed. The amount of goods used in our transport, handling and storage activities (wheat, soybean, soybean meal, corn) 99 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sojara Specific standard disclosures Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Indirect energy consumption by primary source (indirect energy obtained than the amount of electricity used in 2014 as a result of an and used from nonrenewable energy sources) increased scope of work at the terminal for storing and transYear Electricity (GJ) porting cereals and soybean meal and secondary consumption of electricity at the refrigeration plant in the port terminal. 2014 3.02 An increase in electricity consumption by around 10% 2015 3.10 was recorded for reporting period as a result of an increased Total 6.12 scope of work at the terminal for storing and transporting cereals and soybean meal and secondary consumption of elecThe amount of electricity used in 2015 was somewhat higher tricity at the refrigeration plant in the port terminal. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity may be properly determined based on the ters other than electricity consumption are relevant after the parameters provided in the guidelines (fuel, electricity, heatproduction plant discontinued its operations. Our electricity ing, cooling, steam, etc.). Unfortunately, none of the parameconsumption is specified in EN3. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Effective reduction of electricity consumption is a primary unloading. In addition, preventive inspections of machines task that we accomplish by reducing the operating time of and equipment minimize unforeseen plant malfunctions. Our our cargo (cereals) handling machines by minimizing the idle electricity consumption is measured on a monthly basis. time of the transporters used to carry cereals for loading/ Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Public water Total volume of Our water consumption in 2015 increased by about 45% comYear supply system water withdrawn pared to 2014 and relates primarily to sanitary water. The 2014 247 247 water consumption level increased as a result of an increased scope of work. 2015 514 514 Our water consumption levels decreased several times Total 761 761 compared to the preceding reporting period as a result of the absence of process water due to the absence of processing activities. EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not applicable to Sojara d.o.o. 100 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sojara Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Not applicable to Sojara d.o.o. as no processing activities are undertaken. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Sojara has no information available that could be used to used by our employees to travel to and from work and the determine the indirect CO2 emissions generated by vehicles company does not have any vehicles used for business trips. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Sojara does not use any ozone-depleting substances in its 499.5 kg of Halon, which was disposed of by a licensed unproduction processes. Its fire extinguishing systems contain dertaking in late 2014. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Not applicable to Sojara d.o.o. Not applicable to Sojara d.o.o. as no processing activities are undertaken. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Year Total water discharge (m3) No wastewater discharge was recorded as no processing ac2014 0 tivities were undertaken. 2015 0 Total 0 EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R e-Kolektor, CeZaR 58.12 314.56 Hazardous waste D CIAK 3.96 0.16 Total 62.08 314.72 The amount of waste increased by around 400% compared to preceding reporting period, the amount of hazardous waste 2014 as a result of an increased scope of mechanical mainteremained at the same level, while the amount of nonhazardnance and replacement of worn out machine parts at the oleous waste decreased by around 100% as a result of discontinaginous plant and cereal transshipment terminal and disposued processing. al of nonconforming products (waste wheat). Compared to the 101 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sojara Specific standard disclosures Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed during the reporting period for noncompliance with any regulations and no actions were taken using dispute resolution mechanisms. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Sojara does not perform its own distribution of products, does not use any passenger vehicles and has no organized transport of workforce members, which is why it had no significant environmental impacts in this aspect. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 2014 2015 In 2015, our costs of waste disposal, emission treatment and Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and remediation in HRK were around 10% higher compared to remediation costs (HRK) 2014 as a result of disposing of a nonconforming product Waste treatment and disposal 244,707.32 292,665.96 (waste wheat). The other costs are roughly the same every year because they are mainly fixed costs determined on a Emission treatment 4,500.00 0 city or county level (e.g. municipal waste transport, etc.). Our Expenditures of obtaining and using emission 0 0 environmental prevention and management costs in HRK recertificates corded during this reporting period decreased by around 50% Total 249,207.32 292,665.96 compared to the preceding reporting period. This is a result Prevention and environmental management of a recertification of ISO 14001 in the preceding period. costs (HRK) Outsourced environmental management services 0 0 Environmental management system certification 11,828.40 5,794.49 Ukupno 11,828.40 5,794.49 Troškovi ukupno 261,035.72 298,460.45 102 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sojara Activities planned On 30 November 2012, Sojara Zadar was issued an Integrated the reconstruction of the hazardous waste depository. This Environmental Authorization for its existing plants in accortarget was abandoned because no processing activities are undance with the Environmental Protection Regulation (Official dertaken and thus no significant amounts of hazardous waste Gazette 114/08) and Act. A Compliance Study, being a part of are generated. Any hazardous waste generated is immediatethe Environmental Permit, sets the time limits for rectifying ly disposed of. As the reconstruction of the hazardous waste any noncompliance. The Environmental Permit was issued for depository is a major expenditure and we do not generate suba period of five years and expires on 30 November 2017. stantial amounts of such waste, we decided not to set it as a As the targets set for 2014 and 2015 were not fully met, target. they will be extended to the 2016 & 2017 period, expect for Our targets toward improving our environmental protection system planned for 2016 and 2017 are as follows: • Improve our waste management system by continuously training all our employees on the need to sort municipal and other waste, purchasing more containers for each type of waste and improving our bulky waste depository. We plan to purchase one container. Our present scope of work does not require more containers. If the scope of work should increase, we will consider whether or not it is necessary to purchase new containers and how many of them. • Reduce our wastewater emissions and our direct impact on the recipient (the sea) by connecting to the common wastewater treatment plant in Gaženica Port as soon as it becomes available, provided our production activities are resumed. 103 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Jamnica Specific standard disclosures J amnica d.d. is the largest Croatian producer of natural In 2014 we conducted our Eco-Driving Program focused on mineral water and soft beverages operating as part of training drivers (of trucks and company cars) to change their Agrokor Group. driving styles and thus help significantly reduce our CO2 Its production plants for natural mineral water and soft emissions. The Eco-Driving project included training for 20 beverages include the Jamnica Plant at Ulica Vladimira NazoM1 passenger transport category drivers and 30 N2 and N3 ra 57, Pisarovina, and the Jana Plant at Svetojanske Toplice freight transport category drivers for vehicles in excess of 3.5 b.b., Gorica Svetojanska. In addition to these production plants tons and 12 tons, respectively. All passengers successfully Jamnica’s properties include an administration building at Gecompleted this training provided by ORYX Group and were istaldićeva 4, Zagreb, 11 sales centers and its own distribution sued their Eco-Driver Certificates. companies in Slovenia and Serbia. We purchased five hybrid vehicles which are expected In late 2013, Jamnica and Stanić Grupa entered into an to reduce our CO2 emissions by around 10%. agreement for the acquisition of the Juicy fruit juice producWe implemented a transport optimizing information tion line. Based on this agreement, Stanić Grupa became a system which, in addition to reducing our energy consumpnew owner of the juice bottling plant in Jastrebarsko and the tion and pollutant emissions, ensures efficiency in our daily Juicy, TO, Juicy Fruits, Juicy Kids and Juicy Vita brands as of fleet operations. 1 January 2015. In cooperation with the Croatian Cleaner Production Further changes in Jamnica’s operations became effecCenter and UNIDO’s consultants from Austria, Jamnica impletive as of 1 January 2015 – Emil Frey Group acquired the commented its Low Carbon Technologies project. Low-Carbon is mercial vehicle workshop at the administration building site an economic system which implies producing and using basic at Getaldićeva 3, Zagreb, while Jamnica only retained the cargoods with less fossil fuels. We conducted a feasibility study, wash and the tire workshop. analyzed our production processes and our existing technoloThis sustainability report includes data for 2014 for the gy, measured and analyzed our energy balance sheet, and preJuicy fruit juice plant and for the car workshop that were part pared a plan including an economic analysis for LC options. of Jamnica until 1 January 2015. The project was implemented at the Jamnica plant site and the For the purpose of meeting our customers’ demands and report shows that, in the present situation as assessed, Jamexpectations subject to the environmental protection and susnica does not have plenty of room for improvements. The imtainable development principles and aiming to improve the provement options offered are financially unfeasible and imquality of all our activities across the organization, Jamniply a long payback period. ca has integrated its quality management system, food safety As part of an initiative to promote carbon footprint analmanagement system, environmental management system and ysis and neutralization projects, Jamnica launched its Carbon energy management system into a single management system. Footprint project. In 2015, we implemented a pilot project to Jamnica has certified its quality management system determine the carbon footprint of Jamnica mineral water in according to ISO 9001:2008, its food safety system (HAC1.5 L PET packaging and 1 L reusable glass packaging conCP), its environmental management system according to ISO sidering the entire product lifecycle, from the production and 14001:2004, its energy management system according to ISO transport of production input and production and distribution 50001:2011, as well as its Corporate Social Responsibility Sysof the product, to the disposal and treatment of packaging. tem – SWA according to McDonald’s requirements. A Kosher The study included a comprehensive carbon footprint Certificate and Carbonfree® Certificate were obtained for Jana estimate taking into account all major sources of emissions natural mineral water, which has been included in the Directhroughout the product lifecycle. We identified and quantified tory of Sanitarily Approved Food Establishment for Armed the materials and energy forms used for the production, transForces Procurement and the NSF list for International Bottled port and procurement of production materials for our key supWater –FDA Regulations, and certified in all fifty U.S. states. pliers. All general environmental targets set were attained. In The carbon footprint analysis pertains to the years 2013 2014, we installed a new L5 line in the Jamnica production and 2014 and the following products: plant and put it into service and switched to a new bottle for• Jamnica, carbonated natural mineral water, 1 L reusable mat and short-neck design in the same production plant. We glass packaging, and installed a plant for new product development. • Jamnica, carbonated natural mineral water, 1.5 L PET packFor the purpose of making lasting improvements, Jamaging. nica launched a project in cooperation with the EnvironmenHaving implemented this project, Jamnica demonstrattal Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund intended to reduce ed its commitment to reducing its carbon footprint and helpCO2 emissions and carbon footprint and improve energy and ing raise the awareness of the importance of climate change, input efficiency. as well as its strong interest in sustainable and responsible 104 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Jamnica Specific standard disclosures business. During the project, we defined the basis for implemental management system documentation to comply with menting an energy management system, improving our enerthe applicable legislation. In late 2015, we successfully comgy efficiency and making changes with respect to selecting pleted our certification process conducted by the accredited and purchasing our production materials, our production proindependent organization Buerau Veritas and integrated our cesses, and the transport segment. Our projects aim to provide energy management system according to ISO 50001:2011. We best practice examples of energy and material efficiency and adopted our integrated Environmental and Energy Efficiency cleaner production by using Low-Carbon (LC) technologies Management Policy according to the requirements of the enand making Carbon Neutral products. ergy management system. In 2015 we reached our targets of reducing our environWe conducted numerous internal employee trainings mental impacts according to the relevant environmental indiabout the HACCP system, the quality system, the environmencators. We replaced R22 refrigerant by more environmentally tal management system, the waste management system, and acceptable refrigerants. We reviewed and revised our environthe energy management system. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Our total consumption of materials includes raw materials, The total weight of the materials used in the 2014/2015 periassociated process materials and packaging materials. All od was 1,325,876,614 kg, compared to 1,445,967,093 kg in the these materials were supplied by external suppliers. 2012/2013 period. Although the amounts of materials used by weight or volume vary, our consumption per product unit Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 has decreased over the years. As regards nonrenewable materials, Jamnica uses oil and gas. Raw materials 635,774,014 644,434,649 Associated process materials 4,391,304 4,155,929 Renewable and nonrenewable 2014 2015 materials (kg) Materials for packaging purposes 18,886,516 18,234,202 Renewable materials 655,944,394 664,206,590 Total 659,051,834 666,824,780 Nonrenewable materials 3,107,440 2,618,190 Total 659,051,834 666,824,780 Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization The sources of energy used in Jamnica d.d. are nonrenewable The levels of our energy consumption depend on the type of energy sources. Energy consumption within Jamnica includes product, type of packaging and volume. fuel used for the production plants, natural gas used at the In the preceding reporting period, our total consumpZagreb, Osijek and Varaždin, liquefied petroleum gas used for tion of fuel from nonrenewable sources was 415,919 GJ, comour warehousing operations, and electricity. pared to 411.401 GJ in this reporting period. Our consumption of fuel used for our production plants Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 remained mostly at the same level over the years. By investDiesel 113,669 105,057 ing in new production lines and optimizing the operation of our plants, we use our best efforts to reduce our fuel conElectricity 4,275 4,971 sumption per product unit or keep it at the same level. Gas 9,693 10,455 Variations in fuel consumption for the production Heating oil 77,887 85,394 plants depend on the rate of bottling and the type of product. UKUPNO 205,524 205,877 Soft beverages require more fuel because of additional needs for line preparation and syrup and finished product pasteurization. In addition, Jana Plant’s fuel consumption depends 106 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Jamnica on the operation of its aseptic line. The share of production tally acceptable electric forklift trucks for its indoor activion aseptic lines determines the consumption of fuel to make ties. Our consumption of LPG depends on our logistic prosteam. cesses and finished product and material handling rates. Our production plants make their own steam resulting Natural gas is used at our sales & storage sites (PC Zafrom the combustion of fuel, in a closed system, and make greb, PC Osijek and PC Varaždin) for heating, so its consumpthe necessary calculations based on the heating value of fuel. tion is dependent upon the weather conditions. As a result of our production planning optimization, Our electricity consumption depends on the type of including longer batches, we reduce our fuel consumption product (juice, water) and the packaging used for the prodand produce greater quantities of finished products. Our meaucts. In addition, we took into account our electricity consurements of fuel consumption for production and heating sumption at all Jamnica’s sites. purposes are not physically separated, so any variations in We are supplied with electricity by Hrvatska elektroconsumption may also result from weather conditions. privreda. In its warehousing operations, Jamnica uses forklift trucks powered by liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and environmenEN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity indicators are calculated in relation to the Energy intensity 2014 2015 initial (reference) year. The reference year for Jamnica d.d. (GJ / 1000L) was 2014 when an energy inspection was performed for the Fuel 0.315 0.296 purpose of collecting all data and information relevant to our Electricity 0.209 0.215 consumption and use of energy, preparing status analysis, and undertaking measures to improve energy properties and energy efficiency. Energy intensity, presented as electricity and fuel consumpEnergy intensity is presented as fuel consumption per tion per product unit for our production sites, showed litproduct unit (1000 liters) for Jamnica’s production sites. tle variations, which depend on the type of product, type of Energy intensity is presented as electricity consumppackaging and volume. tion per product unit (1000 liters) for Jamnica’s production sites. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Jamnica recognized energy, energy consumption and use and The main guidelines for energy management are: achieving savings by reducing the energy consumption costs • as crucial elements of business success. • Raise our employees’ awareness of the need for proper and The certification of ISO 50001:2011 provided a framerational energy management; work for pursuing our energy policy including specific tar• Consider energy consumption when making decisions regets aimed to improve our energy efficiency. This standard garding the design and procurement of equipment, materirequires efficiency to be achieved by using a systematic apals or services; proach to energy management based on ongoing progress. • Achieve measurable results in connection with energy effiWe defined general and specific energy consumption ciency, use and consumption; and indicators, reviewed our critical areas and checked for places • Develop energy using plans allowing for more efficient where improvements can be made to save energy, and ratioplanning of operational tasks and investments and finding nalized our use of energy and energy consumption managenew improvements in energy management. ment. We set a foundation for effective planning in the context of investments and planned expenses. 107 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Jamnica Specific standard disclosures Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From wells for From wells for Public water Total volume of Year bottling purposes process purposes supply system water withdrawn 2014 360,691 134,461 129,216 624,368 2015 314,500 204,892 120,332 639,724 Total 675,191 339,353 249,548 1,264,092 Jamnica uses an integrated approach to water management. In this reporting period, we used 1,264,092 m3 of water, of The water used includes water from our own sources, process which 1,014,544 m3 was water withdrawn (own sources for water and water from the public water supply system. As an production and process purposes) and 249,548 m3 was water essential resource, water is managed rationally. Water is subfrom the public supply system. During this reporting period, jected to continuous quality audits and we monitor how much Jamnica withdrew 9.31% less water compared to the precedwater is used and how. ing reporting period. The total amount of water used in the 2012/2013 peWater consumption in the production plants depends riod was 1,393,906 m3, of which 1,070,787 m3 was water on the volume and range of products. In the Jana Plant, variawithdrawn (own sources for production and process purpostions in water consumption may result from greater or smalles) and 323,119 m3 was water from the public supply system. er volumes of juice bottling on aseptic lines. EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water As one of the largest producers of mineral water and soft and indirect impacts of projects on water, soil, air, flora and drinks, Jamnica withdraws water from the water supply sysfauna, geological heritage, landscape, noise, traffic and peotem for its operations. ple, considering their interrelations. The Government of the Republic of Croatia (Ministry We use a defined environmental monitoring program of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Management) to continuously monitor all our impacts associated with our granted Jamnica a concession for withdrawing mineral water water withdrawal. We introduced a telemetric module to to be marketed and used to make other beverages at the Jammonitor our water storage facility and collect information nička Kiselica site and a concession for withdrawing thermal about the level of water therein. We use water meters to regwater to be marketed and used to make other beverages at ister all amounts of water withdrawn and we continuously the Svetojanske Toplice site. monitor, collect, check and measure the required physical To prevent excessive withdrawal or potential contamivalues to fully protect our water sources against excessive nation of sources, Jamnica identifies, describes and assesses withdrawal. its environmental impacts and determines the possible direct Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Jamnica’s direct greenhouse gas emissions generated by its once in two years for our production plants and for the Zaproduction plants include emissions from stationary sources. greb site by a licensed organization and these values are not To calculate our greenhouse gas emissions from stationary calculated in the year of measurement. sources (heating plants), we engaged a licensed firm to make Direct greenhouse direct measurements of our emissions for 2014. 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) Our total direct CO2 emissions by weight relate to our production and transport of materials and products and were Production plants 8,862 8,190 calculated on the basis of an estimate of our CO2 combusFuel for transport 3,746 3,992 tion emissions as defined in Appendix A (Air Emissions) to LPG 341 368 the Environmental Pollution Registry Maintenance Manual. Measurements of total direct CO2 emissions are performed Total 12,949 12,550 108 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Jamnica As a sum of direct and indirect emissions expressed in sions increased by around 2% in this reporting period, altons of CDE, our total greenhouse gas emissions for the though our LPG-related greenhouse gas emissions decreased 2014/2015 period were 25,499 t, compared to 24,888 t in the significantly as a result of changing our CO2 emissions calpreceding reporting period. Our total greenhouse gas emisculation method. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions in Jamnica repYear CO2 emissions (t/1000 L) resents total emissions in tons per product unit of 1000 liters 2014 0.0246 for each production plant. 2015 0.0231 EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions In 2014, Jamnica purchased a new burner and control board impact of our production activities on the environment as for the heating plant in its production plant. Because it a result of greenhouse gas emissions expressed in carbon was worn out and frequently malfunctioned, the old burner dioxide units. The completion of this project represents a caused incomplete fuel combustion and soot generation in huge step forward in complying with the European trends in the boiler. After replacing the burner in 2015, we achieved a making “Carbonneutral” products, demonstrating an initiahigher degree of fuel combustion, which also helped reduce tive to minimize the carbon footprint throughout a product’s out greenhouse gas emissions. lifecycle. As a result of converting to a new bottle design with lower preform weight and short-neck design, we reduced the EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) In May of 2015, we installed a new chiller on Line L6 manreplenish R22 in an existing device in accordance with the ufactured by CTA for R134A refrigerant, which replaced the applicable waste regulations. former R22-using blower cooler (12 + 12 kg). By replacing R22 by environmentally acceptable Pursuant to the relevant EU regulations concerning R134A, Jamnica complied with the Ozone-Depleting Subozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gasstances and Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases Regulations (Offies, a device must be put out of use in case it is necessary to cial Gazette 90/14). EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions For the purpose of calculating our emissions, in May of 2014 Our greenhouse gas emissions were stable during the we had our NO2, SO2 and CO emissions measured by a licensed 2014/2015 reporting period. Considering the heating power organization and the emission concentrations for 2015 were and type of fuel, Jamnica uses boilers classified as smalla nd determined based on calculations. medium-sized heating equipment (Regulation on the Limits of Pollutant Emissions from Stationary Sources – the EL Total greenhouse gas emissions (t) Regulation). Year SO2 NO2 CO Our greenhouse gas emissions recorded during this reporting period remained stable compared to the preceding 2014 27.82 14.46 1.26 reporting period. 2015 26.05 13.56 1.18 Total 2.55 5.3 0.44 109 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Jamnica Specific standard disclosures EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination The total amount of water withdrawn is determined by using The total amount of water discharge by volume in the flow meters or on the basis of estimates. Wastewater in the Jam2014/2015 reporting period was 511,254 m3 for Jamnica, nica and Jana Plants is treated by a membrane bioreactor (MBR). compared to 651,354 m3 in 2012/2013, the destination being either a Class 2 water recipient or a public sewerage system, Year Total water discharge (m3) depending on the location. The total amount of wastewa2014 248,109 ter discharged during the reporting period was reduced as a 2015 263,145 result of savings achieved in the CIP washing process, plant disinfection, savings achieved in the bottle rinsing, reusable Total 511,254 bottle washing and plant washing processes. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Jamnica endeavors to manage waste in an environmentally Jamnica has been registered in waste management registries acceptable and economical manner. Considering the legisla– the Registry of Waste Carriers and the Registry of Certain tive developments in 2014 and 2015, Jamnica defined a sysPersons Storing Their Own Production Waste. Waste is sorttem to define measures for preventing or reducing adverse ed at its source, separately collected and temporarily stored impacts of waste on human health and the environment, dein an area designated for temporary storage of different types fined the methods and requirements for collecting and storof waste. Our waste management and employee training acing waste pending its transport and the method of disposing tivities resulted in improved waste sorting and an increase in of waste generated at all Jamnica’s storage and production the respective waste codes by type of waste during the relesites, as well as the responsibilities of employees with respect vant period. to waste management. Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) EFP, L91, UM, DI, HR, M, Nonhazardous waste R 4,358.00 2,820.00 CeZaR, TK, e-Kolektor Hazardous waste D Ciak, SM, Flora, e-Kolektor 57.92 13.95 Total 4,415.90 2,833.95 During the preceding reporting period, Jamnica disposed of sulted from the car workshop which is no longer owned by 5,420 t of nonhazardous waste and 163 t of hazardous waste, Jamnica d.d. compared to 7178 t of nonhazardous waste and 71 tons of In mid-2015, we signed a contract with e-Kolektor to hazardous waste in 2014/2015. whom we outsourced our waste collection activities at our In 2014 we generated more nonhazardous waste than production sites and certain sales centers and which will bein 2015 as a result of more recovered products and more come responsible for waste collection at all Jamnica’s sites in nonconforming products disposed of. In 2015 we recorded a 2016. significant decrease in hazardous waste, which mostly reCompliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed on Jamnica during the 2014/2015 reporting period for noncompliance with any environmental laws or regulations. 110 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Jamnica Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Jamnica’s environmental impacts result from transporting its For its warehousing operations, Jamnica uses electric forklift products. trucks and LPG-powered forklift trucks. Our consumption of Primary transport includes transporting goods from energy for transport and warehousing operations depends on factories and LDCs to sales centers and key customers. Our our logistic processes and the rate of handling finished prodprimary transport fleet comprises 23 freight vehicles includucts and production materials. ing 19 trailer trucks, 3 tractors and 1 truck. Secondary transJamnica’s environmental impact of transporting prodport includes transporting products from our sales centers to ucts, workforce members and other goods and materials our customers using small trucks and vans. In 2015, we used during the 2012/2013 reporting period was 146,569.33 GJ, a total of 119 vehicles. while our fuel consumption for transport recorded during this reporting period was 105,937 GJ. Year Fuel for transport (GJ) The fuel consumption levels remained stable and the presented decrease in fuel consumption in the 2014/2015 2014 51,290 period is a result of a different calculation method. Product 2015 54,647 transport now includes primary and secondary transport and our fuel consumption for cars and LPG consumption for Total 105,937 warehouse operations are excluded. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Jamnica is committed to achieving its further economic deing EE waste and packaging waste costs), and environment velopment in compliance with the environmental protection prevention and management (environmental certifications, principles. During this reporting period, our environmentrainings, projects and investments), amounting to HRK tal protection expenditures and investments included our 74,618,250. Our total environmental protection expenditures costs of waste disposal, emission treatment and remediation and investments in the preceding reporting period were HRK (including measurements of and charges paid for air emis78,941,022. Our environmental protection costs remained sions, water charges and waste management costs includstable. Waste disposal, emission treatment, Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 35,180,053 3,341,797 2015 35,766,446 329,954 Total 70,946,499 3,671,751 Environmental protection targets and programs for the next reporting period • Certify our environmental management system according to ISO 14001:2015; • Take part in the LIFE Clim'Foot project; • Train our internal auditors under ISO 50001:2011 according to the training schedule; and • Raise awareness of energy consumption, use and intensity. 111 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mladina Specific standard disclosures M ladina d.d. is a Jastrebarsko-based winegrowing and According to the targets set, Mladina redesigned its crop prowinemaking company established in 1736 and opertection agent storage facility, redesigned its existing premises ating in the following locations: the Administration at the Jastrebarsko Feeding Site intended for storing fuel for Building and Juicy Bottling Plant at Ulica bana J. Jelačića 85, working machinery (tractors), purchased new diesel fuel tanks 10 450 Jastrebarsko, the Krašić Wine Cellar, Krašić 131, 10454 including the relevant certificates, volume meters and a flow Krašić, and the Mladina Wine Cellar, Lokošin Dol 76, 10450 meter dispenser with a fuel nozzle, built a facility for its fuel Jastrebarsko, including its vineyards. tanks, and trained its employees and responsible persons hanThe Mladina Wine Cellar operates as part of Agrokor dling dangerous substances. and receives marketing and distribution support from Jamnica Our employees handling crop protection agents (pestid.d., its majority shareholder. cides) while working in vineyards during the season are regThe product range of Mladina d.d. includes premium, ularly trained to prevent any noncompliance for the purpose quality, sparkling, carbonated, predicate and archival wines of protecting their health, providing good working conditions and brandies. and establishing good agricultural practices, thus protecting Mladina’s central wine cellar is in Krašić and is intendthe environment. ed for primary processing, ageing, bottling and storage of finIn early 2015, Hrvatske vode issued a water manageished products. ment license for the Krašić Wine Cellar site and we started to In late 2013, a new line was installed in the production conduct regular wastewater analyses at the site. plant in Jastrebarsko. The line includes equipment for makConsidering the change in shareholding and control of ing sparkling wine using the Charmat procedure, equipment electricity and water consumption at the Juicy plant in Jasfor making carbonated wine, a wine filtering system, a line trebarsko, which premises are now leased by Mladina, we infor making specific types of wine, and a bottle labeling plant. stalled additional electricity and water meters in 2015. The Juicy juice bottling plant was sold in 2014 and this Pursuant to Article 13 of the Ordinance Establishing facility is now located in premises leased from Stanić Beverthe Action Framework for Achieving Sustainable Use of Pesages d.o.o. ticides, which came into force on 26 November 2015, two of Aiming to improve quality and protect the environment, our employees passed the basic training examination for proin 2013 Mladina implemented a food safety management sysfessional users. tem and an environmental management system. In 2015 we purchased a new pesticide applying containBy appointing and training a person responsible for er to replace the former worn out container. This made pesproduct safety and environmental protection and performing ticide application more effective, optimized our expenditures all associated activities and by setting our targets for the next and prevented any unnecessary leaks. reporting period, we took a further step toward responsible In 2014 we hired a sales employee to ensure that our care for the environment, monitoring all environmental asnew POY and Selected line products assume good market popects and eliminating and minimizing all adverse environsitions, be recognized by consumers and in the HoReCa and mental impacts. Retail channels, and to maintain the positions of our products The targets set for 2014 and 2015 were partially accomacquired from Istravino – Bakarska vodica and Napoleon. This plished. resulted in increased production volumes. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Our total consumption of materials includes raw materials, Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 associated process materials and materials for packaging purRaw materials 380,180 226,900 poses. All these materials were supplied by external suppliers. The amount of raw material produced (grapes) deMaterials for packaging purposes 291,138 269,216 creased significantly compared to the 2012/2013 reporting Associated process materials 150 140 period. One of the reasons for this is the poor 2014 season Total 671,468 496,256 and reduced yield of old plantations. 112 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mladina Natural disasters, hail in 2014 at the Kolovrat – Pribić site Abandoning 8 hectares of old vineyards in 2015 largely afand at the Borička, Mladina and Petrovina sites in 2015, and fected the quantity of raw material produced. frost in 2015 in all our vineyards at altitudes below 260 meThe reason for the increase in the use of packaging ters also reduced our yield. materials and associated process materials by over 100% At the Kolovrat site, hail irreversibly destroyed our compared to the preceding reporting period is increased proplantations and the amounts of grapes produced at this site duction of sparkling and carbonated wines, which increased were insignificant. our use of “Šampania Classic” bottles of greater weight and enlargement of Mladina’s product range. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Our total energy consumption within the organization insparkling wine bottling plant within the Juicy site. A sepcludes electricity consumption at the Krašić Wine Cellar site, arate meter for Mladina was installed at this site in 2015, the Juicy plant in Jastrebarsko, a retail unit, office areas, emwhich is why our consumption in 2014 was calculated based ployee areas, and consumption of wood for heating. on data recorded in 2015 as the amounts of finished products made were similar. Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 An analysis of our consumption in 2015 found errors Electricity 612 594 in calculations by the lessor for certain months, so the total consumption was adjusted based on consumption for the Heating wood 66 66 erroneously calculated months for the purpose of obtaining Total 678 660 more accurate electricity consumption data. Compared to the preceding reporting period, our conIn the new billing period, the calculation of total electricisumption increased by 107%, which is consistent with the ty consumption compared to the preceding reporting period increase in the production of finished products and inclusion includes electricity consumption in the new carbonated and of heating wood in the consumption calculation. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is presented as electricity and heating wood consumption was 645 GJ. Based on these figures, our energy consumption per one thousand liters of finished product for intensity is 1.29 GJ/ 1000 liters. Mladina’s entire production. Period Energy intensity GJ/liter) Year Energy intensity GJ/liter) 2012-2013 1.29 2014 1.51 2014-2015 1.56 2015 1.63 The total amount of finished products made in the new reWe found the 7.96% increase in energy intensity in 2015 porting period is 855,000 liters and our total energy concompared to 2014 to be a result of a warmer year and insumption is 1338 GJ. Based on these figures, our energy increased load on cooling equipment, as well as a new method tensity is 1.56 GJ/1000 liters. of accounting for our consumption at the Juicy site. The total amount of finished products made during The increase in energy intensity recorded in the new rethe reporting period was 521,032 liters and our total energy porting period is 20.93 %. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption No reduction in electricity consumption was achieved in the deavor to change employee conduct, and achieve a reduction new reporting period. Therefore, Mladina plans to enhance in electricity consumption by changing particular production its electricity consumption controls in the next period, enprocesses. 113 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mladina Specific standard disclosures Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source The figures provided in the invoices based on water meters Krašić Wine Cellar and, as of 2014, water withdrawn at the readings show that our total water withdrawal from the pubJuice site in Jastrebarsko which contains a new line for the lic water supply network for the new reporting period is: production and bottling of sparkling, carbonated and still wines. After we installed a water meter at the Juicy site in Total volume of water withdrawn Year 2015, we have been able to determine how much water Mlafrom the public water supply system dina’s plant in the leased premises uses. 2014 3,885 A decrease in the production of still wines and an in2015 5,073 crease in the production of sparkling and carbonated wines compared to the preceding reporting period resulted in inTotal 8,958 creased water withdrawal. More water is used in the producThe total amount includes water for the crop protection tion of sparkling and carbonated wines due to wine preparaagent, sanitary water, process water for cleaning and maintion procedures and for maintaining and washing equipment taining equipment, dishes and the production area in the and dishes. EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not applicable to Mladina d.d. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Mladina’s direct greenhouse gas emissions include emissions gy-neutral because the amount of CO2 it uses for growing resulting from fuel combustion in vehicles owned by the equals the amount of CO2 it emits, so it was not included in company (trucks, vans, tractors and company cars), which are the calculation. used to transport primary raw materials, production materials and products, pesticide application, for transporting our Fuel (diesel) Total CO2 emissions employees, and for business trips. 2104, 758 54 20 m3 (total amount for 2014/2015) of heating wood 2015 583 42 was used for heating offices and employee areas in Mladina at a total of seven heating sites – heating wood is enerTotal 1,341 96 EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Intenzitet emisije CO2 amount of CO2 emission per 100 liters of finished product for Year Mladina’s entire production. (t / 1000 liter) A comparison between the old and the new reporting 2014 0.12 period periods shows that our total greenhouse gas emis2015 0.10 sions in the 2012/2013 period were 0.22 CO2(t)/1000 liters and 0.11 CO2(t)/1000 liters in the 2014/2015 period, which Greenhouse gas emissions intensity is presented as the means we reduced our emissions by 50%. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions The decrease in greenhouse gas emissions is consistent with less tractor operations, a new method of delivering certain the decrease in diesel consumptions resulting from decreased types of production materials, and improved organization of rates of raw material transport, less production areas with transport routes. 114 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mladina EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) For our production purposes we use 0.26 t of R 404a refriguses 0.0153 t of R 410A refrigerant. These refrigerants are erant. The new refrigeration system installed together with not ozone-depleting. the new production line for sparkling and carbonated wines EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Mladina does not use any heating devices (boilers) and is not the statutory limits. required to measure its greenhouse gas emissions from staAccording to Mladina’s estimate, Mladina uses up to 1% tionary sources according to the applicable legislation. of the steam generated at the site for its internal purposes. The Juicy Plant occasionally uses steam from the lesThe combustion of wood does not emit any sulfuric or sor’s heating plant and the lessor measures NOx , SOx , CO, nitrogen compounds and does not have a significant impact CO2 emissions every two years. The last measurement was on air quality. performed in 2014 and the emissions were found to be within EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Total water discharge is determined by an estimate. WasteA water management license was issued for the Krašić site in water is discharged into the public sewerage system. Wasteearly 2015, which expires on 31 December 2017. water analysis is performed at the Juicy site at request of The total amount of wastewater is consistent with the Stanić Beverages d.o.o. In 2014 we began to monitor wastetotal amount of water withdrawn from the public water supwater quality for the purpose of obtaining a water manply system and depends on the quantities and rate of supply agement license for the Krašić Wine Cellar site. That year, of input material, produced quantities of finished products, the wastewater analysis was performed by the Process and handling processes in wine production, and the type of finWastewater Laboratory of the Faculty of Food Technology ished product (depending on the sugar content in wine). and Biotechnology, while Croatia kontrola performed the In the preceding reporting period, the total amount analysis in 2015. of wastewater was 3183 m3, which only includes the Krašić site. In the new reporting period, the amount of wastewater Year Total water discharge (m3) increased significantly, by 181.34%, as a result of putting 2014 3,885 the new plant into service, increased production volumes, and introduction of new items requiring a higher intensity 2015 5,073 of cleaning and maintenance of the entire plant for sparkling Total 8,958 and carbonated wines at the Juicy site. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Presented below are the amounts of waste generated at Mladina d.d.: Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R EFP, MC Čišćenje, E-kolektor 29.33 3.66 Hazardous waste D Ciak , EE otpad 1.49 0.21 Total 30.82 3.87 Mladina continues to improve its systematic waste managewaste disposed of in that year is a result of disposing of asment. Waste is sorted at its source, separately collected and bestos sheets at certain sites. temporarily stored in designated containers or places. The In 2015, Mladina began to cooperate with e-Kolektor Waste Management Plan and employee training resulted in d.o.o., which is part of Agrokor Group. That year the amount of improved waste sorting, more waste codes and optimized nonhazardous waste at the Krašić site decreased as a result of waste amounts in 2014. reduced production activities. Nonhazardous waste (glass, film, For the purpose of obtaining a water management lipaper) generated at the Juicy site, where most of our production cense for the Krašić site, in 2014 we disposed of a new type of processes were transferred, was disposed of using containers nonhazardous waste – sludge from the septic tanks, which is shared with Stanić Beverages. In late 2015, an agreement was disposed of by MC Čišćenje. made with e-Kolektor to supply new containers for the purpose The significant increase in the amount of hazardous of disposing of nonhazardous waste at the Juicy site. 115 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Mladina Specific standard disclosures Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No cases of noncompliance with any laws or regulations were recorded in Mladina in 2014 and 2015 and no fines were paid. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce The environmental impact of Mladina’s transport activities inFuel for transport Total CO2 emissions Year cludes using energy (diesel fuel) and greenhouse gas emissions. (GJ) (t CDE) We believe the 30% decrease in fuel consumption com2014 758 54 pared to the 2012/2013 reporting period is a result of a lower yield of the core material, improved organization of transport 2015 583 42 routes, and a new method of delivering particular types of Total 1,341 96 production materials. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Our environmental protection expenditures and investments training our employees in sustainable use of pesticides. Our include the waste (hazardous, nonhazardous and municipal) total environmental protection expenditures and investments management costs, the water protection and improvement in this reporting period amounted to HRK 545,571, which is charge, wastewater analysis costs, the municipal charge, the 4.55% more compared to the preceding reporting period, when packaging waste management charge, the investment in a new our total expenditures amounted to HRK 521,829. This indiesel fuel tank and construction of fuel tank enclosures, the crease is a result of including several types of costs in the total costs of purchasing a new pesticide container, and the cost of costs and increased production levels. Waste disposal, emission treatment, Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 346,004 8,000 2015 172,962 18,605 Total 518,966 26,605 As a result of reduced volumes of finished products produced Packaging Ordinance, which abolished the refunds, our costs in 2015 and the enactment of a new Packaging and Waste decreased by 50% compared to the preceding year. Main targets for the next reporting period: • Organize more effective control of using and accounting for electricity and water at the Juicy site for the purpose of achieving 3% savings in the next reporting period; • Remediate our vineyard sites where pesticides are mixed (graveling, construction of tank enclosures); • Organize a handling yard at the Feeding Site (transport of bulky waste and retired machines and tools, construction of a tank enclosure for waste oil and oiled waste). 116 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sarajevski kiseljak S arajevski kiseljak is the largest producer of mineral • We repaired the roof of the transport facility which was covwater and soft drinks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with ered with asbestos sheets. In addition to repairing the roof a bottling tradition of over 125 years. Thanks to its of the facility, we also reconstructed its façade and replaced distinctive product quality, its business policy that successthe exterior joinery. We removed the asbestos sheets and fully handles all market challenges and customer demands, had them disposed of by Grioss d.o.o., our hazardous waste and ongoing investments in the modernization and improvedisposal contractor; ment of all its business processes, Sarajevski kiseljak has • By entering into new and revising our existing contracts been a leader on the local market and an increasingly imwith collectors of hazardous and nonhazardous waste, we portant player on regional markets for many years. significantly reduced our waste disposal costs; After joining Agrokor Group in 2000, a new era began • We provided a location and infrastructure for crushing for Sarajevski kiseljak, marked primarily by substantial inand packing old glass packaging and transferring it to Vevestments in development, new technologies and marketing. tropack Straža; Our systematically managed investment program incorpo• We installed a waste baling press in the Eco-Corner and aprates our care for protecting nature and the environment and pointed a responsible employee, which doubled the waste Sarajevski kiseljak thus became a shining example of a socialquantities and the revenue obtained from selling waste due ly and environmentally responsible enterprise that follows the to the fact that we now fully control the collected amounts latest global trends both in its operations and its environmenof waste and obtain higher purchase prices for baled waste; tal protection activities. • The purchase and installation of equipment for measuring The company is headquartered in Kiseljak where its proheating energy was postponed for the next period and will duction facilities are also located, while its sales and distribube dealt with under the plan for the construction of a new tion activities are undertaken through five regional distribuheating plant and purchase of the relevant equipment; tion centers and one sales center. • We abandoned our Sudden Pollution Emergency OperatFor the purpose of ensuring that its products are safe and ing Plan due to the fact that we are not legally required its environment is managed in a diligent manner, Sarajevski to prepare one in Bosnia and Herzegovina, while other kiseljak has certified and implemented the ISO 22000:2005 and documents of similar scope and purpose, which are reISO 14001:2004 standards. These certificates confirm our onquired under our regulations (Activity Plan with Measures going care for the quality of our products and production proand Time Limits for Gradual Reduction of Emissions and cess and customer satisfaction, while complying with high enAlignment with the Best Available Techniques, Sarajevski vironment standards and sustainable development principles. kiseljak Mineral water Source Protection Study, and the The past period was marked by substantial investments Monitoring Plan), were prepared and accepted by the comin business improvement: petent public authorities. • We redesigned our PET packaging; According to the training schedule, we trained our • We upgraded our PET line with new machines (steam tunemployees in environmental protection according to ISO nel and sleeve labeling machine); 14001:2004 (lab technicians, machine operators, employees • We made investments in improving the plant area; and of our regional distribution centers, and new employees of • We redesigned and replaced our glass packaging the Production & Logistic Division). To improve out waste These investments were followed by significant envimanagement system, we trained all our employees of the ronmental protection investments. Bottling Plant Department, the Syrup Plant, the Technical We successfully accomplished 80% of the targets set for Department and the Process Automatics Maintenance Dethis reporting period: partment in selective collection of waste. • We built and put into service an alkali regeneration plant, Sarajevski kiseljak systematically develops, incorpowhich significantly reduced our consumption of alkali and rates and adheres to sustainable development principles in phosphoric acid; all its business structures by using a sustainable develop• We finalized our activities concerning the packaging redement philosophy. Our primary objectives are meeting our sign and conversion to a new bottle design and short-neck customers’ demands and expectations and protecting the enformat on Line L2 at the Sarajevski kiseljak production plant; vironment as part of sustainable development. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sarajevski kiseljak Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Materials used include raw materials, associated process main the market in 2015, a significant increase in production terials and materials for packaging purposes. All materials volumes, and product range enlargement. were supplied by external suppliers. PThe increase in the levels of other materials used is a result of increased production volumes, packaging redesign and Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 upgrading of the existing production line with new machines. Raw materials 9,570,398 10,626,001 The redesign of Sensation products implied converting to a sleeve label that covers the entire surface of the bottle. Associated process materials 401,921 533,239 This resulted in increased use of plastic as a packaging maMaterials for packaging purposes 4,464,353 8,462,468 terial, heating oil and steam due to the sleeving technology Total 14,436,672 19,621,708 that requires using a steam tunnel which consumes significant amounts of steam. In this reporting period, the amount The calculation of our use of reusable packaging materials of materials used per liter remained stable compared to the includes only reusable packaging that was first put into cirpreceding reporting period. culation during the relevant reporting period. As the weight Regarding nonrenewable materials, Sarajevski kiseljak of reusable packaging (glass bottles, plastic crates, pallets) uses heating oil and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). represent the most important item among the packaging materials used, their significant increase in 2015 also increased Type of material used 2014 2015 the total amount of materials used in 2015 compared to 2014. Renewable materials 14,043,444 19,101,440 The total amount of materials used increased by 17.66% comNonrenewable materials 393,228 520,268 pared to the preceding reporting period. This increase is a result of redesigning and replacing all glass packaging present Total 14,436,672 19,621,708 Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization consumption per liter of product were recorded. Although our production volumes increased significantly, we invest in new Our total consumption of energy from nonrenewable sourcproduction lines and optimize our plant operation to reduce es includes heating oil and LPG used at the production site. or maintain the level of fuel consumption per product unit. Our fuel consumption depends on the type of product, type of In its warehousing operations, Sarajevski kiseljak uses packaging, volume, and product category. forklift trucks powered by liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and environmentally acceptable electric forklift trucks for its inTotal consumption of energy from door activities. Our LPG consumption depends on our logistic 2014 2015 nonrenewable sources (GJ) processes and the rates of handling finished products and input. Fuel 3,832 18,292 During the reporting period, namely in 2015, our total LPG 3,300 4,381 consumption of gas (LPG) used for our forklift trucks inTotal 17,132 22,673 creased significantly due a substantial level of using forklift trucks to handle old glass packaging. Our direct energy consumption by primary source was 17,132 The redesign and replacement of the old glass packagGJ in 2014, compared to 22,673 GJ in 2015. Our consumption ing required its proper disposal. For that purpose we formed increased by 27.89% compared to the preceding reporting an old packaging receiving center at a nearby location owned period. by the company where broken glass is crushed and packed in Our fuel consumption for production plant’s purposjumbo (large) bags. As this was a very time-consuming aces has constantly increased over the years and this increase tivity that required intensive logistic support, it resulted in a was also recorded during the relevant reporting period. The significant increase in LPG consumption for forklift trucks. increase in heating oil consumption is a result of a continuAll electricity is supplied externally. Our electricity ous increase in total production volumes and upgrading of consumption depends on the type of product, packaging, volthe PET line with a steam tunnel in 2015, which device uses ume, and product category. significant amounts of steam. The equipment presently installed does not allow for Electricity consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 separate recording of heating oil and steam amounts used for heating and as fuel. No significant variations in heating oil Electricity 19,203 21,051 118 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sarajevski kiseljak Our electricity consumption in 2014 was 19,203 GJ, compared an increase by 24.71% compared to the preceding reporting to 21,051 GJ in 2015, which is a YOY increase by 9.6% and period. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is presented as electricity consumption per Energy intensity is presented as LPG consumption per one one thousand liters of product. thousand liters of product. Energy intensity Energy intensity 2014 2015 2014 2015 (GJ/1000 liters of product) (GJ/1000 L proizvoda) Electricity 0.15 0.15 LPG 0.03 0.03 Energy intensity is presented as fuel consumption per one The energy intensity levels presented for the above three enthousand liters of product. ergy sources remained mostly at the same level as in the preceding reporting period. As an exception, our consumption of Energy intensity 2014 2015 heating oil per one thousand liters of product has been on a (GJ/1000 liters of product) slight rise, which is attributed to the installation of a steam Fuel 0.11 0.13 tunnel which uses significant amounts of steam and this results in greater consumption of fuel. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption For the purpose of boosting its competitiveness and maintaininformation. By undertaking the above activities and good ing its leading market position, in 2014 Sarajevski kiseljak fihousekeeping measures on a daily basis, we expect to reduce nalized the PET bottle redesign for Line L2 (for bottling mineral our consumption of plastic materials and energy, thus also water and Sensation juices in 1.5 and 0.5 L packaging), which reducing our pollution. bottles now feature reduced weight and a short-neck design. By switching to a new bottle design with lower preform By managing our production process on a daily basis, weight, Sarajevski kiseljak indirectly reduces the amounts of we aim to control the operation of our machines in order to energy used by our preform suppliers. Such suppliers will use save energy and reduce our final costs. We systematical8%-10% less energy to make the same amount of preforms of ly monitor our energy consumption and reach conclusions lower weight (5 to 7 grams less per preform) and will thus save on how successful our measures were on the basis of such substantial amounts of electricity used to heat such preforms. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source Sarajevski kiseljak uses an integrated approach to water system. As an important resource, water is managed rationalmanagement. Water used by it includes water from own ly. Water is subjected to constant quality audits and we monisources, process water, and water from a public water supply tor how much water is used and how. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) For process From the public water Total volume of Year From wells purposes supply system water withdrawn 2014 43,143 195,265 1,767 240,175 2015 50,047 194,807 1,629 246,483 Total 93,190 390,072 3,396 486,658 Our water consumption depends on the type of product, increase in production volumes and product range enlargepackaging, volume, and product category. The total water ment. The larger product range requires more process water consumption increased by 37.29% in this period compared to be used for washing equipment when switching from one to the preceding reporting period as a result of a significant product type to another. 119 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sarajevski kiseljak Specific standard disclosures EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water As one of the largest producers of natural mineral water and for ongoing monitoring of all impacts associated with water soft drinks, Sarajevski kiseljak withdraws its water from the withdrawal. A special mechanism is used to collect informawater supply system. To prevent excessive withdrawal or potion about water levels in the water tank. We use water metential pollution, Sarajevski kiseljak has prepared a “Sarajeters to register the amounts of water withdrawn and monitor, vski kiseljak Mineral Water Source Protection Study”. The collect, control and measure the necessary physical values to defined environmental status monitoring program provides fully protect our sources against excessive withdrawal. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Total direct greenhouse gas emissions in Sarajevski kiselincreased compared to the preceding reporting period as a rejak include emissions from stationary sources and emissions sult of increased use of heating oil and LPG in the 2014/2015 resulting from transporting materials and products by using period, which was in turn a result of installing new producour own vehicles (including transport and LPG). Our greention line equipment, an increase in production volumes, and house gas emissions from stationary sources (heating plant) an increase in the scope of logistic processes. were directly measured by a licensed organization. Our total direct CO2 emissions by weight relate to our Direct greenhouse 2014 2015 production and transporting of materials and products and gas emissions (t CDE) were calculated on the basis of an estimate of CO2 emissions Production plant 1,078 1,426 resulting from combustion as defined in Appendix A (Air Fuel for transport 1,330 1,255 Emissions) to the Environmental Pollution Registry Maintenance Manual. As the sum of direct emissions expressed in LPG 144 192 tons of CO2 equivalent, our total greenhouse gas emissions Total 2,552 2,873 EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity in Sarajevski kiseljak is presented as a ratio between total emissions in tons of CO2 CO2 emissions (t) /product unit 0.0000201 0.0000211 and the product unit quantity in liters. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Complying with high environmental standards, Sarajevski er preform and the short-neck design, we reduced the envikiseljak uses extra light heating oil (ELHO) with lower sulfur ronmental impact of our production activities in the form content (up to 0.5% m/m sulfur) for its heating plant. Having of greenhouse gas emissions expressed as units of carbon finalized our conversion to a new bottle design with lightdioxide. 120 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sarajevski kiseljak EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Amount of Ozone-Depleting R22 refrigerant (hydrochlorofluorocarbon), while all other reVrsta radne tvari refrigerant (t) Potential (ODP) frigeration equipment has zero ODP. Sarajevski kiseljak has no present plans for replacing R-22 HCFC-22 0.006 0.055 because, according to the Resolution on the Requirements for and the Method of Implementing the Montreal Protocol and The raw material and input warehouse within the bottling Phasing Out of Ozone Depleting Substances in Bosnia and Herplant uses a refrigerator for storing fruit bases for preparing zegovina (Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina no. 67/15), carbonated soft drinks, which uses 6 kg of ozone-depleting using HCFC-22 will not be prohibited until 1 January 2021. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Total greenhouse gas emissions (t) on their measurement by a licensed organization and we are Year SO2 NO2 CO required by law to measure them on an annual basis. According to our measurements of air emissions of pollut2014 13.77 1.47 0.15 ants from the heating plant, it is clear that our air emissions 2015 18.21 1.94 0.19 increased compared to the preceding reporting period as a reTotal 31.98 3.41 0.34 sult of an increase in total production and new equipment installed on the production line. The emission levels are within The calculation of our NOx , SO2 and CO emissions was based the legally defined limits. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Water discharge is calculated according to a form defined by purpose and to comply with the statutory requirements, we the Federal Bureau of Statistics: engaged the licensed organization Zagrebinspekt to prepare Total amount of all waters withdrawn (mineral water + a Sarajevski kiseljak Mineral Water Source Protection Study water from own wells used for process purposes + water from the and the Water Supply Sewerage System Completion Status public water supply system) – bound water, i.e. water that ends up Report. All activities preceding the issuance of such water in finished products. management license were successfully completed and the water management license for discharging process wastewaYear Total water discharge (m3) ter was issued on 29 May 2014. 2014 121,900 According to the Regulation on the Conditions of 2015 119,300 Discharging Wastewater into Natural Recipients and Public Sewerage Systems (Official Journal of the Federation of Total 241,200 Bosnia and Herzegovina no. 04/12), the certified organization Dvokut pro of Sarajevo conducted a two-month analyOur total wastewater discharge was 149,700 m3 in the presis of wastewater quality in 2014 and 2015. The burden of ceding reporting period, compared to 241,200 m3 in the wastewater pollution is expressed as population equivalent 2014/2015 period as a result of a significant increase in pro(PE), while the unit of pollution of is inhabitant equivalent duction volumes and product range enlargement, but no sig(IE). Sarajevski kiseljak, whose total annual amount of pollunificant variations in the amount of water discharge per liter tion by population equivalent (PE) exceeds 500 IE, conducts of product were recorded. wastewater sample testing once in two years, i.e. tests its PBefore being discharged into a type 2 water recipient, waste and harmful substances before being discharged into wastewater is neutralized in a three-degree deposit tank. The surface waters for the purpose of accounting for and paying a treatment of wastewater in Sarajevski kiseljak will be taken special water protection charge. care of after the Town of Kiseljak builds its wastewater treatThe values of wastewater pollution burden depend on ment plant, after which all wastewater will flow into such the production process (the number of production lines in town wastewater treatment plant instead of a type 2 deposit use, type of product, CIP washing…). At the time of sampling tank. In 2014, Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. obtained a water manand in October of 2015, the pollution burden was 1061 PE agement license for discharging process wastewater. For that compared to 971 PE in December of 2013. 121 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sarajevski kiseljak Specific standard disclosures EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Presented below are the amounts of waste for Sarajevski recorded in 2015 as a result of replacing and disposing of old kiseljak d.d.: glass packaging at Vetropack Straža directly or through collecting organizations. Type of Waste disposal Treatment 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Having entered into and revised our contracts with liwaste contractors censed collecting organizations and purchased containers for Nonhazardous Zizi, , ES, ET, Graming, systematic sorting of all types of waste at source and having R 572.53 4,354.99 waste DD, KJKPViK, AC installed them in precisely defined places within the factoHazardous ry area and our distribution centers, we obtained economic D Grioss, AC,DP 10.5 7.76 waste benefits arising from selling recyclable types of waste (paper Total 583.03 4,362.75 packaging, glass packaging, PET packaging and film). Better waste sorting increases the amount of nonhazardous waste, Waste is sorted at its source, separately collected and tempowhich is sold to licensed collecting organizations as secondrarily stored in an area designated for temporary storage of ary raw material. different types of waste. By installing a waste baling press and appointing an employee to operate the press, we signifiType of waste 2014 2015 cantly improved our waste management system. This allowed us to take full control of the amounts of waste collected and Broken glass from ordinary business processes 119.74 77.45 achieve higher purchase prices, which increased the amounts Old glass packaging 0 3,271.44 of useful waste and the associated revenue. In addition, a sigTotal 119.74 3,348.90 nificant increase in the amount of nonhazardous waste was Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Sarajevski kiseljak implements, maintains and updates all statnal audits and 2 were external audits conducted by the Buutory requirements and stakeholder demands in the Aligning reau Veritas Croatia certifying organization. On 1 December Environmental Aspects with Statutory and Other Require2015, the first surveillance audit of our EMS (Environmenments Form and in accordance with all applicable environmental Management System) was conducted according to the tal regulations. In 2014, 19 audits of our integrated business ISO 14001:2004 international standard by BVC and on 16 management system were conducted, of which 17 were interand 17 April 2015 the second surveillance audit was connal audits and 2 were external audits conducted by Bureau ducted according to the ISO 22000:2005 international stanVeritas Croatia (BVC). On 3 and 4 December of 2014, the first dard by BVC. The official audits conducted in 2015 at Sarajerecertification audit of our EMS (Environmental Management vski kiseljak included an audit of the amount of water used, System) was conducted according to the ISO 14001:2004 interan environmental protection audit, an audit and sampling national standard and on 19 March 2014 the first surveillance of foodstuffs and general use items were conducted, swabs audit of our FSMS (Food Safety Management System) was from working surfaces and employees’ hands were taken for conducted according to ISO 22000:2005. The official audits microbiological analysis, and our water management docuconducted in 2014 at Sarajevski kiseljak included a process ments and vessels under pressure were inspected. wastewater discharge audit, an environmental protection auNo cases of noncompliance were found during these dit, and an audit of our vessels under pressure. official audits and, consequently, no fines or non-monetary As planned, 15 integrated business management syssanctions were imposed. tem audits were conducted in 2015, of which 13 were inter122 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Sarajevski kiseljak Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce The environmental impact of Sarajevski kiseljak includes These parameters are presented according to the following transporting products and other goods and materials used criteria: for the organization’s operations by using our own vehicles • energy used in GJ, and (LPG). • greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent. Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emission Year Tons of CDE Tons of CDE GJ GJ for fuel for LPG 2014 18,592 3,300 1,330 144 2015 17,546 4,381 1,255 192 Total 36,138 7,681 2,585 336 Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. has incorporated its care for the envicertifications, trainings, projects and investments), amountronment in all its business processes. ing to EUR 270,857. During this reporting period, our environmental protection expenditures and investments included our costs of Year Environmental protection costs (EUR) waste disposal, measuring air emissions, analyzing wastewa2014 146,950 ter quality including the pertinent charges, our waste management costs, packaging and EE waste charges, and costs of 2015 123,907 environmental prevention and management (environmental Total 270,857 Environmental protection targets for 2016 and 2017 • Replace the existing heating oil tank when building a new heating plant; • Purchase a low-pressure compressor for the Technological Preparation Department and thus save electricity; • Further improve our waste management system; and • Train our employees in environmental protection. 123 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Fonyódi Specific standard disclosures T he Fonyódi natural mineral water bottling plant of Hunity management system certified according to ISO 9001:2000 gary has operated as part of Agrokor Group since 2004. and is registered and audited by the certifying institution NQA. Since that time, we have invested substantial funds in This company’s business is based on its focus on pretechnology and production processes. The bottling plant conserving the environment and reducing any adverse environtains two production lines. Its primary products are Fonyódi mental impacts of our business operations by innovating the natural mineral water and noncarbonated water. production process, reducing and systematically disposing of Natural spring water Fonyódi is a popular brand on the all types of waste, and by raising nature protection awareness. Hungarian market, and its well-balanced mineral content, exThe activities planned for this reporting period were clusive of nitrates and nitrites, provides it with a drinkable and completed. Fonyódi undertook the following activities for the distinctive quality. The overall product range comprises natpurpose of improving its environmental protection: ural carbonated spring water, natural noncarbonated spring • We provided additional employee training in connection water and flavored spring water. As of 2010, Fonyódi has prowith the changes in the environmental protection charge duced Akvia natural spring water for the Croatian market. calculation system; Fonyódi is particularly committed to developing a busi• We reduced the weight of secondary packaging material ness management system, has implemented a food safety sys(reduced label thickness, reduced wrapping film, reduced tem, and had its quality management system certified. To weight of cardboard trays, reduced use of labeling glue); demonstrate its systematic care and control of the production • We reduced our energy consumption; and process and products, the Fonyódi bottling plant had its qual• We reconstructed the CIP unit. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume The materials used during the reporting period included raw Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 materials and natural resources used to make products, associated process materials (oil and lubricants for production Raw materials 25,266,663 24,795,876 machines), and packaging. Direct materials (materials presAssociated process materials 25,071 21,603 ent in the final product) and indirect materials (resources not renewable over a short period of time) are expressed in kg. Materials for packaging purposes 290,744 201,910 The total weight of materials used in the preceding reTotal 25,582,478 25,019,389 porting period was 50,950,156 kg, compared to 50,601,867 kg in this reporting period. The total amount of materials used remained stable. 124 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Fonyódi Specific standard disclosures Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 gas is used at the site for heating and its consumption depends on the weather conditions. Furthermore, natural gas is used to Natural gas 550 634 heat process water for washing glass packaging and the total LPG 474 385 consumption of natural gas depends on how many products in glass packaging are made. Our electricity consumption deElectricity 1,341 853 pends on the type of product (juice, water) and the waste used Total 2,365 1,872 for such products. All electricity is supplied externally. Indirect energy is energy produced by a single primary Our total energy consumption includes natural gas, LPG and source or other primary sources and supplied externally. electricity. Our energy consumption depends on the type of Direct energy supplied and used from nonrenewable product, type of packaging, and production volumes. Natural energy sources is closely related to our total production. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is presented as electricity consumption per Energy intensity 2014 2015 liter of product. (GJ /1 L product) Energy intensity remained stable for the production site Electricity 0.00013 0.00013 and depends on the type of product, type of packaging and production volumes. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption During the reporting period, we switched to new bottles with struction reduced our losses of energy used to heat solutions. lower perform weight and reduced the weight of wrapping and In addition to all this and the fact that energy conthermo-shrink film, so this project helped us save PET masumption is closely related to total production, which was terials and electricity. We reconstructed the CIP unit within 21% lower in the reporting period, we used less electricity the bottling plant because its heaters were worn out and used 2194 GJ in the 2014/2015 reporting period compared to 3569 more energy for heating CIP washing solutions, so the reconGJ in the 2012/2013 reporting period. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) For process From the public water Total volume of Year From wells purposes supply system water withdrawn 2014 24,420 752 859 26,031 2015 24,035 720 600 25,355 Total 48,455 1,472 1,459 51,386 As an important resource, water is managed rationally. Water volume of all waters withdrawn during the current reportis subjected to constant quality, consumption and use audits. ing period was 51,386 m3, of which 49.927 m3 was water The water we use includes water withdrawn from our from our own sources and wells and 1459 m3 was water from own sources, process water and water from the public water the public water supply system. The difference in total wasupply system. The total amount of water for the 2012/2013 ter withdrawal recorded during the current reporting period reporting period was 53,611 m3, of which 50,470 m3 was compared to the preceding reporting period is a result of a water withdrawn (from own sources and wells) and 3141 m3 decrease in production compared to the preceding reporting was water from the public water supply system. The total period, primarily for flavored water. 126 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Fonyódi EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water To prevent excessive use or potential contamination of sourcmeasured, monitored and supervised in accordance with the es, Fonyodi controls, determines, describes, assesses and dewater management license issued by the relevant Natural fines all potential direct and indirect environmental impacts. Disaster Defense Administration of Baranya County in HunAll impacts associated with water withdrawal are constantly gary. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) The greenhouse gas emissions generated by the heating compared to the preceding reporting period. Emissions were plant are determined on the basis of our fuel consumpreduced in 2015 compared to 2014 as a result of reducing the tion and the number of heating plant’s hours of operation. production of our flavored product range (we discontinued Our total direct and indirect CO2 emissions resulting from our private label production for Tesco) and the consequent transport were determined by estimating our CO2 emissions smaller extent of using the heating plant and transport. resulting from combustion as defined in the Guide for the Direct greenhouse Preparation of the Plant Greenhouse Gas Emissions Monitor2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) ing Plan issued by the relevant regulatory authority. Our total greenhouse gas emissions include emisProduction plants 7 2 sions generated by the heating plant, transport and LPG and Fuel for transport 109 83 are expressed in tons of CDE. During this reporting period, LPG 18 16 they amounted to 271 tons of CDE, which means our emissions recorded in this reporting period were lower by 13.3% Total 134 101 EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions at the Fonyódi The difference in the amount per liter of product is primarKft. plant represents total emissions in tons of CO2 per prodily a result of a change in the ratio between small and large uct unit of 1000 liters for each production plant. product packaging. After we discontinued our private label production for Tesco, the share of low-volume packaging 2014 2015 (0.75 L and 0.50 L) increased, so the quantity in liters produced in 2015 decreased by 36% compared to 2014 and the CO2 emissions (t) /1000 L of product 0.013 0.015 number of units by only 28.5%, so our CO2 (t) emissions in 2014 per 1000 units were 0.0178, compared to 0.0187 in 2015. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions By reducing the weight of wrapping film (in mid-2014 we aging; film width was also reduced by 50 mm for all packagswitched to 17-micron film for all product packaging, whereing), we reduce the environmental impact of our production by the total weight was reduced from 340 g/pal. to 200 g/ activities resulting from greenhouse gas emissions expressed pal.) and thermo-shrink film per product unit (changed in in carbon dioxide units. mid-2014 from 45 microns to 40 microns for all product packEN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Fonyódi uses R-427A refrigerant for the blower cooler, which is not ozone-depleting. 127 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Fonyódi Specific standard disclosures EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions A licensed organization measured our NO2 and CO emissions. Total greenhouse gas emissions (kg) As regards our total other air emissions by weight and type, they amounted to 0.0047 tons of NO2 and 0.00219 tons Year NO2 CO of CO in the 2012/2013 reporting period. In the 2014/2015 2014 1.76 0.81 reporting period, our air emissions were 0.00257 tons of NO 2015 0.18 0.40 and 0.00058 tons of CO. Our total air emissions by type and Total 1.94 1.21 weight decreased as a result of lower gas consumption. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Year Total water discharge (m3) Wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system. 2014 2,117 We measure our water discharge by using water flow meters. During this reporting period, our total water discharge 2015 1,980 by volume was 4097 m3, compared to 4616 m3 in the preTotal 4,097 ceding reporting period. Lower flavored water production volumes resulted in decreased consumption of water used Presented below is our total water discharge in m3 for to wash the production lines, which in turn resulted in a de2014 and 2015 according to the total amount of wastewater. creased volume of wastewater discharge. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Presented below are Fonyódi’s waste management data, instainless steel, etc., while hazardous waste includes waste oil, cluding the amounts of waste (in tons), types of waste, dishazardous packaging materials, waste laboratory chemicals posal methods, and collecting organizations. Nonhazardous and oil filters. waste includes paper, plastic, wood, glass, aluminum, iron, Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Bányai Béla EV, Mindenker Ltd., Móraplast Nonhazardous waste R 36.28 3.00 Invest Ltd, Polgár & Polgár Ltd Hazardous waste K DESIGN Ltd. 0.08 2.14 Total 36.36 5.14 Waste is sorted at its source, separately collected and tempo2014 and five tons in 2015. The large amounts of nonhazardrarily stored in an area designated for temporary storage of ous waste collected in 2014 were a result of disposing of old waste. During the 2012/2013 reporting period, we collected bottles, crates and other materials found inside the storage 95.3 tons of waste, compared to 41.5 tons in the 2014/2015 area, while the large amount of hazardous waste collected in reporting period, of which 36 tons of waste was collected in 2015 is a result of disposing of retired refrigerators. Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No cases of noncompliance with any laws or regulations were found and no fines and non-monetary sanctions were imposed. 128 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Fonyódi Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Our environmental impact includes transporting products These parameters are presented according to the following using our own vehicles (fuel consumption for total transport) criteria: and other goods and materials used for the organization’s op• energy used in GJ, and erations (LPG). • greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent. Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emissions Year Tons of CDE Tons of CDE GJ GJ for fuel for LPG 2014 1,455 474 109 18 2015 1,163 385 83 16 Total 2,618 859 192 34 Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Fonyódi’s commitment to managing and systematically sortThese figures represent environmental charges, including ing hazardous and nonhazardous waste is incorporated in the charges paid for Fonyódi and Jamnica products including foundations of its business. PET packaging, closures, labels, film, paper handles, wooden pallets and bottle caps imported for Fonyódi. In addition, FoEnvironmental protection investments nyódi paid environmental charges for its raw materials in the amount of HUF 23,962,165 in 2014 and these costs are incorYear Waste management (EUR) porated in Fonyódi’s standard product cost. 2014 166,904 Due to legislative amendments in 2014, in 2015 this cost was no longer accounted for as part of the preform pur2015 181,033 chase price, however, this increased our waste management Total 347,937 costs. Total charges paid in 2015 were less than in 2014 as a result of decreased volumes of production and reduced pre2014.: 1 EUR = 306 HUF form weight. 2015.: 1 EUR = 310 HUF Activities planned for the next 2-year period: • Switch to a single preform for each volume for all products (to reduce inventory handling and thus indirectly reduce gas emissions); • Reduce the number of remote warehouses and thus additionally reduce our inventory handling levels; • Reduce our energy consumption by 2%; and • Switch to a new 0.5 L bottle design (preform weight reduced from 21 g to 18.4 g). 129 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Nova Sloga Specific standard disclosures N ova Sloga d.o.o. was established in 1956. It was acquired within Agrokor Group to hold an ISO 14001 certificate. The by Frikom AD of Belgrade in 2009 and has been part of old containers were adjusted to the requirements and types of Agrokor Group since 31 December 2012. Nova Sloga’s waste (according to ISO 14001). We conducted ongoing traincore activities are production of mineral water and purchasing ing of our employees for waste management and environmenand processing of fruits and vegetables. tal protection. Nova Sloga presently operates two plants: the Mg MiveThe targets set in the preceding reporting period, but la natural mineral water bottling plant located in the village not accomplished were as follows: of Veluć and the Refrigeration Plant intended for purchasing, Enter into contract with a suitable provider for disposprocessing and storing fruits and vegetables, located in Trsteing of and recycling a small amount of machine oil, which is nik. one of the targets for the next 2016/2017 reporting period; the The targets accomplished in this reporting period: reason why we did not accomplish this target in the preceding We optimized the technological process and enlarged reporting period is the small amount of machine oil (around our production capacities in the Mg Mivela plant. In October 50 kg), which is insufficient to justify the arrival of an operaof 2014, Nova Sloga launched a new Mg Mivela facility covtor licensed by the competent authority for transporting, storering 2700 m2. The plant includes the relevant transport ining and treating hazardous waste; frastructure, energy extensions and a state-of-the-art bottling Build an artesian well within the Refrigeration Plant for plant. The investment was completed in less than a year and the purpose of reducing our water costs is also among the tarwas preceded by reconstruction and enlargement of the natugets for the next reporting period; during the preceding reral source. The technological process optimizations resulted porting period, a test was conducted on Nova Sloga’s property in 13% savings in electricity per liter of finished product in and supplies of water sufficient for production at the Refrigerthis reporting period. ation Plant were not found. The next step is to obtain consent In 2015, we certified our ISO 14001 system in both to dig a well from the owner of the adjacent plot where such Nova Sloga plants. Nova Sloga thus became the 21st company tests found supplies of water. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 terials used for packaging. The figures concerning processing materials are a result of measurements. Raw materials 189,030 288,920 The total amount of materials used increased by Associated process materials 3,956 3,984 29.39% in 2015 compared to 2014. The increase in the weight Materials for packaging purposes 1,082,544 1,513,700 of total materials used in the 2014/2015 reporting period by Total 1,275,691 1,806,604 61.56% compared to the preceding reporting period is a result of an increase in the production of Mg Mivela mineral The materials used in product were purchased from external water. In 2013, we produced 19,334,220 liters of Mg Mivela. suppliers. The figures concerning packaging materials were In 2015, our production of Mg Mivela was 40,001,976 liters. calculated using an estimate based on the weights of the ma130 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Nova Sloga Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 17% as a result of a higher rate of finished product and input Fuel 182 193 handling compared to the preceding reporting period. More rational use of company vehicles resulted in an 11% decrease LPG 350 455 in fuel consumption compared to the preceding reporting peElectricity 13,943 17,438 riod. The decrease in electricity consumption by 13% or 0.44 Total 14,475 18,086 GJ per one thousand finished product units compared to the preceding reporting period is a result of technological proIn 2015 we recorded an increase in LPG consumption by cess optimization. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity is presented as diesel, LPG and electricity recorded in 2015 compared to 2014 is a result of improved consumption per one thousand finished product units for the finished product and input handling. The technological proentire production at Nova Sloga. Total production at Nova cess optimization in both plants resulted in a 10% decrease Sloga expressed in thousands of finished product units was in electricity consumption intensity per product unit. used as the denominator. This ratio includes energy used within Nova Sloga. Energy intensity per unit produced 2014 2015 (GJ/1000 FP) The 17% decrease in fuel consumption energy intensity per product unit recorded in 2015 compared to 2014 is a Fuel 0.006 0.005 result of more rational use of company vehicles. The 8% deLPG 0.012 0.011 crease in LPG consumption energy intensity per product unit Electricity 0.462 0.416 EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Our electricity consumption in this period decreased by 0.17 The total amount of finished products in 2013 was 20,610,768 GJ per one thousand finished product units compared to units and our total electricity consumption was 12,528 GJ. 2013, which we chose as the base year. In 2013, our electricThe total amount of finished products in 2015 was 41,939,681 ity consumption was 0.61 GJ per one thousand finished produnits and our total energy consumption was 17,438 GJ. uct units. The decrease is a result of intensified control of Year Energy intensity (GJ per unit produced) electricity consumption, changes in employee behavior, and changes in particular production processes owing to produc2013, 0.61 tion optimization achieved by installing a new line with a greater capacity in August of 2014. The savings were deter2014 0.46 mined by direct monthly measurements of electricity con2015 0.42 sumption and production monitoring. 131 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Nova Sloga Specific standard disclosures Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Ground water Water from Water from the public Total volume of Year bound to the product own wells water supply system water withdrawn 2014 29,037 4,139 935 34,111 2015 40,002 3,315 3,450 46,767 Total 69,039 7,454 4,385 80,878 At Nova Sloga, water is used for bottling mineral water, for A 64% increase in the withdrawal of groundwater production purposes, as process and cooling water, for washbound to the product was recorded as a result of an increased ing facilities and plants, for drinking, and for sanitary purscope of production. This water is used for bottling Mg Miveposes. la products. These figures are a result of direct measurements (waOur use of water from our own well for process and ter meter readings and invoices from the public water supply sanitary purposes increased by 19%, which is also a result of organization). an increased scope of production at the Mg Mivele plant. The following changes occurred in this reporting periOur water withdrawal from the public water supply od compared to the preceding reporting period: system decreased by 70% because raw material processing did not require additional water consumption. EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Nova Sloga has three wells from which it withdraws water. greater surroundings. This is why our products and services The land owned by Nova Sloga is not in or adjacent to have no significant environmental or biodiversity impacts. any protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. The Nova Sloga does not have a concession agreement in natural source of Mg Mivela water is located in the Cadasplace, so it exploits mineral water pursuant to an authorizatral Municipality of Veluće and water is withdrawn at a depth tion issued by the Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Reof 86 meters from a source located on the edge of a forest in public of Serbia which authorizes it to withdraw 4.5 L of minintact nature away from any inhabited areas. No factories or eral water/s and 2.5 L of process water/s. In 2015, Nova Sloga any other potential polluters are located in its immediate or withdrew 28% mineral water and 4% process water. EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water used at Nova Sloga is presently not recycled and not used as recycled water. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Nova Sloga presently does not use a heating plant. It retains the services of other companies for transporting its raw materials, production materials and members of the workforce. The other production processes at Nova Sloga do not result in any emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrogen dioxide (N2O) or steam (H2O) and thus create no greenhouse gases. Nova Sloga uses CO2 as input for producing Mg Mivela carbonated mineral water. Liquid CO2 is stored in a tank, i.e. a closed system. 132 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Nova Sloga EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Nova Sloga’s scope of business does not require measurement Air Quality Monitoring Conditions and Requirements Reguof greenhouse gases. The regulation defining this area is the lation (Official Journal of RS, no. 11/10, 75/10 and 63/13). EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions The nature of Nova Sloga’s production processes ensures that (CH4), nitrogen dioxide (N2O) or steam (H2O) and thus create they result in no emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane no greenhouse gases. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) The refrigeration system of the Mg Mivela plant uses antireplenished with 2.49 t in 2014 and 1.5 t in 2015. The amount freeze based on nutritive monopropylene glycol, which circuof refrigeration system replenishment increased in 2014 by lates within the system and does not evaporate and thus end 40% compared to the preceding reporting period as a result up in the atmosphere. In 2015, the system was replenished of losses incurred at the time of releasing (replacing) oil from with 200 kg of refrigerating fluid. The Refrigeration Plant a screw compressor. The amount of system replenishment in uses ammonia as refrigerant in its primary refrigeration 2015 is consistent with the amount recorded in the preceding system, which is closed. The tanks and pipelines contain 16 reporting period. t of ammonia. During the reporting period, the system was EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Nova Sloga’s production plant does not use any heating equipment for the time being, so it produces no NOx or SOx emissions. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Total water discharge (m3) Year Mivela Plant Refrigeration Plant Total 2014 2015 2014 2015 Sanitary water 630 200 15 923 1,768 Process water 3,489 2,795 685 2,250 9,219 Total 4,119 2,995 700 3,173 10,987 During this reporting period, wastewater at the Mg Mivea quarterly report is submitted to the Public Water Managela product plant continued to be directed to a deposit tank ment Company, the Ministry of Environmental Protection along with surplus mineral water from bottling operations and the Environmental Protection Agency about the quantiand rainwater. This way, the process water in the deposit tank ties of wastewater discharge. is diluted and neutralized and then discharged into the local In this reporting period, our total water discharge dewatercourse. Water discharged from the deposit tank meets creased by 47% compared to the preceding reporting period. all quality standards, as confirmed by analyses conducted by These decrease in water discharge recorded in this reporting the Institute of Public Health four times per year. period is a result of optimizing our production plant washing Sanitary water is discharged into a septic tank evacand maintenance processes. During the preceding reportuated by the Public Utility Company of the Municipality of ing period, we purchased a new device for floor cleaning and Trstenik. The Refrigeration Plant discharges its water into washing at the Mg Mivela production plant, which substanthe municipal sewerage system and such water is then treattially helped us reduce our water consumption. Increased ined at the town utility company. flow of fruits and vegetables to be processed, which requires The Kraljevo Institute of Public Health measures the no additional water consumption, also helps reduce our quantities of wastewater discharge and issues a certified docwastewater discharge. ument confirming the quantities measures, based on which 133 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Nova Sloga Specific standard disclosures EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment 2014 (t) 2015 (t) of oil from a screw compressor. Nova Sloga was particularNonhazardous waste R 16.00 24.90 ly alert to hazardous waste in the process of establishing its environmental management system. For proper management Hazardous waste D 0.50 0.50 purposes, hazardous waste is sorted at its source. A person Total 16.50 25.40 responsible for managing hazardous waste was appointed and a waste catalog is maintained. We defined the types and In this reporting period, we disposed of 50% more nonhazthe number of assets needed for disposal of hazardous waste, ardous waste than in the preceding one. This is a result of the handling method and all relevant supporting documents: improved collection and selection of each type of waste, from the type and category certificate to the waste collecwhich is sold as secondary raw material. tion document completed at the time of providing hazardous Nova Sloga presently stores around 500 kg of waste waste to a licensed organization for its ultimate disposal. compressor oil resulting from the discharge and replacement Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations During this reporting period, no fines were imposed on Nova Sloga for noncompliance with any laws or regulations. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Nova Sloga uses external providers for transporting its prodhas not direct environmental impacts of transporting its ucts, production materials and employees, which means it products, employees or any other materials. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission Our total environmental protection expenditures and investPrevention and environmental Year treatment, and remediation ments in 2014/2015 compared to 2013/2012 increased by management costs (EUR) costs (EUR) 77% as a result of: 2014 235,080 16,734 • increased water exploitation charge; the water exploitation charge is calculated on the basis of the water sales volume; 2015 454,572 13,018 • increased costs of certification; during the preceding reportTotal 689,652 29,752 ing period, we certified ISO 14001 in addition to HACCP. 134 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Nova Sloga Activities and targets planned for the 2016-2017 period • Complete the construction of the new production hall and install and put into service a new mineral water bottling line at the Mivela Plant. By putting the new production line into service, we aim to minimize the use of packaging materials in the production of mineral water, which implies reducing the amount of packaging material by 6% per 1.5 L bottle; • Switch from the 39 gram preform to a short neck 37 gram preform (PCO 1881) for producing the 1.5 L format; • Switch from the 2.65 gram closure for bottle 3557 to a 2.16 gram short neck closure 5560 for producing the 1.5 L format; • Provide regular training to our employees for waste management and environmental protection once a year according to the annual schedule: 10 employees of the Refrigeration Plant, 7 employees of the Maintenance Division, 10 employees in the Mg Mivela Plant, and seasonal workers in both plants, as necessary; • In 2016, we plan to prepare the necessary documents for and implement the ISO 9001:2015 system and have it certified; • We intend to enter into contact with an eligible provider for disposing of and recycling a small amount of used-up toner, which is disposed of in a container intended for used-up toner until such time we find a suitable operator; • Complete the gas bottle storage facility at the Mg Mivela Plant by 11 April 2016. This is one of the general targets that we began to accomplish in 2015 by preparing a study for the purpose of obtaining consent to the location of our LPG warehouse. This target relates to the reduction of our adverse environmental impacts according to the environmental management system indicators, regulatory compliance and transport of products and services; • We plan to launch a project for converting to LED lighting in both Nova Sloga’s plants, which would result in reduction of electricity consumption; and • We also plan to dig an artesian well for fruit & vegetable processing plant’s purposes, which would reduce the amount of process water purchased from the Public Utility Company for Refrigeration Plant’s purposes. 135 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Specific standard disclosures P IK Vrbovec – mesna industrija d.d. is a joint-stock cornated our business cooperation with all our former nonhazporation engaging in the production and marketing of ardous waste collecting organizations for the purpose of simmeat and meat products, headquartered in Vrbovec. At plifying our management of all types of waste through a new the end of 2015, the company employed 1996 people, of whom company within Agrokor (e-Kolektor) acting in the capacity of 1009 worked in Production, 515 in Logistics, 94 in Maintea carrier or collector or only for waste management intermenance, and 378 in other departments. The greatest increase in diation and improvement, transport optimization and stronthe number of employees compared to the preceding reporting ger connection of companies within the Group. In the same period was recorded in Logistics – by as much as 63% as a remonth, we changed our method of disposing of slaughtersult of enlarging our facilities. house waste, i.e. animal byproducts (Class 3 materials), so that In April of 2014, we discontinued our production of such waste is now fired from a pneumatic gun into Agroprocans. Our Piketa and Classic brands were sold to Danica, which teinka’s container instead of dumping it from a dumping cart had manufactured them for PIK on a private label basis. The using a dumping crane into the relevant container for Class 3 increasing production trend continued in this reporting period (EMS target for 2015). – in 2015 our production increased by 9.7% at our central site In 2015, we obtained a Certificate of Registration in the in Vrbovec compared to 2013. Registry of Persons Storing Their Own Production Waste from The most important accomplishments with respect to MENP for our Hazardous Waste Storage Facility at the Vrenvironmental management during the reporting period inbovec site (Class: 351-01/15-01/367; Ref.: 517-06-3-1-2-15-2, clude wastewater, waste and ozone layer protection as follows: Waste Producer Storage Facility Number: SPO-300). In early 2014, PIK received its Integrated EnvironmenIn 2014, we replaced the ozone-depleting R22 in four tal Requirements for its existing PIK Vrbovec – Mi.I. d.d. plant refrigerating devices (1 containing 7 kg and 3 containing 4 kg at the Vrbovec site, a so-called Environmental Permit. Coneach) by R404A which is not ozone-depleting, so PIK no lonsidering the fact that the most important requirement under ger uses any devices containing more than 3 kg of ozone-dethe Environmental Permit was not met by the end of 2014 pleting refrigerant. That same year showed a continued up(build our own wastewater treatment plant) because of our ward trend in production and a downward trend in natural gas intentions to attempt obtaining co-funding for its construcconsumption, including the greenhouse gas emissions resulttion from the European Union in early 2015, PIK notified the ing from the Heating Plant and in the amount of packaging planned change in the plant’s operation and extension of the used. We successfully reduced our electricity and water contime limit for WTP construction to the Ministry of Environsumption despite increased production and use of dangerous mental and Nature Protection (MENP) through an authorized cleaning products and disinfectants. We particularly reduced organization (Croatian Cleaner Production Center). A decree our use of chlorine-based disinfectants and replaced them by amending the Environmental Permit was issued and pubproducts less adverse for the environment. lished on MENP’s website on 5 October 2015, whereby the In April of 2015, a scheduled official audit was conducttime limit for WTP was extended to 31 October 2015. The ed, during which nonconformities were found in relation to works on wastewater treatment plant construction and reconthe relevant Authorizations in the area of wastewater and vetstruction of a part of the internal sewerage system began in erinary requirements, these nonconformities were rectified April of 2015 and were completed in October of 2015. The forin 2015, and the following report was published on MENP’s mer two inspection shafts (KMO1 i KMO2) in the south part of website: http://www.mzoip.evolare.host25.com/doc/provedba_ the site, where process wastewater is only mechanically treatplaniranih_koordiniranih_nadzora_u_i_tromjesecju_2015_ ed by grease traps and discharged into the public sewerage godine.pdf. system, was replaced by a single new inspection shaft located In April of 2015, surveillance audits of ISO 9001 i 14001 next to the southeast fence of the site, where wastewater runs were conducted at the Vrbovec site and in PC Rijeka. An ISO through a physical-chemical-biological treatment plant and is 50001 pre-audit was conducted in late October of 2015 and a discharged into a natural recipient – the Luka watercourse. certification audit was successfully completed in December of During this and the preceding reporting period, we en2015. In late 2015, PIK implemented its energy management deavored to increase the efficiency of separate collection of system (ISO 50001). reusable waste (paper/cardboard, plastic, wood, glass) by inThe following targets were accomplished during the retensifying our monitoring activities, providing trainings and porting period: in 2014 we improved our waste management conducting internal audits to minimize our amounts of landsystem by reducing the amount of municipal waste per ton of filled municipal waste. In March of 2015, PIK’s Environmental product by 2.27%, we reduced our water consumption for the Protection Department took over two employees of a licensed process packaging washing machine by 2% as set by installwaste collecting organization (EKO-FLOR PLUS d.o.o.), who ing injectors for the stainless steel version which ensure conprepare nonhazardous waste to be carried away from our nonstant water consumption and by installing thermodynamic hazardous waste storage facility. In April of 2015, we termiprobes which maintain the temperature of water in the tank at 136 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Specific standard disclosures a constant level, we repaired our air duct installations where 404 which is not ozone-depleting and trained our drivers for they leaked, we reconstructed the low and medium voltage eco-driving to achieve potential fuel savings in the future petransformer stations for the purpose of ensuring more effecriod. In 2015, we installed water meters at the slaughterhouse, tive supply of the plant with electricity, and installed meters the processing plant and the heating station for the purpose of to improve or electricity consumption monitoring and save monitoring our actual water consumption. electricity in the future. That same year, we removed R22 from the remaining refrigeration devices and replaced it by R Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume PIK Vrbovec does not directly use any natural resources Associated process materials = liquefied gases for product pack(nonrenewable materials) to make its products, but only for aging and maintenance + machine lubricants + cleaning products secondary processes not associated with the final product: for and chemicals used in production and maintenance machine maintenance (lubricants). The information used was received from the Planning and Analysis, Production and Maintenance Departments of Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 Luxor (responsible for washing our plants). Raw materials 84,389,619 91,565,382 In 2015 we used 11% more material than in 2013, i.e. 1.4% more per ton of product. Although the amounts of raw Associated process materials 772,593 939,106 materials and associated process materials increased (as a Materials for packaging purposes 2,526,866 2,491,053 result of increased production), the amount of packaging Total 87,689,078 94,995,541 materials decreased by 10% in 2015 compared to 2013 (we introduced lighter packaging for fresh meat – foamy multilayer Raw material = livestock + imported raw material ( fresh, frozen) + plastic materials filled with air). additives and condiments Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization PIK does not use any fuel from renewable sources. Our conpurchased an ultrasonic condensate discharge checker – Dr. sumption of fuel from nonrenewable sources includes: diesel Trap PM 301), while in 2015 we recorded a slight increase in fuel used for internal purposes at the Vrbovec site, for transour gas consumption, by 0.5%, as a result of increased proporting goods within and outside the Vrbovec site and for our duction. company cars and propane-butane (fuel powering our forklift trucks and pig singeing furnaces in the slaughterhouse – in Propane-butane consumption by purpose absence of natural gas supply) at the Vrbovec site. As of 2015, our gas consumption has been recorded for the new Zagreb 2014 2015 Purpose Region warehouse at Zvijezda. After we operationalized the t m3 t m3 new warehouse, our consumption of propane-butane for forkForklift trucks in Vrbovec 1.570 2,907.407 0.690 1,277.778 lift trucks increased from 1.57 t in 2014 to 7.77 t in 2015, which means that 88% of the gas was used as a result of the Slaughterhouse, furnaces 0.250 462.963 0.270 500.000 in Vrbovec logistic capacity enlargement. The table below presents our propane-butane consumption by purpose. Total 1.820 3,370.370 0.960 1,777.778 99.8% of gas was used at the Vrbovec site (92-95% of Forklift trucks at Zvijezda 7.080 13,111.111 gas used to produce heat at the heating plant (steam and hot UKUPNO 8.040 14,888.889 water)), while 5-8% was used to prepare food for our employees in kitchen ovens and 0.2% was used at the LSC Osijek for heating. ELHO (alternative fuel in absence of natural gas supOur consumption of extra light heating oil in 2014 decreased ply) was used to produce heat for the Vrbovec facility. Comby 48% compared to 2013 and none was recorded in 2015 as a pared to 2013, in 2014 we continued to reduce our gas conresult of steady supply of natural gas by our supplier. sumption at the central site in Vrbovec (by 5.15%) as a result After our consumption of propane-butane decreased by of the investment made in the preceding reporting period (we 18% in 2014 compared to 2013, it increased by 342% in 2015 138 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec as a result of extending our logistic operations to the ware2015, our total energy consumption increased by 9% compared house at Zvijezda where gas is used to power forklift trucks. to 2013 as a result of increased production. Our diesel consumption increased in 2014 and was at the end Energy consumption (GJ) of 2015 34% greater than in 2013 (or 22% per ton of product), mostly as a result of taking over all Zvijezda’s distribution ENERGY TYPES 2014 2015 operations, which also resulted in an increase in the number Natural gas (Vrbovec) 158,141.98 167,555.48 of commercial vehicles from 100 to 160. Natural gas (PC Osijek) 368.25 394.90 Energy consumption Natural gas (total) 158,510.23 167,950.38 Consumption 2014 2015 Extra light heating oil 131.63 0.00 site kWh GJ kWh GJ Diesel fuel 71,143.43 77,226.06 Vrbovec 35,449,827.00 127,619.38 38,382,051 138,175.38 Propane-butane 80.81 356.98 Osijek 590,089.00 2,124.32 533,816 1,921.74 Total (energy from fuel) 229,866.10 245,533.41 Rijeka 230,263.00 828.95 253,641 913.11 Electricity (Vrbovec) 127,619.38 138,175.38 Total 36,270,179.00 130,572.64 39,169,508 141,010.23 Electricity (Osijek) 2,124.32 1,921.74 Electricity (Rijeka) 828.95 913.11 As of 2014, we have also recorded our electricity at the Osijek and Rijeka LSCs, whose consumption accounts for 2% of the Electricity (total) 130,572.64 141,010.23 total recorded energy consumption. After reducing our elecTOTAL ENERGY 360,438.74 386,543.64 tricity consumption by 0.54% in 2014 compared to 2013 at the Vrbovec site, it increased by 8% in 2015 compared to 2014 as a Compared to the base year 2013, in 2015 we used 0.17% less enresult of increased production. Our total energy consumption ergy per product unit. This is a result of an 8% decrease in gas equals the sum of energy from the fuel used and electricity. In consumption and a 1.8% decrease in electricity consumption. EN5: Energy intensity Product intensity (GJ / t of product) Energy intensity includes energy used per product unit at the Vrbovec site and at the Osijek and Rijeka LSCs. As this Energy types 2014 2015 is a new indicator, we have no information available about Natural gas 1.808 1.768 product intensity for the base year 2013 and we are unable Energy from fuel (ELHO, diesel fuel, to compare figures for 2014 and 2015 against the preceding 2.621 2.585 propane-butane) reporting period. Electricity 1.489 1.485 Total energy 4.11 4.07 EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Compared to 2013, in 2015 we reduced our gas and electricity water remains in use, and we need less energy for additionconsumption per product unit at the Vrbovec site. al heating. It was established after inspecting the drains We reduced our electricity consumption after we using the new device that their replacement could improve raised the glycol temperature in the refrigeration systhe efficiency of steam so heated, which resulted in signiftem from -10 to -7 oC. We thereby automatically reduced icant savings of gas and water withdrawn from the Bajer the number of chillers (from 5 or 6 in operation to 3 or 4), Reservoir (the total savings of water from Bajer were 10% in which are also the greatest electricity users. The decrease 2014). We identified all drains and maintain records thereof in gas consumption is a result of improved utilization of and defined a plan and priorities with respect to the condenheat which was recorded in 2013 and the process continued sate drain replacement. in 2014 as result of more accurate measurement of conThe decrease in gas consumption due to improved densate efficiency using the PM 301 – Dr. Trap ultrasonic heat utilization is also a result of installing equipment with instrument purchased in 2013. The condensate drains are automated desalting and desludging of boilers in June of condensing pots where condensate accumulates and returns 2014, which also reduced the amount of wastewater from back into the system. This reduces our steam losses, hot the heating plant. 139 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Specific standard disclosures Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source From the public pipeline – the Petruševac source. As of 2014, we have moniFor process Total volume of Year water supply purposes water withdrawn tored our water consumption at or logistic & sales centers in system 2014 594,094 103,541 697,635 Osijek and Rijeka, which use water from the public water supply system. They accounted for only 0.16% of the water used 2015 651,950 127,224 779,174 from the public water supply system in 2014 and 0.137% in Total 1,246,044 230,765 1,476,809 2015, so almost all water consumption specified in this section pertains to the central site in Vrbovec. After our water The quantity pertains to the Vrbovec, Osijek and Rijeka sites. consumption decreased in 2014 by 3.6% compared to 2013, At its central site in Vrbovec, PIK uses water withit increased in 2015 as a result of increased production and drawn from surface waters (water from the nearby mini-resconstruction and testing of a wastewater treatment plant. ervoir Bajer) and the public water supply system. The public In 2015, our water consumption increased by 7.6% and dewater supply system partially uses groundwater from its own creased by 1.8% per ton of product compared to 2013. well and surface water (from Sava River) through the main Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Our direct greenhouse gas emissions expressed in tons of 2. E  missions resulting from system leaks: fluorinated greenCDE are emissions from sources owned and controlled by house gases (HFC (R 134 A) or mixtures of substitute rePIK, resulting from fuel combustion (natural gas propane-bufrigerants (R 404 A, R 407 C, R 410 A) tane, extra light heating oil (ELHO) and diesel fuel)) under Direct greenhouse EN3 and leakage of refrigerant from refrigeration equipment. 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) Compared to 2013, our direct greenhouse gas emissions increased by 12% in 2015 (2% per ton of product) as a Natural gas 7,884.87 8,354.46 result of increased production and enlarged logistic capaciELHO 10.79 0.00 ties. Diesel 5,243.24 5,691.53 1. T  he data about emissions resulting from fuel combustion were calculated based on an estimate: Fluorinated greenhouse gases 330.76 348.35 CO2 (combustion emissions) (t) = fuel consumption (m³) x combustion magnitude Propane-butane 5.42 23.96 (TJ/m³) x emission factor (t CO2 /TJ) x oxidation factor Total 13,475.09 14,418.30 t CO2 e = t gas x GWP (100 years). GWP CO2 = 1 Greenhouse gas emissions from refrigeration equipment 2014 2015 Type of equipment Type of gas GWP t/year t CDE t/year t CDE Refrigeration devices in vehicles R404 a 3,700 0.039 144.12 0.043 158.36 (refrigerator trucks) R404 a 3,700 0.048 179.01 0.048 178.97 Stationary refrigeration equipment R407 c 1,600 0.004 6.08 0.001 2.08 (chambers, refrigerators) R134 a 1,300 0.001 1.56 0.001 0.78 R410 a 1,700 0 0.005 8.16 TOTAL 0.092 330.77 0.098 348.35 140 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec These greenhouse gas leaks are a result of malfunctions and The devices in PIK’s refrigerator trucks are maintained and also occurred during the maintenance of refrigeration devicserviced by PIK Vrbovec itself (it holds a license from MENP, es in refrigeration trucks and stationary equipment (chamreg. no.: 1075), while our stationary equipment is serviced by bers, air conditioners), mainly at the Vrbovec site. the authorized servicer “Uslužni obrt pokretni servis FRIGO-ELEKTRO”, as defined by contract. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse gas emissions derive from emissions reThe figures relating to the CO2 air emissions from HEP’s sulting from the generation of electricity used for PIK’s purpower plants resulting from electricity generation were taken poses (annual electricity consumption under EN3) in HEP. from HEP’s 2011 Sustainable Development Report because more recent Reports fail to provide such information: indirect CO2 emissions HEP emitted 1 t of CO2 into the air to generate 1276.08 2014 2015 kWh of electricity. Compared to 2013, our indirect emissions increased by Electricity consumption (kWh) 36,270,179 28,423.03 9.9% in 2015 as a result of increased production and the data have included electricity consumption for our sales centers as of CO2 emissions from electricity production (t) 39,169,508 30,695.08 2014. This means that our indirect emissions increased by 7.7% at the Vrbovec site compared to the preceding reporting period. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity represents greenhouse Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Year (t of CDE / t of product) gas emissions under EN15 and EN16 per ton of product: Direct emissions Indirect emissions Total Our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity decreased by 0.6% in 2015 compared to 2013 as a result of de2014 0.2069 0.4363 0.6432 creased gas and electricity consumption per product unit. 2015 0.2049 0.4361 0.6410 EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Compared to 2013, in 2015 we reduced our greenhouse gas emissions per product unit as a result of decreased energy consumption per product unit. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) All newly purchased devices containing refrigerant are acPIK no longer owns any devices containing more than 3 kg of companied by a statement that the product does not contain ozone-depleting refrigerant, i.e. R22. any ozone-depleting substances (Ozone-Depleting Substances Regulation, Official Gazette 90/14). 141 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Specific standard disclosures EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions The presented values of pollutant air emissions are derived by 11% as a result of reduced gas consumption in the Heating from the Stationary Source Pollutant Air Emission MeasurePlant. ments and Analysis Reports (the Heating Plant at the Vrbovec Air emissions (t) site). Our air emissions from the PIK Vrbovec factory are Year NO2 CO Total measured and analyzed by an organization licensed to record 2014 4.63 0.01 4.64 air emissions by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Our total NO2 emissions decreased in 2015 compared to 2013 2015 6.31 0.01 6.32 EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Annual amounts of wastewater discharge by discharge point The quality of our wastewater is tested at the inspection shafts by a licensed laboratory (Križevci Veterinary Institute) Natural Year KMO 1 KMO 2 Total and wastewater amounts are constantly measured using limrecipient nigraphs. A licensed organization performs monthly readings 2014 310,695 229,137 539,832 and data processing. 2015 262,932 205,803 95,330 564,065 Quality of wastewater discharge Annual average of all analyses in 2014 and up to 31 October 2015 2014 average 2015 average Pollution indicator MDK KMO-1 KMO-2 KMO-1 KMO-2 Temperature (°C) 40 16.94 8.94 15.93 14.25 pH 6.5-9.5 7.48 5.06 7.30 7.91 BOD5 (mg O2 /l) 250 332.00 252.83 199.07 120.58 COD (dichromate) (mg O2 /l) 700 656.17 555.00 491.93 328.75 Settleable substances (mg/l) 20 2.97 2.51 2.15 1.84 Anionic detergent – MBAS (mg/l) 10 1.13 0.74 0.86 0.35 Non-ionic detergent (mg/l) 10 1.13 0.89 1.06 1.09 Non-evaporating lipophilic substances (mg/l) 150 72.18 42.96 51.60 52.42 (total oil and grease) Adsorbent organic halogens (AOX) (mg Cl/l) 0.5 0.19 0.08 0.07 0.04 Total chlorine (mg Cl2 /l) 0.4 0.07 0.05 0.04 0.03 MDK = maximum allowed parameters in wastewater according to the Authorization Our wastewater quality occasionally deviated from the retion using a biological preparation (BIOSOCK) in 2015 – by quired parameters in 2014, mostly due to excessive organ31 October 2015, all pollution parameters were within the reic pollution (COD and BOD), which is why we endeavored to quired limits for discharge into the public sewerage system. clean the pipes of the main collectors of organic contamina142 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Wastewater analyses after 31 October 2015 (after we started to use the WTPs) Inspection & Reduced Reduced WTP measurement shaft MDK WTP entry WTP exit burden burden (%) (KMO) (natural recipient) Temperature (°C) 30 16-19 16-17 16-17 pH 6.5-9.0 7.1 7.7 7.8 COD (dichromate) (mg O2 /l) 125 min 75 % 1,107 69 94 81 BOD5 (mg O2 /l) 25 min 70-90 % 552 18 97 16 Suspended substances (mg/l) 35 min 90 % 208 14 93 16 Settleable substances (mg/l) 0.3 12.00 0.10 99 0.10 Anionic detergent – MBAS (mg/l) 1 2.01 0.25 88 0.26 Non-ionic detergent (mg/l) 1 11.40 0.34 97 0.15 Non-evaporating lipophilic substances (mg/l) 20 240.00 2.40 99 3.60 (total oil and grease) Ammonia (mg/l) 10 9.56 0.25 97 0.25 Adsorbent organic halogens (AOX) (mg Cl/l) 0.1 0.05 0.05 0 0.10 Total chlorine (mg Cl2 /l) 0.4 0.02 0.16 0.09 Total nitrogen (mg/l) 10 min 70-80 % 78.90 7.60 90 5.20 Total phosphorus (mg/l) 2 min 80 % 8.24 7.48 9 7.52 MDK = maximum allowed parameters in wastewater according to the Authorization. Reduction of WTP burden as required by the Authorization The table presenting the analyzed wastewater pollution indiadequately reduce the wastewater burden. As the WTP is still cators after using the WTPs shows that outgoing wastewater being commissioned, phosphorus in wastewater must be reis compliant for all pollution indicators for discharge into a duced to the allowed limits in 2016. natural recipient, except for phosphorus, and that the WTPs Annual amount of discharge and transfer (t) 2015 (t/year) 2015 (t/year) 2014 (t/year) up to 31.10.2015 31.10.-31.12.2015 KMO (prirodni KMO-1 KMO-2 KMO-1 KMO-2 recipijent) BOD5 103.15 57.93 52.34 24.82 1.53 COD (dichromate) 203.87 127.17 129.35 67.66 7.72 Settleable substances 0.92 0.57 0.56 0.38 0.01 Non-evaporating lipophilic substances 22.43 9.84 13.57 10.79 0.34 Adsorbent organic halogens (AOX 0.06 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 Total chlorine 0.023 0.010 0.011 0.005 0.009 Total discharge 330.446 195.550 195.846 103.653 9.617 TOTAL DISCHARGE 525.995 309.116 In 2015, our annual discharge in outgoing wastewater was 2013 – such decrease is a result of commissioning our wastereduced by 41% compared to 2014 and by 10% compared to water treatment plant at PIK’s site in Vrbovec. 143 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Specific standard disclosures EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Like we did in the preceding period to present waste generwood packaging, etc.). We thus reduced the amount of generation, all reusable materials were given or sold to interested ated waste by 75 t in 2015, which is 27% less than in 2013. employees (nonhazardous substance packaging, wood and Total weight of waste by type and source (t) Vrbovec site PC Year Nonhazardous Nonhazardous Total nonhazardous Total waste Hazardous waste Municipial waste waste waste 2014 17.322 1,028.79 420.6 19.87 1,048.66 1,486.582 2015 11.805 1,150.065 442.940 18.652 1,168.717 1,623.462 In 2015, we generated 25% more waste than in 2013. By type rate collection of waste footwear (we collected 500 kg of footof waste: we generated 16% less hazardous waste, separatwear from October to December of 2015) and commissioned 35% more nonhazardous waste at the Vrbovec site and ing of the wastewater treatment plant at the central site in separately collected 104% more nonhazardous waste at our Vrbovec, which resulted in more sludge from physical-chemsales centers, and 5% more municipal waste. The amounts of ical-biological treatment of wastewater compared to 2013 municipal waste for the LSC Osijek and LSC Rijeka are not when sludge only resulted from the physical pretreatment of included in the data because they do not apply to the sites wastewater. concerned. MUNICIPAL WASTE: The amount of municipal waste HAZARDOUS WASTE: The decrease in hazardous increased in 2015 as a result of increased production and waste in 2015 is mainly related to the absence of constructhe amount of waste generated per ton of product decreased tion works (demolition) resulting in construction waste which by 5% compared to 2013. The amounts of municipal waste caused the increase in hazardous waste generation in 2013. have been constantly decreasing since 2013: by 660 kg/ton of NONHAZARDOUS WASTE: The increase in separately product in 2013, 650 kg/ton of product in 2014, and 630 kg/ collected nonhazardous waste in 2015 is a result of increased ton of product in 2015. production and improved waste management quality, sepaTotal weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2012, 2013, EKO FLOR-PLUS d.o.o., E-KOLEKTOR d.o.o., METALPRODUKT d.o.o., CE-ZA-R d.o.o., Trgo Neopasni -sirovina d.o.o., Stražaplastika d.d., Gumiimpex-GRP d.o.o.; AGROPROTEINKA d.d., POS R 1,029.89 1,167.74 komunalni – PLAST d.o.o., PROTING HORVAT d.o.o., KEMIS Termoclean d.o.o., MULL TRANS d.o.o. , otpad DRAVA INTERNATIONAL d.o.o. METIS d.d., D EKO FLOR PLUS d.o.o., E-KOLEKTOR d.o.o., KEMIS Termoclean d.o.o 439.37 443.91 R INA MAZIVA d.o.o., FLORA VTC d.o.o., M SAN EKO d.o.o., KEMOKOP d.o.o.,CE-ZA-R d.o.o. 9.29 7.74 Hazardous waste D KEMOKOP d.o.o.,REMONDIS MEDISON d.o.o., KEMIS-TERMOCLEAN d.o.o. 8.03 4.06 Total 1,486.58 1,623.46 R = recovery methods (recycling, recovery, use as fuel), D = disposal methods (disposal, ground incineration) By disposal method, 72% of waste was recovered in 2015, Animal byproducts are transported from the site by Agroprowhich is 5.2% more than in 2013, mainly as a result of inteinka d.o.o. (Class 1, Class 2 and part of Class 3), which discreased production of sludge resulting from wastewater poses of them at its rendering plant. Class 2 material (bovine treatment, which is recovered at the Energija Gradec biogas digestive tract content) and part of Class 3 material (slaughplant (R waste treatment). terhouse waste) are processed at the Energija Gradec biogas plant. 144 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Animal byproducts (t) Type Treated by 2014 2015 CLASS 1 (production) 1,399 1,483.75 CLASS 1 (grease from Collector A grease trap) 164 194.47 Agroproteinka d.d. Total CLASS 1 1,563 1,678.22 CLASS 3 6,706 7,121.62 CLASS 3 Energija Gradec d.o.o. 5,844 5,227.78 Pork & baby beef mix for hungary 522 422.68 Skins (infant, adolescent and adult bovines) Velemart, Reko, Midako, Derma 268 310.82 Returns (fresh and processes meats) – Class 3 Agroproteinka d.d. 110 41.86 Total CLASS 3 13,450 13,124.76 Total CLASS 2 Energija Gradec d.o.o. 1,602 1,844.78 TOTAL ABP 16,615.60 16,647.76 As of July of 2014, returns (fresh and processed meats) have Collection Point Authorization number HR01-047NP dated 2 been collected at a collection point at the Vrbovec site and December 2014. disposed of at Agroproteinka pursuant to a Conditional ColIn 2015, our production of ABP decreased by 0.05% lection Point Authorization issued by the Veterinary and compared to 2013. The main reason for such decrease is reFood Safety Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture duced production of Class 1 materials and the absence of dated 11 June 2014. After an official audit by the expert comgrease from the grease traps which were discontinued as of mittee conducted on 20 November 2014 and full alignment 25 October 2015. Treatment plant sludge is not classified as with the relevant requirements, PIK was issued its Returns APB and is considered to be waste. Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No sanctions were imposed in 2014 for noncompliance with was provided in 2015 for each of the measures after its time any environmental laws or regulations. As part of a regular limit expired. coordinated audit in 2015, the Water Management InspecAs regards the charges filed at the Misdemeanor Court torate conducted an audit. After the audit, the inspector in Velika Gorica, a hearing was held in September of 2015 immediately initiated two administrative proceedings in and the court was presented with a written defense. The comaccordance with the Waters Act and other secondary legispany was sanctioned for failure to build a wastewater treatlation in the area of water management. Charges were filed ment plant and to reconstruct its sewerage system, as well as against the responsible person in the legal entity for failure for frequent deviations from the limits set for the wastewato perform their duties in the area of water management in ter parameters. The Misdemeanor Court ruled that PIK was accordance with the valid Environmental Permit. Pursuant to to pay a fine of HRK 8000 for violating the Waters Act. Such the Protocol, the water management inspector was to be proreduced fine was imposed because we had started to build vided with a schedule of measures specifying the time limits the wastewater treatment plant in April of 2015 and aligned for rectifying the failures. Such schedule of measures was our wastewater quality parameters with the defined values provided to the Water Management Administration within throughout 2015. eight days as required. Accordingly, a notice of completion 145 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Specific standard disclosures Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Tons of CDE The 8.8% increase in greenhouse gas emissions resulting Purpose 2014 2015 from transport in 2015 compared to 2013 is mostly associated with increased production and the resulting increased Transport of goods needs for transport of goods and intensified logistic operaFor internal purposes 74.13 79.52 tions at the Zvijezda warehouse. Freight vehicles (refrigerator trucks) 4,598.49 5,044.53 Forklift trucks 4.68 23.15 Diesel consumption (m3) 2014 2015 Transport of workforce members Bus transport Company cars 570.62 567.47 Čazmatrans 9.35 9.30 Buses 131.91 142.45 Dubrava bus 40.00 44.00 Total 5,380 5,857 Total 49.35 53.30 Density (diesel) = 0,84 t/m3, lower heating value (diesel) = 0.043TJ/t , Figures received from the carriers Emission factor (diesel) = 74 t CO2 /TJ and emission factor (biodiesel) = 0 t CO2 /TJ. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 1,651,727.58 2,318,694.90 2015 1,642,781.21 16,510,808.72 Total 3,294,508.79 18,829,503.62 In 2015, we spent 778% more on environmental prevention, investments and management than in 2013 as a result of building our treatment plant. 146 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vrbovec Planned activities and primary targets for the 2016/2017 period • Improve the waste management system − Separately collect waste plastic cups; − Reduce municipal waste generation per product unit by 1% compared to 2015; − Procure an enclosure for dangerous chemicals tanks at PC Osijek; − Align municipal waste transport and payment at PC Rijeka according to Article 33 of the Sustainable Waste Management Act; − Implement a plastic bottle cap collection project for a humanitarian campaign. •  educe our water consumption, use of sources and energy in 2016 compared to 2015 (reduction of energy consumption in m³ R or kWh/kg of processed product) − Reduce our consumption of cold and hot water by 1% per product unit compared to 2015; − Purchase and install internal water meters at key consumption points, a mechanical meter (transport, bovine and pig pens); − Build an air compressor station; and − Purchase vehicles for internal transport of containers. • Maintain and improve wastewater quality and reduce the likelihood of wastewater leakage − Revise the Drainage Facility and Wastewater Treatment Plant Operation and Maintenance Plan; − Reconstruct the internal sewerage system and connect our sewerage to the internal rainwater drainage system; − Replace chlorine-containing disinfectants by products containing peracetic acid; − Align the wastewater quality parameters with the Environmental Permit. • Reduce the likelihood of environmental incidents and pollutions and improve our response in case of an emergency − Repair the roof above Chambers 29, 30 and 31; − Obtain consent to the Major Accident Prevention Policy from the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection; and − Obtain an authorization to use ammonia in the refrigeration system for Mechanical Plant 1 from the Ministry of Health. 147 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Specific standard disclosures L edo is the largest domestic producer of industrial ice constant improvement of the established systems, Ledo won cream and frozen food distributor. On the competitive an SRB Index award in the category of responsible environglobal market, Ledo successfully assumed a leading pomental management policies and practices for 2013 at the sition in the Adria Region countries. We constantly and intenFifth National Socially Responsible Business Conference held sively invest in developing new products and present numeron 25 March 2014. ous novelties on the market every year. After being certified, each integrated system is audited The superb quality of our products has been widely recby accredited certifying authorities every year. In 2014, we ognized, as demonstrated by the international awards presentsuccessfully certified IFS and BRC and a regular surveillance ed to Ledo by the International Ice Cream Consortium for five audit of the HACCP system was conducted, as well as surveilconsecutive years – in 2014 Ledo won an award for the most lance audits for ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. In 2015, innovative ice cream in the world (Ice Snack with Cereal) and we successfully certified IFS and BRC, a regular surveillance for the best technical solution – King Prestige. audit of the HACCP system was conducted, as well as surveilLedo’s products are present in almost every household lance and recertification audits according to the requirements and their superb quality and safety are confirmed and inteof ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. grated by a certified integrated management system based on In 2014, our target to reduce our electricity consumpquality, food safety and environmental management princition per ton of product by 3% compared to 2013 was only parples under the international standards ISO 9001, HACCP/Cotially accomplished (41% of the envisaged reduction was acdex Alimentarius, ISO 14001, IFS, BRC and Kosher. complished) as a result of frequent changes to the production Ledo systematically and continuously monitors and imschedule due to bad weather at the peak of the season and proves all environmental protection aspects, as additionally making smaller product batches. Consequently, the reduction confirmed in 2009 when we successfully certified our enviof steam consumption per ton of product by 3% compared to ronmental management system. Our ongoing improvements 2013 was not achieved due to frequent washing of production are confirmed by accomplishing our annual environmental lines and plants and frequent changes to the product range. targets, constant improvements in the technological process, We have the same situation regarding the target to reduce and annual external independent audits of our environmenour water consumption per ton of product by 3% compared tal management system. The environmental aspects and the to the preceding reporting period as a result of bad weather, measures defined to reduce our adverse environmental imfrequent line and plant washing due to more transitions from pacts relate to waste management, wastewater management, one item to another, and shorter production batches. Thanks air emissions management, energy efficiency monitoring, and to our technological discipline and production process optimiall other identified environmental aspects. As part of this syszation, in 2015 we used less energy (water, electricity, steam) tem, we plan and conduct annual external and internal audits per ton of product than in 2014 – 2.03% less water, 9.76% less which helps make overall ongoing improvements to the syselectricity and 4.47% less steam, and also repaired our intertem. Thanks to such high standards, ongoing training and nal sewerage system. 148 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 to the preceding reporting period as a result of increased proRaw materials 22,217,587 21,674,769 duction. In 2015, the amount of process materials used (oil and Materials for packaging purposes 1,028,500 1,294,526 lubricants for the refrigeration system and process line mainAssociated process materials 1,972.30 3,221.30 tenance) increased by 63.33% compared to 2014 as a result of Total 23,248,059.3 22,972,516.3 a complete overhaul of two ammonia compressors. Our use of process materials in this reporting period deWe used a total of 46,220,575.60 kg of raw materials and creased by 22.09% compared to the preceding reporting period, packaging and process materials in the 2014/2015 period which depends on the need to repair or maintain particular macompared to 43,287,725.12 kg in the 2012/2013 period. We chines or compressors (general repairs and servicing should be used 6.78% more material in this reporting period compared performed after every 5000 or 10,000 hours of operation). Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization As regards primary energy sources used for its own convehicles for transporting goods (in excess of 15 t), and on outsumption, Ledo uses natural gas in the production process, sourcing transport services. for heating and for hot water, and diesel and gasoline as enerSupplied by HEP, electricity is used to power machines and gy for transport. the necessary lighting. Year Natural gas (GJ) Year Electricity (GJ) 2014 2,518,485.60 2014 38,603.20 2015 2,430,244.98 2015 42,023.39 Total 4,948,730.58 Total 80,626.59 Our total natural gas consumption in the current reportOur total electricity consumption decreased by 6.15 %. In the ing period was 4,948,730.58 GJ, which is 11.29% less com2014/2015 period, it was 80,626.59 GJ, compared to 85,907.72 pared to the preceding reporting period when it amounted GJ in the preceding reporting period. The reduction in electo 5,578,234.95 GJ. The decreased in the amount of products tricity consumption is a result of production process optimimade at the plant using this energy form resulted in a dezation. crease in total natural gas consumption. Industrial steam, supplied to Ledo from the District Heating Plant, is used to heat water using heat exchangers, Year Diesel fuel (GJ) Gasoline (GJ) for process purposes, and to heat all indoor areas. 2014 60,554.33 267.39 Year Steam (GJ) 2015 59,769.40 136.24 2014 528,316,167.97 Total 120,323.73 403.63 2015 610,692,474.58 During this reporting period, our total fuel consumption was Total 1,139,008,642.55 120,727.36 GJ, which is 6.73% more compared to the preceding reporting period when it amounted to 113,114.72 GJ. This Our steam consumption in this reporting period decreased increase in the consumption of fuel for transport (distriby 1.82% compared to the preceding reporting period. Using bution) of products is associated with the increase in sales technological discipline in production and defining optimal during said period. Variations in the quantities of fuel used heating temperatures help reduce our steam consumption. per ton of (delivered) product depend on the trends in supplyLiquid nitrogen is used in the product process for indiing large stores and central warehouses using large freight rect ice cream freezing. 150 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Year Liquid nitrogen (GJ) significant increase occurred in 2015 due to increased production on the line using liquid nitrogen as refrigerant. 2014 51,395,316.11 Ammonia is used as refrigerant in a closed primary 2015 81,203,431.08 refrigeration system. The system is designed to be operatTotal 132,598,747.19 ed from a central control system (compressor station control board) or manually. The tanks and pipelines within this sysOur total consumption of liquid nitrogen increased by 57.69% tem contain approximately 12 t of ammonia. The system was in this reporting period compared to the preceding reportnot replenished in 2014 or 2015. ing period – from 84,090,232.77 GJ to 132,598,747.19 GJ. This EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity (GJ/t) low are the values of energy intensity for each energy form Year 2014 2015 used in Ledo in relation to a unit of product made or sold on an annual basis. Natural gas 9,595.330 9,540.470 This indicator is new in our sustainability reporting, so Diesel 1.221 1.060 the values specified for 2014 will represent the base value for Gasoline 0.005 0.002 future energy intensity levels. Electricity 2.244 2.025 Compared to 2014, in 2015 we reduced our energy intensity for all energy forms. A significant variation, i.e. reSteam 31,191.930 29,797.460 duction of total energy intensity was recorded for gasoline. Total 40,790.730 39,341.017 It was 0.005 GJ/t in 2014 and 0.002 GJ/t in 2015, which is 82.50% less. This significant decrease is a result of reduced Energy intensity is expressed as energy used per product use of gasoline-powered vehicles, which depends on the unit, where the unit is a ton of product made. Presented beavailability of rentals and replacement vehicles at workshops. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption As of this reporting period, our reporting will include this reFor the purpose of minimizing and controlling our energy quirement and it will be used as the base period to which all consumption, we conduct annual inspections of the transother reporting periods will refer. Reduction in energy conformer station and maintain our consumption of reactive ensumption will be expressed as the amount of energy used per ergy within the required limits (cosΦ = 0.95). In addition, we product unit and will be compared against the preceding year installed an air dryer that extracts moisture from compressed calculated in the same manner. air in pipelines and tanks. Compared to 2014, in 2015 we reduced the consumpWe conduct periodic employee trainings to raise their tion of all energy forms expressed per unit of product made awareness of the importance of saving energy because their or sold on an annual basis. actions may affect the amount of energy used. 151 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Specific standard disclosures Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Process Cooling Sanitary Total Year water water water consumption 2014 61,436 16,836 3,093 84,609 2015 77,980 19,335 2,684 99,999 Total 139,416 36,171 5,777 184,608 Ledo uses water for drinking, as raw material for production, reporting period, which is 3.92% more. The increase in water as process, cooling and sanitary water, and some of the water consumption is a result of increased production – water is evaporates in the evaporation condensers. used in production and for washing process lines and producOur total water consumption in the reporting period tion areas. was 184,608 m3, compared to 177,644 m3 in the preceding EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused In 2014 and 2015 the amount of reused water remained at a and rationalize our water consumption, we plan to increase level of 20,000 m³/year. Some of the water was used for the our reuse of water by installing reverse osmosis. process of cooling the evaporation condensers. To optimize EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse Emissions resulting from transport: 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) For transport purposes, we use passenger vehicles, light Production plants 120.14 115.93 commercial vehicles and heavy freight vehicles. The number of vehicles used in 2014 and 2015 slightly increased (311) Fuel for transport 3,703.77 3,662.71 compared to the preceding reporting period – in 2013 we Total 3,823.91 3,778.64 used 310 vehicles and 391 in 2012. The presented levels of CO2 emissions resulting from transport were estimated. They Emissions from a stationary source: were calculated using the CORINAIR manual (EMEP/EEA The stationary source of air emissions in Ledo is a chimEmission Inventory Guidebook 2009). ney located in the cone product plant. As the heating deOut total emissions during the reporting period were vice is low-power, we are legally required to have these 7366.48 t of CDE, which is 6.71% more compared to the preemissions measured by a licensed laboratory at least once ceding reporting period when they amounted to 6903.39 t of in two years. For the purpose of reporting our air emisCDE. The increase in emissions is a result of increased fuel sions, the amount of CO2 air emissions is calculated every consumption. year on the basis of total gas consumption for that year Our total direct emissions during the reporting periand the emission factor. od increased by 6.04% compared to the preceding reporting During this reporting period, our total emissions period. Emissions from the stationary sources are constantly were 236.07 t of CDE, which is 11.29% less compared to decreasing as a result of decreased gas consumption, while the preceding reporting period when they were 266.10 t of our emissions resulting from transport increased during the CDE. reporting period as a result of increased fuel consumption. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect emissions (t CDE) 2014 2015 Our greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 6.15% during the Electricity 2,517.89 2,740.98 reporting period, from 5,603.33 t of CDE in the 2012/2013 period to 5258.87 t of CDE in the 2014/2015 period. Total 2,517.89 2,740.98 152 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Year Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (t/t of product) Presented below are the total values of GHG emissions inten2014 0.679 sity for all sources of CO2 emissions in Ledo. Before this reporting period, we did not report under this requirement and 2015 0.652 the values presented will be used for comparing future GHG Total 1.331 emissions intensity levels. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions One of the ways to reduce emissions is to optimize producsumption, which includes reduction of air emissions, and this tion. In addition, we conduct periodic employee trainings resulted in reduced consumption of this energy form and reabout the importance of reducing our emissions so that they duced greenhouse gas emissions in 2015 after route optimicould act accordingly. zation and order consolidation. After receiving a subsidy from the Environmental This is the first reporting period in which we report Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, in 2014 we trained our reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and it will be 40 drivers in eco-driving styles and reduction of fuel conused as the base for future comparisons. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Ledo uses refrigerants in its refrigeration equipment. When impacts on the ozone and climate, in 2016 we plan to replace planning and purchasing new air conditioners and refrigeraR-22, which is only present in one refrigeration chamber, by a tion equipment, we ensure that the equipment is loaded with more environmentally acceptable refrigerant. an environmentally acceptable gas. To reduce our adverse EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Air emissions (t) ment (Article 100 of said Regulation). Our emissions are determined by periodic measurements conducted at least once Year CO NO2 in two years (Article 112 of said Regulation). The calculation 2014 0.0220 0.2150 data were obtained using the formula defined by the Environmental Protection Agency. 2015 0.0445 0.0426 Our total emissions during this reporting period were Total 0.0665 0.2576 0.3241 t, which is 3.89% more compared to the preceding reporting period, when they amounted to 0.312 t. The data According to the Regulation on the Limits of Pollutant about emissions were obtained using the formulas defined by Emissions from Stationary Sources (Official Gazette 117/12, the Environmental Protection Agency by calculating the to90/14), we conduct measurements of our NOx and CO emistal amount of natural gas used, the measured values and the sions (and assign fume numbers) resulting from natural gas waste gas emission factor. Differences in these values arise combustion in the ice cream cone furnace and compare such from different emission calculation methods in years when values against the required limits for small heating equipwe do or do not measure them. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Year Effluents (m3) Wastewater is discharged from the Ledo site via two connections to the public sewerage system of the City of Zagreb as 2014 41,149 mixed (Inspection & Measurement Shaft 1) and sanitary (re2015 90,400 frigeration equipment maintenance) wastewater. Wastewater Total 131,549 is channeled from the public system into the city treatment plant before being discharged into the recipient (a natural watercourse). 153 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Specific standard disclosures Our total wastewater discharge in the reporting period was water was determined using a limnigraph, while in 2015 we 131,549 m3, which is 11.51% less than recorded in the prewere unable to make accurate measurements of wastewater ceding reporting period when it amounted to 148,655 m3. amounts using a limnigraph, so we calculated them on the Total wastewater quantity varies from year to year dependbasis of the amount of water supplied less the fixed process ing on the technology used at the site for each process and loss. the amount of precipitation. In 2014, the amount of wasteEN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste 2014 2015 by 35.93%, as a result of changing the hazardous waste status to the nonhazardous waste status for a particular type of Nonhazardous waste (t) 379.48 334.81 waste generated in large amounts (mixture of grease and oil Hazardous waste (t) 30.69 22.01 from the separator). The amount of nonhazardous waste generated during Total 410.17 356.82 this reporting period decreased by 0.42% compared to the Waste is sorted at its source and temporarily stored in a desigpreceding reporting period. Amounts of nonhazardous waste nated area pending the arrival of a licensed disposing organivary during a year, so this 0.42% figure is also considered to zation. be a standard variation. Significant reductions were recorded In this reporting period, the total amount of all types in this reporting period compared to the preceding reporting of waste decreased by 4.07% compared to the preceding reperiod with respect to nonhazardous waste, namely paper and porting period, from 799.55 t to 766.99 t. We recorded a sigcardboard packaging (8.95 %) and materials unsuitable for nificant decrease in the amount of hazardous waste in this consumption or processing (12.91 %). reporting period compared to the preceding reporting period, Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed in 2014 or 2015. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport Total CO2 emissions our adverse environmental impacts resulting from driving. Year (GJ) (t CDE) In this reporting period, there was no need for any major replacements in or additions to our fleet, expect for one vehicle 2014 60,821.72 3,703.17 approved to be ordered and received at the company, which 2015 59,905.64 3,662.71 complies with the EURO V standard and uses a start-stop sysTotal 120,727.36 7,365.88 tem. Our vehicles are powered by sulfur-free fuel compliant with DIN EN 590. The reduction in fuel consumption resulted in reduced total Our vehicles are serviced in such time and mileCO2 emissions. age-based intervals as defined by the manufacturer (someAs we did in earlier years, when ordering new vehitimes even more frequently than required). We also regularly cles we ensured that each vehicle complies with the relevant conduct eco-tests and constantly optimize and improve our European standards for the purpose of constantly reducing routes using an optimization IT system. 154 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Our total environmental protection expenditures and inreporting period when our overall expenditures were HRK vestments including the costs of waste disposal, emission 3,680,371.28. This increase is mainly a result of our investtreatment, remediation and environmental prevention and ments in sewerage system reconstruction and steam pipeline management amounted to HRK 4,804,055.02 in this reportinsulation. ing period, which is 30.53% more compared to the preceding Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 2,028,242.43 117,789.00 2015 2,198,534.54 459,489.05 Total 4,226,776.97 577,278.05 Planned activities and primary targets for the 2016/2017 period In addition to enhanced waste sorting control and training, our primary target for the next period is to improve our waste management system. Considering that we have achieved remarkable results and savings in the area of energy management, the targets are intended to maintain our energy consumption rates per product unit on the level recorded in the preceding reporting period. As we chose to constantly upgrade our environmental management system, the environmental management system will be transitioned to a new revision of ISO 14001. Our integrated management system, including the EMS, will be upgraded according to the requirements of ISO 50001 which will help us manage our energy efficiency more effectively and systematically. Ledo was selected by the Hrvoje Požar Energy Institute (EIHP) to participate in the implementation of a LIFE Clim'Foot project titled “Climate governance: Implementing public policies to calculate and reduce organizations carbon footprint” which is to be launched in late 2016 and aims to develop national policies and appropriate tools to allow calculation and reduction of carbon footprint. This project will be an integral part of our EMS and one of the elements to be used to improve system monitoring. We defined a schedule of internal trainings including all segments associated with significant environmental aspects, from waste management to emergency action plans. As regards room for improvements, we identified the possibility of enlarging our internal auditor team for ISO 14001 and thus ensure systematic management of nonconformities and significant environmental aspects. By exercising socially responsible business, we will focus on efficient resource management by conducting systematic trainings for all our employees and by encouraging them to take part in different campaigns that will result in reduced adverse environmental impacts and resource use. 155 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Frikom Specific standard disclosures F rikom developed from an experimental frozen food plant 2015; certificate number: CZE-140041; certificate expiraand frozen dough and ice cream plant in 1976. As of 2003, tion date: 3 July 2017; and Frikom has operated as part of Agrokor Group and in 2013 • an IFS Food V6 certificate for food product quality control became a limited liability company owned by Ledo d.d. and safety issued by SGS; certification date: 7-10 April 2015; The company has its production plants at Zrenjaninski certificate number: DE 14/818842444; certificate expiration put b.b., Belgrade, including an ice cream production plant, a date: 10 July 2016. frozen vegetable processing and packing plant and a frozen As part of our environmental management system, we dough product plant. Frikom operates a widespread distriburegularly monitor and measure our energy and water contion network comprising four distribution centers, 140 delivsumption, wastewater and air quality, and manage our waste ery vehicles and over 52,000 refrigeration devices. in a systematic and planned manner with a special emphasis The company has its production plants at Zrenjaninski on the hazardous waste stream and special waste stream. We put b.b., Belgrade, including an ice cream production plant, a continuously monitor all applicable regulations and align our frozen vegetable processing and packing plant and a frozen business with their requirements. dough product plant. Frikom operates a widespread distribuWe constantly monitor the applicable legislation and tion network comprising four distribution centers, 140 delivalign our business with its requirements. For that purpose, we ery vehicles and over 52,000 refrigeration devices. undertook numerous measures to minimize our losses and imIn 2014, we replaced the certifying organization that prove our monitoring of natural resource use and thus providhad certified our existing ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 ed for better control of all processes within the factory. and HACCP standards, so the surveillance audit was conductWe accomplished the following targets set for this reed by Bureau Veritas. We also decided to implement and certiporting period: fy IFS Food V6 – an international food product quality control • In 2014, our entire plant waste was collected by a single orand safety standard, which will be certified by SGS. ganization, which used it for its biological waste treatment operations. In addition, in 2015 our entire plant waste was Frikom holds: collected by organizations with which Frikom has contracts • a quality management system certificate according to the in place, so no plant waste was landfilled. requirements of ISO 9001:2008; certification body: Bureau • In 2015, we cleaned our wastewater separators in the atVeritas; first certification date: 16 December 2008; surveilmospheric sewerage system and cleaned the grease and oil lance audit date: 28 April 2015; certificate number: GR14, traps at Frikom and at the Distribution Refrigeration Plant 1595Q; certificate expiration date: 3 July 2017; at Autoput br. 11. • a HACCP certificate; certification body: Bureau Veritas; first • In 2015 we also reduced total ammonia used to replenish certification date: 12 June 2007; surveillance audit date: 28 the pipelines and refrigeration system due to losses recordApril 2015; certificate number: 2014BEO010; certificate exed within the system. piration date: 3 July 2017; • We repaired the heating line in a part of the factory and • a Global GAP (global partnership for safe and sustainable thus reduced our heat and water losses. agriculture) certificate; certification body: ISACert; first The targets relating to the reconstruction of the wastecertification date: 12-13 October 2010; last certification water system, automation of the public water withdrawal stadate: 6-7 October 2015; certificate expiration date: 7 Novemtion and replacement of the old hydrochloric acid tank were not ber 2016; certificate number: 168381; accomplished because the wastewater parameters were found • an environmental management system certificate accordnot to deviate in the total amount after discharging collective ing to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004; certification water from the PKB collector. We did, however, partially repair body: Bureau Veritas; first certification date: 6-7 June 2011; the hydrochloric acid tank and thus improved its safety. surveillance audit date: 28 April 2015; certificate number: Although the automation of the public water withdrawGR14.1595E; certificate expiration date: 3 July 2017; al station would save us substantial amounts of electricity and • an occupational health and safety management system reduce our pump maintenance costs, we monitored the relevant certificate according to the requirements of BS OHSAS trends in this reporting period. After we found the costs did not 18001:2007; certification body: Bureau Veritas; first certifisignificantly increase compared to the preceding reporting pecation date: 6-7 June 2011; surveillance audit date: 28 April riod, the investment was postponed for the next period. 156 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Frikom Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume The materials we use in the production process include raw due to increased production. We also recorded a noticeable materials, packaging, natural gas used to produce heat for reduction in the amount of associated process materials used production processes, oil and lubricants, spare parts and fuel compared to 2013, by 30.66%, due to the fact that we need used for primary production purposes. As a result of divestless spare parts to repair our production lines and equipment. ing our farmland, we no longer use mineral fertilizer or plant protection agents. Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 Raw materials 23,047,696 28,301,968 Type of material used (m3) 2014 2015 Associated process materials 366,717 310,330 Foil 1,487,826 1,076,107 Materials for packaging purposes 3,153,883 3,448,057 Paper 186 157 Total 26,568,296 32,060,355 Total 1,488,012 1,076,264 In 2015 our natural gas consumption decreased by 40% comThe amount of materials used in 2015 increased by 20.3% pared to 2013 as a result of reduced losses after we replaced compared to 2013 as a result of an increase in our use of the condensate separator during an overhaul. packaging by 22.6% and in our use of raw materials by 30.5% Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization The nonrenewable energy sources used by Frikom are natuCompared to 2013, our total direct energy consumption inral gas used to generate steam in our internal heating plant creased by 1% in 2015. (for our production processes and to heat the factory in winOur fuel consumption in 2015 increased by 9.8% as ter months) and fuel – ED, BMB and LPG used to transport a result of an increased scope of production and intensified products and, to a minor extent, to transport our workforce product transport and distribution activities, and our natural members. gas consumption in 2015 decreased by 2.47%. Indirect energy consumption is the amount of purDirect energy consumption by primary source chased and used electricity obtained from nonrenewable (nonrenewable energy sources) sources, which is used for all production and secondary processes in the factory. Year Fuel (l) Natural gas (m3) LPG (l) 2014 1,336,552 2,286,738 435,858 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (indirect energy obtained and used from nonrenewable energy sources) 2015 1,351,721 2,337,547 453,268 Total 2,688,273 4,623,685 889,126 Year Electricity (kWh) Electricity (GJ) 2014 20,630,365 74,269 2015 22,257,445 80,126 Direct energy consumption by primary source (nonrenewable energy sources) Total 42,887,810 148,823 Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 Our electricity consumption in 2015 increased by 6% compared to 2013. The increase is a result of an increased scope Fuel 40,403.62 40,841.57 of production in 2015. Natural gas 89,206.00 91,187.00 LPG 17.00 17.00 Total 129,62.62 132,045.57 158 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Frikom EN5: Energy intensity Energy consumption per product unit 2014 2015 tors). Our fuel consumption per product unit decreased by 12.36% in 2015 compared to 2013, which is closely related to Natural gas (m3/t) 49.74 44.07 the increased scope of product sales and distribution in 2015 compared to 2013 (our performance under the product sales Fuel (l/t) 38.56 34.03 and distribution plan in April, May, July and August of 2015 Electricity (kWh/t) 448.78 419.64 exceeded the sales performance recorded in 2013). Our electricity consumption per product unit decreased Our natural gas consumption per product unit decreased by 12.8% in 2015 compared to our electricity consumption by 20.9% in 2015 compared to 2013. In 2015, our producper product unit recorded in 2013. This reduction in electriction scope increased by 23.3% compared to 2013. We saved ity consumption per product unit was achieved by constant natural gas by reducing our losses as a result of replacing efforts and production of larger batches, i.e. by minimizing and repairing equipment components (condensate separainterruptions and increasing efficiency. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Our energy consumption in 2015 decreased compared to the processes, as demonstrated by higher productivity levels, figures recorded in 2013. execution of the production plan (larger batches) and less inIn 2015, our natural gas consumption per product unit terruptions. These savings are also a result of more employee was 44.74 m3/t, which is 20.9% less compared to 2013 and trainings, as demonstrated by fewer wasted working hours or 11.4% less compared to 2014. The savings were achieved by work interruptions due to workplace injuries. regularly repairing and replacing equipment components. Our fuel consumption per product unit was 34.03 L/t, In 2015, our electricity consumption was 419.64 kWh/t, which is 12.36% less compared to 2013 and 11.7% less comwhich is 12.8% less compared to 2013 and 6.5% less compared to 2014 as a direct result of enhanced sales and distripared to 2014. Our electricity consumption per ton of product bution performance and primary transport reorganization. was reduced as a result of improvements in our production EN8: Total water withdrawal by source All water used for factory purposes is obtained from our own The quantities of raw water withdrawn and the quantities of source, by withdrawing groundwater using six wells within water used and discharged are constantly monitored using the factory area. flow meters. Infrastructure and equipment are constantly and regularly maintained and repaired to minimize the likeTotal water withdrawal from Water consumption Year Frikom’s sources (m3) per unit produced lihood of any disaster, leakage or losses of water during its transport. 2014 700,450 15.24 Our total water consumption in 2015 was 26% higher 2015 747,618 14.09 than our total water consumption in 2013 as a result of an inTotal 1,448,068 creased scope of production. EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water is recycled within the respective production lines and means that only rough impurities are removed and the share equipment as part of technological processing. Process waof organic burden in wastewater is reduced, and such water is ter generated in the factory is treated mechanically, which then discharged into the PKB collector. 159 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Frikom Specific standard disclosures Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse Our direct greenhouse gas emissions result from the com2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) bustion of natural gas used in the heating plant (steam plant) Natural gas 1,555 1,589 as fuel for producing steam and combustion of fuel used for transport. Fuel for transport 987 1,006 Our direct greenhouse gas emissions resulting from LPG 174 181 our consumption of natural gas and fuel used for transport Total 2,716 2,776 decreased by 13.4% in 2015 compared to 2013. This decrease in emissions is a result of reduced energy consumption compared to 2013. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from elecIn this reporting period, our energy indirect greenhouse gas tricity consumption. emissions increased by 7% compared to 2013. This increase in indirect greenhouse gas emissions is a direct result of inIndirect greenhouse 2014 2015 creased electricity consumption in 2015 compared to 2013 gas emissions (t CO2) and an increased scope of production (our scope of production Electricity 4,456 4,807 increased by 23.3% in 2015). Total 4,456 4,807 EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 (t CDE / t of product) In 2015, our total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emisNatural gas 0.0338 0.0299 sions intensity decreased by 18.4% compared to 2013 as a reFuel for transport 0.0215 0.0190 sult of decreased direct greenhouse gas emissions resulting from natural gas consumption. LPG 0.0038 0.0034 Electricity 0.0969 0.0906 Total 0.1560 0.1429 EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is closely related to increase in indirect greenhouse gas emissions is correlated energy consumption. By reducing our natural gas consumpto the increased scope of production and electricity consumption due to equipment replacement and modification during a tion as required by our equipment and processes. In 2015, our general repair, we reduced our direct greenhouse gas emisdirect greenhouse gas emissions increased by 7% compared sions (the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from natuto 2013 as a result of an increase in the scope of production ral gas decreased by 19.54% in 2015 compared to 2013). The by 23.3%. 160 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Frikom EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Our refrigeration equipment (cold display cases, refrigerator equipment, refrigerator trucks, chambers and climatic chamtrucks, chambers, air conditioners) uses refrigerant. In 2015 bers increased as a result of the fact that a certain number we used a total of 1.9 t of refrigerant for replenishing our reof new devices supplied were not loaded with refrigerant. frigeration equipment, of which 0.0205 t were R-12 and R-22. Our use of R-11, R-12 and R-22 was reduced due to the fact In 2013, we used a total of 1.61 t of refrigerant, 0.035 t of that the losses on valves occurring in 2013 were eliminatwhich were R-11, R-12 and R-22. ed during a regular inspection and replenishment of chamThe amount of R-11, R-12 and R-22 used in 2015 debers by Frikom’s contractor. In addition, no R-11 was used for creased by 41.4% compared to the amount used in 2013. Our chamber replenishment in 2015. total use of refrigerants for replenishment of refrigeration EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Frikom’s greenhouse gas emissions are NOx and CO emisNo measuring or controlling equipment was replaced during sions resulting from the combustion of natural gas used in the reporting period. It is regularly tested and checked, the heating plant. The quality of these gases is determined which leads to the conclusion that the deviation may have by regular measurements of air emissions conducted by a been a result of differences in the quality of natural gas and licensed organization in accordance with the applicable regfuel combustion efficiency. Emissions are measured by an ulations. These measurements are conducted once a year, accredited institution in accordance with the Air Protection which is consistent with the sizes and capacities of our boilAct, Official Journal of the Republic of Serbia no. 36/09. ers. The measurements of air emissions include concentraIn 2015 our NOx emissions remained at the same level tions of CO, NOx and SO2 and O2 and CO2 percentages. as in 2013. Our CO emissions decreased by 24.5% in 2015 comTotal greenhouse gas emissions (t) pared to 2013 and our CO emissions in 2014 decreased by Year NOx CO CO2 SO2 42.35% compared to 2013. In 2015, our CO emissions increased by 31.02% compared to our emissions in 2014, obvi2014 7.27 0.490 0 0 ously due to differences in the quality of natural gas sup2015 5.60 0.642 0 0 plied. Total 12.87 1.132 0 0 EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Total water discharge (m3) the collection shaft using a bypass during the vegetable proYear cessing campaign. Collection shaft Lisičji jarak Total effluents The total amount of wastewater generated and discharged in 2015 was 756,283 m3. 720,837 m3 was discharged into the 2014 738,534 18,964 757,498 PKB collector and 35.446 m3 into Lisičji jarak. 2015 720,837 35,446 756,283 The total amount of water generated and discharged in Total 1,459,371 54,410 1,513,781 2015 decreased by 35% compared to the total amount of water generated and discharged in 2013. The increase is a result Wastewater generated at the factory includes process, saniof an increased scope of production and weather conditions. tary and atmospheric wastewater. We use two wastewater disIn 2015, the amount of wastewater discharged into the charge points – the collection shaft where treated process and PKB collector increased by 32.4% compared to 2013 and by sanitary water is discharged into the PKB collector and fur2.3% compared to 2014. ther into the Danube and the atmospheric sewerage discharge The amount of wastewater discharged into Lisičiji point where atmospheric wastewater is discharged into Lisičji jarak increased in 2015 by 86.9% compared to 2014 and sigjarak. The quality of wastewater at the exit from the biodisc nificantly compared to 2013 as a result of more precipitation is consistent with the maximum allowed values for Class 2 and the weather conditions during the reporting period and water. Because of the possibility of deviation in atmosphera one-time equipment malfunction within the atmospheric ic wastewater parameters due to impurities entering such wastewater system in 2015. wastewater as a result of rinsing handling areas outside the The amount of wastewater discharge per product unit production plants, atmospheric wastewater is transferred to in 2015 was 14.24 m3/t, which is 13.59% less than in 2014. 161 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Frikom Specific standard disclosures EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Papir servis FHB, IvLajn, Beotok, Maks Treatment for recycling, Nonhazardous waste union metali, JKP Gradska čistoća, 7,918.77 7,437.36 disposal Perihard inženjering.. Treatment, temporary Kemis, BiS Reciklažni centar. Jugo-Impex, Hazardous waste 148.18 260.36 storage pending treatment Farmakom MB, Beotok.. Total 8,066.95 7,697.72 The total amount of waste generated in 2015 decreased by collected by two companies with which Frikom has contracts 5.4% compared to 2013. in place and which used it for their production purposes. The The amount of nonhazardous waste generated and disamount of hazardous waste disposed of in 2015 increased by posed of in 2015 decreased by 8% compared to 2013. During 75.7% compared to 2014 and significantly compared to 2013. this reporting period (2014/2015), we reduced the amount In 2015, we retired and disposed of a large amount of old and of landfilled plant waste compared to 2013. This waste was damaged refrigeration devices (refrigerators). Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations In 2015 and throughout the reporting period, Frikom did not with any environmental laws or regulations and received no pay any court fines or any other fines for failure to comply other non-monetary sanctions. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport Total CO2 emissions Our environmental impact of transporting goods, maYear terials and members of the workforce also depends on the GJ Tons of CDE for fuel scope of production, sales and distribution of products according to customer demands for supply and on the needs of 2014 55,691 5.7 our production processes in the context of hiring seasonal 2015 59,511 6.5 workers. The greatest environmental impact is generated by CO2 Total 115,202 12.2 emissions resulting from transporting goods, emissions from cars owned by our employees, and emissions from our compaIn 2015, our total environmental impact of transporting ny cars. The 8.5% increase is a result of hiring more seasonal goods, materials and members of the workforce expressed as workers and increased product sales/distribution. the total amount of such CDE emissions increased by 8.5% compared to 2013. 162 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Frikom EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (EUR) management costs (EUR) 2014 634,521 53,599 2015 609,108 65,429 Total 1,243,629 119,028 The following activities are planned for the next reporting period: • Remove the asbestos sheets from workshop roofs; • Develop an action plan to attain the wastewater emissions limits; • Implement and align with the changes to ISO 14001:2015 including reduction of documentation and risk and opportunity analysis; • Maintain and improve our waste management system by constantly training our employees and spreading corporate knowledge; • Install energy-efficient lighting in the handling hallways to save energy; • Repair the worn out and purchase new waste sorting containers; • Enforce the accepted accident prevention policy and constantly update it according to the applicable legislation and changes in the system, as well as conduct regular trainings and drills for the purpose of simulating accidents and appropriate responses thereto. 163 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Irida Specific standard disclosures I rida d.o.o. began to operate in 1978 as a freshwater fish proitas staff and a surveillance audit for HACCP conducted by cessing factory. SGS staff; Irida’s business is presently based on processing fish• In 2014, our new FSSC 22000 system was successfully cerery products, meat processing, and repacking and storage of tified by SGS staff and the first surveillance audit was confrozen animal-origin food. ducted in 2015; In 2015, the saltwater fish and mollusk processing ac• Sorting waste by type and source and its disposal using litivities completely eliminated freshwater fish from produccensed collecting organization. Pursuant to the new legistion. Irida’s daily target is to raise awareness and indicate the lation, we began to use new documentation for all types of important role of optimizing the use of natural and production waste (registries and data sheets); and resources and to ensure environmental conservation. In mid• In 2014, we developed our Protection and Rescue Operating 2015, Ledo’s fish packing plant in Dugopolje closed and their Plan and Assessment of Endangerment of the Population, production was transferred to Irida. The increase in producTangible and Cultural Goods, and the Environment by Dition resulted in a significant increase in the amounts of parsasters and Major Accidents. ticular types of waste (waste paper and film). No significant environmental protection investments During the 2014/2015 reporting period, we implementwere made during this reporting period, however, our employed the following environmental management programs: ees’ awareness of the need to optimize our use of natural re• Employee training programs – internal training (all permasources, make constant improvements and prevent and mininent and new employees – evacuation drill, rational use of mize all adverse impacts on the environment, water, air and resources, waste management) and external training (trainsoil on both the local and global levels remains on a high level. ing employees for handling dangerous chemicals); According to the cleaner production methodology, we under• Ordinary measures – gauging of safety valves and pressure take measures to reduce our use of water and our emissions of meters on compressors, preventive maintenance of our repollutants in wastewater. frigeration system (ammonia replenishment), monitoring of Irida d.o.o. complies with and implements the provithe quality of our wastewater and sludge, and measurement sions of all laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia and of our exhaust fume emissions from the heating plant; the EU regulating environmental issues and endeavors to im• Internal and external audits of our integrated process manprove its treatment of the environment to the extent possible. agement system (recertification audits and a surveillance Environmental management includes proper waste sorting by audit for ISO 9001 and ISO 14001) conducted by Bureau Vertype and source, ongoing monitoring of energy consumption, and ongoing employee training on rational use. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume The raw materials processed (cleaning, freezing, confectionsult of reduced demand, i.e. customers tend not to choose this ing, breading, packing) in Irida are classified as: product. • saltwater fish (white and oily), • other marine organisms (mollusks, crustaceans, crabs and Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 octopuses); and Raw materials 3,202,457 3,692,099 • meat (chicken, pork and baby beef). Associated process materials 0,315 0,306 Saltwater fish, other marine organisms and meat are delivered to Irida at a temperature of no more than -18 °C. Materials for packaging purposes 215,311 261,273 Freshwater fish is delivered as fresh raw material and is froTotal 3,418,083 3,953,678 zen to -18 °C after undergoing the cleaning process in Irida. Unlike the preceding reporting period, we did not process The total amount of raw materials used increased by 14% any freshwater fish during this period. This is mainly due to compared to the preceding reporting period, which is cona decrease in the production of freshwater products as a resistent with the increase in total finished product produc164 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Irida tion. During the 2014/2015 reporting period, Irida d.o.o. total finished product production. We also continued to use used lubricants for its refrigeration system and vacuuming cardboard and polymeric packaging materials. Compared machines as associated process materials. They are non-chloto the preceding reporting period, the amount of packaging rinated lubricants for engines and gears based on mineral oil. used decreased by 30%. This is mainly due to the fact that we We also used them in the earlier years. Their use increased use thermo-film, which is lighter than cardboard boxes we by 1% compared to the preceding reporting period. This is a previously used for that purpose. result of increased use of associated process materials and Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Direct energy consumption represents total energy consumpOur electricity consumption has been under 24/7 surveiltion from primary sources (fuel, natural gas and liquefied lance since 2012. In this reporting period, out electricity conpetroleum gas LPG). sumption increased by 7% compared to the preceding reportIrida only uses natural gas. Natural gas is used for ing period as a result of increased production. heating sanitary water and all indoor areas and is supplied by Our electricity consumption is consistent with the proDarkom d.o.o. duction of cleaning products because this process uses electricity to power the freezing tunnels (temperatures between Direct energy consumption by primary source -26 °C and -35 °C). Depending on the quantity of products, the (nonrenewable energy sources) tunnel is able to operate up to 15-20 hours a day. Fuel Natural gas LPG Ammonia is used as refrigerant in the primary reYear (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) frigeration system. Our refrigeration system is closed. The 2014 0 3,502 0 tanks and pipelines of the closed refrigeration system contain around 300 kg of ammonia. The system is replenished 2015 0 4,044 0 with new quantities of ammnia every year because ammonia Total 0 7,546 0 is lost when oil is discharged from the compressor. In 2015, Irida’s Maintenance Department found it unnecessary to reThe total consumption and price of gas include all gas meplenish the system. This is why our consumption of ammoters at the site (large, small (kitchen) and the gas meter in nia decreased by 31% compared to the preceding reporting the drying kiln)). The highest levels of gas consumption are period. recorded in the winter period (October-March) because gas is needed to heat our indoor areas. Compared to the precedIndirect energy consumption by primary source (indirect energy obtained ing reporting period, our natural gas consumption decreased and used from nonrenewable energy sources) by 11%. This is a result of more rational consumption and of Year Ammonia (kg) Liquid nitrogen (t) dividing a single gas network into two, which allowed us to heat our production plant irrespective of heating in the ad2014 1,700 200,170 ministration building. 2015 0 246,760 Indirect energy is energy produced outside Irida. In Total 1,700 446,930 Irida, such energy includes electricity, ammonia, refrigerant and liquid nitrogen. Refrigerant is used as working fluid in the primary refrigerElectricity is used to power equipment, lighting and ation system. Our refrigeration system is closed. The tanks machines. HEP Elektra Križ and HEP Opskrba continue to be and pipelines of the closed refrigeration system contain our suppliers of electricity and we monitor our consumption 134.5 kg of the legally permitted substance R404A. by using the invoices issued to us. Liquid nitrogen is used for direct freezing of breaded products in the process of making breaded products and our Indirect energy consumption by primary source (indirect energy obtained consumption thereof decreased by 10% compared to the preand used from nonrenewable energy sources) ceding reporting period. Year Electricity (GJ) This reduced consumption of nitrogen is a result of more rational use after we installed a new breading line (in 2014 6,886 mid-2013) and improved our production planning (multiday 2015 7,082 breading). The total amount of breaded products made inTotal 13,968 creased by 3% compared to the preceding reporting period. 165 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Irida Specific standard disclosures EN5: Energy intensity Year Natural gas Electricity Anergy Anergy Consumption (GI) Consumption (GI) intensity (GJ/t) intensity (GJ/t) 2014 3,502 1.29 6,886 2.54 2015 4,044 1.24 7,082 2.17 Total 7,546 2.53 13,968 4.71 Energy intensity is expressed as energy used per product it in 2014 and that year will be used as the initial year based unit, such product unit being one ton. This item is new in on which we will make comparisons with our future calculaour 2014/2015 sustainability reporting. We first calculated tions of energy intensity (EI). EN6: Reduction of energy consumption The 2014/2015 period is the reference period for this indica• Operational changes (large batches, continuous processes), tor. Reduction of reporting period consumption is expressed and as an estimate indicating energy consumption per product • Changes in employee behavior (awareness, responsibility, unit and is compared to the preceding year in which it was training). calculated in the same manner. A comparison between 2014 To constantly raise awareness of the importance of saving and 2015 shows that our energy consumption per product energy, we conduct periodic trainings for our employees and unit decreased by 4% for natural gas and by 15% for electricithus remind them of the responsibility for and importance of ty compared to 2014. actions of each individual. The initiatives that helped reduce our energy use and increase our energy efficiency were as follows: Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source Total water withdrawal by source (m3) For process From the public water Total volume of Year From wells purposes supply system water withdrawn 2014 0 0 21,495 21,495 2015 0 0 20,650 20,650 Total 0 0 42,145 42,145 Irida uses water for drinking, as input for production purposthe plant is not in use (on weekends or holidays) to check the es, as process and cooling water, for sanitary purposes, and waterproofness of our internal water supply system. for washing plants and facilities. We use water from the pubOur water consumption for production purposes relic water supply system supplied by Darkom d.o.o. of Daruvar mained mostly on the same level. In this reporting period, for all purposes. Our water consumption is monitored on the our water consumption increased by 7% compared to the basis of the invoices received and also on monthly water mepreceding reporting period. This increase in water consumpter readings for the purpose of rationalizing our water contion is a result of an increase in the total amount of cleaning sumption, and we train our employees in rational use of waproducts (by 11%) we use, which means that our water conter. We measure our water consumption internally even when sumption per product unit was reduced. EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Irida does not reuse water and uses no recycled water. We the cooling process, so it needed to be re-cooled before reusused our best efforts to recirculate water in product, which is ing it. As the costs of cooling and water were almost equal, used for cooling two packing lines. Water was heated during we discontinued further recirculation. 166 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Irida Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions in Irida our CO2 emissions decreased by 12% as a result of reduced include emissions from stationary sources. gas consumption. CO2 emissions result from the natural gas combusDirect greenhouse tion process (outlet – heating plant smoke exhaust) for the 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) purpose of obtaining heat to heat sanitary water and to heat all indoor areas. CO2 emissions are calculated on the basis of Production plants 167.04 192.9 total gas consumption. In 2015, our natural gas consumption Fuel for transport 0 0 increased by 15% which resulted in an increase in CO2 emisLPG 0 0 sions by 15%. Compared to the preceding reporting period, Total 167.04 192.9 EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse 2014 2015 Our greenhouse gas emissions recorded in this reporting gas emissions (t CDE) period increased by 7% compared to the preceding reporting Electricity 449.16 461.95 period (911.11 t CDE) as a result of increased electricity conTotal 449.16 461.95 sumption (increased production). EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity is presented as the Stationary source – plant chimney amount of emissions of CO2 or its equivalent (for fuel) in relation to the amount of products produced in 2014 and 2015. Year CO2 (t) GHG emissions intensity (t/t) The GHG emissions intensity levels are presented for each source of CO2 air emissions from Irida. Up to this reporting 2014 0,167 0.06 x 10 -3 period, we did not report for this requirement, which is why 2015 0.193 0.06 x 10 -3 the year 2014 was set as the reference year to be used for comparisons with future GHG emissions intensity levels. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Irida is mostly focused on reducing its greenhouse gas emis• Training for all employees (awareness, responsibility); and sions in the winter period when our natural gas consumption • Collective annual leave (23 December – 7 January). and CO2 emissions are on the highest levels (heating indoor We did not prepare this indicator in the preceding reareas). porting period. If we compare the amounts of CO 2 and prodSaving methods: ucts made in this and the preceding reporting periods, it is • Optimal gas consumption; clear that our emissions decreased by 20%. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Refrigerant is used as working fluid in the primary refrigeration system. All tanks and pipelines of the closed refrigeration system contain 134.5 kg of the legally permitted R404A. 167 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Irida Specific standard disclosures EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions According to Article 112 of the Emission Limits Regulations emission limits. Our NO2 and CO emissions decreased com(Official Gazette 117/12, 90/14), we determine the amounts of pared to the preceding reporting period as a result of depollutants in our waste fumes from small heating equipment creased natural gas consumption. by periodic measurements conducted at least once in two Air emissions (t) years. Our NO2 and CO emissions are a result of natural gas combustion (for heating water and premises). IRI SISAK d.o.o. Year SO2 NO2 CO za istraživanje, razvoj i ispitivanje conducts measurements 2014 0 0.09 0 of pollutant emissions from stationary sources at Irida’s site 2015 0 0.17 0.03 once in two years. The most recent measurement was conducted on 30 October 2014. The concentrations of NO2 and Total 0 0.26 0.03 CO emissions and the fume code were within the required EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Total wastewater discharge is determined using flow meters. All treated water was discharged into the city collector Process wastewater is treated onsite at the wastewater treatthrough the inspection shaft. ment plant (mechanical and physical-chemical procedures) According to its valid water management license, Irida and in the deposit tank facility (mechanical procedure). d.o.o. is allowed to discharge water with BOD5=1500 mgO2/L Irida has used its own wastewater treatment plant and COD=2000 mgO2/l. In this reporting period, our wastewasince December of 2013. Waste sludge (code 02 02 04) colter was sampled four times and the analysis results were comlected by the flotation device is placed in barrels, stored and pliant with the requirements of the water management license. disposed of every 2-4 months. Waste sludge collected in the Year Total water discharge (m3) deposit tank is classified as nonhazardous waste (code 19 08 13* → 19 08 14). During this reporting period, we cleaned the 2014 21,495 deposit tank twice and provided the sludge to a licensed col2015 20,650 lecting organization. Total 42,145 EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Irida d.o.o. sorts its waste at its source, collects is separately the factory site and then provided to an organization licensed by type, and temporarily stores it in a designated area. Hazto collect, transport, intermediate, treat, use and dispose of ardous and nonhazardous waste is temporarily collected at waste. Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Agroproteinka, KT, Sekundarne sirovine, Nonhazardous waste R or D 817.72 787.62 Vitrex, KT, Hazardous waste R e-Kolektor 16.61 0.44 Total Zagrebpetrol, KT 834.33 788.06 In 2015, waste sludge from the deposit tank (former code 19 The total amount of hazardous waste recorded in this re08 13*) was disposed of as nonhazardous waste under code porting period increased by 23% compared to the preceding 19 08 14 for the first time. The total amount of nonhazardreporting period. ous waste increased by 21% compared to the previous reIn 2015, the amount of hazardous waste decreased porting years. This increase in the amount of nonhazardous significantly compared to 2014 as a result of the new classiwaste is a result of increased total production of finished fication of waste sludge from the deposit tank (19 08 13* → products. 19 08 14). 168 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Irida Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Irida d.o.o. did not receive any sanctions whatsoever during this reporting period for noncompliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Irida d.o.o. does not have its own transport, so all products and other goods and materials owned by Ledo d.d. are transported using their vehicles. Irida does not have organized transport for its workforce members. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 32,456 3,548 2015 36,490 3,054 Total 68,946 6,602 In 2015, our costs of waste disposal, emission treatment, revironmental prevention and management decreased by 34%. mediation and pollution increased by 12%, mostly as a result The main reasons for this are lower certification prices (HACof increased prices of disposing of plastic packaging (contamCP is certified at a lower price by SGS), lower analysis prices, inated film from raw material). Compared to the preceding and implementation of an electricity consumption screening reporting period, our total costs of disposal, emission treatsystem in 2012. ment and remediation decreased by 37%. This is mainly a In 2015, our total environmental protection expendiresult of decreased prices of animal byproduct disposal. That tures increased by 10%, mostly as a result of higher prices same year, our costs of environmental prevention and manof plastic waste (contaminated). Compared to the preceding agement decreased by 14%, mostly as a result of omitting to reporting period, our total environmental protection expendimeasure our emissions (we are required to measure them in tures and investments decreased by 37%. This is mainly due 2016) and analyze our sludge (we are not required to analyze to a significant decrease in the price of disposing of animal it because it is no longer classified as hazardous waste). Combyproducts. pared to the preceding reporting period, our total costs of en169 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Irida Specific standard disclosures Activities planned and primary targets for the environmental management system in 2016 and 2017: • Conduct a second surveillance audit of the quality and environmental management system in 2016 and recertify our quality and environmental management system in 2017; • Align our integrated quality, food safety and environmental management system with the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015.; • Install and put into service a Yamato-Multivac weighing and packing line in 2016; • In 2016 and 2017, gauge our safety valves and vacuum pressure meters, organize evacuation and rescue drills, and analyze our sludge and wastewater; • In 2016, measure our air emissions of pollutants and provide the data to the Environmental Protection Agency; • Maintain the wastewater values (BOD5 and COD) in compliance with the requirements of the water management license; • Maintain the present levels of electricity and natural gas consumption (GJ/t of finished product); • Maintain the present levels of water consumption ( m3/t of cleaning product – squid); • Comply with statutory and other environmental requirements; and • Conduct internal and external environmental trainings according to the training schedule for the purpose of raising our employees’ awareness and improving their competences on all levels of the EMS. 170 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Čitluk L edo d.o.o. Čitluk is a leading producer and distributor of ice temperatures in Tešanj and Tuzla; cream and other frozen food in Bosnia and Herzegovina, • After analyzing the situation and planning our activities, we holding the largest market share in all product categories. made a positive shift in the management of refrigerant conIts product range includes popsicles and butter and fish packed sumption – its total consumption was reduced by 26.5% in for retail, while its distribution assortment is supplemented by 2015 compared to 2014. We did, however, record an increase products provided by its parent company Ledo d.d. Zagreb – ice in consumption by 26.2% compared to the preceding reportcream, vegetables, fruits, dough, fish, and readymade meals. As ing period as a result of obsolete equipment; of 2015, its distribution assortment has been enhanced by prod• We reduced our fuel consumption per turnover by 17.7% comucts supplied under the popular Jami brand of Bosnia and Herpared to the preceding reporting period; zegovina, a leader in the production of traditional frozen dough • We reduced our consumption of water used to make ice cream products. Its overall distribution assortment comprises approxiand pack butter by 13.2% compared to the preceding reportmately 600 products distributed at approximately 13.500 stores. ing period; The year 2014 was particularly difficult for business in • We installed new paper dispensers to save paper used to dry Bosnia and Herzegovina. Natural disasters that affected a large hands. We installed 19 new dispensers (Warehouse, Producpart of the country caused substantial damage and deepened tion, Maintenance) which should significantly reduce our the economic crisis. The unfavorable market conditions also rewasting of paper; flected on our business, so our production decreased compared • We transferred the hydrophore pump to the heating plant area to the earlier years, and adversely affected our indicators withto protect it against frost and to prevent pipes from breaking in the environmental management system. Substantial efforts in wintertime; were used to improve our business performance. Compared to • We conducted the planned trainings, all measurements re2013, the number of our customers and active supply points dequired by law, and internal audits; creased by 13%, which is an additional indicator of the difficult • We partially revised our documentation and thus simplified economic situation. the monitoring of all planned activities in all parts of the sysOur business results in 2015 were better than those in tem; 2014, however, the total quantity of products made is still be• No nonconformities were found during the recertification aulow the figures recorded in the earlier years as a result of more dit of the system, only minor errors that were rectified very finished product inventories. The reduced scope of production in soon. We also successfully completed out first surveillance both years also resulted in negative trends with respect to conaudit in 2015. sumption intensity and emissions per ton of finished product as The time limits for additional investments in the municiwe use energy for other processes within the company as well. pal waste area and alignment of documentation with the changBy enlarging our distribution assortment, we increased es to ISO 14000:2015 were extended. the total amount of distributed products compared to the preceding reporting period. Good planning of transport routes and Management systems of Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk: distribution optimization resulted in good indicators of fuel conQUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM sumption intensity and emissions per ton of distributed product. Our quality management system developed under the guideIn late 2015, new guidelines for calculating emissions lines of ISO 9001:2000 was first certified in 2003 (DNV). The from stationary sources were adopted in line with the EU guidefourth recertification and the first surveillance audit were suclines. As our former calculation of emissions was performed accessfully completed in 2014 and 2015 by the Bureau Veritas incording to a slightly different principle due to our use of heating ternational certifying organization. oil, we performed new calculations for both reporting periods to HACCP SYSTEM be able to logically compare and address any variations. The management system developed under the guidelines of CoThe activities planned for this reporting period were dex Alimentarius was first certified in 2005. The fourth recertibased on our plans to reorganize the production plants across fication and the first surveillance audit were successfully comLedo Group. By changing our business decision and retaining pleted in 2014 and 2015. the existing product range, we were forced to revise our plans in ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM the area of environmental protection as well. Our environmental management system developed under the The following results were achieved during the preceding guidelines of ISO 14001: 2004 was first certified in 2009 (BV). reporting period: The second recertification and the first surveillance audit were • We invested funds in improvement of our waste storage facilsuccessfully completed in 2014 and 2015 by the Bureau Veritas ities, which was a condition precedent to obtaining a license international certifying organization. to export fish to the EU; HALAL SYSTEM • We began to fit out our municipal waste area and solve the Aiming to meet the market demands, we implemented a Halal problem of the pallets accumulated in 2014; system in 2011 and 2012 in cooperation with consultants. The • We obtained a new water management license for a period of Halal system was implemented according to BAS 1049:2010 and five years; certified by the Halal Quality Certification Agency. The Halal • We introduced a system for satellite monitoring of chamber system has been successfully recertified on an annual basis. 171 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Čitluk Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume As regards our production of ice cream, the year 2014 was materials used originate from renewable natural sources and extremely difficult, which also affected our overall perforthe oil, lubricant and plastic packaging materials are derived mance in the current reporting period, although our producfrom nonrenewable sources. tion in 2015 increased by 9.8% compared to 2014 and our consumption of materials used by 7.2%. Ice cream sales inType of material used (kg) 2014 2015 creased significantly in 2015, but we recorded lower producRaw materials 1,540,772 1,632,319 tion levels compared to the preceding reporting period as a Oil and lubricant 90 430 result of inventories left over after 2014. This also resulted in reduced consumption of raw materials, oil and lubricant, Materials for packaging purposes 134,094 161,999 and packaging materials, by 5.9% compared to the precedTotal 1,674,956 1,794,748 ing reporting period. All raw materials and some packaging Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Our total energy consumption slightly decreased in 2015 1998, the system was replenished in 2015 for the first time compared to 2013, by 0.6%. We recorded a noticeable increase with 1.5 t. in electricity consumption by 2.4% and a decrease in fuel consumption by 1.3% and heating oil by 4.9%. The increase Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 in energy consumption even while the production levels are Fuel (GJ) 25,556 27,283 lower is a result of an increased scope of distribution in 2015. Heating oil (GJ) 1,728 1,846 Fuel and heating oil are obtained from nonrenewable natural sources. Electricity (GJ) 8,304 9,155 We presently use 5.5 tons of ammonia in our closed Total 35,588 38,284 system for production purposes. After its introduction in EN5: Energy intensity We monitor our energy intensity on the basis of our condecreased by 17.7% compared to the preceding reporting pesumption of energy per ton of product made or distributed. riod. The figures concerning our electricity consumption relates to all processes within the company. If presented in relation Energy intensity 2014 2015 (GJ/t products sold) to the reduced scope of production, we have an increase by 11.4% per finished product unit. Our consumption of heating Fuel 2.121 1.869 oil in relation to production increased by 3.6%. Heating oil 0.958 0.931 Our fuel consumption is decreasing despite the inElectricity 4.600 4.617 creased amount of distributed products, which indicates good transport organization. Our fuel consumption per turnover 172 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Čitluk Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source Public water Total volume of ternal purposes and does not have a water recycling system Year supply system water withdrawn in place. Our water consumption decreased by 4.9% compared 2014 12,314 12,314 to the preceding reporting period, which is partly a result of a reduced scope of production and partly a result of consump2015 12,557 12,557 tion rationalization. An analysis of the figures recorded on Total 24,871 24,871 our internal meters led to the conclusion that our water consumption for ice cream production and butter packing (L/kg Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk is only supplied with water from the public of finished product) purposes decreased by 13.2% compared water supply system of the Municipality of Čitluk for its into the preceding reporting period. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) Fuel for transport 1,565 1,671 Heating oil 127 135 Total 1,692 1,806 EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse Direct greenhouse gas emissions depend on energy consump2014 2015 gas emissions (t CO2) tion, i.e. on the levels of production and turnover, so they also Electricity* 1,675 1,847 decreased by 1.5% compared to the preceding reporting period, while indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with Total 1,675 1,847 our electricity consumption increased slightly, by 2.4%, as a *The emission coefficient values were used according to the EMEP/EEA Air Pollutant result of increased electricity consumption due to an increase Emission Inventory Guidebook (for all sectors), 2009 (http://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/emep-eea-emission-inventoryscope of distribution. guidebook-2009). EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 Like energy intensity, greenhouse gas emissions intensity as(t CDE / t prodanih proizvoda) sociated with the production process increased compared to Fuel 0.130 0.114 the preceding reporting period, while the intensity of emisHeating oil 0.070 0.068 sions associated with sales decreased by 17.7%. el, energija 0.928 0.932 EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Of all refrigerants used in our refrigeration systems, only Amount of refrigerant (kg) 2014 2015 R-22 has ODP in excess of 0. It is used to operate two stationR22 (ODP 0.05) 182 30 ary refrigeration devices. Its consumption decreased significantly compared to the preceding reporting period. 173 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Čitluk Specific standard disclosures EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Air emissions (t) Our emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides decreased by 5% Year SO2 NO2 as a result of a reduced scope of production. 2014 0.412 0.222 2015 0.439 0.237 EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Year Total water discharge (m3) Reduced water consumption resulted in a decrease in waste2014 6,023 water levels by 2.7% compared to the preceding reporting period. Wastewater is collected in collection tanks which are 2015 7,854 evacuated and treated by the public wastewater treatment Total 13,877 plant. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R3, R4, R5 JKP BROĆANAC, CIBOS, DUGA, ZEOS 178.51 166.29 Hazardous waste D10, D15, R1,R4 KEMIS, ZEOS, TRITON 1.23 0.57 Total 179.74 166.86 The total amount of waste disposed of decreased by 11.2% but also of improved waste management in 2015. In 2014, we compared to the preceding reporting period, primarily as a disposed of some of the hazardous waste generated in 2013. result of reduced amounts of nonhazardous waste, which is Hazardous waste amounts are directly related to oil and to a certain extent a result of a reduced scope of production, spare part replacements, which are not performed every year. Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed for noncompliance with any environmental laws or regulations in 2014 and 2015. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport Total CO2 emissions Ledo uses a total of 176 vehicles for its purposes, 87 of which Year (GJ) (t CDE) are freight vehicles which have the highest fuel consumption. The fuel we use is diesel. We systematically monitor our fuel 2014 25,556 1,565 consumption levels and plan our distribution routes. After 2015 27,283 1,671 we optimized our transport costs, our fuel consumption deTotal 52,839 3,236 creased by 1.2% despite the increased scope of distribution. Our CO2 emissions are consistent with our fuel consumption. 174 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Ledo Čitluk Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (EUR) management costs (EUR) 2014 36,268 2,382 2015 34,862 2,585 Total 71,130 4,967 Our total environmental protection expenditures and inOur waste management costs were somewhat higher bevestments in 2014 amounted to EUR 38,649, compared to cause in 2014 we disposed of hazardous waste generated in EUR 37,447 in 2015, which is less than in 2013 because of 2013. Our waste disposal cost in 2014 was EUR 6299, comthe substantial investments we made in our product plant at pared to EUR 6221 in 2015. the time. Our expenditures for government charges increased Certain expenditures for measurements and analyses significantly compared to the preceding reporting period afwere somewhat higher compared to the preceding reporting ter new regulations on charges payable by the relevant enperiod, amounting to EUR 7336 EUR in 2014 and EUR 7449 tities were issued. Our total expenditures for such charges in 2015. The difference in these amounts is a result of difamounted to EUR 22,723 in 2014, compared to EUR 22,287 ferences in the frequency of conducting certain mandatory in 2015, which is approximately 50% more. measurements – some measurements are conducted every Our expenditures for periodic system checks remained at two years and some every three years. nearly the same level – EUR 758 in 2014 and EUR 779 in 2015. Targets and plans for the next reporting period: Our company’s fundamental goal is to meet our customers’ demands, produce safe food and utilize natural resources in an efficient and environmentally acceptable manner. For that purpose, we set annual targets every year, define programs, responsible persons and time limits for their accomplishment, and always supervise their implementation. Any discrepancies are addressed, plans are revised as appropriate, and new targets and tasks are set. In the next reporting period, we plan to accomplish the following targets: • Complete the waste management improvement activities started and align the system with the provisions of the new edition of ISO14001:2015; • Integrate our implemented systems more deeply and reduce our documentation to ensure better management efficiency and improve our communication; • Optimize our ice cream production activities by installing an addition freezer of a larger capacity; • Improve our energy efficiency by installing an exhaust outlet above the chamber to obtain natural ventilation and reduce the impact of outside temperature; • Purchase additional protective equipment for handling ammonia; • Repair the electrical system at the site to increase the level of workplace safety and ensure uninterrupted electricity supply; and • Analyze our electricity consumption within the air conditioning system in the administration building and use the results to plan appropriate activities to reduce our electricity consumption. 175 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Belje Specific standard disclosures B elje d.d. was established 319 years ago. Since it became system that covers the entire supply chain and all types of a member of the Agrokor Group in 2005, Belje has been bio raw materials and renewable energy sources. Independent building its future within the system of the largest food third-party certification also ensures compliance with high producer in this part of Europe. Not only does Belje apply some environmental and social requirements regarding sustainof the cutting-edge global technologies, the company also folability, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and traceabililows the healthy food production trend and the environmental ty in the supply chain. standards. Moreover, it is completely market-oriented. All pro• DUNAV SOJA The Dunav soja (DS) certification audit was duction processes performed by Belje have been modernized, also conducted by Bureau Veritas and it confirmed Belwhile some have been discontinued. Most of the funds have je's compliance with the requirements of the DS Standard. been invested in the renewal of the company's primary busiDunav Soja is an international non-profit organization esness activities – crop and livestock farming. After being finantablished in Vienna in 2012. The organization's goal is to cially strengthened and having further improved its position promote sustainable cultivation of GMO-free soybeans in in the market, Belje gained the support and the momentum Europe. The Dunav Soja Standard was established as the baneeded for further growth and development. sis for further efforts to achieve that goal. The company's food, crop and livestock production • The GlobalGap livestock certificate was issued for the folbusiness is divided in profit centers (PC): lowing periods: November 30, 2011 February 10, 2015 • production of dry-cured meat products (Baranjka PC); and February 10, 2015 November 29, 2015. The GlobalGap • production of mill products (Mill PC, 2014), drying and crops certificate was issued for the following periods: Destoring of grains and oil plants (Križevci Mill PC, 2014 and cember 21, 2013 to December 20, 2014 and December 21, 2015; Fodder Factory PC, Beli Manastir silos, 2015); 2014 to December 20, 2015. • viticulture, wine production (Wine Cellar PC); • The HACCP certificate was issued for the period from 2012 • fodder production, drying and storing of grains and oil to 2015, and the surveillance audit was conducted in the peplants (Fodder Factory PC, Agroprerada Ivanić Grad Busiriod from October 1-3, 2014. The IFS Food certification auness Unit (BU), Popovača silos); dit (Dairy Factory PC) was conducted from October 20 – 22, • dairy production (Dairy Factory PC); 2015, and the certificate was issued for the period ending on • field and vegetable crop farming, seed enhancement (Crop December 16, 2015. Farming PC: Brestovac-Karanac BU, Mirkovac BU, Šir• The Kosher certificate (Dairy Factory PC) was issued for ine-Kneževo BU, Poljanski lug BU, Sjemenarstvo BU, Mitrothe period from November 1, 2013 to November 1, 2014 and vac Greenhouse BU); from November 1, 2014 to November 1, 2015, whereas the • pig farming and fattening (Pig Farming PC; farms: Kozarac, Kosher certificate issued for the Križevci Mill PC was issued Darda 1, Sokolovac, Brod Pustara 1, Brod Pustara 2, Malo for the period from May 17, 2014 to May 17, 2015. Kneževo, Gradec 1, Gradec 2, Haljevo, Gaj and Podlugovi); • The Halal certificate for the Dairy Factory PC was issued • calf farming and young cattle fattening (Young Cattle Fatfor the following periods: December 10, 2013 December 10, tening PC; farms: Eblin, Hatvan, Mala Karašica, Sudaraž 2014 and December 10, 2014 December 10, 2015. and Poljanski lug); As far as the plans set for this reporting period are con• dairy farming and milk production (Dairy Farming PC; cerned, it can be asserted that the Mitrovac business complex, farms: Topolik, Čeminac, Popovac, Zeleno polje, Prosine, Kawhich includes one of the biggest dairy farms in Croatia, a ranac and Mitrovac); greenhouse and a biogas plant owned by Agrokor – Energija • servicing, maintenance and sale of agricultural machinery d.o.o., is in full operation (as has been since October 2013). By and equipment (Service and Repair PC); building a biogas plant, the company solved the problem con• veterinary supervision services associated with livestock cerning the disposal of the slurry from the farm and other infarming, collection of animal waste (Belje Agro-Vet d.o.o., dustrial by-products, which are now disposed of in an ecologa daughter company). ically acceptable and environmentally friendly manner. The Recertification of the company’s ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 syscompany still strives to maintain the volume of water contems is performed every three years, while surveillance audits sumed per unit produced at the existing level, but the main are conducted in the meantime. Certification in accordance goal is to reduce the consumption of natural resources and with the GlobalGap, IFS Food, Kosher and Halal Standards is energy sources, which is expected to result in a reduction of performed every year. The HACCP certificate is issued for a costs and emissions as well. In 2014, the Baranjka PC convertperiod of three years, while surveillance audits are conducted ed from extra light heating oil to natural gas, while the biogas in the meantime. plant owned by Agrokor Energija d.o.o., located in the immediThe ISCC certification audit was conducted by Bureau ate vicinity of the Popovac farm, was commissioned in 2015. Veritas and it confirmed Belje's compliance with the requireFurthermore, LPG was replaced by natural gas, mainly at the ments of the ISCC Standard. ISCC is the leading certification Pig Farming PC. 176 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Belje Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 rials used by weight or volume increased by 0.53% in 2015. Changes in the structure of the company's production proRaw materials 244,011,101 243,756,920 gram resulted in an increased use of associated process mateAssociated process materials 28,350,275 29,959,259 rials by 5.68% and materials used for packaging purposes by 5.99% in 2015. Belje ensures a complete „from the field to the Materials for packaging purposes 1,392,583 1,476,015 table“ production cycle (unprocessed milk, a dairy farm prodTotal 273,753,959 275,192,194 uct, is used as a raw material in milk production, just as the crops are used as raw materials in the fodder factory, etc.). If this reporting period is compared to the previous one (2012 The primary production output is delivered to the factories in and 2013) in terms of the total values referred to in Secbulk, while finished products are launched packed in differtion EN1, it is evident that the amount of materials used by ent quantities (grams/volume). Therefore, the smaller amount weight or volume increased in 2014 and 2015 by 4.49%. If of raw materials used in 2015 was packed in a large number the two years covered by this report are considered separateof small packages, which is why consumption of packaging ly, it is evident that, compared to 2014, the amount of matematerial and associated process materials grew. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Year Fuel (GJ) Natural gas (GJ) LPG (GJ) Compared to the preceding reporting period, fossil fuel consumption decreased by 43.64%, natural gas consumption 2014 158,844 117,095 20,143 increased, consumption of LPG consequently decreased by 2015 126,540 122,014 18,943 45.16%, while electricity consumption decreased by 0.75%. Total 285,384 239,109 39,086 If the two years covered by this report (2014 and 2015) are considered separately and compared, a further decrease in fossil fuel consumption (by 20.34%) and an increase in natuYear Electricity (GJ) ral gas consumption are evident. This was expected because the Baranjka PC converted from extra light heating oil to 2014 98,471 natural gas. The Malo Kneževo and Podlugovi pig farms also 2015 101,216 switched to natural gas. As a result, LPG consumption autoTotal 199,687 matically decreased. The consumption of electricity increased by 2.79% compared to 2014 since the Mitrovac Greenhouse BU (Field Crop Farming PC) was put into operation. EN5: Energy intensity Year Energy intensity GJ/t) Energy intensity for 2014 was calculated by dividing total energy consumption within the organization (numerator) by 2014 0.533 total production (denominator) recorded in 2014. The result is 2015 0.539 as follows: Energy intensity (GJ/t) = Σ EN32014/total production 2014 Only the two years covered by this report were compared = 394.553 GJ/ 739.603 t = 0,533 GJ/t since the relevant indicator was not presented in the report If the two reporting years are compared, it can be noticed for 2012 and 2013. Energy intensity for 2015 was calculated that, compared to 2014, energy intensity increased by 1.03% by dividing total energy consumption within the organizain 2015. The conditions in 2014 and 2015 were not the same. tion (numerator), as shown in Section EN3, by total producIn the course of 2015, agrotechnical measures were pertion (denominator) recorded in 2015. The result is as follows: formed on the same parcels of land as in 2014, but the yields Energy intensity (GJ/t) = Σ EN32015/total production 2015 were smaller, which had an effect on energy intensity (small= 368.713 GJ/ 684.087 t = 0,539 GJ/t er yield compared to energy consumed fuel). 178 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Belje EN6: Reduction of energy consumption The Baranjka PC converted from heating oil to more ecologby Agrokor Energija d.o.o. on the territory of Baranja. In this ically acceptable and environmentally friendly natural gas. manner, the company achieves cost savings since there is no The Dairy Factory switched from mazut to natural gas, thus need to use the services of a licensed waste disposal contracresolving a huge environmental issue. The new and recontor. Some of the slurry from pig farms is also transported to structed farms use natural gas for heating purposes. The be used for electricity production purposes. The energy gencompany cars are new and have smaller engines, which reerated during electricity production is used to heat the Mitrosults in a reduced diesel fuel consumption. Moreover, Belje vac Greenhouse BU where tomatoes are grown. Furthermore, uses satellite navigation to control the consumption of fuel the company has installed wastewater treatment plants in and movements of company vehicles. Significant amounts of some of its production plants. Such facilities are used to treat wastewater produced as a result of washing the milk pipes on wastewater before it is released in the environment (Wine dairy farms are transported to the two biogas plants owned Cellar PC, Dairy Farming PC). Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) For process From the public water Total volume of Year From wells purposes supply system water withdrawn 2014 671,697 0 188,654 860,351 2015 874,182 0 203,116 1,077,298 Total 1,545,879 0 391,770 1,937,649 Water is used for drinking, personal hygiene and sanitary purtal water withdrawal by source increased by 15.95%. If the two poses, livestock watering, for production purposes as well as for reporting years covered by this report are considered separately washing plants and other facilities. If total consumption recordand compared, it is evident that water consumption increased ed in this reporting period is compared to total consumption by 25.22% in 2015 (monitoring perimeter: Mitrovac farm (Dairy recorded in the preceding reporting period, it is evident that toFarming PC) and Mitrovac Greenhouse BU (Crop Farming PC). Biodiversity EN11: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas The total surface area of sites leased in protected areas of the istry. The mentioned Plan is prepared and approved for each Kopački rit Nature Park is 1274 ha. In addition to crop farmbusiness year and includes the proposed mandatory meaing, the company also performs cattle production activities sures to be conducted during the production process. The in this area. Cattle production is performed in accordance company owns a restaurant on the outer edge of the Kopački with nature, i.e. the company applies the so-called „cow-calf rit Nature Park (Kormoran Restaurant). In 2014, the restauproduction system“. The relevant herd mainly consists of rant implemented the ISO 14001:2004 Standard, thus raising Hereford cows. This project is also special because it includes its value and confirming that its activities are performed in eight Slavonian-Srijem Podolian cows, which is an authenaccordance with the relevant ecological and environmental tic breed. The company boasts some of the rare examples at requirements. The restaurant fully blends with the surroundthe national level. The Eblin farm (Young Cattle Fattening ing environment. The purpose of the above mentioned efforts PC) is located in the immediate vicinity. Belje's production and initiatives is to contribute to the preservation of natuactivities in this protected area are performed in accordance ral resources, reduction of soil, water and air pollution, and with the Cultivation Plan approved by the competent Minmaintenance of biodiversity. 179 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Belje Specific standard disclosures EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas The Environmental Impact Studies, which refer to the construcwith all the relevant requirements, while all pig farms have tion of new production facilities, confirm that the activities perobtained the Environmental Permit. The company has also apformed by Belje do not have a significant impact on biodiversiplied for the Environmental Permit for its Fodder Factory PC in ty. The Pig Farming PC, subject to the IPPC Directive, complies Darda. The application process is currently in its final stages. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse Compared to the preceding reporting period, the amount of 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) direct greenhouse gas emissions (expressed in t CO2 e) deProduction plants 5,828 6,531 creased by 6.73% in this reporting period. If the two years covered by this report are considered separately and comFuel for transport 10,176 9,081 pared, it is evident that total air emissions decreased by LPG 1,512 1,132 4.41% in 2015 as a result of conversion from LPG to natural Total 17,516 16,744 gas. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) The result for 2014 was calculated as follows: Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2) 27.380,17 MWh x 234,81kg CO2/MWh = 6.429.137,71 kg CO2 2104, 6,429 or 6.429,13 t CO2 The result for 2015 was calculated as follows: 2015 6,601 28.115,61 MWh x 234,81kg CO2/MWh = 6.601.826,38 kg CO2 Total 13,030 or 6.601,83 t CO2 Since energy indirect emissions also refer to the electricity Compared to 2014, the company recorded a 2.69% increase in that Belje purchases from HEP (Croatian national electricity total energy indirect emissions of CO2 in 2015. The recorddistribution company) and uses in its production processes, ed increase in energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions in the amount of energy indirect emissions in (t) CO2 is pre2015 was, among other reasons, also caused by the commissented as the amount of the mentioned energy consumed. In sioning of the Mitrovac Greenhouse BU (Crop Farming PC) 2015 and 2014, the company consumed 28,115.606 MWh and that same year. 27,380.17 MWh respectively. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Year Emissions of CO2 (t / unit produced) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity = total emissions of CO2 2014 0.03238 in 2014 / total production in 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity in 2014 2015 0.03413 = 23,945.73 t / 739,603 t = 0.03238 Total 0.06651 If the two reporting years are compared, it is evident Only the two years covered by this report were compared since that total emissions of CO2 recorded in 2015 increased comthe relevant indicator was not presented in the previous report. pared to total emissions of CO2 recorded in 2014. Total emissions of CO2 = direct emissions of CO2 + indirect emisIn spite of the reduction in the volume of production sions of CO2 and fuel consumption recorded in 2015, the intensity of Greenhouse gas emissions intensity = total emissions of CO2 greenhouse gas emissions slightly increased due to an inin 2015 / total production in 2015 crease in natural gas (direct emissions) and electricity (indiGreenhouse gas emissions intensity in 2015 rect emissions) consumption. = 23,346.48 t / 684,087 t = 0.03413 180 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Belje EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions If 2014 and 2015 are compared taking into consideration in4.41% in 2015 as a result of the conversion from LPG to natudicators EN15 (Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – t ral gas. CO2 e) and EN3 (Energy consumption within the organizaTotal air emissions from LPG expressed in t CO2 e detion), it is evident that total direct air emissions increased by creased by 25.13%, which was expected since the company almost fully converted from LPG to natural gas. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) The ecologically acceptable and environmentally friendly Factory PC uses 435 kg of freon and 2000 kg of ammonia, freon R404A and ammonia, used as refrigerants in the coolwhile the cooling system of the Baranjka PC uses 60 kg of ing systems of the Baranjka PC, Dairy Factory PC and Wine freon and 1500 kg of NH3. The amount of the relevant freon Cellar PC (only the freon), produce no harmful or adverse enused for cooling purposes at the Wine Cellar PC is 435 kg. In vironmental impacts. The closed cooling system of the Dairy 2014 and 2015, the systems were not replenished. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions The values for 2014 were taken from the Environmental PolAir emissions (t) lution Register database and include the verified values for sites required, in accordance with the law and the prescribed Year SO2 NO2 CO thresholds, to report data on air emissions. In 2015, due to 2014 0.700 2.537 0.223 changes in legal regulations, all sites that generate air emis2015 0.752 3.930 0.852 sions, regardless of whether the recorded values were above or below the statutorily prescribed threshold, were taken into Total 1.452 6.467 1.075 consideration. In 2014, the sites that recorded air emissions below the prescribed threshold were not taken into account. Consequently, the amount of total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight recorded in 2014 was smaller compared to 2015. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Compared to the preceding reporting period, total water disProcess wastewater is discharged into municipal sewage: charge increased by 5.95% in this reporting period. If the two Baranjka PC, Dairy Factory PC, Križevci Mill PC, Service and years covered by this report (2014 and 2015) are considered Repair PC, and Agroprerada BU. separately and compared, it is evident that total water disProcess and sanitary wastewater produced at the Wine charge increased by 22% in 2015 as a result of the inclusion Cellar PC is directed to the biological wastewater treatment of the Mitrovac farm (Dairy Farming PC) in the measuring plant, from where it is released into the melioration chanand monitoring perimeter and an increase in the volume of nel. Wastewater produced in handling areas and the heating production recorded in 2015 at the Dairy Farming PC. plant of the Fodder Factory PC are directed through an oil separator and a multi-componential sedimentation tank into Year Total water discharge (m3) the melioration channel, while sanitary wastewater is col2014 432,948 lected in watertight collection pits emptied, as required, by a 2015 528,181 waste disposal contractor and transported to the wastewater collection facility in Beli Manastir or Osijek. Process water Total 961,129 produced as a result of washing filters at sites with wastewater treatment plants are released to the closest melioration As far as quality and destination are concerned, wastewater channels through a multi-componential sedimentation tank. is divided into sanitary and process wastewater. Wastewater treatment plants have been installed on farms Sanitary wastewater is collected in watertight collection within the system of the Pig Farming PC (Darda 1, Kozarac, pits which are emptied by a waste disposal contractor and Gaj, Haljevo, Sokolovac, Brod Pustara 1, Gradec 1), Dairy transported to the wastewater collection facility in Beli Farming PC (Topolik, Mitrovac, Čeminac) and Young Cattle Manastir or Osijek. Fattening PC (Potok). Process wastewater produced as a re181 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Belje Specific standard disclosures sult of washing milk pipes is collected in watertight collecWastewater produced after washing the stables and the slurtion pits emptied by a waste disposal contractor and transry produced at the Pig Farming and Dairy Farming PCs (Toported to the wastewater collection facility in Beli Manastir polik and Mitrovac farms) are collected in large tanks. After or Osijek. Watertight collection pits have also been installed fermentation, they are applied to agricultural areas. on farms operating as part of the Dairy Farming PC: Topolik, In accordance with the water discharge license, Belje Čeminac and Zeleno Polje. Process wastewater produced as a is required to test the quality of wastewater discharged. The result of washing the milk pipes on the Mitrovac and Poporesults of the analysis conducted were in compliance with vac farms are, on the other hand, collected and transported to maximum amounts allowed. the biogas plant owned by Agrokor energija to be used as raw materials in electricity production. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) UP-OS, HR, EFP, DI, BČ-BM, KB, BV,VITREX, Nonhazardous waste R 3,4, 5,13 2,968.00 2,649.00 CeZaR, BE-AV Hazardous waste D 9,10,15 CIAK, Flora VTC (M-Z RJ VU) 43.28 50.08 Total 3,011.28 2,699.08 Compared to the preceding reporting period, the total amount total decrease of 10.75%. The total amount of hazardous waste of non-hazardous waste generated by the company decreased produced in 2015 was 50.08 t and 43.28 t in 2014. In total, the by 33.1%, while the total amount of hazardous waste decreased amount of hazardous waste produced by the company (waste by 25.6%. The company produced a total of 2,649 t of non-hazmotor oil) in 2015 increased by 15.71% as a result of regular ardous waste in 2015 and 2,968 t in 2014, which represents a maintenance of agricultural machinery. Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No incidents of non-compliance were identified by the envities performed in that regard. The company ensures that an ronmental inspectors for any of the sites visited. The inspecassessment of compliance with the statutory requirements tors were provided access and insight into all the requestand requirements prescribed under Section 4.3.2. of the ISO ed documents. The Environmental Protection Department, 14001:2004 Standard is performed. The company also makes which operates as part of the Governance Division, follows efforts to ensure further employee education at all levels, the news about environmental protection laws and regulawith the aim of achieving continuous progress and developtions daily by checking the website of the Official Gazette of ment. Prevention, which is considered extremely important, the Republic of Croatia. It also keeps a record of the activiis achieved through education and systematic monitoring. 182 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Belje Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport Total CO2 emissions The analysis focused on the emissions of CO2 as the primary Year company vehicles (t CDE) emissions from fuel combustion. If the reporting periods are (GJ) 2014 140,727 10,176 compared, it can be noticed that total emissions of CO2 decreased by 55%. This is due to the fact that the analysis made 2015 125,588 9,081 for the preceding reporting period also included the emisTotal 266,315 19,257 sions produced by the company's own transportation system (Beljetrans PC). If 2014 and 2015, the two years covered by this report, are considered separately and compared, it can be noticed that total emissions of CO2 decreased by 10.76%. The recorded decrease is a result of the sale of the company's transportation business, i.e. Beljetrans Profit Center. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 3,401,632 1,701,379 2015 2,185,618 5,394,113 Total 5,587,250 7,095,492 If the values recorded in 2015 and 2014 are compared, it can Gradec 1 farm), Dairy Farming PC (procurement of scrapers be noticed that waste disposal, emissions treatment and refor solid slurry at the Topolik farm), and Baranjka PC (enermediation costs decreased by 35.75%, while the prevention gy source conversion). Compared to the preceding reporting and environmental management costs grew by 217.04%. The period, waste disposal, emissions treatment and remediation recorded increase in prevention and environmental managecosts decreased by 19.9% and prevention and environmenment costs is a result of significant investments in the Pig tal management costs decreased by 11.4% in this reporting Farming PC (replacement of the ventilation system at the period. Plans for 2016 and 2017 • Implementation of the ISO 50001:2011 Standard; • Pig farm capacity increase: Gaj, Haljevo and Darda 1; • Young cattle fattening farm capacity increase: Hatvan, Sudaraž, Potok and Poljanski lug; • Capacity increase and construction of a new compression station at the Baranjka PC. Significant attention will continue to be devoted to sustainable development and optimization of technological processes. Implementation of the ISO 50001:2011 Standard, currently being in the initial phase, will contribute immensely to these efforts. 183 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Agrolaguna Specific standard disclosures A grolaguna d.d., a member of the Agrokor Group, is the therefore has a twofold development goal: one is to emphasize largest Istrian wine producer, and the company also the specific qualities and variations among different harvests, produces extra virgin olive oil and cheese. and the other is to ensure a stable and recognizable product Most of the production takes place between the Lim Channel quality. In order to meet customer demands and expectations, in the south and the Mirna River in the north. In this area, the raise the quality of our services and products, while respecting company has vineyards, olive orchards, vegetable plantations the principles of environmental protection and sustainable deand fields where crops used for purposes of the company's own velopment, Agrolaguna implements a unique integrated mansheep farm are grown. The benefits of the Istrian soil and cliagement system, which includes a quality management system, mate, in combination with the expertise and know-how of Agroa food safety management system and an environmental prolaguna’s management, result in raw materials of recognizable tection management system. quality. This quality is also inherent in our products wine, oil The company has received the ISO 9001:2008, ISO and milk processed into cheese. This is why protection of au14001:2004 and HACCP certificates. The cheese and olive oil thenticity of the Istrian table is one of the important elements products have also been Kosher certified. of our business. In addition to the wine, whose geographic orAgrolaguna managed to find a solution to the problem igin is traditionally protected, the company also produces oil caused by wastewater produced on the Špin farm, which was whose authenticity is currently protected only at the national one of the goals set for this reporting period. Wastewater from level, while approval of the authentic product label at the EU the milking area and the milk storage on the Špin dairy farm level is still pending. Agrolaguna is a member of a group of were redirected to the wastewater treatment plant that operates producers that make efforts to protect the authenticity of Iswithin the cheese factory. In this manner, the company ensured trian cheese with one of the recognizable value-adding labels. that this type of wastewater is also treated until it reaches the We hope that customers throughout the EU will recognize the level of quality that is considered suitable for discharge to the quality and the specific character of Istrian products and that environment. The funds invested in the mentioned activities Agrolaguna's products will no longer be used on local tables amounted to HRK 151,607.01. The Water Management License only, but more and more on European and international tables issued for the Špin rural estate will be revised to include the as well. In any case, Agrolaguna's products are equal members adjustments made with respect to the changed conditions and of the European family of protected food products. changes in legal regulations. Agrolaguna's processing plants are located at several difInstallation of new collection facilities and wastewater ferent sites. The winery and the oil factory are located in Poreč. treatment plants at the site where the company’s winery, oil Grape and olive processing is performed seasonally, at the end plant and administration building are located will be co-fiof the calendar summer and during the fall months. The aging nanced by the EU. The works are currently in progress. By the and further development of the products take place throughout end of 2015, most of the construction works were completed, the entire year. As far as wine is concerned, it is important to and the assembly of equipment also commenced. Until the fall ensure controlled and properly managed fermentation, and agof 2016, the Use and Occupancy Certificate and the revised Waing in barrique barrels. The process ends by bottling the prodter Management License should be obtained. uct and shipping it to be sold in the market. In this reporting period, the company participated in a Cheese production takes place at sites in the surroundings project implemented by the Faculty of Food Technology and of Tar. The area includes pastures, a sheep farm and a cheese facBiotechnology of the University of Zagreb as a project parttory. In addition to sheep milk produced by the company itself, ner. The aim of the project was to investigate whether bioacAgrolaguna also purchases certain amounts of sheep and cow tive compositions, which could be used in food and cosmetics milk from contractors from all over Istria. In this manner, Agroindustry, could be separated from the waste generated during laguna encourages production on family farms, which provides a wine production. source of livelihood to a portion of the local population. In this reporting period, a new company called e-KolekMost of the products are marketed through domestic detor became part of the Agrokor system. Agrolaguna established partment store chains, while export is becoming more and more cooperation with the said company in the field of waste disposimportant as well. al, thanks to which it obtained plastic foil and paper/cardboard Agrolaguna d.d. is committed to continuous improvement press containers. Furthermore, the company expects to generof its products. The quality of input raw materials depends conate two new types of waste after the new wastewater pretreatsiderably on seasonal conditions, which is yet another distincment plant, built at the site where the winery and oil factory are tive feature of Agrolaguna’s production business. The company located, is commissioned. 184 Prica o Špinu U prekrasnoj Istri, u blizini Jadranskog mora, pa sve kroz krošnje šuma dolazimo do zelenih pašnjaka. Kroz grane maslina nazire se kuća od starog istarskog kamena, stancija Špin. U stanciji imamo sve što je potrebno kako bi nastali najfiniji sirevi tradicionalne proizvodnje u čijim se okusima osjete sve ljepote Istre. Stvorila priroda, odnjegovala tradicija, začinila Istra. www.sirspin.hr CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Agrolaguna Specific standard disclosures Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Total material consumption includes raw materials, associatType of material used (kg) 2014 2015 ed process materials and materials for packaging purposes. Renewable materials 12,099,049 14,697,144 All materials were supplied from external suppliers. Non-renewable materials 410,853 463,455 Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 Total 12,509,902 15,160,599 Raw materials 12,099,049 14,697,144 As far as non-renewable materials are concerned, the comMaterials for packaging purposes 2,312,951 2,379,611 pany recorded an increase in fuel consumption, even in 2014 Total 14,412,000 17,076,757 when the volume of production was slightly smaller. Fossil fuels are used for transportation purposes and, regardless of Compared to 2013, the average amount of materials used in the amount of products being transported, fuel consumption this reporting period (2014 and 2015) is somewhat smaller will be similar if the route is the same. The recorded increase (15,744,379 kg). However, if the two years covered by this in fuel consumption is a result of transporting goods to more report are considered separately and compared, it is evident distant destinations and a slightly increased number of busithat the amount of total materials used decreased in 2014 ness trips. Moreover, fuel consumption also partly depends and increased in 2015. The main cause of variability in the on the intensity of using agricultural machinery and duraamount of materials used is the climatic conditions which tion of the heating season. also cause variations in yields and types of products. The non-renewable materials used by Agrolaguna include liquid petroleum derivatives (heating oil, diesel fuels, gasoline) and LPG. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption includes consumption of fuel, aufrom year to year and between different parts of the year. Diftomobile gas (for forklifts), LPG and electricity. Energy conferent technological processes, with different energy requiresumption depends on the type of product, type of packaging ments, are conducted during different parts of the year. As and volume. far as the two reporting years are concerned, 2014 was a rather wet year, which caused more intensive use of machinery Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 in the effort to protect the plantations. The volume of cheese Fuel 14,710 17,718 production grew in both reporting years, which caused an increase in the consumption of steam used in milk processing Automobile gas 167 180 and the consumption of LPG used to produce such steam. LPG 3,616 6,884 In its warehousing and storage activities, AgrolaguElectricity 6,650 8,193 na uses LPG forklifts and the ecologically acceptable and Total 25,143 32,975 environmentally friendly electric forklifts. LPG consumption depends on logistic processes and the rate of handling In 2013, total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources finished goods and processed and unprocessed input materi(fuel, automobile gas, LPG) amounted to 15,383 GJ. Fuel conals. As an alternative type of fuel, LPG has a less significant sumption increased in this reporting period, which corresponds impact on greenhouse gas emissions compared to other fossil with the data on the consumption of non-renewable materials. fuels. Combustion of LPG is clean, and it is a high-octane and Variations in fuel consumption at production plants ecologically acceptable fuel. It is supplied in returnable 10 kg depend on the dynamics of product bottling and amount of gas cylinders. By using electric forklifts, the company reducprocessed raw materials. Considering the seasonal character es fuel consumption and noise pollution, as well as improves and the climatic impacts, the amount of raw materials varies the quality of air in its storage facilities. 186 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Agrolaguna EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity Energy intensity is expressed as electricity consumed per 2014 2015 (GJ/kom) product unit. Variations in energy intensity result from difElectricity 0.00402 0.00841 ferent energy requirements of different types of packaging Fuel 0.00144 0.00209 (0.5 l, 0.75 l, 1.0 l, 5.0 l, etc.) and different processes associated with production. Considering the fact that the machines Energy intensity expresses the energy consumed per unit do not have separate energy consumption meters, only the produced. average energy consumption for all types of products can be presented. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Compared to 2013, energy intensity grew in this reporting and 2015, albeit the reduction was slightly more significant period (average: 0.006215). If the two reporting years are in 2015. Such variations are caused by different energy recompared to 2013 separately, it is evident that the amount of quirements of different products. A more detailed analysis energy consumed per product unit was smaller in both 2014 requires additional data. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source Most of the water used by Agrolaguna comes from the pubconstruction of accumulation lakes with treated water from lic water supply system. The Kampaladanja site is the only the municipal water treatment plant. According to the plan company site where water needed for irrigation purposes has prepared by the local authorities, the mentioned water will been withdrawn from ground sources since 2014. be used for irrigation purposes. After the completion of the A water treatment and management project is currently project, some of the water withdrawn from the public water being implemented in the Poreč area. The project envisages supply system could therefore be replaced by recycled water. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From the public water Total volume of Year From wells supply system water withdrawn 2014 9,104 38,026 47,130 2015 6,504 62,277 68,781 Variations in water consumption depend on two factors: The amount of water withdrawn from the public water supply • climatic conditions (wet or dry year) in terms of the volume system depends on two factors: of water required for irrigation purposes, • olive orchards and vineyards are irrigated using the water • amount of processed raw materials in terms of the yield from the municipal water supply system; in the critical and characteristics of different raw materials. period of 2014, the amount of precipitation water was overSince the water withdrawal concession agreement was whelming and the cost of water consumed for irrigation signed in 2014, ground water was not consumed in the previpurposes was consequently significantly lower; ous period. Furthermore, withdrawn water is used to irrigate • since the company used a smaller amount of input raw vegetable plantations. Therefore, the volume of water conmaterials in 2014, the volume of water used to wash the sumed is in proportion with the total surface area of vegetaplants also decreased. ble plantations and the shares of individual crops since each Water consumption in 2015 was at the similar level as in crop has different irrigation requirements. 2013. 187 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Agrolaguna Specific standard disclosures EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Most of the water used by Agrolaguna comes from the murect impact on water sources is negligible. In addition, severnicipal water supply system. Since the volume of water withal water springs in Istria and the Butoniga accumulation lake drawn from the public water supply system by Agrolaguna is have been integrated into a separate water supply network, so relatively small compared to the overall water consumption that, in case any of the sources is compromised, the required from the municipal water supply network, Agrolaguna's divolumes can be withdrawn from other sources. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse gas emissions generated by Agrolaguna’s in Appendix A (air emissions) of the Manual for Keeping an production plants include emissions from stationary sources. Environmental Pollution Register. The amounts of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary Total direct emissions of CO2 produced by heating sources (heating plants) were calculated using the values for plants are measured once every two years. 2014 obtained through direct measurement conducted by a Direct greenhouse licensed company. 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) CO2 equivalent is a unit of measurement used to compare emissions of various greenhouse gases depending on Production plants 597.85 689.52 their global warming potential (GWP), which is set to 1 for Fuel for transport 449.00 447.00 the period of the next 100 years. Total 1,046.85 1,136.52 Total direct emissions of CO2 by weight refer to production and transport of materials and products and were calcuTotal greenhouse gas emissions, as a sum of direct emislated on the basis of CO2 emissions from combustion defined sions, are expressed in tons of CO2 equivalent. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Agrolaguna’s greenhouse gas emissions intensity is presentThe stated amounts of CO2 emissions result directly from ed as the ratio between total emissions expressed in tons of fuel combustion in heating plants and vehicles. The assoCO2 and units produced in pieces. ciated explanations are provided in Section EN3 Energy consumption. Electricity consumption also increased, which Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 consequently contributed to the increase in greenhouse gas (t/unit produced) emissions intensity. CO2 emissions 0.0002276 0.0002901 EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Pursuant to the provisions of the Regulation on the QualiThe company optimized the routes of employee transportaty of Liquid Petroleum Fuels (OG 33/2011) dated January 1, tion buses, freight vehicles and company cars, as well as the 2013, Agrolaguna uses medium heating oil I with a reduced amount of goods and the number of employees transported sulfur content in the heating plant of its winery. According to in one round. In this way, the company managed to reduce its the basic specifications, total sulfur content in medium heatconsumption of liquid fuels by 1.8% in 2014, and by another ing oil is 2.8 % m/m, whereas medium heating oil I contains 0.5% in 2015 (total reduction: 2.3%). The mentioned reducno more than 1.0 % m/m sulfur. tion in liquid fuel consumption resulted in a reduction of emissions by the same percentage. 188 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Agrolaguna EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) No cooling gases were released in the previous years. Also, in the A/C systems installed at the ripening facilities, in the the Freon-type gases were replaced by ozone-friendly refrigcooling system of the cheese and curd storage, as well as in erants. Freon-type gases are, however, used in the cooling the system used to cool the pressed grapes and young wine systems of all company sites, i.e. in the vegetable refrigerator, during fermentation and wine in the winery. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Air emissions (t) in 2015 reflects the smaller sulfur content in the fuel. If fuel combustion efficiency was increased, emissions of SO2 and Year SO2 NO2 CO CO would be reduced. In order to achieve that, the company 2014 1.93 1.07 0.07 would have to invest in heating plants. According to the measurement of air emissions from 2015 1.36 1.12 0.14 heating devices at all production sites, it is evident that air Total 3.29 2.19 0.21 emissions are within the allowed limits. As far as the heat capacity and type of fuel are conIt is evident from the table below that the increase in emiscerned, Agrolaguna uses boilers that belong to the category sions recorded in this reporting period, compared to the of small and medium-sized heating devices (Regulation on previous one, is a result of an increase in fuel consumption. the Limit Values for Emissions of Air Pollutants from StaAt the same time, a decrease in emissions of SO2 recorded tionary Sources – Regulation on ELVs). EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination The amount of wastewater discharged from the processing The Public Health Institute of the Istrian County is responsible facilities is equal to the volume of water supplied from the for monitoring the quality of treated wastewater. The frequenmunicipal water supply system. The total volume of water cy of such monitoring is prescribed by law. The Institute is also discharged is in proportion with the production volume. responsible for preparing an analytical report on the quality of the treated wastewater. Pursuant to the Ordinance on Limit ValYear Total water discharge (m3) ues of Hazardous and other Substances in Wastewater, waste2014 39,096 water sample analyses are made and compliance of the results 2015 39,921 obtained is assessed. The results of the analysis of the sample of wastewater produced by the cheese factory and the dairy farm, Total 79,017 after it has been physically, chemically and biologically treated, were in compliance with the requirements for releasing water After having prepared the project documents, obtained the in the environment. As far as the winery and oil factory are conrelevant licenses and applied for co-financing, Agrolaguna excerned, all parameters except for the chemical oxygen demand pects that the project aimed at improving wastewater treatand biochemical oxygen demand after 5 days will comply with ment processes at the Poreč site could be implemented already the prescribed values after the new wastewater pretreatment in the next reporting period. The construction of the envisplant is built. The melted organic matter, which causes high levaged wastewater treatment plant started already in 2015, and els of COD and BOD5, can be eliminated only if wastewater is biis expected to be completed in 2016. The construction works ologically treated. This is why Agrolaguna must sign a contract should be completed by the beginning of May 2016, while the with a utility company concerning the collection and processequipment is planned to be installed by the beginning of July. ing of such type of wastewater pursuant to which the relevant Until the grape harvest, the company plans to obtain the Use utility company's biological wastewater treatment plant, which and Occupancy Permit and the revised Water Management is currently under construction, would be used for the said purLicense. During the harvest, the company will test use the new poses. If the biological treatment plant is not finished by the facility under maximum load and optimize the related paramdefined deadline, the company will be forced to make additioneters according to the test results. At the beginning of 2017, al investments in the amount of approx. HRK 5,000,000.00 for the company plans to reach the final agreement with Odvodbiological treatment of wastewater. Considering the volume of nja Poreč concerning the biological processing of pretreated wastewater produced in the grape processing period, a bioreprocess wastewater produced by Agrolaguna using the named actor with a capacity of no less than 700 m3, equipped with an company's biological processing facility, as well as concernaerator and a tank for storing surplus active sludge generated ing the treatment of waste sludge using the named company's during the biological treatment process, would be required in sludge composting facility. Both facilities are currently under that case. This demonstrates how important it is for economic construction, with the Town of Poreč as investor. The project is operators that the municipal utility infrastructure in their envico-financed by the EU. ronment offers sufficient qualitative capacity. 189 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Agrolaguna Specific standard disclosures EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method The table below shows the amounts of waste produced by Agrolaguna d.d. in tons: Type of waste (t) Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R Metis, Ecooperativa, Usluga Poreč 775.98 495.55 Hazardous waste D Ciak, Ecooperativa 4.10 3.46 Total 780.08 499.01 The waste is separated at the point of origin. It is separately able energy sources at the Gradec biogas plant (for electricity collected and temporarily stored in the facility for temporary and thermal energy generation). Thanks to Energija Gradec, storage of different types of waste. The waste management Agrolaguna incurs no expenditures concerning the collection plan and employee education have resulted in a better waste and disposal of the mentioned sludge and the whey produced separation process and an increase in key waste figures by as a by-product in the cheese production process. The cost type of waste in the relevant period. Agrolaguna achieved of waste transportation is covered by Agrokor energija d.o.o. an income from the sale of waste in the amount of HRK despite the fact that the cost of transportation is greater than 11,340.50, while the cost of waste disposal amounted to HRK the associated income, as the plant is quite far away. The only 124,849.89. permanent sustainable solution would be the construction of The wastewater treatment plant within the cheese faca biogas plant in the Istrian County. tory produces sludge and floatants that are used as renewCompliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations The company received no monetary fines in the previous period. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Agrolaguna causes environmental impacts by using its own The mentioned parameters are expressed according to the means of transportation, by transporting members of the following criteria: workforce (fuel consumption for total transport), and other • energy consumption in GJ, goods and materials used for the organization's operations. • greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent. Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emissions Year GJ GJ t CDE for Fuel t CDE for LPG 2014 10,090 167 706 12.10 2015 10,037 180 702 13.04 Total 20,127 347 1,408 25.14 As evident from the table above, Agrolaguna recorded a reconsumption of liquid fuel consequently decreased. The deduction in transport fuel consumption compared to the precision to convert to gas forklifts also resulted in a reduction ceding reporting period. Such results were achieved through of greenhouse gas emissions from combustion of petroleum optimization of routes and the amount of goods and the numderivatives and an increase in emissions caused by consumpber of employees being transported. By converting to gas tion of LPG. Total emissions from both sources indicate a forklifts, the company recorded an increase in gas consumpdecreasing trend. tion compared to the preceding reporting period, while the 190 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Agrolaguna Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type As a responsible company, Agrolaguna d.d. is committed to In 2014, the company invested HRK 190,000 on activities reachieving further economic development respecting the prinlated to the preparation of the wastewater treatment plant conciples of environmental protection. In this reporting period, struction project, and another HRK 12,000 in 2015. The project environmental protection expenditures and investments inis expected to be completed in 2016, when most of the investcluded the cost of waste disposal and investments in wastements will be booked. The waste management expenditures water treatment plants. amounted to HRK 162,232 in 2014, and HRK 129,449 in 2015. Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 153,512.52 190,000.00 2015 124,849.89 163,607.01 Total 278,362.41 353,607.01 The economic waste management balance shows that the to regular variations in collection and transportation dates. waste management costs remained at similar levels. For exFor example, the olive oil sediment was collected and transample, waste disposal costs amounted to HRK 151,285.58 in ported for disposal at the beginning of 2016 instead of in 2013, which is fairly similar to the costs recorded in 2014. A December 2015. somewhat smaller amount recorded in 2015 can be ascribed Plans for the next reporting period • In the next reporting period, the company plans to complete the construction of the process wastewater pretreatment plant which will be used by the winery and oil factory, as well as to obtain the Use and Occupancy Permit and the revised Water Management License for the site concerned. The company also plans to adjust the Water Management License issued for the cheese factory and the Špin farm to the new conditions and changed legal regulations. • In the next reporting period, the company further plans to make investments in agricultural machinery and thus achieve further reductions in fuel consumption, air and soil emissions, cost of maintenance and its environmental impacts, as well as increase operational efficiency. The company also plans to restore the pesticide storage in order to ensure that the method of storing pesticides and the storage capacity are in line with the needs. Furthermore, pursuant to the Regulation on the Content of the Action Program for the Protection of Waters against Pollution Caused by Nitrates from Agricultural Sources (OG 7/13), the company is required to ensure sufficient slurry storage capacities by July 2017. 191 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci Specific standard disclosures P IK Vinkovci d.d. was established in 1962. In 1994, the The most important goals achieved in this reporting period: company became a member of the Agrokor Group as the • Roofing of the diesel fuel tank at the Polača site – The projfirst company engaged in primary agricultural producect was completed in the spring of 2014 with the aim of tion. Its activities include primary field and vegetable crop reducing environmental pollution caused by precipitation production, processing and storing of fruit and vegetables (So(oily water drainage). The quality of wastewater produced pot and Lipovac sites), storing of grains and oil plants, storing at the Sopot and Lipovac sites and the Andrijaševci 1, Anand sale of production materials, seed enhancement (Vinkovci drijaševci 2 and Čeretinci farms is maintained by ensuring site) and livestock production, including pig farming (Andriregular desludging of the separators and regular system jaševci 1, Andrijaševci 2 and Čeretinci farms) and young cattle maintenance. All wastewater quality parameters comply fattening (Zvirinac farm). PIK Vinkovci also includes two fruit with the maximum amounts allowed defined under the reland vegetable purchase centers, one in Polača near Zadar and evant Water Management Licenses. one in Kaštele. • Replacement of old equipment – In transformation stations PIK Vinkovci bases its operations on organized manat the Matija Gubec site in Vinkovci, old compensation batagement systems designed in accordance with the principle of teries containing PCB were replaced and new ones were insustainable development. stalled. The environmental management system designed in ac• Obtaining a water withdrawal license for the Čeretinci farm cordance with the requirements of the ISO 14001 Standard – On the basis of a concession agreement, the company was implemented in 2010 into the already existing integratwas permitted to withdraw water from its own well on the ed quality management system designed according to the reČeretinci pig farm up to the maximum volume of 50,000 m3. quirements of the ISO 9001, HACCP and GlobalGap Standards. The agreement was signed in February 2015. In 2014, the company introduced the OHSAS, the occupation• Employee education in sustainable pesticide use – Accordal health and safety management system specification. The ing to the Regulation on Establishing a Framework for Acorganization has recognized the risks associated with each tion to Achieve Sustainable Pesticide Use (OG 142/12), the workplace, allowed insight into those risks to all employees, company conducted training for professional pesticide usadopted appropriate risk mitigation measures and defined (on ers, distributors and advisers. A total of 175 workers parthe basis of the measures adopted) goals (whose achievement ticipated in the training sessions held in February and Nois monitored) in order to raise the awareness of its employees vember 2015. of the dangers associated with their workplaces and reduce • Measuring of air emissions from stationary sources – With the number of occupational injuries to the minimum. In June the aim of monitoring air pollutants emitted from heating 2015, two new systems were certified, namely ISCC (Internadevices, the company carried out measurements in accortional Sustainability and Carbon Certification System) and dance with the Regulation on the Limit Values for EmisDunav soja. The purpose of ISCC certification was to allow the sions of Air Pollutants from Stationary Sources (OG 117/12; company to trade in ISCC goods and achieve better sale pric90/14) at the following sites: Matija Gubec in Vinkovci, Soes. The ISCC demonstrates the company's responsibilities and pot, Andrijaševci 1, Andrijaševci 2 and Čeretinci. compliance in the following areas: • Procurement of new containers – The waste management • reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, system implemented at the Polača site was improved by pa• sustainable land use, per and cardboard containers installed by a licensed paper • protection of natural biospheres, and cardboard waste disposal contractor. • increase in social responsibility. • Procurement of a new oil and grease separator for the Sopot In addition to regular annual and external audits, the site – The separator was installed with the aim of achieving organization makes systematic and continuous efforts to imand maintaining the quality of wastewater produced as a reprove the safety of all employees, raise the quality of its prodsult of washing agricultural machinery. The separator was ucts, achieve sustainable agricultural production, as well as installed at the end of May 2014. ensure rational raw material and energy consumption and • Increase in energy efficiency at the Sopot site – Project docsustainable waste management. uments for replacing the primary energy source used in the In order to create the preconditions for achieving susheating plant (heating oil) and improving the energy effitainable development, the company defines concrete goals for ciency of the commercial building were prepared in May each year. By achieving these goals, the organization contrib2014. The project was co-financed by the Environmental utes immensely to reducing the impacts on all environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. A new boiler powcomponents, and by achieving the goals defined particularly ered by pellets was installed as part of the project. It enfor the field of environmental protection, it ensures realization sures higher levels of heat utilization and lower levels of of further improvements that lead to the reduction of adverse CO2 emissions. Furthermore, insulation of external walls of environmental impacts. 192 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci the commercial building was performed and wood joinery plans to replace the concerned roof plates successively in was replaced by PVC joinery. accordance with the identified roof repair needs, as deter• Replacement of asbestos plates – This goal has not been mined by the Maintenance Department. It has thus been achieved. It refers to large production facilities with approx. determined that roof repair is necessary in the case of one 8,800 asbestos plates. Since substantial investments would of the production facilities at the company's site in Vinkovci be required to repair all the facilities at once, the company and is scheduled to be performed in the next period. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 The smaller amount of raw materials used in this compared to the preceding reporting period is a result of the sale of the Raw materials 29,362,570 20,364,842 milling business in 2015, which also caused a reduction in Associated process materials 24,659,613 25,184,063 the use of paper packaging previously used to pack flour. On Materials for packaging purposes 524,967 423,430 the other hand, the use of plastic bags increased as a result Total 54,547,150 45,972,335 of the need to pack the fruit and vegetables at PIK Vinkovci purchase centers. Type of material used 2014 2015 Packaging material placed on the for production purposes (kg) 2014 2015 market (kg) seeds 6,953, 091.00 7,155,038.89 Paper/cardboard 377,377.01 186,585.72 plant protection products 51,119.06 41,199.71 Wood 40,965.00 46,871.00 mineral manure 2,744, 380.50 2,950,336.00 Textile 3,408.00 1,735.00 slurry 7,046, 360.00 7,362,300.00 Plastic bags 0 15,798.00 lubricants 27,908.78 27,993.10 Other polymer materials 103,216.74 172,440.35 natural seeds 6,732,399.00 6,633,970.00 TOTAL 524,966.75 423,430.07 wheat 8,939384.00 0 Fee / HRK 225,584.88 230,287.81 corn 0 0 (according to the OONZ) sows 215,180.00 262,878.00 OONZ – Disposal Fee Calculation Records (by the type and amount of packaging placed piglets 3,283,950.00 2,969,539.00 on the market) – Regulation on Packaging and Packaging Waste (OG 97/05; 115/05; 81/08; 31/09; 38/10; 10/11;81/11; 126/11;38/13;86/13). Quarterly reports are calves 443,066.00 351,880.00 submitted and the relevant fee paid to the Environmental Protection Fund. feed 15,492,031.00 15,261,810.00 straw 2,093,313.00 2,531,960.00 Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 Compared to 2014, consumption of heating oil decreased Fuel 53,195 55,479 in 2015 as the heating plant at the Sopot site converted to Natural gas 21,370 19,236 renewable energy sources. Consumption of Euro diesel fuel also decreased as a result of the reduced use of the said fuel LPG 4,877 4,501 to power working machines. On the other hand, consumption Electricity 20,130 16,822 of Blue diesel grew due to an increased use of that energy Total 99,572 96,038 source in irrigation systems, which were used more intensively in 2015. 193 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci Specific standard disclosures The amount of natural gas used is closely associatthe Belica Purchase Center separated from the PIK Vinkovci ed with the drying of goods in silos. In 2014, the average system as an independent company in 2015. humidity of goods entering the silos was 25%. The average Compared to the preceding reporting period, energy humidity of goods entering the silos recorded in 2015, i.e. consumption decreased due to the above mentioned reasons, 21%, contributed to a decrease in natural gas consumption. the sale of the milling business and separation of the Belica Compared to 2015, the total amount of goods dried in silos Purchase Center. was greater in 2014. The following table presents the summarized data from The decrease in LPG consumption recorded in 2015 is the above table in more detail, i.e. it presents fuel consumpa result of the reduced consumption of that energy source for tion from non-renewable and renewable sources by type of heating purposes at the Čeretinci farm compared to 2014. fuel expressed in the relevant units of measurement and GJ, Compared to 2014, electricity consumption also deconsumption of natural gas and LPG, and consumption of creased in 2015 as a result of the sale of the milling business, electricity. a large contributor to electricity consumption. Furthermore, 2014 2015 Fuel consumption Conversion factor GJ amount in 000 GJ amount in 000 Fuel (non-renewable sources) Heating oil, mazut (l) 40.99 GJ/t 9,386.71 229 6,558.40 160 Eurosuper (l) 44.80 GJ/t 44.80 1 44.80 1 Euro diesel (l) 43.33 GJ/t 4,289.67 99 4,029.69 93 Blue diesel (l) 43.33 GJ/t 39,473.63 911 44,846.55 1,035 Total Fuel (non-renewable sources) 53,194.81 55,479.44 Fuel (renewable sources) Pellets biomass (kg) 18.00 GJ/t 414.00 23 216.00 12 Natural gas (m3) 33.338 GJ/1000m3 21,369.66 641 19,236.03 577 LPG (kg) 46.89 GJ/t 4876.56 104 4501.44 96 Electricity (kWh) 0.0036 GJ/kWh 20129.64 5,591,567 16821.96 4,672,768 EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity (GJ/t) 2014 2015 ty is calculated by dividing absolute energy consumption with Total energy consumption (GJ) 99,984.67 96,254.87 total production in tons for each year separately. Energy intensity was calculated taking into considTotal production (t) 205,493.00 152,034.00 eration the types of energy consumed by individual PIK Energy intensity (GJ/t) 0.4865 0.6331 Vinkovci production units. 2014 is taken as the base year. Compared to the base Total production includes field and vegetable crop production, year, energy intensity grew in 2015 due to a decrease in proseed enhancement, frozen vegetable program, and cattle and duction resulting from the sale of the milling business and slurry production. The unit of measurement is a tone of goods separation of the Belica Purchase Center, as well as the more produced at PIK Vinkovci production centers. Energy intensiintensive irrigation activities during 2015. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption The old heating oil boiler with a heat capacity of Q=1 MW new low-temperature pellet boiler has a heat capacity of was too big and its capacity was inefficiently utilized, which Q=200 kW and ensures a high capacity utilization level. eventually resulted in an increase in fuel consumption. The 194 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci The table below presents heating oil and pellet consumption in 2014 and 2015 after the completion of the improvement project: Potrošnja 2014 2015 consumption Ammount GJ Ammount GJ Heating oil 6,900 l 283 0 0 Pellets 23,000 kg 414 12,280 kg 221 In 2015, pellet consumption in the new heating plant deCompared to the previous period, the improvements made creased compared to the year before as the commercial facilito the commercial building and the installation of a new ties at the Sopot site recorded smaller heating needs. low-temperature pellet boiler resulted in a reduction of total energy consumption for heating purposes by 56%. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source Water withdrawal by source (m3) 2014 2015 The increase in water consumption from the public water From wells 142,230 184,505 supply system in 2015 is a result of the testing of the fire hydrant network and improvement of the fire protection tank For process purposes 472,000 873,978 at the site in Matija Gubec Street in Vinkovci, and the loss of From the public water supply system 7,894 11,175 water due to breakdowns and broken pipes. Total volume of water withdrawn 622,124 1,069,658 The volume of water withdrawn from wells increased compared to the previous period. In February and March The data on water withdrawal were obtained on the basis 2015, water stored in the water tower on the Andrijaševci 2 of measurements conducted and readings of installed water farm spilled into the nearby channel due to water tower probe meters. failure, which caused an increase in water consumption. Groundwater withdrawn from own wells is used as In 2015, the volume of water withdrawn for irrigation process water for production purposes at the company's pig purposes from surface waters and wells increased compared farms Andrijaševci 1, Andrijaševci 2 and Čeretinci, and the to 2014 as a result of low precipitation levels and irregular Zvirinac cattle fattening farm. The water used at pig farms is occurrence of precipitation during the vegetative season. In processed, while the water used at the cattle fattening farm is the period of intensive irrigation, from May to July 2015, raw, unprocessed. 60% less precipitation was recorded compared to 2014. To irrigate the agricultural areas at the Čeretinci site, Compared to the preceding reporting period, total wathe company withdraws surface water from the Bosut and ter consumption decreased due to a smaller need for irriSpačva Rivers and ground water from own wells. gation water in 2014 since precipitation regularly occurred during the vegetative season. EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water PIK Vinkovci withdraws and uses water for industrial and irThe following PIK Vinkovci sites are connected to the municrigation purposes pursuant to concession agreements. ipal water supply network: Matija Gubec Vinkovci, Sopot, Water withdrawal from the Bosut and Spačva Rivers is Lipovac, Polača and Kaštele. The Vinkovci and Sopot sites subject to concession conditions defining the water level that procure drinking water from the East Slavonian regional waensures an ecologically acceptable flow. When the water falls ter supply system that withdraws water primarily from the below the prescribed level, it may no longer be withdrawn in wells in Sikirevci and, in the case of additional needs, from order to maintain the biological minimum. When withdrawthe wells in Vinkovci (Kanovci). The Lipovac site is supplied ing water, PIK Vinkovci acts in accordance with the prefrom a well located in Lipovac. The Polača site is supplied scribed conditions and therefore does not disturb the normal from the Kakma spring, while the Kaštele site procures water functioning of eco systems in the Bosut and Spačva Rivers. from the regional water supply system that withdraws water from the Jadro River. 195 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci Specific standard disclosures Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse es was obtained on the basis of direct measurements, which 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) are, pursuant to the Regulation on the Limit Values for Emissions of Air Pollutants from Stationary Sources (OG 117/12; Production plants (mazut, heating oil, 1,107 949 90/14), carried out every two years. The last emissions meanatural gas) surement was carried out in November 2015. production plants LPG 301 351 The company's fleet (primary transport) includes 42 Fuel for transport 413 405 vehicles (cars, vans and trucks). All vehicles are powered by Total 1,821 1,705 Euro diesel fuel. The respective amounts are shown in the table below. Compared to the preceding reporting period, the amount The company has mazut boilers of TYPE 300 and TYPE 500 of emissions of CO2 from production plants decreased due to a in the heating plant at its Vinkovci site. The boilers located in reduction in fossil fuel consumption in heating plants, while heating plants on the Andrijaševci 1 and Andrijaševci 2 pig the amount of emissions of CO2 from transport increased befarms are powered by natural gas, while LPG is used to powcause the company has more distant production plants in the er the boilers on the Čeretinci farm. The energy source used County of Zadar (Polača and Kaštele) and makes direct conat the Sopot site is pellets. tacts with the buyers of frozen products from the EU and even SThe recorded decrease in CO2 emissions from producwider. tion plants is a result of replacing the old mazut boiler in the The table below presents the amounts of CO2 emissions heating plant at the Sopot site with a new boiler powered by from transport by type of fuel used in production plants. the more ecologically acceptable and environmentally friendly In the following table, mazut boilers are marked white, pellets. The amount of emissions of CO2 from stationary sourcLPG boilers are marked red and gas boilers are marked blue. Emissions of CO2 (kg/year) Point of emission 2014 2015 Boiler TYPE 300 – heating plant Vinkovci 525,409 275,342 Boiler TYPE 500 – heating plant Vinkovci 83,673 115,801 Setting gas drying facility Vinkovci Law gas drying facility Vinkovci Air heater maintenance -Vinkovci 9,343 Neo Vulkan boiler Sopot 30,141 Viessmann Vitoplex 100 PV1 boiler, farm A1 114,073 131,737 Viessmann Vitoplex 100 boiler, farm A1 114,073 131,737 Viessmann Vitocrossal 300CT3 boiler, farm A2 120,214 142,288 Viessmann Vitoplex 300 TX3 boiler, farm A2 120,214 142,288 Viessman Vitoplex 100 PV1 boiler 1, farm Č 150,362 175,400 Viessman Vitoplex 100 PV1 boiler 2, farm Č 150,362 175,400 Total 1,408,521 1,299,336 Conversion of gas emissions from fuel to kg 2014 2015 Energy source (kg) coefficient CO2 /kg (kg) coefficient CO2 /kg Heating oil (Lipovac) (l) 27,750 3.133 86,940 32,009 3.133 100,284 Euro diesel (l) 98,701 3.133 309,230 93,081 3.133 291,622 Blue diesel (l) 911,047 3.133 2,854,310 1,035,070 3.133 3,242,874 Fuel – company vehicles (l) 131,944 3.133 413,380 129,465 3.133 405,613 Metode: ISO 12039:2003 196 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Compared to the previous period, indirect greenhouse gas Total CO2 emissions (t CDE) 2014 2015 emissions decreased due to a decrease in electricity conElectricity 1,313.06 1,097.21 sumption as a result of the sale of the milling business in 2014. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2014 2015 and transport and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from CO2 emissions electricity consumption, with total production in tons. Total 0.02 0.02 (t / unit produced) production includes field and vegetable crop farming, seed enhancement, frozen food program, and livestock and slurry The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions was calculated production. In the previous period, it also included the millby dividing the emissions of CO2 expressed in tons (EN15, ing business. The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions did EN16), i.e. direct emissions produced by production plants not change compared to the previous period. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions PIK Vinkovci achieved a decrease in greenhouse gas emisSopot site, to pellets. Annual emissions produced by the old sions by switching from heating oil, previously used as the heating oil boiler amounted to 50 t CO2/year. Pellets belong primary energy source in the heating plant at the company's to renewable energy sources and are considered CO2 neutral. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) The fruit and vegetable storages at the Lipovac and Polača the Lipovac site was fully filled, while the amounts of active sites include cooling chambers that contain active substances substances in the cooling system at the Polača site were reR404A and R410A. The mentioned substances are considered plenished as needed due to identified leaks. In 2015, total environmentally and ozone-friendly. amounts of active substances R410A and R404A used to reIn 2014, total amounts of active substances R410A and plenish the cooling systems due to identified leaks amounted R404A used to replenish the cooling systems amounted to to 65 kg and 138 kg respectively. 46 kg and 104 kg respectively. The new cooling system at EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Air emissions (t) ducted in accordance with the Regulation on the Limit Values for Emissions of Air Pollutants from Stationary Sources (OG Year SO2 NO2 CO 117/12; 90/14) every two years. The emissions of SO2 are not 2014 3.8 1.82 0.74 measured but are calculated according to the consumption of fuel in heating plants and by the air heater. The last emissions 2015 2.46 1.31 0.37 measurement was conducted in November 2015. Compared Total 6.26 3.13 1.11 to the preceding reporting period, the amount of emissions of SO2, NO2 and CO decreased thanks to a reduction in fossil fuel The values for emissions of NO2 and CO from stationary sourcconsumption. es were obtained through direct measurements that are con197 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci Specific standard disclosures EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Year Total water discharge (m3) Process water produced as a result of washing the machinery 2014 38,715 and handling surfaces is discharged into the channel through an oil separator. The commercial yard in Otok has produced 2015 9,331 no wastewater since 2012 because agricultural machinery is Total 48,046 no longer washed at the site. The wastewater from the Lipovac site produced as a result of washing vegetables is disWastewater parameter values are monitored according to the charged into the channel through a sedimentation tank. plan. At the Sopot site, monitoring is conducted four times a We have valid Water Management Licenses for the folyear, whereas at all other sites monitoring takes place twice lowing sites: Sopot – valid until August 20, 2017; Otok – valid a year. In 2014 and 2015, all parameters subject to monitoruntil April 10, 2022; and Lipovac – valid until May 3, 2021. ing complied with the maximum amounts allowed prescribed The reduction in the volume of wastewater recorded in under the relevant Water Management Licenses. The volume 2015 is a result of the revocation of the Water Management of wastewater produced as a result of washing filters on the License for the site located at M. Gubec 130 in Vinkovci since farms is monitored by reading the meters. In 2013, the Matija it produces no process wastewater, while precipitation wasteGubec site in Vinkovci was connected to the municipal saniwater is discharged into the channel through an oil separatary wastewater sewage system by means of a collection fator. According to the new Decision of Hrvatske vode, precipicility. Furthermore, an oil separator was installed at the same tation wastewater does not fall within the scope of minoring site for the purpose of treating precipitation wastewater berequirements. fore discharging it into the precipitation drainage channel. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste weight (t) 2014 2015 ticide packaging waste, oily waste and waste oils. All types Non-hazardous 185 180 of waste are transported for disposal purposes by licensed collecting organizations. The relevant waste disposal certifHazardous 17 23 icates are issued and records kept. The decrease in non-hazardous waste generation is a result of a decrease in the genPIK Vinkovci has installed production waste disposal coneration of paper packaging and PVC foil waste due to the sale tainers at all its sites. Hazardous waste is stored in closed of the milling business. The increase in the amount of hazand secured storage areas. In 2015, the company recorded ardous waste was also caused by an increase in the amount an increase in the volume of generated hazardous waste as of waste oil produced as a result of changing the motor oil in a result of replacing the PCB batteries from transformation agricultural machinery and replacing the PCB batteries with stations at the Matija Gubec site in Vinkovci with new comnew compensation batteries in transformation stations. Compensation batteries. The increase in hazardous waste generpared to the preceding reporting period, the amount of both ation is also a result of an increase in the generation of peshazardous and non-hazardous waste decreased. Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations In this reporting period, as in the previous one, no Vinkovci for non-compliance with environmental laws and fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed on PIK regulations. 198 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emissions Year GJ GJ t CDE for transport fue t CDE for LPG 2014 5,719 23 413 4 2015 5,609 0 406 0 Total 11,328 23 819 4 PIK Vinkovci does not transport goods. The goods are transcompany cars, in 2014 it had 40, and in 2015 42. A decrease ported by the buyer or on the basis of agreements signed in LPG consumption recorded in 2014 was a result of a reducwith external companies. Agricultural machinery, such as tion in the number of gas powered field vehicles. In 2015, PIK tractors with trailers, trucks and forklifts, are used for inVinkovci did not use any LPG powered vehicles. ternal goods transport. In 2013, the company had 47 official Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 508,791.92 11,736.64 2015 538,498.69 47,152.00 Total 1,047,290.61 58,888.64 Waste disposal expenditures increased compared to the In 2015, two new systems were certified: ISCC (Interpreceding reporting period due to an increase in hazardous national Sustainability and Carbon Certification System) and waste disposal costs recorded in 2015 (PCB batteries), and an Dunav soja, which resulted in an increase in investment costs increase in the cost of disposal of sludge from septic pits and in this reporting period. animal waste recorded in 2014. Pursuant to its education program, the company conThe investments in waste management did not entail ducted internal training in the preparation of an environmenany monetary fee payments since the necessary waste disposal tal impact study without incurring monetary expenditures. containers were provided by licensed collecting organizations subject to the obligation of return. 199 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food PIK Vinkovci Specific standard disclosures Environmental protection goals for the next period Waste management system improvement (pollution prevention) • Reduction of municipal waste through separation of bio-waste at the Polača site by 5% • Installation of paper and cardboard disposal containers at the Lipovac site • Construction of an eco-island at the Sopot site Reduction of air emissions • Achieving compliance with the limit values for emissions of NO2 and CO in mazut heating plants by applying the best selected solution Reduction of soil emissions • Repairing and closing the floor-level storage for mineral manure with the aim of preventing dispersion • Installation of a fuel tank at the Lipovac site and obtaining the required documents • Improvement and repair of underground fuel tanks at the Sopot site • Connecting the production section of the Polača Purchase Center to HEP’s network Reduction of water emissions • Maintenance of the quality of wastewater in compliance with the related Water Management Licenses. Wastewater quality control will be ensured through regular analyses and monitoring of sewage systems. The parameter values obtained will be compared against the maximum amounts allowed. Improvement of emergency preparedness • Procurement of a mobile petroleum pump (1000 l) for the Zvirinac farm • Conducting environmental protection exercises in accordance with the operational plans for performing intervention measures in the event of extraordinary water pollution, and preparation of a report on the exercises conducted Collecting plastic bottle caps • At an annual level, about 40 kg of plastic bottle caps are collected and donated to the Croatian Leukemia and Lymphoma Association. The aim is to continue collecting bottle caps with the tendency of increasing the amount. Improvement of the existing condition through energy efficiency • Energy management system implementation and certification (ISO 50001) Compliance with legal requirements • Obtaining a license for withdrawing water from wells at the Zvirinac and Andrijaševci 2 farms to be used For process purposes • Obtaining Water Withdrawal Licenses for the Vinkovci, Sopot and Otok sites as well as for new wells that will be used for primary field and vegetable crop farming purposes • Replacement of asbestos roof plates • Roof plates will be replaced successively, according to the need for roof repairs, as determined by the Maintenance Department. In the next period, the company plans to change the roofing on one of the production facilities at its Vinkovci site. 200 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Vupik V ukovarski poljoprivredno-industrijski kombinat – Vupik dards and received the associated certificates for the followd.d. is an organization with a tradition dating from 1945 ing profit centers: Pig Farming and Field and Vegetable Crop when Savezno poljoprivredno dobro Vukovar was estabFarming. The company's compliance with the requirements of lished. In 1994, Vupik became a stock company and the Croathe ISCC and DS Standards was assessed by competent certifitian Privatization Fund became the company's majority owner. cation companies and the associated certificates were issued. After the peaceful reintegration in 1998, Vupik continued proThrough continuous development and verification of its sysduction and in 2010 became a member of the Agrokor Group. tems and business processes and thanks to its dedicated manAgricultural production at Vupik is divided in the folagement, Vupik confirms its commitment to improving its oplowing profit centers (PC): erations in line with the principle of sustainable development, • Vegetable Crop Farming PC, organized in three business while respecting the needs of all stakeholders affected by the units: Ovčara, Bobota and Grabovo, company's activities. • Viticulture and Wine Production PC, organized in two busiThe company only partly achieved its plans set for 2014 ness units: Winery and Viticulture, and 2015. The reconstruction of the Transfer Port PC was not • Pig Farming PC, organized in four business units, i.e. farms: completed because the funding was temporarily suspended. Ovčara 1, Ovčara 2, Bobota and Pačetin, The Grabovo farm irrigation system reconstruction and ex• Cattle Farming PC, organized in business units, i.e. farms: pansion project (to include another 600 ha) is currently in the Jakobovac, Klisa and Dubrava (dairy farms), Bobota (cattle development phase. The concept design has been prepared and fattening farm) and Lovas (heifer breeding farm), is pending approval by the Town and County authorities be• Transfer Port PC, organized in three business units – Maincause all underground works fall within their scope of authortenance, Dunav Silo and Bobota Silo. The Transfer Port PC ity. Finally, the company opted not to invest in the Opatovac cooperates with four business units located in Vukovar, Bofarm. bota, Čakovci and Trpinja, and the Tourism and Hospitality The process of obtaining Water Management Licenses BU, which includes the Goldschmidt Vineyard House. was fully completed. All Vupik sites now have Water ManageThe organization confirmed its commitment to environment Licenses. The company also conducted the testing of wamental protection by adopting the Environmental Manageter tightness of the sewage system at the Transfer Port PC, ment Policy. Due to the scope and complexity of its operations, Dunav Silo BU. The HACCAP system was implemented in the the company established a Management System Department, following business units: Winery, Dunav Silo and Bobota Silo. as the central department for integrated systems, already at The systems were verified after inspection audits conducted the end of 2013. By the end of 2015, the company implemented in 2015. The company is currently in the preparation phase for the ISO 14001 and GlobalGap environmental protection stanISO 9001:2015 certification. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume The percentage of materials used by weight and volume vartions, modernization of agricultural machinery and imies if 2014 and 2015 are compared. provement of technological processes. Compared to 2014, the amount of raw materials used in production processes increased by 5.3% in 2015 as agriType of material used (kg) 2014 2015 cultural production specifics were dictated by crop rotation Raw materials 112,841,744 118,833,128 requirements. In 2015, the amount of associated process maAssociated process materials 941,659 1,168,693 terials used increased by 24% compared to 2014, while the amount of materials used for packaging purposes was relaMaterials for packaging purposes 14,034,872 14,012,665 tively similar, i.e. it decreased by 0.2%. Total 127,818,275 134,014,486 Compared to the preceding reporting period, the percentage of materials/raw materials used by weight and volume If the two reporting periods are compared, it is evident that the in 2014 and 2015 grew by 26.8%, in proportion with the inamount of materials used for packaging purposes increased crease in total production. significantly in this reporting period, i.e. by 342.7%. Such a The amount of associated process materials decreased significant increase is closely correlated with an increase in the by 25.6% as a result of rationalization of business operavolume of artificial manure and wine packaging activity. 201 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Vupik Energy Specific standard disclosures EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 renewal of the fleet used by the Field and Vegetable Crop Fuel 55,845 47,966 Farming PC. The company also recorded a 41.2% decrease in natural gas consumption thanks to favorable weather condiNatural gas 37,658 22,150 tions that made the drying of the grains and oil plants at the Electricity 23,362 22,122 Transfer Port PC (Dunav and Bobota sites) unnecessary, and a Total 116,865 92,238 decrease in electricity consumption by 5.3%. If the two reporting periods are compared, it is evident If the two reporting years are compared in terms of enerthat, due to the above mentioned reasons, total fuel consumpgy consumption within the organization (GJ), it is evident tion and total natural gas consumption decreased by 9.3% that fuel consumption decreased by 14.1% as a result of the and 2.8% respectively. EN5: Energy intensity Energy intensity (GJ/t) 2014 2015 tion amounted to 191,564 t of units produced and total energy consumption amounted to 92,238.00 GJ. As a result, energy Energy 0.477 0.481 intensity amounted to 0.481 GJ/t, i.e. it increased negligibly by In 2014, energy intensity, i.e. the ratio between total energy 0.84%. The mentioned decrease in production was caused by the consumption (116,865.00 GJ) and total production (244,654 t of smaller share of sugar beet in crop rotation, which further reunits produced), amounted to 0.477 GJ/t. In 2015, total producsulted in a proportionate reduction of energy consumption. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Fuel consumption recorded in the preceding reporting periFarming PC. Diesel fuel consumption decreased because the od amounted to 114,491.00 GJ. In the 2014/2015 reporting company started applying new production technologies and period, fuel consumption amounted to 103.811.00 GJ. It is reduced its soil treatment activities. Natural gas consumpevident that fuel consumption decreased by 9.3%. The reduction decreased thanks to favorable climatic conditions and tion in fuel consumption was to a large extent contributed by the consequent reduction in intensity of operation of the drythe renewal of the fleet used by the Field and Vegetable Crop ing facility. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source In 2015, the company recorded a negligible increase in the reaching 1,336,050 m3 since the crops planted in the Grabovo volume of water withdrawn from wells due to an increase in fields are more difficult to cultivate and require more watotal farm production volume. The volume of water consumed ter. Furthermore, the surface area of the fields where vegefrom the municipal supplies decreased thanks to the installatable crops were planted during the initial planting period tion of a remote meter reading device and a return-style presincreased by 13 ha in 2015 to the detriment of the field crops sure regulator, the so-called non-return valves, in case the (vegetable crops require more water than field crops). Bepressure in the municipal network falls. cause of the same reasons, the volume of water withdrawn from the wells and the municipal supply network increased Total water withdrawal (m3) 2014 2015 by 13,2% and 4.3% respectively. Iz vrela 654,073 1,336,050 If the two reporting periods are compared, it is evident that the increase in the volume of water withdrawn from the From wells 287,264 325,263 Grabovo lake increased in this reporting period by 11.4%, From the public water supply system 14,277 14,895 while the volume of water withdrawn from wells increased by 20%. Such an increase in water withdrawal is justified by Total volume of water withdrawn 955,614 1,676,208 the fact that in 2012 and 2013 subsequent planting was performed on 176 ha, compared to 278 ha planted in 2014 and Compared to 2014, the volume of water withdrawn from the 2015. The 20% increase in water withdrawal from wells is a Grabovo accumulation lake increased by 104.3% in 2015 result of an increase in production on the farms. 202 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Vupik Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse to favorable climatic conditions during the harvest. CO2 air 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) emissions decreased by 34.4 % as a result of the smaller inProduction plants 1,786 1,173 tensity of operation of the grain and oil plant drying facility. Fuel for transport 384 252 If the two reporting periods are compared, it is evident Total 2,170 1,425 that direct greenhouse gas emissions generated by production plants and combustion of fuel used for transportation Direct greenhouse gas emissions produced as a result of fuel purposes decreased by 19.6% because the company outcombustion in 2014 amounted to 2,170 t of CO2. sourced the transportation activities to an external transporIn 2015, fuel consumption significantly decreased thanks tation services provider, Ricardo d.o.o. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Since energy indirect greenhouse gas air emissions also refer If the two reporting periods are compared, it is evident that to the electricity supplied for production purposes, indirect indirect greenhouse gas emissions increased by 151% as a emissions are expressed as the ratio between t CO2 e recorded result of an increase in the amount of electricity used in proin 2014 and 2015, indicating an increase of 5.22%. duction processes, including electricity used to withdraw water from the Grabovo lake to water the field crops, electricity Indirect greenhouse used to pack manure and bottle wine, electricity used to build 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) the new biogas plant and electricity used to power the new Electricity 5,841 6,145.20 slurry mixers and thus facilitate its application onto arable land through a system of depositing devices. EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity In 2014, the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions at the levby 21.1% thanks to favorable climatic conditions and the conel of Vupik amounted to 0.008 (CO2 kg/production kg). Consequent smaller intensity of operation of the drying facility. crete data can be obtained by calculating the ratio between The energy used in production processes is expressed the amount of greenhouse gas emissions (CO2) generated in GJ and multiplied by 0.84532 t CO2/GJ in order to obtain by a particular profit center and the total production of that the amount of released CO2 (t)/product unit in tons. same profit center. As a result of gas and liquid fuel consumption, Vupik emitted 2,170 t of CO2 into the atmosphere Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2014 2015 in 2014. CO2 emissions / unit produced 98.8 77.97 In 2015, the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions amounted to 0.007 (CO2 kg/production kg). Energy consumpCompared to the preceding reporting period, the intensity tion within the organization (GJ) amounted to 1,425 t CO2. of CO2 emissions per product unit decreased by 25% in this Compared to 2014, the intensity of greenhouse gas emisreporting period as a result of activities aimed at rationalizasions, i.e. CO2 emissions (t)/product unit, decreased in 2015 tion of technological processes. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions The values for 2014 were taken from the Environmental As evident from the table below, emissions of NO2 and CO dePollution Register. Only the values referring to the scope of creased in 2015 by 15.1% and 48% respectively. application of the reporting requirements were confirmed. In Compared to the preceding reporting period, air emis2015, however, all sites were taken into consideration regardsions of NO2 and CO increased by 1.9% and 8.6% respectively. less of whether they are required to report data to the Environmental Pollution Register or not. In order to address the Air emissions (t) 2014 2015 non-compliances identified, which proved to be significant, NO2 0.614 0.521 the company plans to prepare a maintenance and monitoring plan for the next period in order to get more concrete data. CO2 0.125 0.065 203 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Vupik Specific standard disclosures EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination In 2014 and 2015, the results of all wastewater analyses were wastewater into the soil. Water discharge costs, i.e. fees in compliance with the maximum amounts allowed. Total could be significantly reduced by investing in wastewater water discharge amounted to 50,766 m³ in 2014 and 48,907 flow meters. m³ in 2015. If total water discharge values recorded in 2014 and 2015 are compared to the preceding reporting period from Year Total water discharge (m3) the aspect of quality, it is evident that the volume of water 2014 50,766 discharged increased by 118.58 %. This increase occurred after the company obtained Water Management Licenses 2015 48,907 for all its sites. More precisely, pursuant to new legal reguTotal 99,673 lations, the volume of water discharged at sites that do not have wastewater flow meters installed is set to 40% of total The company recorded a decrease of 3.66% in total wastewater sources affected by withdrawal. Using the mentioned water discharge. The volumes of wastewater were taken 40% as the basis for calculation, water discharge fees were from the set of data reported to Hrvatske vode pursuant to determined for such sites as well, which was not the case in Water Management Licenses for all sites that discharge the preceding reporting period. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method In 2014, the total amount of non-hazardous waste collected management and implementation of the ISO 14001:2004 by collecting organizations from temporary waste disposal Standard. areas at Vupik sites decreased by 17% compared to 2013. In Hazardous waste generated at Vupik includes: waste mothe structure of non-hazardous waste, the amount of the coltor oil (machines), packaging containing traces of hazardous lected plastic and paper packaging increased, and the amount substances (chemical substances – pesticides), infectious waste of iron decreased. The amount of hazardous waste decreased (pig and cattle farms), oil absorbents (workshops), oil filters by 25% compared to the preceding reporting period. The (workshops, machines) and led batteries (engine batteries). All company takes care of the health of its animals and makes hazardous waste is separated in designated containers. efforts to reduce the amount of drugs used, which resultIn this biannual reporting period, total weight of ed in a decrease in infectious and pharmaceutical waste in non-hazardous and hazardous waste decreased by 10.4% and this reporting period. On the basis of the related certificate 21% respectively. Larger amounts of non-hazardous waste received, the company committed itself to adhere to the prinrecorded in 2012 and 2013 were caused by an increase in ciple of sustainable development. The company’s goals, i.e. amounts of iron and steel waste produced during the reconreduction of waste and waste disposal costs, can be achieved struction of facilities performed in that period, which were through education and efforts aimed at raising the awareness collected and transported for disposal purposes. The fleet reof the need to separate waste. newal executed in the preceding reporting period resulted in In 2015, Vupik produced 175,695 t of non-hazardous a reduction of motor oil waste generation. waste, i.e. 9.3% more than in 2014, due to an increase in Weight of waste (t) 2014 2015 the amount of raw materials used in production. The same year, the company produced 14,054 t of hazardous waste, i.e. Non-hazardous 160,70 175,70 only 0.8% more than in 2014 (13,949 t), thanks to efficient Hazardous 13,95 14,05 Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce All company transportation systems cause environmental Utjecaj prijevoza na okoliš 2014 2015 impacts. Vupik is no exception. Transport activities produce air emissions (the focus is placed primarily on emissions of Fuel for transport (GJ) 54,445 47,966 CO2 as primary emissions generated from fuel consumption). Total CO2 emissions (t CO2 e) for fuel 384 338 204 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Vupik In 2014, Vupik had 27 company cars. Vupik employees come The benefits achieved by reducing the number of vehicles to work by personal cars or using public transportation. and replacing the old vehicles with new ones were even more Freight is transported by Ricardo d.o.o. Darda, an external prominent in 2015. The same year, CO2 emissions from transtransportation services provider. port fuel (GJ) decreased by 11.9%, while total CO2 emissions from fuel decreased by 12%. Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Troškovi 2014 2015 successful educational program on the topic of waste sepaWaste disposal, emissions treatment, ration. Prevention and environmental management costs in154,537.20 121,360.63 creased by 9.67% due to education expenditures incurred. and remediation costs Compared to the preceding reporting period, waste disPrevention and environmental 46,511.61 51,009.00 posal, emissions treatment and remediation costs decreased by management costs 10.01% because, at that time, Vupik was transporting the waste Total 201,048.81 172,369.63 and clearing the sites after the reconstruction of facilities or commercial yards. Prevention and environmental management Waste disposal and emissions treatment costs decreased by costs increased by 4.8 as a result of investments made in con21.47% in 2015 as a result of waste separation efforts and the struction of eco islands, certification and education. The plans set for 2016 and 2017 include: • construction of a 2 ha greenhouse for vegetable crop cultivation; • reconstruction and extension of the irrigation system at the Grabovo BU by another 600 ha and the automation of the existing irrigation system; • a public private partnership project – construction of the pipeline of the transfer pump station on the Danube River for the purpose of maintaining the biological minimum in the Grabovo lake; • reconstruction of the Jakobovac farm; • construction of an automated floor storage at the Transfer Port PC and reconstruction of a two-row silo; • construction of the central storage for protective gear used by all profit centers; • certification in accordance with the requirements of the ISO 9001:2015 Standard (all PCs and departments); • recertification in accordance with the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 Standard; • laying a new epoxide layer at the Winery BU (applying for a grant from the National wine sector assistance program 2014 – 2018). 205 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Kikindski mlin Specific standard disclosures A ccording to the historical data, the steam mill of Ve• the company's fleet was sold (3 personal cars, 2 trucks with lika Kikinda called Damfil was founded in 1862. The trailers and 2 tow trucks), which resulted in a significant first company that invested capital in the steam mill in reduction of fuel consumption and exhaust gas emissions. Kikinda was formed in 1869. Since 2005, the majority owners In 2014, the company successfully implemented the SRPS ISO of Kikindski mlin are Dijamant A.D. – Zrenjanin and Frikom 14001:2005 Standard and received the relevant certificate. In A.D. – Belgrade. 2015, it also started implementing the EN ISO 22000:2005 The primary activities of Kikindski mlin include raw mateStandard. rials storage and warehousing, wheat processing and laboraThe goals defined for this reporting period included: tory testing services provided at the accredited laboratory in • Contribution to the reduction of air pollution – In 2014, air Kikinda. quality improvements were achieved through development The capacity of the mill in Kikinda is 135 t/day and it is powand installation of bolts on entry arms of fans used for venered by electricity. Thanks to the quality of equipment and tilating the machine compartment of silo B. In addition, the production capacity, the Kikinda mill belongs among the leadold drying facility installed within the concrete silo was ing milling plants in the country. At Kikindski mlin, raw madisassembled and removed by August 31, 2015; terials are stored in silos. Finished goods are stored in ware• Contribution to the reduction of noise pollution – In 2014, houses with a total capacity of 5000 t and the flour is stored compliance of noise indicator values with legal requirein a concrete silo with a capacity of 1,100 t. The milling plant ments for outdoor sites was achieved through installation also includes a pasta production unit. The pasta product mix of a noise reduction device on pneumatic fans in the mill includes short-cut pasta and pasta coiled into nests. The caand ventilation fans in the machinery compartment of silo pacity of the production line for pasta coiled into nests is 200 B. In 2015, the company also developed and installed a noise kg/h, while the capacity of the production line for short-cut reduction device on the ventilation fan of the grit machine. pasta is 300 kg/h. The primary energy source used is electric• Contribution to the reduction of consumption of non-renewity, whereas natural gas is used to heat the water used in the able natural resources – In 2014, the company achieved a repasta drying process. duction in energy consumption (electricity, natural gas and During the reporting period, the company approved and adpetroleum derivatives) by keeping a record of the use of natopted the following: ural resources and energy sources that allows data filtering, • a QMS in accordance with the requirements of the SRPS by introducing a system for comparing the use of non-reISO 9001:2008 Standard, newable natural resources in 2014 and 2013, and by imple• the principles contained in the CODEX ALIMENTARIUS menting the Instructions for Prevention or Reduction of AdCAC / RCP 1-1969; revision 4 (2003) and an HACCP system, verse Environmental Impacts. In 2015, a compensation en• a QM laboratory in compliance with the requirements of ergy regulator was installed in the transformation stations the SRPS ISO/IEC 17025: 2006 Standard for the reported of the mill, silo A and silo B, and thermostatic valves were accreditation scope, installed on radiators in the basement of the administra• an environmental management system (EMS) in accortion building and in the mill. Rational use of non-renewdance with the requirements of the SRPS ISO 14001:2005 able natural resources was achieved through rational use of Standard whose scope of application extends to all company electricity and by making sure that all employees set their sites in Kikinda and all organizational parts involved in the thermostats at optimal temperature; production and sale of grain products and flour. • Improvement of the waste management process – In 2014, Activities carried out in the course of this reporting period, waste recyclability increased through selection of and signwhich contributed significantly to the reduction of adverse ening agreements with licensed industrial waste collecting vironmental impacts: organizations and separation of waste at the point of ori• the old grain drying facility was disassembled (by August gin. The hazardous waste storage facility was renovated and 31, 2015), which contributed significantly to the reduction the amount of waste recycled by separating waste paper, of air pollution and natural gas consumption; cardboard and plastics from the mixed municipal waste in• the existing equipment was disassembled and new reactive creased. Among other things, a system for timely waste colenergy compensation batteries were installed in transforlection and transport for disposal purposes and a system for mation stations of plant I, silo A and silo B, which resultmonitoring and prevention of waste dispersion outside the ed in a reduction of active energy consumption and helped designated containers were implemented in 2014 as well. In achieve a significant reduction in consumption of non-re2015, waste material was collected and transported for disnewable natural resources through a decrease in natural posal purposes by licensed collecting organizations. A regas consumption; duction in waste generation recorded in 2015 was achieved 206 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Kikindski mlin through involvement of all employees in separation and col• Education and raising the environmental awareness of emlection of waste as well as electronic distribution of docuployees – In 2014, the environmental awareness of employments; ees was achieved by ensuring that all employees are famil• Improvement of the system for informing interested parties iar with the implementation of EMS requirements, amend– Environmental protection information was provided to all ments to the EMS related job descriptions and activities, as interested parties by posting the Quality, Food Safety and well as by conducting all the planned educational activities Environmental Protection Policy on the company's website. on the topic of environmental protection intended for emIn addition, the website was also used to provide regular inployees. In 2015, employees were trained in EMS requireformation about the EMS and to ensure that wheat suppliers ments implementation and all employees were informed are familiar with the implemented EMS and the company's about the manner in which adverse environmental impacts Code of Conduct; can be reduced. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 volume of production and sales of products. The amount of raw materials used in this reporting period thus increased Raw materials 33,439,840 38,198,360 by 30.73% compared to the preceding reporting period. The Associated process materials 752 330 amount of associated process materials used in 2015 deMaterials for packaging purposes 274,395 261,423 creased by 56.12% compared to 2014 as a result of changes in the structure of production, continuing the trend recordTotal 33,714,987 38,460,113 ed in the preceding reporting period. Compared to 2014, the amount of materials used for packaging purposes decreased Compared to 2014, the amount of raw materials used inby 4.73% in 2015 as a result of a reduction in delivery of discreased by 14.23% in 2015 as a result of an increase in the persed products or products in bulk. Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Natural gas Indirect energy consumption by primary source (indirect energy obtained Year Diesel (GJ) LPG (GJ) (GJ) and used from nonrenewable energy sources) 2014 3,449 8,619 89 Year Electricity (GJ) 2015 553 5,291 97 2014 12,639 Total 4,002 13,910 191 2015 13,749 Total 26,388 Natural gas is primarily used for pasta production and heating of facilities. A decrease in natural gas consumption recorded in 2015 is a result of the disassembly of the drying Kikindski mlin uses LPG forklifts to load, unload and move facility. More precisely, raw materials were not dried. The refinished products. In proportion with the increase in the volcorded decrease is the continuation of the trend that began in ume of production and sales, LPG consumption increased in the preceding reporting period. Total reduction of natural gas this reporting period by 8,99%. consumption thus amounted to 38.61 %. Kikindski mlin uses electricity to power the machines At Kikindski mlin, diesel fuel is used for transportaand for lighting purposes. Electricity consumption follows tion purposes. In 2015, diesel fuel consumption decreased by the trend of increase in the volume of production and sales. 590.05% compared to the previous period as a result of the More precisely, it grew by 16.32% in this reporting period. divestment of the company's fleet previously used to transport finished products and outsourcing the transportation services to an external company. 207 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Kikindski mlin Specific standard disclosures EN5: Energy intensity Ukupna energija po jedinici proizvoda creased by 32.52% as a result of an increase in the volume Year of production and sales. Continuous machine operation, as (GJ/t) a method of production, was introduced in the preceding 2014 0.719 reporting period. Active energy consumption decreased as 2015 0.498 a result of installing new reactive energy compensation batProsječna vrijednost 0.6085 teries in transformation stations of plant I, silo A and silo B. Continuous operation in four shifts ensures a lower elecCompared to 2014, total energy consumption per ton of units tric motor stoppage frequency rate. More precisely, a huge produced decreased by 30.73% in 2015. In the course of 2015, amount of energy is required to start electric motors, so that production and sales volumes grew. Production units operatany stoppage leads to an increase in active energy consumped continuously in four shifts seven days a week. Compared tion. Thanks to continuous operation, the amount of finished to the preceding reporting period, energy consumption deproducts increased, while energy consumption decreased. Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Kikindski mlin withdraws water from its own well and while the volume of water withdrawn from the municipal the municipal supplies. Water is used to prepare wheat for supplies decreased, albeit negligibly. grounding in milling plants, pasta production and laboratory From From the public water Total volume of testing processes. Water is also used for fire protection purYear own wells supply system water withdrawn poses, as well as employee and workspace hygiene maintenance. In this reporting period, the volume of water with2014 1,957 466 2,423 drawn from own wells increased by 20.82% in proportion 2015 2,216 465 2,681 with the trend of increase in production and sales volumes, Total 4,173 931 5,104 EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) At Kikindski mlin, direct greenhouse gas emissions are prothey increased by 20%, as a result of increased use of interduced as a result of combustion of natural gas, diesel fuel nal transport vehicles due to an increase in production and and, to a lesser degree, LPG. Compared to 2014, the amount sales. of greenhouse gas emitted decreased by 54.29% in 2015, which is ascribed to a milder winter and higher average daily Direct greenhouse 2014 2015 temperatures. The disposal of the company’s fleet resulted in gas emissions (t CDE) a proportional decrease in the amount of fuel used and thus Production plants 484 297 also in the total amount of direct greenhouse gas emissions. The same trend was recorded in the preceding reporting peFuel for transport 267 43 riod, and total direct greenhouse gas air emissions decreased LPG 6 6 by 48.12%. In this reporting period, LPG emissions were the Total 757 346 same. Compared to the preceding reporting period, however, EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from elecIndirect greenhouse 2014 2015 tricity consumption. Kikindski mlin uses electricity to power gas emissions (t CDE) its machines and lighting system. Electricity consumption folElectricity 824 897 lows the trend of increase in production and sales. Compared Total 824 897 to 2014, electricity consumption increased by 8.86% in 2015 and, compared to the preceding period, it increased by 16.49%. 208 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Kikindski mlin EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity As a result of the divestment of the fleet and signing an Greenhouse gas emissions intensit 2014 2015 agreement with an external transport services provider in this reporting period, the company recorded a decrease in CO2 e / t of units produced 1,581 1,243 greenhouse gas emissions intensity per ton of units produced of 13,56% compared to the preceding reporting period. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Air emissions (t) The amount of air emissions generated by Kikindski mlin are negligible, as the company, in its industrial production proYear NO2 CO cess, does not use any fuels that emit large amounts of NOx or 2014 0.86 0.09 SOx , such as coal, mazut, heating oil or firewood, but exclusively natural gas. The decrease in greenhouse gas emissions 2015 0.53 0.05 recorded in this reporting period is also a result of the divestTotal 1.39 0.14 ment of the company's external transport vehicles. Compared to the previous period, the amount of NO2 emissions decreased by 27.40% and the amount of CO emissions by 28.57%. EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Year Total water discharge (m3) al production process, the company does not discharge pro2014 951 cess wastewater, but only sanitary and atmospheric wastewater. When discharged, water is mechanically treated in a 2015 978 longitudinal sedimentation tank, and wastewater measureTotal 1,929 ment and analysis are not performed. This indicator also reflects the trend of increase in production and sales volumes. In this reporting period, Kikindski mlin used the same techCompared to the preceding reporting period, total water disnology as in the previous one. More precisely, in its industricharge increased by 2.26%. EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste R Ecology Action d.o.o. Kikinda 90.64 151.14 Hazardous waste D Miteco Kneževac d.o.o. 0 1.66 Total Beograd 90.64 152.80 Considering the total amount of waste disposed of during reactive power compensation equipment was written off and the reporting years, it is evident that the company recorded the hazardous waste in the form of condenser batteries was a significant increase in the total amount of both hazardous disposed of. Compared to the preceding reporting period, the and non-hazardous waste in 2015. The mentioned increase total amount of non-hazardous waste increased by 1,321.15% was caused by the disassembly of the old drying facility and as a result of the disassembly of the old drying facility. No disposal of the resulting waste, primarily scrap metal that hazardous waste was recorded in the preceding reporting belongs to the category of non-hazardous waste. In 2015, period. 209 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Kikindski mlin Specific standard disclosures Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emissions Year t CO2 equivalent t CO2 equivalent GJ GJ for Fuel for LPG 2014 3,449 94 267 6 2015 553 97 43 6 Total 4,002 191 310 12 No significant environmental impacts were caused by transtransport finished goods and signing an agreement with an porting raw materials, other input materials, finished goods or external transportation services provider. Consequently, emismembers of the workforce. Compared to the preceding reportsions decreased as well. Compared to the preceding reporting ing period, the amount of fuel used for transportation purposperiod, the amount of LPG consumed increased by 15.46% as es decreased by 590.05%. The reason for such a decrease in a result of an increase in the volume of production and more consumption is the divestment of vehicles previously used to frequent use of internal transport vehicles. Goals and plans for 2016 and 2017 In the course of 2016, the company plans to assemble a new grain drying facility that will be more energy efficient and cause less environmental impacts in terms of emissions of powdery substances. In May 2016, the company plans to have its QMS and EMS recertified and its food safety management system certified in accordance with the requirements of the EN ISO 22000:2005 Standard. The following goals have been defined for the next reporting period: • Assembly of a new grain drying facility that will be more energy efficient and cause less environmental impacts in terms of emissions of powdery substances; • Recertification of the company's QMS and EMS and certification of its food safety management system in accordance with the requirements of the EN ISO 22000:2005 Standard are scheduled for May 16, 2016 and May 17, 2016; • Contribution to the reduction of air pollution – the company plans to reduce the air emissions of powdery substances by replacing the filter bags used in pneumatic filters in the mill during machine and equipment repair, and developing and installing a dust collection system in machinery compartments of silo A and silo B; • Contribution to the reduction of noise pollution – the company plans to reduce noise pollution caused by machine operation by developing and installing a noise mitigating device on dust collector fans in silo A and silo B; • Raising the environmental awareness of the members of the workforce – the company plans to continue its efforts aimed at raising the awareness of the members of the workforce concerning environmental protection through employee training in waste management and reduction, as well as concerning the need to contribute to the reduction of consumption of non-renewable natural resources. The company also plans to check whether the designed EMS complies with the EMS requirements. 210 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Retail Solana Pag S olana Pag d.d. is the largest sea salt producer in CroaHaving put in place and implemented the Quality, Envitia. The company uses a kind of production technology ronmental Protection and Food Safety Policy, Solana Pag has that takes maximum advantage of the natural qualities ensured safety and quality of its operations, as well as comof the area where it is located (clean environment, large numpliance of the entire production process, from seawater withber of sunny days, pleasant wind). The first written records drawal to the finished product, and the resulting environmenabout salt pans on Pag date from the 9th century, which contal impacts with requirements of the Codex Alimentarius and firms the fact that the conditions this region offers are truly the ISO 14001:2004 Standard. In 2006, our HACCP system favorable for salt production. The several hundred years old was certified according to the requirements of the Codex Altradition of salt production commits us to maintain customer imentarius. In 2009, Solana Pag's products were Kosher cerloyalty by creating quality products. tified. In 2011, Solana Pag started implementing an environIn 1995, Solana Pag d.d. became a member of the mental management system certified in accordance with the Agrokor Group and started expanding its product mix. Besides requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 Standard. fine and coarse sea salt, the company today also produces salt In 2014, the company started implementing the Coarse flower, dishwasher salt, bathing salt and seasoned salt. Salt Washing Plant project. The implementation continued Solana Pag is a combined solar thermal salt pan. This throughout 2015. The company installed a new drying facilmeans that 90% of production takes place in outdoor ponds, ity and a new mill, thus making additional positive steps in and 10% in the industrial plant under controlled conditions. In the environmental protection segment in terms of reduction this manner, the share of impure substances from the salt is of consumption and replacement of the previously used enreduced to the minimum and the quality of salt is enhanced. ergy source with a new, more environmentally friendly one The process of producing salt from the sea starts by releas(the company switched from medium heating oil to extra light ing seawater with particular initial concentration of salt into heating oil). In doing so, it also improved the quality of exthe shallow pond system where it is exposed to the sun and haust gases. The results of these improvements will be largely the wind. It is where 90% of the water evaporates naturally. noticed in the next reporting period. The condensed seawater (brine) is then transferred into the The company is currently in the process of receiving the vacuum evaporation station where the salt crystalizes. The national Protected Designation of Origin label for Pag salt and so-obtained salt is iodized, dried, sieved and packed or it is Pag salt flower. stored non-iodized for further use. From the beginning of the The initial surveillance audits of the HACCP and ISO production process until the finished product, salt is tested in 14001:2004 systems were performed. The auditors estabthe company's laboratory and, as far as food safety and quallished that the non-compliances identified during last year's ity control aspects are concerned, it is also continuously conrecertification audit were have been eliminated, and that trolled by accredited state laboratories, as well as sanitary and the goals set for the preceding reporting period have been veterinary inspections. achieved. Materials EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Type of material used (kg) 2014 2015 is why brine production output was significantly greater than in 2014. Compared to 2015, the production periRaw materials 62,830,000 94,245,000 od in the preceding reporting period was shorter. Hence, Associated process materials 6,871,175 10,289,898 the amount of raw materials used was smaller than in Materials for packaging purposes 850,286 876,851 2015. The annual salt production output recorded in 2015 (18,000 t) was significantly greater than in 2014 (10,800 t). Total 70,551,461 105,411,749 Consequently, the amount of the energy source used (wood biomass) was also greater than in 2014, i.e. 10,000 tons In 2015, the company recorded an increase in consumption compared to 6,600 t. Since the period of production was of raw materials (brine) and associated process materials shorter in the preceding reporting period, the annual prothanks to favorable weather conditions during the most duction output was smaller, and so was the amount of the suitable period of the year for brine production, which energy source used. 211 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Solana Pag Specific standard disclosures Energy EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Year Fuel (GJ) Natural gas (GJ) LPG (GJ) The amount of wood used for thermal energy production in 2014 10,515 / 215 2015 (10,000 t) increased compared to 2014 (6,699 t) due to an extended production period and the larger salt production 2015 11,580 / 250 output. Compared to the preceding reporting period, conTotal 22,095 / 465 sumption of all types of fuel increased due to an extended period of production. Total fuel consumption from renewable sources Total electricity consumption Year Wood – biomass (GJ) Year Electricity (GJ) 2014 99,000 2014 7,749 2015 150,000 2015 8,265 Total 249,000 Total 16,014 In 2015, fuel consumption (non-renewable energy sources) Compared to 2014, electricity consumption increased in 2015 increased compared to 2014. as a result of an extended period of production and an inMedium heating oil consumption decreased because creased salt production output. The amount of electricity used the small boiler powered by this type of fuel operated for in the preceding reporting period was greater than in 2015 only three months. Afterwards, medium heating oil formereven though the production period was shorter and the proly used for salt drying purposes was replaced by extra light duction volume smaller, thanks to the installation of a new heating oil (new drying facility), which was used for the rest drying facility and its mode of operation that resulted in a of the year. The increased consumption therefore refers to the reduction of energy consumption. More precisely, the new use of extra light heating oil. drying facility operates independently from the rest of the proCompared to 2014, LPG consumption slightly increased duction process and the biomass heating plant. Consequently, in 2015 as a result of an increased goods loading frequency less electricity is used, particularly when the production plant rate, and the use of forklifts in the process of replacing the is inactive, i.e. when all that is left to be done is to dry the salt. old drying facility. EN5: Energy intensity Year Energy intensity (GJ/t) creased in 2015. The amount of energy consumed depends on the input raw material, i.e. the concentration of salt in the in2014 10.87 put raw material. To produce salt from the brine, the remain2015 9.40 ing water must be evaporated before salt can start to crystalize in the vacuum evaporation station. 2015 was an excellent Energy intensity is the ratio of total energy consumption to year for brine production. Thanks to favorable weather conditotal production volume. Energy intensity calculations for tions, i.e. extremely dry and sunny days, the average concen2014 and 2015 look as follows: tration of salt in the brine was 23,6 °Bé, compared to 2014 • Energy intensity (GJ/t) = Σ EN3 2015/total production 2015 = when it was below 21 °Bé. 170095 GJ / 18000 t = 9.4 GJ / t As a result, a smaller volume of water had to be evapo• Energy intensity (GJ/t) = Σ EN3 2014/ total production 2014 = rated from the brine to achieve the same salt production out117.479 GJ/10.800 t = 10,87 GJ/t put. Consequently, a smaller amount of energy was needed in It is evident that, compared to 2014, energy intensity de2015 as well. EN6: Reduction of energy consumption In the course of 2015, the amount of thermal energy required duction volume, and consequently less thermal energy was per unit of salt produced was smaller due to already menneeded to complete the evaporation process. tioned reasons (favorable weather conditions during summer The required amount of electricity per unit of salt promonths). Hence, a smaller volume of water had to be evapoduced also decreased in 2015 (127.6 kWh/t salt) compared to rated from the condensed seawater to achieve the same pro2014 (199.3 kWh/t salt). What contributed to the mentioned 212 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Solana Pag reduction in energy consumption were the improved quality of and the biomass heating plant. The commissioning of the new the input raw material and production system modifications. drying facility resulted in a reduction of electricity consumpIn 2015, the company installed a new drying facility that tion, particularly at times when the production plant is inactive. operates independently from the rest of the production process Water EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Public water Total volume of Year Brine Cooling seawater supply system water withdrawn 2014 61,000 1,046,400 21,179 1,128,579 2015 91,500 1,593,600 25,260 1,710,360 Total 152,500 2,640,000 46,439 2,838,939 Compared to the year before, a larger amount of brine was duced (1.403 m3/t) decreased in 2015 (1.961 m3/t). The menprocessed in 2015. The volume of the cooling seawater was in tioned decrease is a result of the replacement of the old dryline with the previous reports. ing facility with a new one that operates independently from In 2015, the company also recorded an increase in the biomass heating plant, particularly at times when the consumption of municipal water supplies due to an extended production plant is inactive. In the preceding reporting periproduction period. od, the total number of water sources affected by withdrawal It is important to note that, compared to 2014, conwas smaller as the production period was shorter. sumption of municipal water supplies per unit of salt proEmissions, Effluents and Waste EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Direct greenhouse generation are closely correlated with the duration and vol2014 2015 gas emissions (t CDE) ume of production, the increased amount of CO2 emissions is Production plants 5,574 8,813 a result of the larger salt production output. The amount of fuel used for transportation purposes (loading trucks, other Fuel for transport 81 79.48 trucks) is similar to the amount recorded in 2014. LPG 10 11.7 Compared to the preceding reporting period, the valTotal 5,665 8,904 ues increased in proportion with the production volume. CO2 emissions per unit of salt produced amounted to 0.49 t/t of In 2015, the company recorded an increase in CO2 emissions salt in 2015, while CO2 emissions per unit of salt produced as a result of an increased fuel consumption compared to recorded in the preceding reporting period amounted to 0.42 2014. Since fuel consumption and the related CO2 emissions t/t of salt. EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Indirect greenhouse consumption required to chop wood into wood fuel (biomass) 2014 2015 gas emissions (t CO2) to meet the increased production fuel demand. Compared to Electricity 508.79 542.79 the preceding reporting period, total emissions decreased by 6% since electricity consumption dropped after the new dryThe increase in indirect CO2 emissions recorded in 2015, in ing facility was commissioned. comparison with 2014, is a result of an increase in electricity 213 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Solana Pag Specific standard disclosures EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity In order to calculate the intensity of direct greenhouse gas In order to calculate the intensity of indirect greenhouse gas emissions in 2015, the company used the ratio of emissions emissions in 2015, the company used the ratio of emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent for the amount of wood biomass in tons of CO2 equivalent for the amount of electricity used in used in 2015 (7926.7 t) and the salt production volume re2015 (1,994,355 kWh) and the salt production volume recordcorded that same year (18,000 t). Hence, CO2 emissions per ed that same year (18,000 t). Hence, CO2 emissions per ton ton of salt produced amounted to 0.44 t in 2015. In 2014, CO2 of salt produced amounted to 0.026 t in 2015. In 2014, CO2 emissions per ton of salt produced amounted to 0.48 t. emissions per ton of salt produced amounted to 0,037 t. EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Instead of using non-renewable energy sources, the compasioned in 2015. The company also switched from medium heatny uses a CO2 neutral thermal energy production technology ing oil to extra light heating oil, thus improving the quality of (wood biomass). In addition, a new drying facility was commisexhaust gases. EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) In its production process, Solana Pag does not use ozone-depleting substances. EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Air emissions (t) amount of combusted material. The amount of CO emissions increased also due to higher carbon monoxide emission valYear SO2 NO2 CO ues obtained during air emission measurement carried out in 2014 1.57 8.25 0.08 2015 (large boiler, wood biomass). 2015 1.7 14 1.18 Compared to the preceding reporting period, the company recorded a decrease in air emissions of NO2. A decreasTotal 3.27 22.25 1.26 ing trend has been recorded ever since the new drying facility was commissioned and the small mazut boiler was decomCompared to 2014, emissions of air pollutants from stationmissioned. ary sources increased in 2015 as a result of an increase in the EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Year Total water discharge (m3) rated part condenses and as such is released into the sea, while 2014 1,125,112 the rest is the base alkali which is also discharged into the sea. Before being discharged, sanitary wastewater is treated in an 2015 1,703,742 aerobic wastewater treatment plant through biological proTotal 2,828,854 cesses, while process wastewater is treated in a sedimentation tank through physical processes. The wastewater discharged into the municipal sewage system Pursuant to the Water Management License issued includes process, cooling, sanitary and precipitation water. by Hrvatske vode, a water management company, on July 8, The amount of wastewater in 2015 was in proportion with the 2014 (valid until January 1, 2017), CLASS: UP/Iº-325-04/14amount of water withdrawn from the sea and other sources. 05/87, REG. NO.: 374-24-3-14-5/LP, discharging of the followFrom the total content of brine, the salt crystalizes, the evapoing wastewater into the sea is allowed: sanitary (treated in a 214 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Solana Pag biological wastewater treatment plant), process and cooling discharge of wastewater into the municipal sewage system, wastewater. The License also prescribes the sampling freexcept for process wastewater. More precisely, during the quency. Wastewater sampling and quality analysis are perproduction campaign, the values obtained on three out of six formed by the Zadar Public Health Institute. measurement occasions (parameter – suspended particles) The values of measured parameters obtained from all did not comply with the prescribed values. It is therefore necwastewater analyses comply with the requirements preessary to perform reconstruction of the deposit tank in 2016. scribed under the Water Management License allowing the EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Waste disposal contractors 2014 (t) 2015 (t) Nonhazardous waste Unijapapir, CeZaR, Arburoža,e-kolektor 64.99 92.2 Hazardous waste Ciak, IND EKO 0.74 30.84 Total 65.73 123.04 The increase in non-hazardous waste is in proportion with amount of hazardous waste significantly increased in 2015 the increase in production and packaging volumes. However, due to an extraordinary event. More precisely, a disaster octhe main contributor to the total increase in non-hazardous curred during the pouring of diesel fuel from a larger into a waste recorded in 2015 was the replacement of the old drysmaller container. More than 500 l of diesel fuel spilled. The ing facility with a new one, which resulted in an increased remediation activities were carried out in accordance with amount of metal waste (17 04 05). the prescribed procedures, but resulted in large amounts of Hazardous waste (080317*, 150110*, 150202*, 160506*, hazardous waste. Compared to the preceding reporting peri160601*, 200121*, 200133*, 130507*, 160213*, 160708*, od, the amount of waste, including both non-hazardous and 160209*, 130502*) is produced during regular annual mainhazardous waste, increased due to the mentioned remediatenance, machinery operation and use of certain materials tion activities and the extraordinary event. for office and laboratory purposes. Compared to 2014, the Compliance EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations In this reporting period, the company received no fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Solana Pag does not own vehicles used to transport products poses away from the island in a controlled manner. The comor buses used to transport members of the workforce to and pany only owns a truck used to transport wood (wood biomass) from work. Waste is collected and transported for disposal purand a loading truck used for packaging purposes (EN15). 215 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Business Group Food Solana Pag Specific standard disclosures Environmental Protection Investments EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Waste disposal, emission treatment Prevention and environmental Year and remediation costs (HRK) management costs (HRK) 2014 22,564.00 HRK 16,214.00 HRK 2015 119,758.49 HRK 14,213.86 HRK Total 142,322.49 HRK 30,427.86 HRK Compared to the preceding reporting period, the amount increased because of the cleaning costs incurred as a result of the extraordinary event. Goals for 2016 and 2017: • Construction of an indoor finished goods storage In the next reporting period, Solana Pag plans to carry out a number of activities which are expected to result in energy use and waste reduction, such as the construction of an indoor finished goods storage facility. Most of the goods are currently being stored in outdoor areas, which is considered improper and has been identified as such during several HACCP audits already. The need to transport the goods back to the packaging facility in order to replace the dirty stretch foil prior to shipment causes additional costs. • Factory re-roofing and floor repair The company plans to re-roof the factory because of identified roof leaks, and repair the worn-out floors. • Replacement of the salt centrifuge machine The company plans to invest in new equipment, i.e. replace the salt centrifuge machine, in order to reduce the failure rate, which is currently high because the machine is too old. • Repair of external asphalt surfaces The company plans to repair the asphalt surfaces of loading areas, which are currently indented, in order to extend the operational life of the forklifts. • Process wastewater quality improvement By the next production campaign, the company plans to clean the process wastewater deposit tank and build additional partitions in order to improve the quality of process wastewater. 216 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact in the Republic of Croatia (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress) and overview of GRI G4 indicators set out in the sustainability report of the Agrokor Group for 2014 and 2015 A grokor is signatory to the UN Global Compact sinannual report on the implementation of UN Global Compace 2007. Our orientation towards supporting the core ct principles (Communication on Progress) in the alternative social values promoted by the Global Compact is also years. This biennial report describes in detail our activities demonstrated by reporting on the activities of our business in all of the four areas of the Compact and the list of relevant group in the biennial sustainability reports, as well as the indicators pertaining to the respective areas is stated below. Introduction Organizational Profile Strategy Report Scope and Boundary EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within the scope of their influence; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 217 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN3 Energy consumption within the organization EN5 Energy intensity EN6 Reduction of energy consumption EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 218 ANNEX 1 Agrokor Group Ownership Structure Agrokor Ownership in Subsidiary Companies BUSINESS GROUP BUSINESS GROUP OTHER RETAIL FOOD BUSINESS Ambalažni servis d.o.o. HR................... 96.93% Agrokor Zagreb d.o.o. ...................... 80.34% Agkor d.o.o. ....................................... 55.30% Ambalažni servis d.o.o. BIH................ 100.00% Agrolaguna d.d................................... 85.22% Agrokor AG ...................................... 100.00% Ambalažni servis d.o.o. Srbija................. 96.93% Belje d.d............................................. 94.23% Agrokor Energija d.o.o.................... 100.00% Angropromet d.o.o. .............................. 96.93% Dijamant a.d....................................... 96.14% Agrokor kft. ...................................... 100.00% Euroviba d.o.o. ................................... 91.57% Frikom d.o.o. ..................................... 55.30% Agrokor trgovina d.o.o.................... 100.00% Idea d.o.o............................................ 96.93% Fonyodi kft. ........................................ 80.44% INIT d.d. ............................................. 67.00% Frikom Beograd dooel......................... 55.30% Irida d.o.o. .......................................... 55.30% Kor Broker d.o.o. .............................. 100.00% Jamnica d.o.o. Beograd....................... 80.44% Jamnica d.d. ...................................... 80.44% Kron d.o.o. ....................................... 100.00% Jamnica d.o.o. Maribor........................ 80.44% Kikindski mlin a.d............................... 82.74% L.G. Moslavina d.o.o. ........................ 100.00% Konzum d.d. ....................................... 96.93% Ledo d.d............................................. 55.30% M-profil SPV d.o.o............................. 100.00% Konzum d.o.o. Sarajevo......................100.00% Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk ............................... 55.30% mStart d.o.o. .................................... 100.00% Krka d.o.o. .......................................... 79.88% Ledo kft.............................................. 55.30% Projektgradnja d.o.o............................ 80.86% Ledo d.o.o. Kosovo.............................. 55.30% Ledo d.o.o. Podgorica ......................... 55.30% Ledo d.o.o. Ljubljana............................ 55.30% Mladina d.d. ....................................... 48.98% Multiplus card d.o.o............................. 72.70% Nova Sloga d.o.o............................... 100.00% PIK BH d.o.o. Laktaši ........................... 96.93% PIK Vinkovci d.d.................................. 70.87% Poslovni sistem Mercator d.d..................59.47% PIK Vrbovec d.d. ................................. 96.93% Roto dinamic d.o.o. ............................. 80.44% Sarajevski kiseljak d.d........................ 80.34% Roto ulaganja d.o.o. .......................... 100.00% Sojara d.o.o......................................... 51.84% Super Kartica d.o.o. BiH......................100.00% Solana Pag d.d. .................................. 96.93% Super Kartica d.o.o. Srbija.................... 64.95% Vupik d.d............................................ 88.34% Tisak d.d............................................. 67.35% Zvijezda d.d........................................ 51.84% TPDC Sarajevo d.d. ............................. 51.00% Velpro-centar d.o.o.............................. 96.93% Zvijezda d.o.o. Ljubljana....................... 51.84% Zvijezda d.o.o. Sarajevo....................... 51.84% Žitnjak d.d........................................... 86.68% 219 ANNEX 2 List of Certified International Standards COMPANY STANDARDS Agrolaguna d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Kosher Agrokor trgovina d.o.o. GMP+; DS; ISCC Belje d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; OHSAS 18001:2007; GLOBAL G.A.P. ; IFS; Kosher; Halal; DS; ISCC Dijamant a.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; FSSC 22000; Halal; GMP+ Emba ISO 9001:2008; IFS; SQMS Fonyodi kft ISO 9001:2008 Frikom a.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; ISO 22000:2005; OHSAS 18001:2007; GLOBAL G.A.P.; IFS Irida d.o.o. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Kosher; FSSC22000 HACCP; ISO 50001:2011; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Kosher; NSF; NATO-US Army; Jamnica d.d. Carbonfree Certificate; ESMA; SQMS Kikindski mlin a.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO/IEC 17025; ISO14001:2004 Konzum d.d. HACCP; ISO 14001:2004; OHSAS 18001:2007; ISO 22000:2005; ISO/TEC 27001:2005 Konzum d.o.o. BIH ISO 14001:2004 Ledo d.o.o. BIH HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Halal Ledo d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; IFS; BRC; Kosher Mercator d.d. ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; AEO; Družini prijatno podjetje Mercator IP Eko pridelava; Družini prijatno podjetje Mercator S HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004 Mercator CG ISO 9001:2008 Nova Sloga a.d. HACCP; Kosher; ISO 14001:2004 PIK Vinkovci d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; GLOBAL G.A.P.; Kosher; OHSAS 18001:2007; DS; ISCC PIK Vrbovec d.d. ISO 50001:2011; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; OHSAS 18001:2007; IFS; Kosher; Halal Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. ISO 14001:2004; ISO 22000:2005; Sojara d.d. ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Kosher Solana d.d. HACCP; ISO 14001:2004; Kosher Vupik d.d. ISO 14001:2004; GLOBAL G.A.P.; DS; ISCC Zvijezda d.d. HACCP; ISO 50001:2011; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; ISO/TEC 27001:2005; IFS; Kosher 220 ANNEX 3 List of Employees Involved in Drawing up the Report Agrokor d.d. Frikom a.d. Kraljić Mira Pavković Danijela Bogdanić Marta Atlija Jovan Tomić Nera Perić Vido Borčić Ivana Čajić Dušan Validžić Kristina Domšić Ivan Jevtić Ivana PIK Vrbovec d.d. Krstulović Ivana Miličević Jelena Konzum BIH Brebrek Josip Jukić Lucija Puzović Katarina Avdaković Haris Findri-Šestanović Višnja Jukić Suzana Vižlina Dalibor Cico Amela Fundelić Ana Markovac Zvonimir Vlahović Jovičić Radica Džanko Amer Kajfeš Hrgovan Tamara Međugorac Popovski Mila Vulović Velimir Isanović Muarem Pavić Martina Odrljin Gordana Kujundžić Aldina Pleše Željka Prkačin Kristina Mercator – S d.o.o. Kunić Selma Salihagić Dino Brajdić Jasmina Mešinović Alem Poliklinika Aviva Sturz Vujadinović Rujana Jovanović Miloš Mujezinović Emira Manuela Gabrić Šimović Anđa Omaljev Miki Mutapčić Saković Edita Širić Marin Pančić Maja Švarc Beširović Katarina Roto dinamic d.o.o. Troskot Ana Phandler Isidor Vidović Bljajić Ivana Raduka Sanja Ledo d.d., Ledo Kft, Agrolaguna d.d. Samardžić Draško Ledo d.o.o. Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. Antolović Damir Šašo Marina Bezjak Muselinović Maja Čabrić Marina Kontić Leana Uglješić Miroslav Ćurić Iva Josipović Darko Kovač Petra Pajnić Benović Mirjana Katana Milka Potočki Jelena Irida d.d., Radman Sanja Trogrlić Kožul Vesna Sakić Evelina Jakšić Vesna Tapavički Jogun Jelena Slade Danko Lukić Jelena Tomazin Željka Sojara d.d. Slade Irena Velin Andrea Franušić-Bajlo Nikolina Šterpin Franko Jamnica d.d., Klapan Meri Fonyodi, Ledo Čitluk Rančić Zoran Agrokor trgovina d.d. MG Mivela d.o.o. Sudar Ana Todorić Anela Antunović Ana Miletić Ljubica Solana Pag d.d. Blažević Ines Pehar Ante Buljanović Ivan Belje d.d. Fratrić Katarina Fabijanić Rosana Čavrag Patricija Gregorić Slavica Mercator d.d. Maržić Damir Emert Antun Horvath Zsofia Bergant Jegrinec Jernej Paro-Vidolin Kolevski Marina Emert Snježana Jakimovski Lidija Šink Katja Želehovski Musa Kristina Firanj Sejdić Blanka Kalogjera Tanja Ileković Damir Krnjević Ivana Mladina d.d. Tisak d.d. Lečić Nada Mikačić Jasna Adam Ana Marija Bertović Snježana Pinotić Zvonimir Petričević Ivana Boričević Neda Gizelov Vanda Pletikapić Vlatko Petrov Damiani Sanja Gregurić Iva Ružička Igor Podrug Martina mStart Kremer Darijan Stojković Aleksandar Savić Slavica Ukas Ivana Vuković Sanda Štimec Viktorija Varga Dejan Mikulić Ana Vranić Ivana Vupik d.d. Kikindski mlin a.d. MultiPlus Card d.o.o. Jurić Bruno Dijamant a.d. Azap Ivana Tomljanović Biondić Sandra Mayer Hrvoje Domazet Vladanka Bajić Helena Šikac Vedrana Posavac Mario Ludoški Tatjana Kalanj Nikolina Sabljak Boris Mazalica Kralj Isidora Mijatović Dragana Nova Sloga a.d. Uremović Katica Nenin Predrag Savić Vladimir Mrmošanin Bogdana Živanović Sonja Perić Jovo Sekulić Marija Petković Tamara Radin Ivica Puzović Dragana Zvijezda d.d. Zvijer Novak Konzum d.d. Sertić Srebrenka Deković Marijana PIK Vinkovci d.d. Siuc Martina Havaić Katarina Kloss Marija Škoro Darko Jelić Maša Mihaljević Vesna Tišlerić Nina 221 Specific Standard Disclosures © 2016. Agrokor Publisher: Agrokor d.d. Design: Agrokor d.d. Photography: Archive Agrokor d.d., Shutterstock Translation: Abis d.o.o., Zagreb Prepress: Kaligraf d.o.o., Zagreb 46
