CSR Report 2016 Improving Healthcare with Advanced Technology 1-31-4 Nishiochiai, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 161-8560, Japan Phone +81(3)5996-8000 http://www.nihonkohden.com/ NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Contents and Editorial Policy Management Philosophy Contents Contents and Editorial Policy……………………………… 2 Editorial Policy Management Philosophy Management Philosophy…………………………………… 3 Nihon Kohden issues a CSR report in order to communicate to Message from Top Management…………………………… 4 stakeholders in an easy to understand format the Company’s apWe contribute to the world by fighting disease and improving health with advanced technology, proach to CSR (corporate social responsibility) and its actions Overview of Nihon Kohden that contribute toward a sustainable society. The report will in6 Nihon Kohden in the Hospital and Community…………… Company Profile/Financial Highlights……………………… 8 clude the following. ● The full CSR Report 2016 describes the Company’s CSR activiand create a fulfilling life for our employees. Overview by Product Category……………………………… 9 ties. A digest version of the CSR Report summarizes important Nihon Kohden’s Expanding Global Network…………… 10 items and details of these activities. Nihon Kohden’s CSR Full report: Nihon Kohden’s CSR Policy……………………………… 12 http://www.nihonkohden.com/company/pdf/ CSRreport2016E.pdf Nihon Kohden’s Value Creation Process………………… 14 Nihon Kohden’s Priority Issues (Materiality) …………… 16 Digest: http://www.nihonkohden.com/company/pdf/ CSRreport2016E_digest.pdf Special Feature Solving Healthcare Issues through ● Detailed explanation of Nihon Kohden’s CSR activities in relaBusiness …………………………………………………… 18 tion to the Company’s management philosophy, The CHANGE 2020 long-term vision, Strong Growth 2017 mid-term business Governance plan, and Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan Corporate Governance ● A special feature about Nihon Kohden’s cap-ONE CO2 sensor Enhancing Corporate Governance……………… 22 as an example of how the Company contributes to social isCompliance sues through its business activities in the field of healthcare Promoting and Practicing Compliance………… 24 The twelve members at the founding of Risk Management ● Summary of the Company’s initiatives in fiscal year 2015 in reNihon Kohden Strengthening Risk Management………………… 26 lation to governance, healthcare, the environment, and society Reference Guidelines Healthcare • Environmental Reporting Guidelines, 2012 (Japan Ministry of ME as the Intersection of Medicine An Unwavering Philosophy Relationship with Customers the Environment) and Engineering Improving Safety and Security …………………… 28 • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI) Before the existence of the ME acronym (Medical Electronics, or “Curing disease is something that transcends politics and Improving Quality, Accessibility and Efficiency Medical Engineering), founders of Nihon Kohden began working national borders, and we will never have any regret putting all of Healthcare…………………………………………… 31 Scope of Report in medical electronics (around 1944 near the end of World War II). our energy into this goal.” 41 companies of the Nihon Kohden Group: The founding of Nihon Kohden was inspired by the neuromusBased on this unshakable conviction, Nihon Kohden has Nihon Kohden Corporation and 40 consolidated subsidiaries Environment cular movement of the wing of a small bird. produced many state-of-the-art medical electronic instruments. (as of March 31, 2016) Relationship with the Environment At that time, Nihon Kohden founder Yoshio Ogino was an Period: April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016* As medicine evolved, Nihon Kohden’s products have Environmental Philosophy and Policy…………… 34 electronics researcher. One day, he happened to see an electric *Including some information from before and after this period branched out into many areas, but the founding philosophy has International Initiatives………………………………… 37 stimulation experiment involving the neuromuscular movement not changed and it still inspires the Company’s engineers. Disclaimer Environmentally Friendly Products……………… 38 of the wing of a small bird. This led him to marvel at the wonder Nihon Kohden will continue growing as a company that conThis report is not a statement of past or present facts; it contains of living things. He saw that one part of a living organism is Site Report………………………………………………… 40 forward-looking statements including plans and forecasts made tributes to the world by fighting disease and improving health several hundred times smaller than the instruments developed with advanced technology. as of the time of publication. Forward-looking statements are by the leading electronics researchers in Japan, but the living Society suppositions or determinations based on available information organism has a sensitivity that is double digit greater. Relationship with Business Partners at the time the statements were made. Due to changes in conOgino wanted to examine if the subtlety of living organisms Ensuring Fair Trade Practices……………………… 42 ditions, the results of future business activities and events may NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 differ from these predictions. could be applied to a higher order of engineering. In particular, Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Enhancing Information Disclosure and human beings are the most complex living creatures and he Shareholder Returns …………………………………… 44 Publication Date believed it might be possible to save lives by studying the October 2016 (next publication: September 2017) human body and researching the connection between engineerRelationship with Employees Achieving a Fulfilling Workplace………………… 46 Published by ing and medicine. Relationship with Local Community Corporate Planning Group, Corporate Strategy Department, Driven by this strong desire, he went back to medical school Nihon Kohden’s Contributions Nihon Kohden Corporation for four years and later founded Nihon Kohden in August 1951. Yoshio Ogino, to the Community……………………………………… 49 founder of Nihon Kohden 2 Third-party Feedback……………………………………… 51 3 Message from Top Management Message from Top Management Message from Top Management Long-Term Vision Fumio Suzuki Chairman and CEO Hirokazu Ogino President and COO The CHANGE 2020 The Global Leader of Medical Solutions With synergy between business activities and CSR, Nihon Kohden will continue to create social value. year as a whole, this resulted in sales that were largely on par with services. For the environment, the Company is working to promote Contribution through Our Business the previous term. In international markets, all regions experienced Aspiring toward Sustainable Growth energy conservation and waste reduction. In its corporate activities, Since 1951, Nihon Kohden has strived to contribute to the world steady results based on strengthening of local sales and service In recent years, the global situation which surrounds Nihon Kohden Nihon Kohden is strengthening corporate governance, compliance, by fighting disease and improving health with advanced technolstructures, among other measures. As a result, sales and operating has reached a significant turning point. With deepening environrespecting human rights, promoting fair labor practices and contribogy, as well as create a fulfilling life for employees. This has led to income marked an improvement over the previous year. mental issues such as climate change, the declining birthrate and uting to local communities. revolutionary technologies and high quality medical devices. Nihon To bolster its global development structure, in April 2015 Nihon aging population in developed countries, and intensifying global These initiatives will improve the quality of healthcare and create Kohden was founded with just twelve members, but today employs Kohden established OrangeMed Inc. in the United States as a competition, various issues need to be addressed. Nihon Kohden value in the form of patient health while responding to the expectaalmost 5,000 staff as it continues to tackle healthcare challenges development base for ventilators. This marks progress in the Comcreated “The CHANGE 2020” as its long-term vision for the future tions and hopes of society. In a time of rapid change, Nihon Kohden around the world. The products developed by Nihon Kohden have pany’s efforts to develop a structure to expand its treatment equipwith the aim of attaining sustainable growth even in such a believes this will translate into sustainable growth for the Group. been exported to more than 120 countries around the world, where ment business. To reinforce the Company’s production system, the rapidly changing time. To achieve this, the Company is promoting its Moving forward, Nihon Kohden will continue to practice the conthey have been used in various healthcare settings to save the lives Tomioka Production Center MIRAI commenced operation in May Strong Growth 2017 four-year mid-term business plan up to FY2017 cept of “contributing to the world by fighting disease and improving of countless patients. 2015. This facility not only expanded production capacity but also along with the Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan. health with advanced technology.” To save the lives of as many patients as possible, Nihon Kohden represented a step forward in efforts to further streamline production Under its Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan, Nihon has continually pursued technological innovation and strived to and reduce costs. As a boost to the Company’s sales structure, Kohden set healthcare, the environment and corporate activities as create higher quality products. The Company’s mission as a medisales subsidiaries were established in Germany and Mexico, in Octhe three priority areas to set initiatives. In healthcare, the Company cal device manufacturer is to provide clinical value as well as value tober 2015 and January 2016, respectively, in an effort to strengthen will help fight disease and improve health through its products and to patients. Nihon Kohden’s strengths lie in its ability to create value international sales. for society, primarily through 1) the capacity to develop technoloIn June 2015, Nihon Kohden employee Dr. Takuo Aoyagi received gies rooted in medical practice; 2) a broad clientele base inside the 2015 IEEE Medal for Innovations in Healthcare Technology from The CHANGE 2020 ー The Global Leader of Medical Solutions ー and outside Japan; 3) high-quality products and services, and the the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). Dr. AoyNIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 development, production, sales and service systems to support agi was selected for his pioneering contributions to pulse oximetry, them; and 4) the strength of a brand cultivated over many years. which has had a profound impact on improved quality of healthcare. Dr. Aoyagi was also the first Japanese to receive the award. Envisioned corporate status for 2020 Targets for FY2020 In terms of CSR activities, in July 2015 Nihon Kohden signed the Lead the world in Achieve Attain FY2015 Highlights United Nations Global Compact. By supporting the ten principles the development of revolutionary the highest the top share Consolidated sales Consolidated operating income Overseas sales ratio level of quality in applicable For the Japan domestic market in FY2015, while the first half of the of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and breakthrough in the world global markets 200 billion yen 25 billion yen 35% technology year saw a trend of constraint in the budgets of university, public and anti-corruption, Nihon Kohden has reaffirmed its commitment to the national hospitals, demand rebounded in the second half. For the development of a sustainable society. 4 5 Overview of Nihon Kohden Overview of Nihon Kohden Nihon Kohden in the Hospital and Community Nihon Kohden products can be found in the hospital as well as emergency services, home health care, and AEDs in public places, serving the medical needs of hospitals and communities. Prehospital Testing and Diagnosis Surgery and Treatment ICU and Ward Home Care Defibrillators and monitors for Nihon Kohden technology High-end patient monitors Medical devices in the ICU, Medical devices that can be ambulances help improve emphasizes painless and and other medical devices are ward, and nurse station must used by the patient and family the lifesaving rate when every gentle on the patient in essential for surgery and other have high safety and security enable better home healthcare second counts addition to high accuracy treatment in the hospital measurement Transmitter/ Long-term ECG Telecare Monitors Defibrillators EEGs Clinical polygraphs Defibrillators Monitors Ventilators Monitor recorders system AEDs (Automated External Defibrillators) and CPR enable ordinary people to save lives in train stations, schools and other public places NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Physiological Measuring Equipment Patient Monitors Treatment Equipment Other Medical Equipment S e n s o r s a re o n e o f N i h o n K o h d e n ’s c o re Patient monitors continually monitor the patient’s vital Nihon Kohden makes defibrillators for the hospital Nihon Kohden makes high precision hematology technologies. High quality sensors can accurately detect the faint signs such as ECG, temperature, SpO2 (blood oxygen saturation) and and emergency services, and AEDs for public locations. These analyzers and reagents for laboratory blood testing, as well as biological signals from the body. Nihon Kohden sensor technology NIBP (noninvasive blood pressure). Nihon Kohden provides different devices can deliver an electrical shock to restore normal rhythm instruments for clinical chemical analysis of hemoglobin A1c and is included in our products such as EEGs, ECGs, EMG and evoked monitors for different areas of the hospital, from the sophisticated to the heart. Nihon Kohden also imports the world’s best cardiac C-reactive protein which are used in diagnosing diabetes. Nihon potential devices. Nihon Kohden EEGs boast a large worldwide multiparameter demands of the ICU, CCU, and OR to lower intensity pacemakers, ventilators, cochlear implants, and other medical Kohden also develops laboratory products used for basic medical market share. telemetry monitoring in the ward. equipment into Japan. research. 6 7 Overview of Nihon Kohden Overview of Nihon Kohden Company Profile Overview by Product Category Common Name Nihon Kohden Incorporated August 7, 1951 Official Name Nihon Kohden Corporation Capital Stock 7,544 million yen (as of March 31, 2016) Physiological Measuring Equipment Patient Monitors Number of Employees 4,776 (as of March 31, 2016) Representative Fumio Suzuki, Chairman and CEO (consolidated) Sales of polygraphs for cath lab and diagnostic Sales of bedside monitors decreased, although Directors Hirokazu Ogino, President and COO Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section Japan information systems increased, while sales of EEGs Japan consumable sales such as sensors and sales of Stock Listing under the name “Nihon Kohden” and ECGs decreased. clinical information systems increased favorably. Stock Code: 6849 Sales of ECGs increased in Europe and Asia. Sales of InterEEGs decreased due to the reclassification of locally InterSales in the Americas and Asia showed strong installed products in the U.S. and increased steadily Financial Highlights national national growth, while sales in Europe were weak. in Americas and Asia on a comparable basis. Sales Operating Income Overall, sales increased 5.5% over the previous fiscal Overall, sales increased 3.3% over the previous fiscal 1,655 164 year to 39.2 billion yen. year to 54.8 billion yen. (Hundred millions of yen) （Hundred millions of yen） 2,000 200 175 1,608 159 1,531 1,500 150 134 1,325 1,207 120 1,000 100 23.7% 33.1% 500 50 39.2 billion yen 54.8 billion yen 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY2015 Consolidated Sales Return on Equity Equity Ratio Net Income Return on Equity Total Assets Net Assets Equity Ratio 67.7 165.5 （Hundred millions of yen） 150 15.0 10.7 （%） 15 （Hundred millions of yen） 1,500 1,467 1,442 （%） 80 18.5% billion yen 12.7 1,309 30.6 billion yen 11.7 123 11.9 1,168 120 1,200 75 24.7% 994 993 976 91 111 105 10 885 90 900 76 762 679 70 60 600 40.8 billion yen 5 140.52 68.3 140.52 140.52 67.6 67.6 65 30 300 140.52 65.2 0 0 0 60 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Treatment Equipment Other Research and Development Expenses Capital Investment Sales of defibrillators were weak and sales of cochlear Sales of locally purchased products decreased in （Hundred millions of yen） 66 implants also decreased due to change of supplier. accordance with the Company’s selling policy with a 80 59 （Hundred millions of yen） 80 Japan AED sales increased supported by a new product Japan focus on its own products and consumables. Sales of NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 71 launch. hematology instruments increased. 64 60 55 57 60 51 Sales of defibrillator increased favorably in the InterInterSales of hematology analyzers increased in Asia and 45 Americas and Europe. Sales of AEDs showed strong national national Other. 40 40 growth in all areas. 31 20 Overall, sales increased 4.1% over the previous fiscal Overall, sales decreased 0.7% over the previous 20 20 year to 30.6 billion yen. fiscal year to 40.8 billion yen. 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 8 9 Overview of Nihon Kohden Overview of Nihon Kohden Nihon Kohden’s Expanding Global Network Europe 8 billion yen Many people around the world suffer from disease. Medicine has no do not have a sales office, Nihon Kohden established a distributor hematology analyzers to more than 120 countries. borders. To save the lives of as many people as possible through network through which its products are exported around the world. Nihon Kohden products are used in healthcare settings cutting-edge ME technologies, Nihon Kohden is expanding its globThrough six international development centers and five international around the world. Moving forward, Nihon Kohden will Americas FY2015 International Sales 19.4 al network every year. Since establishing Nihon Kohden America in production sites, Nihon Kohden is also striving to build a business continue to pursue business strategies that reflect a 43.5 1979 as the Company’s first international sales office, Nihon Kohden structure that can handle the expanding world market. careful consideration of these medical needs and rehas opened sales offices in 16 countries, including Mexico, ColomAmong the many products it exports, Nihon Kohden enjoys high gional characteristics as it strives to attain a leading billion yen bia, Brazil, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, the UK, China, Singapore, market share in EEGs. The Company also exports EMG/EP meaglobal share. Thailand, Malaysia, India, UAE and Korea. In other countries that suring systems, ECGs, patient monitors, defibrillators, AEDs and billion yen Asia 13.8 Other billion yen 2.1 Europe billion yen Americas Asia Gl obal Network Overview of FY2015 by International Region Europe Asia Americas Change in Sales Change in Sales Change in Sales 200 (Hundred millions of yen) 200 (Hundred millions of yen) 200 (Hundred millions of yen) 194 164 150 150 138 150 125 131 110 100 100 100 80 75 80 70 74 67 69 63 56 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 50 50 50 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sales in Europe increased favorably as the Company Sales in India, Korea and the Middle East showed strong Sales in the U.S. showed strong growth, while sales in Sales Production R&D strengthened its local sales and service network by growth. Sales in China also increased. Latin America remained at the same level as the previous reorganizing its European subsidiaries. fiscal year. 10 11 Nihon Kohden’s CSR Policy Management Philosophy Nihon Kohden’s CSR Nihon Kohden’s CSR We contribute to the world by fighting disease and improving health with advanced technology, and create a fulfilling life for our employees Nihon Kohden is working on social issues by fighting disease and improving healthcare through its business activities as a Long-term Vision medical device manufacturer and by conThe CHANGE 2020 tributing to the realization of a sustainable ー The Global Leader of Medical Solutions ー society. Management Philosophy Lead the world in the Achieve the highest level Attain top share in applicable development of revolutionary breakthrough technology of quality in the world global markets To realize its mission of contributing to the world by fighting disease and improving healthcare with advanced technology, and to create a fulfilling life for Mid-term Business Plan Mid-term CSR Plan its employees, Nihon Kohden is working in all areas, Strong Growth 2017 Sustainable Growth 2017 including products, services, technology, financial Long-term Vision standing and quality of its employees, to earn the 1 Pursue the highest level of quality The CHANGE 2020 in the world Healthcare Environment Corporate Activities trust of customers and all stakeholders including ー The Global Leader of Medical Solutions ー 2 Strengthen technological developshareholders, business partners and society. Toward ment capabilities Policy 1 Policy 2 Policy 3 this end, Nihon Kohden has prepared its Strong 3 Strengthen business expansion Fighting disease and Conserve the global Strengthen the foundation by region contributing to the environment and make of CSR activities in all Growth 2017 mid-term business plan, under which advancement of improvements through areas of corporate the Company aims to provide the world’s best quality 4 Achieve further growth in core healthcare through all corporate activities activities businesses medical devices and become a leader in the global Mid-term Mid-term 5 Develop new businesses products and services medical device industry with global expansion. Business Plan CSR Plan 6 Consolidate corporate fundamentals Priority Issues Priority Issues Priority Issues The Company also recognizes the importance Strong Growth 2017 Sustainable Growth 2017 Basic Principles Improve efficacy and Provide environmentally Improve of its business activities in not only enhancing accessibility of friendly products corporate governance Each and every employee will act autonomously diagnosis and treatment corporate value but also contributing to the and implement the following principles aimed at realizing the Company’s long-term vision: Improve quality Promote energy Respect human rights development of a sustainable society. Toward this of care throughout conservation and promote appropriate 1. User Oriented end, the Company made its Sustainable Growth Take all necessary actions for the customer the care cycle and waste reduction work practices 2. Relationships 2017 mid-term CSR plan which identifies issues in Strengthen relationships with customers and Improve safety Promote fair business and security of practices healthcare, environment and corporate activities partners both inside and outside the Company patients and users 3. Global which the Company needs to address, sets targets, Enhance global communication skills as well as Improve efficiency Community involvement think and act with a global perspective and outlines specific activities. of users 4. Speed With synergy between business activities and Strive to do everything with greater speed CSR, Nihon Kohden aims to realize The CHANGE Nihon Kohden 2020 long-term vision through daily operations Charter of Conduct Nihon Kohden Charter of Conduct that enhance corporate value and provide value to society. 1 We fight disease and improve healthcare with advanced technology, and contribute to medical care around the world by providing high quality products and services with consideration of the environment and safety, and earn the trust of customers and patients. 2 We comply with applicable laws, regulations, restrictions and company internal and external rules as well as social norms, and conduct fair and legitimate business activities. 3 While maintaining a sound relationship with politics and government, we engage in fair, transparent and free competition and appropriate transactions. 4 We take a firm stand against anti-social forces, such as organized crime groups, that threaten the order and safety of civil society, and have no relationship with them. In July 2015, Nihon Kohden signed on to the UnitTen Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 5 In all aspects of our business activities, we respect the human rights of all people and we do not commit unreasonable discrimination or any act which infringes on the personality and dignity of an individual. ed Nations Global Compact. By engaging in corPrinciple 1: Support and respect the protection of human rights Human Rights 6 We communicate with the public extensively as well as shareholders, and disclose corporate information properly and fairly, and Principle 2: Avoid being complicit in human rights abuses porate activities that adhere to the Ten Principles carry out highly transparent management. of the United Nations Global Compact in the arPrinciple 3: Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 7 We are aware of our responsibility as a corporate citizen in the international community, and respect the culture and customs of eas of human rights, labor, environment and antiPrinciple 4: Eliminate forced and compulsory labor each country and region, and actively carry out social contribution activities. Labor NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labor 8 We are mindful of environmental issues as a global citizen, and address those issues voluntarily and proactively to leave for our corruption, Nihon Kohden seeks the trust of society Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of posterity a healthy global environment. and to contribute to a sustainable society. employment and occupation 9 We ensure a safe and comfortable working environment and create a fulfilling life for our employees. Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental Environment responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of CSR Slogan NIHON KOHDEN – for precious life – environmentally friendly technologies This slogan articulates Nihon Kohden’s desire as a medical device manufacturer to contribute Principle10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-corruption extortion and bribery not only to human life but to all forms of life on earth through its business and CSR activities. 12 13 Nihon Kohden’s CSR Nihon Kohden’s CSR Nihon Kohden’s Value Creation Process To implement its management philosophy, Nihon Kohden strives to create value to society as well as improve its corporate value on a sustainable basis according to its long-term vision “The CHANGE 2020 – The Global Leader of Medical Solutions” and to execute this vision through its Strong Growth 2017 mid-term business plan and Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan. Corporate Activities Financial and Manufacturing Physiological Patient Monitors Capital Measuring Technology development ● Investment funds for sustainin collaboration with Equipment able growth end users in clinical practice ● Shareholder return Management Vision Philosophy Human and Broad client base Intellectual Source of Value Creation in Japan and Capital around the world ● Job creation Created Value Long-term Vision ● Cultivation of human resources The CHANGE 2020 ー The Global Leader of Medical Solutions ー Innovative and High Quality Management Commitment to quality products and services Strategy Medical Devices and Services backed by development, Development production, sales and service teams Mid-term Mid-term Social Capital Business Plan CSR Plan Strong Growth 2017 Sustainable Growth 2017 Treatment Other ● Improved safety and quality of Code of Equipment healthcare Conduct ● Improved quality of life (QOL) for Production patients ● Contribution to local communities Solid brand reputation established over many years in the industry Product Planning Nihon Kohden Charter of Conduct Natural Capital Sales Service ● Reduce environmental burden NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 14 15 Nihon Kohden’s CSR Nihon Kohden’s CSR Nihon Kohden’s Priority Issues (Materiality) In formulating its Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan, Nihon Kohden identiBoundaries and Scope of Priority Issues fied priority issues. To incorporate the expectations and requests of stakeholders during this process, we examined various guidelines and social trends. Through initiatives to The priority issues in Nihon Kohden’s Sustainable Growth 2017 midpriority issue was also presented. Nihon Kohden pursues initiatives address the priority issues, Nihon Kohden is working to respond to the requests and term CSR plan were organized in the table below based on their relato ensure that CSR-aware corporate activities are carried out through expectations of stakeholders and contribute to solving social issues. tionship to the categories presented in the G4 Sustainability Reportthe entire supply chain and value chain. ing (GRI) Guidelines. The boundaries and scope of impact of each Mid-term CSR Plan Boundaries GRI G4 Aspects CategThe Business Local Investors and Policies Priority Issues (Materiality) Company Employees Partners Customers Community Shareholders ories Four Steps in Identifying Priority Issues Improve efficacy and accessibility of diagnosis and STEP1 treatment Policy 1 Select Important Social Issues Facing Society Improve quality of ● Customer health and Industry Healthcare Fighting disease care throughout the Product and safety and contributing to care cycle Responsibility ● Marketing ✓ ✓ the advancement of ● Examine various guidelines (ISO 26000, SDGs, GRI, SASB, etc.) healthcare through Improve safety and communications Select ● Investigate social trends and industry trends products and services security of patients and users Improve efficiency of users ● Materials Provide Policy 2 Environment environmentally friendly ● Energy Conserve the global products ● Emissions ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ STEP2 Environmental environment and make ● Effluents and waste Priority Level Promote energy Identify Issues Closely Related to Nihon Kohden’s improvements through conservation and ● Products and Business Activities all corporate activities waste reduction services Prioritize ● Prioritize issues based on their relationship to the businesses of Product Nihon Kohden Responsibility Customer privacy ✓ ✓ Improve corporate governance Environmental, Society, Product Compliance ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Responsibility Corporate Activities ● Occupational health STEP3 Respect human and safety Labor Practices Review Prioritization Results and Approve the CSR rights and promote ● Trainingand Mid-term Plan Policy 3 appropriate work and Decent education ✓ ✓ Work Strengthen the practices ● Diversity and equal foundation of CSR opportunity Confirm ● CSR Promotion Committee reviews prioritization results activities in all areas of Appropriateness ● Management Council approves the CSR mid-term plan corporate activities Society Anti-corruption ✓ ✓ ✓ Environmental, Promote fair Labor Practices business practices and Decent NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Work, Human Supplier assessment ✓ ✓ Rights and Society STEP4 Community involvement Society Local communities ✓ ✓ Specify 3 Promotion Policies and 10 Priority Issues Policy Policy1 Policy2 Policy3 Specify Issues Priority Economic See p.17 for details. Issues ー Economic performance ✓ ✓ ✓ 16 17 Ultra-compact, Lightweight, Impact Resistance, QR Code Access View a video about this and Superior Measurement Capacity product. Special Feature Special Feature Special Feature 1 Ultra-compact and lightweight The size of the sensor part was reduced about 90% and the Actual weight was reduced to about 4 g to realize an ultra-compact size Weight lightweight sensor that reduces patient burden and enables 90％ Solving Healthcare Issues stability of the breathing circuit. This ultra-compact size and lighter weight was achieved by sophisticated production techsmaller through Business niques and seasoned production staff using a microscope for all bonding of miniature components. Printed circuit boards receive work by hand to individually fold them in the sensor 80％ Developing cap-ONE for safer component. Nihon Kohden’s advanced production technololighter gies supported the miniaturization of cap-ONE. respiratory management While focusing on safer respiratory management for patients, Nihon Kohden developed the cap-ONE CO2 sensor that weighs only 4g. In 2 Robust impact resistance Innovative sensor components and sensor structure have CO2 sensor internal structure this special feature, we explore the background that led to cap-ONE, realized impact resistance and peace of mind even if the Anti-fogging CO2 the medical challenges, and Nihon Kohden’s unique product technolImpact membrane Unique heater-less method compensates for sensor is dropped. The sensor has passed the MIL staneliminates ogy and development approaches. Resistance need for temperature drift dard (US Department of Defense Standard) impact test. heater This is an assessment standard for products used in harsh Light source Photodetector environments such as outdoors. The sensor also passed Filter drop tests based on in-house standards that are higher The Need for a Respiratory Management SysOriginal Technologies from Nihon Kohden Built than those used for our previous products. tem that Treats Patient Safety as the First Priority into cap-ONE Expired CO2 measurement involves measuring and monitoring the CO2 concentration in the exhaled air to ascertain the respiratory Nihon Kohden developed the ultra-compact and lightweight cap-ONE CO2 sensor to solve those issues. cap-ONE provides 3 Superior CO2 measurement can be used on smaller size newborns The smaller sensor needs a lower volume of exhaled gas than condition of a patient following surgery and other situations. While improvements in the clinical issues of size, weight, and impact Conventional cap-ONE conventional sensors. This allows CO2 measurement of smaller CO2 Sensor Sensor there are multiple alarms which are triggered after the stopping of resistance. The cap-ONE CO2 sensor is easier to handle and realCO2 Measurenewborn infants who have lower exhalation volume. breathing and before cardiac arrest, CO2 measurement is effective izes safer respiratory management. The following Nihon Kohden ment Capacity Applicable patient 3 kg~ 2 kg~ because it quickly catches a change in the patient condition and original technologies made this possible. weight enables countermeasures at an early stage. Accordingly, the utility of CO2 measurement as an effective respiratory management tech4 nique is well known (see the figure below). Conventional cap-ONE By using with a cap-ONE mask, CO2 can be measured during oxygen administration Comparison CO2 Sensor Sensor However, conventional CO2 sensors are large and heavy. They with Conventional may need to be fixed in place to avoid excessive burden on the Sensors (Nihon In addition to the cap-ONE CO2 sensor, Nihon ventilator circuit, and these sensors may not be used with infants. Use Together Kohden products) Kohden also developed the cap-ONE mask which is As a result, these CO2 sensors have issues in regard to efficiency with an Oxygen an oxygen mask that allows simultaneous CO2 meaof clinical operations and ensuring patient safety. Mask surement. The following features expand the possibilities for CO2 measurement. cap-ONE mask for infants cap-ONE mask for adults 1 Weight 20 g 4g Flow of Triggering a Cardiac Arrest Alarm (rough guide) Safe CO2 measurement without the need for a tracheal tube Stable supply of oxygen 2 Impact The combination of this mask with CO2 sensor enables the world’s first Thanks to a structure that disperses oxygen on a diffuser plate, this NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Weak Strong Resistance measurement of CO2 while administering oxygen through an open-type mask has less variation in oxygen concentration than a conventional Time until alarm triggered oxygen mask without the use of a tracheal tube. Using equipment such oxygen mask and gives a stable supply of oxygen. as a patient monitor allows quick response monitoring of exhaled CO2 5 min 4 min 3 min 2 min 1 min 30 s 15 s Cardiac Arrest Cessation of values and waveforms as well as changes in breathing and circulation. 3 CO2 Diffuser plate Measurement Normal High Breathing Face-fitting structure Capacity A cup for collecting the exhaled air slides on flexibly to conform to the CO₂ SpO₂ ECG shape of the patient’s face. The excellent fitting characteristics make the mask more gentle on the patient and less prone to slippage, thus 4 Use Together improving measurement accuracy. cap-ONE Mask Conventional Oxygen Mask with an No Yes Oxygen Mask 18 19 Story of Development Special Feature Special Feature cap-ONE sensor cap-ONE mask for adults Through cap-ONE, cap-ONE includes I want the culture of CO2 a host of unique measurement to take root technologies. around the world. The cap-ONE CO2 sensor includes a number of unique technolofrom a height of 1.22 meters in 26 orientations. This passes the MIL In 2012, Nihon Kohden developed the world’s first mainstream* broader range of patients. In 2015, we released a mask for adults gies from Nihon Kohden developed through numerous innovations, standard (US Department of Defense Standard) for impact resismethod CO2 measurement oxygen mask as an open-type oxygen and received a great response. There is an increasing desire to a battery of tests, and a process of trial and error. tance. mask for use with infants and small children. In pediatric care setperform CO2 measurement in a variety of settings to manage safeWith cap-ONE, Nihon Kohden has continued to pursue reduced The components and structure of cap-ONE also incorporate tings, issues with cessation of breathing can occur in patients due ty to a higher level. Next we hope to move beyond oxygen masks size. Products that are compact with complex structures are invarious innovations in durability. Usually, sensor-based CO2 meato the side effects of sedatives and anesthetics. To resolve this and pursue the development of devices that respond to these creasingly difficult to assemble. In that sense, cap-ONE could be surement employs infrared light. Infrared light passes between the issue, a product was needed that could measure CO2, a parameter needs. described as the product of Japanese people’s dexterous fingers. light source in the sensor and a photodetector and is absorbed by that can immediately detect breathing abnormalities, and adminisIn addition, we aim to make the products easily available to paMedical professionals have offered high praise of the product, the CO2. The measurement calculation is based on the reduction in ter oxygen at the same time, even during examination. tients around the world in addition to Japanese patients. Dependremarking that “with something this small, there is minimal burden transmitted light volume. However, in general, the filaments used in In developing the product, it was necessary to make a breaking on the person’s race, the shape of the face can be completely on the patient so it won’t bother them.” Moreover, while it is hard to such light sources can easily disconnect when jolted. To overcome through with respect to the issue of whether CO2 in exhaled air can different. For that reason, I collected 3D scanning data of the facautomate or mass produce this kind of product, Nihon Kohden carthis problem, Nihon Kohden worked with a lamp manufacturer and be measured to a high degree of precision within a strong flow es of people of various races while I was stationed in the United ried out repeated assembly tests on its production line and worked engaged in a repeated process of trial and error to develop a highof oxygen. Great pains were also taken with regard to the shape States, and conducted tests on mask shapes. to boost productivity while incorporating feedback from its producly durable light source for cap-ONE. of the mask. Our department embraces the motto of “developing In medical settings, the use of CO2 measurement as a means of tion staff. In addition, cap-ONE uses an anti-fogging membrane that enproducts that you would use with peace of mind on your own famrespiratory management is not yet mainstream. cap-ONE is not only compact, but also ables accurate CO2 measurement. The sensor takes in exhaled ily,” and true to this motto, during the development stages we had By having all kinds of patients regardless of impact-resistant to hold up in the harsh enviair which has a lot of moisture. As a result, fine water droplets can our family members try out the masks. With the assistance of two age or race use the cap-ONE mask in the furonment of medical practice. At the scene adhere to and cloud the window that passes the infrared light. This children who were one and four years old at the time, we conductture, I want the culture of CO2 measurement of emergency care where every second causes the infrared light to scatter. However, when an anti-foged a battery of tests to determine whether a patient can “comfortably to take root around the world. counts, equipment and devices are ging membrane with hydrophylic coating is used on the window, sleep with the mask still attached” often treated roughly. cap-ONE the water droplets adhering to the window spread out thinly and and “whether the mask touches the * Mainstream method: Sensor is embedded in underwent various prototyping evenly. This allows accurate measurements because the infrared tip of the nose and causes pain.” the respirator circuit and has been shown not to light arrives in a straight line not refracted by droplets. In comparThe results of the tests led to combreak even when dropped ison to competing products that incorporate a window heater to mercialization of the product. prevent fogging, the use of an anti-fogging membrane helps make Our future goal is to have the Hidetoshi Dainobu Fumihiko Takatori Assistant Manager the product smaller and consume less electricity. The anti-fogging cap-ONE mask used by an even Leader Engineering Department Section 1 Engineering Department Section 1 Ventilation & Anesthesia Device membrane is also one of the unique technologies of cap-ONE. Ventilation & Anesthesia Device Business Operations Business Operations Voices from the Clinical Site Our hospital uses cap-ONE for sleep studies of all patients up to 18 Looking at reports of medical incidents related to respiratory manageIn our hospital’s PACU***, we began using cap-ONE masks this year years of age, including newborn infants. We carry out around 700 ment, many incidents occur due to separation between a tracheal tube and we use around 150 of the masks each month. Since the masks such tests per year and the results have been very stable. Medical or tracheostomy tube and the respiratory circuit. CO2 measurement of can perform more accurate CO2 measurement than sensors that use Nihon Kohden’s CO2 sensor uses the mainstream method. devices and technologies from Nihon Kohden are trustworthy and exhaled air enables the swift detection and handling of these types of the sidestream method, I feel it is wonderful that we can enhance the Compared with the sidestream method**, it offers peace of adequately provide the functions needed by the hospital. cap-ONE abnormal situations, and serves as the key to preventing accidents. safety of patients while being able to efficiently administer oxygen at mind because it doesn’t experience trouble such as samfeatures high measurement precision and even compared with the In order to appropriately manage tracheal tubes, the hospital continuthe same time. Moreover, since we can measure the patient condition pling tube blockage or bending. Also, the new sensor comCO2 monitor we were using previously, there is a high correlation in ally measures CO2 levels in the exhaled air of all patients attached to more accurately than before, there are less cases where a monitoring NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 ponents have no heater or motor. By simplifying the structhe measurement results of both devices. When taking CO2 measurerespirators. We have placed at least one bedside monitor capable of alarm is mistakenly triggered for a patient who is in good condition. ture, there are fewer factors that can cause malfunction, ments from newborn infants, even the reduced size of the cap-ONE connecting to a Nihon Kohden CO2 sensor kit in each of the hospital’s Patients who have undergone surgery go through the PACU before and since it also offers excellent impact and water resisstill feels a little large, so we look forward to the development of an general wards and transmit information to nurse station central monibeing relocated to a general ward thereafter, but for patients who also tance, it is no longer limited to certain usage environments. improved interface for newborn infants. tors. This allows us to remotely monitor for respirator trouble. need to be administered oxygen in a hospital ward, we instruct that the cap-ONE mask be used continually for three days. Physician / Clinical Engineering Technician Laboratory Technician Clinical Engineering Laboratory, a Physician Sleep Study Technician Anesthesiology Department, a hospital hospital in Yokohama, Kanagawa Anesthesiology Department, a university hospital in Illinois, in Shizuoka Prefecture Prefecture a university hospital in Korea United States ** Sidestream method: Sensor is built into the CO2 *** PACU (Post-anesthesia Care Unit): Care of measurement equipment and exhaled air is patients recovering from general and local collected through sampling tubes anesthetic 20 21 Corporate Governance ● Management Council Compliance Committee, Quality Control Committee, Environmental Management Council, which consists of all directors and operating Committee and representatives of other operation divisions. This comEnhancing Governance Governance officers, holds meetings three times a month in order to undertake mittee sets the CSR annual activity plan to practice CSR through daily Corporate Governance the management activities based on the policy approved by the Board as well as aiming at prompt decision making and flexible operation. business operation. As part of the Company’s commitment to better ■ CSR Promotion Structure Nihon Kohden strives to strengthen its corporate governance corporate governance, the company has introduced an operating with the aim of continually enhancing its corporate value. officer system that provides a clear segregation between managerial Corporate Governance Board of Directors / Management Council Corporate Governance ● Deliberate and decide important matters decision making and supervisory functions on the one hand and the execution of operations on the other. Cooperate Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets ● Nomination and Compensation Committee CSR Promotion The Company has established a Nomination and Remuneration Committee Quality ● Initiatives such as strengthening governance, ensuring thorough Compliance Environmental Control Improve corporate governance compliance and strengthening risk management Committee which is a voluntary advisory committee under the CSR-related activities Committee Committee Committee ● Formulate basic Board, to ensure transparency and objectivity of the management. policy and planning ● Formulate ● Formulate ● Deliberate ● Deliberate priority issues basic policies basic policy basic matters to The majority of the committee members and the committee chair are ● Formulate and promote and standards of behavior concerning compliance ensure smooth implementation plans concerning ● Deliberate of quality ■ Basic Approach to Corporate Governance appointed from outside directors. ● Training and awarenesscompliance, environmental assurance initiatives such as appointing highly independent outside directors, inraising etc. management system activities and other important ■ CSR Promotion Structure ● Improvement of related implementation matters As a maker of medical electronic equipment, Nihon Kohden embraces troducing an operating officer system, and pursuing mutual coordination policies and regulations status, etc. the management philosophy of “contributing to the world by fighting between the Audit & Supervisory Committee, Internal Auditing DepartTo promote CSR, we established a CSR Promotion Committee as a disease and improving health with advanced technology, and creating ment and accounting auditors. In this way, Nihon Kohden believes it has board committee involved in Nihon Kohden's overall CSR activities a fulfilling life for our employees.” To implement this philosophy, Nihon adequately ensured supervisory functions in its management. Business Units and Subsidiaries ● such as planning, promoting, organizing, educating, and other ● Implementing and progress management of annual plans Kohden’s basic approach to management is to grow as a company Board of Directors ● Training and awareness-raising activities. This committee is composed of representatives of the that is accepted by customers, shareholders, business partners and The Board consists of 10 directors excluding Audit & Supervisory Comsociety in every aspect including products, sales, services, technology, mittee members (including 2 outside directors) and 3 Audit & Supervifinancial standing and human resources, and to earn the trust of those sory Committee members (including 2 outside directors). In principle stakeholders. the Boards convenes once a month, and is responsible for determining To implement this basic approach to management and enhance the matters stipulated by Companies Act as well as important matters conMaking Diligent Efforts to Help Further Enhance Corporate Value medium-to-long term corporate value of the Nihon Kohden Group, our cerning the management of the Nihon Kohden Group, and supervising Outside directors not only engage in decision-making conventional wisdom with the eyes of an outsider while important management issues are enhancing corporate governance by the execution of duties on the part of the directors. within the company’s internal structure, but also need giving adequate consideration to the viewpoint of share● Audit & Supervisory Committee building a corporate governance structure focused on sound manageto ensure that differing views and objectivity based on holders. ment, transparency and improved efficiency. The Audit & Supervisory Committee consists of 3 directors, including an independent stance are reflected in corporate govThe Nihon Kohden Group has achieved strong busi2 outside directors and 1 full-time member. Each Audit & Supervisory ernance. In doing so, outside directors are expected to ness results to date. Moving forward, I will make the best ■ Corporate Governance Framework Committee member attends meetings of the Board and Management contribute to sound and transparent management that does not deviate from appropriate standards. I focus on of my abilities and make diligent efforts to help further Council. Each Audit & Supervisory Committee member audits the perenhance the corporate value of the Nihon Kohden Group Masaya Yamauchi The head office of Nihon Kohden has adopted the structure of a compaformance of the directors’ duties through the investigation of business using my experience in handling various cases as an by faithfully executing the aforementioned role. Outside Director ny with an Audit & Supervisory Committee to achieve the following: enexecution and assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. Those activattorney to continually monitor the company based on hancement of supervisory functions through possession of voting rights ities shall be in accordance with auditing plan for the term which is forat the meeting of the Board by Audit & Supervisory Committee memmulated by the Audit & Supervisory Committee. The Audit & Supervisory bers, improvement of the soundness and transparency of management Committee also maintains close coordination with accounting auditors Contributing to Further Sustainable Growth with a Sense of Responsibility as an Outside Director by raising the proportion of outside directors, and speeding up manand Internal Auditing Department. Also note that the full-time member We have entered the second year since adopting the for lively and constructive argument based on the diverse agement decision making by having options to delegate the authorities of the Audit & Supervisory Committee has many years of experience in Corporate Governance Code that stipulates the stance of wisdom, experience and specialties of each individual. I for business execution. Nihon Kohden has also implemented various finance and accounting departments and possesses a considerable the company and its investors, and the extremely importam impressed by the history, will and sense of purpose of degree of knowledge about finance and accounting. ant role of outside directors in this framework has been Nihon Kohden as a leading company in the medical de■ Corporate Organization and Internal Control System recognized. We have now entered a phase of further vice industry that continually moves forward, as well as its ensuring the functioning of this governance framework ability to continually provide high-quality medical devices General Shareholders Meeting and pursuing its viability. and services to healthcare-related customers. As an outAppointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal I hope to cooperate in the spirit of growth while mainside director, I will embrace a strong sense of responsibiliMinoru Obara taining an appropriate level of conflict-free tension bety and employ ceaseless efforts and constructive dialogue Outside Director Board of Directors (13 members) Consultation NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Directors, excluding Audit & tween senior management and outside directors. I believe to fulfill my supervisory function and actively contribute to Accounting Auditor Audit & Supervisory Committee Nomination and Cooperate (1 corporate director, 2 outside directors) Supervisory Committee members Compensation Committee Audit (8 cooperate directors, 2 outside directors) Nihon Kohden has cultivated an environment that allows the sustainable growth of the company. Proposal Audit Representative Director Cooperate Management Council Report Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan Quality Control Committee CSR Promotion Committee Internal Auditing Department Environmental Committee Compliance Committee Evaluation ● Promoted response based on the Corporate Governance Code ● Transition to company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee Internal Audit Operating Officers Good ● Implement Board of Directors effectiveness evaluation ● Convened CSR Promotion Committee meetings Business Units / Subsidiaries 22 23 Compliance ■ Internal Reporting System ■ Initiatives Concerning Transparency with Medical Institutions Promoting and Practicing Nihon Kohden has established a compliance hotline as a point of conGovernance Governance tact for consultation and reporting on compliance matters. By using the In response to the Transparency Guidelines for the Medical Device Compliance Compliance Hotline when it is difficult to resolve a compliance-related matter in the workplace, employees can anonymously consult or report Industry and its Relationships with Medical Institutions and Other Organizations established by the Japan Federation of Medical Devices on matters to the Compliance Committee. By making the process anonWe practice fair and legitimate business activities with Associations, which stipulates disclosure of information on funding paid ymous, persons who consult or make reports through the hotline are high ethics. to medical institutions and other organizations as part of business activCompliance Compliance protected from any unfavorable treatment arising from their consultation ities, Nihon Kohden has established “Guidelines on Transparency Reor report. garding Relationships between Nihon Kohden and Medical Institutions, Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets etc.” Since April 1, 2013, Nihon Kohden has published on its website Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks ■ Compliance Hotline information regarding funding paid to medical institutions and medical ● Initiatives such as strengthening governance, ensuring thorough Compliance Committee professionals. Improve corporate governance compliance and strengthening risk management Consultation and Report Feedback Compliance Hotline (Point of Contact, Legal Department) ■ Basic Approach to Compliance ■ Compliance Promotion Framework Consultation and Report Feedback Item 2 of the Nihon Kohden Charter of Conduct states that “we comply with applicable laws, regulations, restrictions and company internal and Nihon Kohden Group Employees Board of Directors external rules as well as social norms, and conduct fair and legitimate business activities.” To put this into practice, Nihon Kohden has established regulations Management Council ■ Preventing Corruption related to compliance and conducts employee training to ensure that The Nihon Kohden Code of Ethics and Conduct prohibits bribery of JapCompliance Committee anese and foreign public officials through conduct that is in violation of these rules take root and are thoroughly observed. laws and regulations. Nihon Kohden works to disseminate related rules ■ Nihon Kohden Code of Ethics and Conduct Compliance Administrators through a Compliance Handbook that contains the rules, approaches, conduct standards and other information that employees need to unTo ensure that Nihon Kohden employees embrace the spirit of the Business Divisions and Subsidiaries derstand to ensure daily compliance. Management Philosophy and Nihon Kohden Charter of Conduct, the To ensure compliance with the laws and regulations preventing corbehavior to be observed from the perspective of compliance is set forth ruption in every region in which Nihon Kohden engages in business, inin the Nihon Kohden Code of Ethics and Conduct. ■ Compliance Training cluding bribery and corruption-related legislation in Japan, the Foreign ■ Compliance Promotion Framework Nihon Kohden has produced a Compliance Handbook that contains Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in the United States and the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom, Nihon Kohden works to disseminate information Nihon Kohden has established Compliance Promotion Rules pertainthe rules, approaches, conduct standards and other information that and ensure thorough compliance through the distribution of a Compliing to mechanisms and the basic matters of operational methods for employees need in order to understand and ensure daily compliance. ance Handbook and holding compliance workshops. the promotion of compliance. The Compliance Committee has been The handbook is distributed to all employees as part of ongoing efforts established as an organization for promoting compliance based on to enhance awareness and knowledge regarding compliance. the Compliance Promotion Rules. The committee establishes rules and Workplace-level compliance systems and provides operational support to ensure that compliance workshops are also conducted at is observed in business activities. Its functions include complying with each Group company and business laws and regulations, providing compliance education and training to division on a yearly basis. To prevent employees and monitoring the state of compliance. compliance violations on the part of In addition, the heads of each Group company and business division employees, all employees are given work with and report to the Compliance Committee in their roles as ongoing instruction on related laws and regulations. To ensure that a We work to enhance workshops and systems to raise awareness of compliance Compliance Administrators. compliance culture takes root, emA medical device manufacturer must follow laws and person in charge of compliance training, I want employees ployees are required to self-study or regulations in every aspect of operations from product to get usable knowledge and raise awareness of compliread through designated learning development to trade. One person’s violation can harm the ance through a compliance workshop, violation reporting Mai Hasegawa NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 credibility of the Company as well as patients’ lives. As the systems and contact points for consultation. Legal Group Legal Department The Compliance Handbook is distributed to all employees. Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan Evaluation ● Examine and implement measures to strengthen compliance, ● Held ongoing compliance workshops including a fundamental revision of regulations and systems Good related to compliance 24 25 Risk Management ■ Response in the Event of a Risk ■ Information Risk Management Regulations have been established for each risk type. Regulations re● Basic Policy Strengthening Governance Governance lated to each risk type governing the response to be taken when a risk Information-related technologies and environments are continually Risk Management occurs have also been set forth. changing. New ways of using information along with new risks emerge on a daily basis. While we promote the utilization of highly convenient Nihon Kohden strives to make improvements to risk ■ Disaster Risk Management information technology and work to improve business efficiency, we management to ensure it can respond appropriately to also undertake various measures in response to changing conditions to ● Basic Approach various business risks. Risk Management Risk Management safeguard confidential company information and personal information Medical devices on which people’s lives depend need to be supplied from leaks. continually and smoothly in the event of a major disaster. As a medical Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets device manufacturer, we take measures to ensure the safety of emSustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks ● Initiatives to Ensure Information Security ployees and their families in a disaster and respond to disaster risks to ● Initiatives such as strengthening governance, ensuring thorough To protect the personal information and important confidential informaImprove corporate governance ensure the unbroken support of products and services. compliance and strengthening risk management tion of all stakeholders including customers, patients, business partners and employees, we have established regulations concerning personal ● Business Continuity Plan (BCP) information and IT utilization. In March 2015, Nihon Kohden devised a business continuity plan to ■ Approach to Risk Management ■ Risk Types ensure that even if the company suffers damages and losses due to a An IT Committee prescribes these rules concerning IT utilization. We have also deployed members of the Network Utilization Promotion To ensure the sound and smooth operation of business, Nihon Kohden The Risk Management Regulations, which set forth the basic policies for major earthquake, the provision of products and services can continue Committee in operating divisions and subsidiaries to disseminate rules has established a management framework to prevent risks in overall risk management, classify risks into eight types: Strategic Risks, Comor be quickly restored. The BCP sets forth organizational charts, initial to employees, as well as to provide guidance and support. business operations and prescribed methods for dealing with risks pliance Risks, Financial and Accounting Risks, Quality Control Risks, response manuals in the event of a disaster, subsequent restoration when they occur. Environmental Risks, Disaster and Accident Risks, System Risks, and plans following an initial response, operational procedures and disaster ● Employee Education Information Disclosure Risks. mitigation measures to be taken under normal conditions for each busiNihon Kohden conducts periodic training for employees to disseminate ■ Risk Management Framework ness site. information on rules concerning IT utilization and ensure that compli■ Risk Types The Management Council is responsible for establishing basic policies ance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information and internal ● Business Continuity Management (BCM) Management rules is widely known and taken root. concerning risk management in overall Group business operations, Risk Description Division To ensure that the business continuity plan functions effectively during and ascertaining the improvement and promotion status of the GroupBoard of a disaster, we have established a BCP Operation and Management wide risk management framework. The Risk Management Supervisory ● Obtaining Third-party Certification Risks related to management Directions, Strategic Risks strategy Management Committee tasked with operating and managing the BCP. The commitDivision is tasked with improving and promoting the overall risk manTo further enhance information security, Nihon Kohden has also obCouncil tee conducts regular company-wide education and training to ensure agement system of the Nihon Kohden Group, and reporting to the Mantained outside certification. We obtained PrivacyMark certification in Risks involving losses due to failure the effectiveness of the BCP during a disaster. In addition, the BCP is agement Council on the improvement and promotion status of the risk Compliance July 2005, and obtained Information Security Management System Compliance Risks to comply with laws and regulations, Committee periodically reviewed in order to make ongoing improvements. etc. (ISMS) JIS Q 27001 (ISO / IEC 27001) certification in January 2015; the management system. The risks present in the execution of business activities have been Financial and Risks of losses due to fluctuating Accounting scope includes management and operation of remote service facilities values of held assets or inappropriate Nihon Kohden’s Basic BCP Policy classified into eight types and Risk Management Divisions and RiskAccounting Risks Division for Nihon Kohden Group system products. accounting practices Related Committees have been assigned to each risk type. Risk ManRisks of losses due to the safety of 1 Protect employment while placing a priority on the Quality Control Quality Control Nihon Kohden agement Divisions provide training and support to operating units with Risks products and services or reliability Committee lives and health of employees and their families Corporation obtained issues PrivacyMark certregard to their assigned risk types, and report the system improvement 2 Fulfill our responsibility to supply products and deliver ification from the Risks of losses when efforts to reduce Japan Institute for and promotion status to the Risk Management Supervisory Division. The the impact on the environment or services to customers, and endeavor to maintain a the Promotion of Environmental Environmental Digital Economy and Risk-Related Committees report to the Management Council on matters activities to prevent environmental healthcare structure Risks Committee Community (JIPDEC). IS 617365 / JIS Q 27001 pollution are inadequate and including assessments of management system appropriateness, validienvironmental pollution, etc. occurs 3 Support customers and contribute to local ty and effectiveness for related risk types. Risks of losses when the execution Disaster communities In addition, risks discovered during audits conducted by the Internal Disaster and Prevention of business is impeded due to a Accident Risks disaster or accident Management 4 Maintain close coordination with affiliate companies Auditing Department are reported to the president. Committee and minimize the impact on the management of other ■ Risk Management Framework Risks of losses due to computer parties System Risks system malfunction, incorrect IT Committee Board of Directors operation, unauthorized use, etc. Risk of losses due to the inaccurate Information Representative Director Information or inappropriate disclosure of Disclosure Disclosure Risks information Committee NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Management Council Implement risk management Validity assessment of management and report on status systems for each risk, etc. ■ Risk Assessments Risk Management Supervisory Division Nihon Kohden subsidiaries and the departments in head office conduct self-assessment of risk management using check sheets and divisional Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan For Each Risk Type inspection sheets. The Risk Management Supervisory Division verifies Risk Management Divisions Related Committees Evaluation ● Convened BCP Operational and Management Committee ● Review BCP and expand scope of development the progress of risk management system implementation and future meetings ● Develop more sophisticated BCP simulation training and responses, and reports the results of self-assessments to the ManageGood expand scope of applicability ● Implemented BCP simulated training Operating Divisions and Subsidiaries ment Council. 26 27 Relationship with Customers ■ Obtaining ISO 9001 Certification for Service ■ Commissioning of the Tomioka Production Divisions Center Improving Safety and Security Healthcare Healthcare Although ISO 9001 Quality Management System certification was The Tomioka factory in Gunma Prefecture, which manufactured previously obtained in the bench service divisions, Nihon Kohden Nihon Kohden medical devices, was relocated to the new Tomioka has also moved forward to obtain ISO 9001 certification in area Production Center in May 2015. Previously, manufacturing of printed As a maker of medical devices which affect lives, we aim to provide products and services that give the customer service divisions in Japan to provide services of even higher quality circuit boards and medical devices was split between the two safety and security. to customers. Certification has been obtained for more divisions factories, but by consolidating these functions in the new production Relationship with Customers Relationship with Customers since FY2013, and we expect to complete certification at all area center, we aim to achieve further improvements in production service divisions in 11 locations throughout Japan in FY2016. efficiency and quality. In terms of production efficiency, we made use of a wide 100 ■ Obtaining ISO Certification for Overseas Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets m2 floor area and revised distribution traffic lines to streamline ● Provide high quality products and service that deliver medical safety operations while reducing in-process inventory. Improve safety and security of patients and users and security Production Sites ● Develop new technologies that contribute to medical safety and On the quality front, we implemented thorough dust control security Nihon Kohden is strengthening its business development overseas. measures with air conditioning that maintains positive pressure Targeting markets in developing nations where growth is expected in the production area using clean air that passes through semidue to factors such as improved healthcare infrastructure in ■ Quality Policy and Quality Management HEPA filters, and we controlled the generation of electrostatic of the first in the industry to ensure that its management systems connection with economic growth, products are exported from discharge that leads to malfunctions in semiconductor components Medical devices used in advanced medical care require the highest conform to global standards. This ensures the ability to develop Nihon Kohden’s Tomioka Production Center in Tomioka, Gunma with humidity management based on high-performance humidifier level of quality and safety. Nihon Kohden’s quality policy is “To have and manufacture medical devices with high quality and safety. Prefecture, and local production is also underway at overseas equipment. These measures allow us to develop an environment for the customers feel continuous satisfaction with their purchase of Nihon Kohden has received ISO 9001 quality management system plants. Similarly, reagents for hematology testing equipment are also manufacturing high-quality medical devices. Nihon Kohden products.” certification and ISO 13485 certification for the medical devices exported from the Tomioka plant and produced locally at overseas In addition, a work-life balance team comprised mainly of female Our long-term vision for 2020 includes the goal of “achieving sector. Our Reliability Center, which carries out product evaluation, plants. staff has planned facilities and workstyles that take diversity into the highest level of quality in the world.” In pursuit of product and has received ISO 17025 for testing and calibration labs. In 2015, Nihon Kohden Malaysia obtained a manufacturing permit account and develop comfortable work environments for employees service quality, we set three targets for daily quality improvement as well as ISO 13485 certification, and commenced production of while seeking to achieve high manufacturing quality as well as activities. ■ Support Systems to Ensure Safety patient monitors. Nihon Kohden Firenze, which produces reagents improve and reform production activities. for hematology testing equipment in Italy, renewed its certifications Nihon Kohden not only strives to improve the quality and safety of its for ISO 13485 and ISO 9001. ① “Risk Zero” design and production products, but also supports customers in safety management and ② Achieve a high utilization rate by users promotes medical technology to help ensure safety after delivery of ③ Achieve excellent usability the product. In Japan, Nihon Kohden deploys specialized personnel who have To achieve this quality policy and long-term vision, Nihon Kohden accreditations such as Medical Device Information Communicators set Group quality targets and continually strives to ensure customer (MDIC)*. We also organize safety workshops for users to ensure satisfaction and quality in all processes from development to that they use our products correctly. We held 1,751 workshops in production, sales and after-sales service. Nihon Kohden complies FY2015. with the medical device regulations of each country and was one MIRAI Tomioka Production Center Stagnation-free production line arranged in a straight line ISO 13485 certification ISO 13485, ISO 9001 certification Nihon Kohden Malaysia Nihon Kohden Firenze ■ ISO 9001 Certificate, ISO 13485 Certificate ■ Quality Management System President Quality Assessing Committee Chief Quality Officer Quality Control Committee Production Activities that Lead to Safety and Security for Customers and Patients Quality Management Division I am tasked with managing the production lines for AEDs vide feedback to the development division so that stable and defibrillators, and I strive to improve the productivity manufacturing quality can be maintained. In addition, by and quality of our products through equipment managesetting up opportunities for production division workers General Manager General Manager General Manager of General Manager ment and human resource development. Since AEDs to learn new things on a systematic basis, we aim to of of of Product Service/ Business Technology Manufacturing Maintenance Operations and defibrillators are treatment devices used on patients develop human resources who are able to notice when NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 during an emergency, we make a point of working and something is “off,” and explain the importance of each Engineering Naomi Sakurai Service Business communicating carefully with the understanding that individual task. Manager, Production Section 2, Development Factories Production Department 1 Departments Department Operations each task we perform can help save a precious life. AEDs and defibrillators are not products used on a Nihon Kohden Tomioka Corporation Quality Quality Quality Quality The production division coordinates with the develdaily basis; they are only used in emergencies. When an Management Management Management Management Section Section Section Section opment division to produce high-quality products. For emergency situation occurs, they must operate without example, when we developed a new product, we identify fail. When we hear about an AED actually being used to issues in manufacturing processes that take mass prosave a life, it fills us with delight and gives us the sense duction into account from the early stages and we prothat we have made a contribution. *MDIC is an accreditation program established by the Japan Society of Medical Instrumentation (JSMI) to cultivate personnel who can contribute to patient safety and the improvement of healthcare quality. 28 29 Relationship with Customers ■ Communication with Customers knowledge such as blood pressure, pulse and temperature, and by ME workshops that teach about medical devices to ensure their safe Communication with customers after their purchase is an important part of Nihon Kohden’s quality policy. We have a call center to use. Nihon Kohden also offers service training on periodic product Improving Quality, Accessibility Healthcare Healthcare respond to customer inquiries 24 hours a day, 365 days a year maintenance and check procedures for clinical engineers and other personnel responsible for the maintenance of medical devices. and Efficiency of Healthcare whenever there is a question or issue with a Nihon Kohden product, system or service. There are telephone hotlines for each product line In developing countries, workshops on the use of Nihon Kohden We aim for higher quality, accessibility and efficiency and operators are trained in each product to resolve any issue the products are held for doctors and laboratory technicians. These of healthcare by innovative technology and product development. Relationship with Customers Relationship with Customers customer may have. workshops provide the opportunity to learn techniques for attaching To incorporate the feedback from customers into product electrodes and sensors to measure accurate data, techniques for development and improve services, Nihon Kohden also conducts eliminating noise, and actual device usage. customer satisfaction surveys in Japan and abroad. The results of a Through these initiatives, we aim to provide the information Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets survey conducted on call center handling of product malfunctions required to handle medical devices appropriately, contribute to safe Improve efficacy and Improve quality Improve ● More access to healthcare in developing countries, PAD* market, etc. accessibility of of care throughout efficiency for customers in Japan showed that we achieved a satisfaction rate and secure healthcare, and enhance customer satisfaction with diagnosis and treatment the care cycle of users ● Provide solutions that improve work efficiency in medical facilities of 87% in FY2015. Nihon Kohden products and services. ■ Top Rating in Customer Satisfaction Surveys ■ Major Workshops and Seminars in FY2015 ■ Improving Quality of Care throughout the ■ Improving Quality of Life (QOL) for Patients for 9 Consecutive Years in the US Events (Attendees) Topics Region Care Cycle Nihon Kohden has released the SUKOYAKA® monitoring telecare In a patient monitor customer satisfaction survey conducted in April Clinical ECG seminar system as a monitoring service to advance the health and manage Academic Many developed countries face an aging population and the 7 (1,019) / Circulatory system Japan 2016 (Q1) by US-based market research firm MD Buyline, Nihon seminars the pre-symptoms of elderly persons living alone. advanced seminar / other health care system must respond. The aging population in Kohden America earned the top rank for the ninth year running. In The system detects changes in lifestyle rhythms, activity levels Future of vital signs / Japan is advancing at a rate not seen in many other countries, the survey, the performance, prompt service and product training Vital signs Team healthcare in the and environment (temperature, humidity, light) using a home station 3 (915) Japan and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare is developing seminars perioperative period / installed inside the home and provides for Nihon Kohden’s patient monitor system received particularly high other a comprehensive regional care system and strengthening praise. email-based notifications. Monitors, cardiac coordination between nursing care, medical care and prevention to To further enhance its customer support, Nihon Kohden America catheters testing, Moreover, based on the results of an allow the elderly to live in familiar surroundings, targeting 2025 for 450 (approx. ventilators, EEGs, epidemiologic study on the improvement opened the East Coast Operation Center in February 2016. This ME workshops Japan completion. 15,000) Neuropack, is a new support call center in Allentown, Pennsylvania. With the of health of elderly people in Nakanojo polysomnogram Nihon Kohden provides solutions that span the entire care cycle opening of the support center, we have developed a structure that workshops / other in Gunma Prefecture, evidence-based from prevention to testing, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. allows us to provide faster support to customers on the east coast of Hemodynamic monitoring information on what kinds of exercises With this focus on prevention of adult-onset diseases, the including esCCO with the United States. should be carried out and to what Japanese know-how, NAS-1000 blood pressure gauge was developed with the aim of International techniques, introduction Asia / degree are provided to support health 7 (407) developing early screening tests. Using the same method as regular seminars of medical devices and Americas development. pharmaceuticals, and blood pressure measurement, the NAS-1000 places minimal strain SUKOYAKA® promotion of medical on the patient and can display the new API / AVI blood vessel monitoring telecare system cooperation other indices. International EMG diagnosis basics / aEEG reading basics / Asia, Europe, In addition, testing reports can be provided to patients and ■ Improving Healthcare Efficiency 16 (299) Americas, workshops CPR+AED workshops / Africa doctors for better diagnosis. Moving forward, Nihon Kohden will Nihon Kohden released the FCM-2200 Celltac Peak High DNA other continue to provide medical devices that help prevent adult-onset Content Measuring Flow Cytometer which can swiftly measure Opening of the East Coast diseases. cellular DNA content extracted during neurosurgery. A glioma** is Operation Center a malignant tumor that accounts for roughly 30 percent of all brain tumors. As it is invasive and its barrier with the normal cell area is ■ Workshops and Seminars ■ Providing Solutions throughout the Entire Care Cycle unclear, a pathologist carries out rapid intraoperative pathology*** Providing healthcare professionals with appropriate information is Recuperation and Promotion of Welcare Projects to accurately identify the extent of the tumor during surgery in order Lifestyle Healthcare and to remove it. This form of diagnosis important for supporting improvement in the safety of healthcare. Preventive Care Welfare Clinics Nihon Kohden organizes and co-sponsors workshops and seminars Chronic Phase Care Long-term usually takes around 20 minutes, Clinics Care to disseminate academic information and clinical knowledge Seminar in the United States Sri Lanka but this new product can quickly, In-home Rehabilitation Hospital leading to medical safety and appropriate use of medical devices. Care Facilities Recovery Phase Care easily and quantitatively measure Nihon Kohden reaches nurses and medical interns by Japan DNA content that increases during NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 Medical Care Hospital domestic and international academic seminars on ECG, cardiology cell growth within 10 minutes. It Acute Phase Care Palliative Care Facilities and other subjects, by vital sign seminars that teach physiological Terminal Phase Care is expected to remove some of Promoting Regional Medical Cooperation the burden from the operator, pathologist and patient, and lead to Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan more standardized testing. FCM-2200 Celltac Peak High DNA Content Measuring Flow Cytometer Evaluation ● Continued initiatives to improve quality based on ● Continue initiatives to improve quality based on * Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) is defibrillation performed by an ordinary citizen using an AED. The PAD market includes public facilities, schools and private companies. Good the Group quality plan the Group quality plan ** A glioma is a malignant tumor that accounts for roughly 30 percent of all brain tumors. It is typically invasive, making the barrier between the tumor and normal cells unclear and hampering complete removal. *** Rapid intraoperative pathology is a form of histopathological investigation performed in a limited time during surgery to determine whether a lesion is a tumor, whether the tumor is benign or malignant, whether cancer has spread, and whether any parts of the lesion remain. 30 31 Relationship with Customers Providing Medical Devices for Developing Countries ■ Unique Sensor Technology ● Innovation Forum ● Nihon Kohden regularly holds an Innovation Forum designed Developing countries still face shortages of medical equipment Utilizing its technological capabilities, Nihon Kohden strives to solve to introduce and share information on the latest technologies and devices in medical care settings. With the aim of improving the issues faced by medical staff and patients and develop unique internally and encourage further technological innovation through and enhancing these healthcare environments, Nihon Kohden Healthcare Healthcare parameters that lead to better quality and more efficient healthcare. presentations of results by engineers. developed the SVM-7500 series of bedside monitors for developing In FY2015 we held forums on patient monitor analysis countries at its Shanghai site. The products are low-cost, high● synECi18 technologies and fundamental research. quality bedside monitors with features including comfortable touchThis technology uses the normally measured 12-lead ECG to derive panel operation, viewing of cumulative data from the past 120 hours, ■ Initiatives to Disseminate Medical Care Relationship with Customers Relationship with Customers the 6 additional right side and back leads which are not normally and interbed function that allows information from other patient monitors to be viewed. SVM-7500 series monitors SVM-7500 series bedside monitors measured because of the cumbersome procedure but which are ● Activities to Disseminate CPR and AEDs are achieving success for developing countries helpful in identifying right side and posterior infarction. synECi18 Shanghai Kohden Medical Electronic Instrument Corp. and Nihon in developing countries. When a person who may have gone into cardiac arrest is provides useful 18-lead screening to reveal more information about Kohden Malaysia are handling production. As Malaysia has many discovered, initiating CPR more quickly and delivering electric the heart condition. high-quality engineers in the electronics industry and offers easy shocks using an AED could save their lives. To ensure that as many access to Southeast Asian countries, we have achieved high-quality people as possible can use an AED in the event it is needed, Nihon ● iNIBP and efficient production combined with flexible distribution by Kohden provides support for AED installation and operation and This technology detects the pulse during instead of after arm cuff establishing production sites in the country. conducts workshops on AED usage and CPR techniques inside and inflation. This allows quicker and more gentle noninvasive blood Moving forward, Nihon Kohden has plans to expand the endeavor outside Japan to help develop an environment in which ordinary pressure measurement with lower cuff pressure. beyond Asia into the Mexico region. By continuing to provide people can do CPR. low-cost, high-quality products to medical settings in developing In Japan, 5,891 people attended the workshops in FY2015. ● cap-ONE countries, Nihon Kohden will strive to improve the provision of We also supported safety and security by loaning out AEDs and cap-ONE is an ultra-compact and lightweight mainstream-type medical care. dispatching personnel and instructors for various events including CO2 sensor with unprecedented impact resistance and light weight the 10th Tokyo Marathon in 2015. We also conducted on-site thanks to a unique heater-less and motor-less structure developed workshops for customers who have AEDs, provided support for by Nihon Kohden. When used together with a cap-ONE mask, wide customers to act as instructors to conduct in-house workshops, and range of patients such as non-intubated patients, patients receiving offered public workshops at our training center. oxygen, etc. can get safe respiratory management through CO2 Overseas, since AEDs have not yet achieved widespread monitoring. adoption in some regions outside Europe and the United States, we International Activities to Promote the Spread of AEDs are engaged in activities to create environments in which ordinary In China, many provinces still limit the use of AED to the saving of a life with an AED during a marathon in Wuxi ● esCCO people can immediately use AEDs when needed. Dedicated AED medical practitioners. Accordingly, the devices are not in 2014, in 2015 the lives of three people were saved in This technology provides continuous estimated measurement personnel have been assigned to Nihon Kohden’s international sales well recognized and suffer from a low adoption rate. similar fashion. I take pride in our mission of spreading of cardiac output based on the pulse waves obtained from the subsidiaries where they conduct CPR and AED workshops and lend In terms of awareness-raising activities, in addition to the adoption of AEDs as devices that relate directly to ECG and pulse oximetry. Previously, cardiac output could only be increasing support at marathons and other events. workshops, in 2015 we supported around 30% of the 200 human lives. Zhu Lu measured by inserting a catheter into the pulmonary artery. esCCO marathon events together with medical teams. Following AED Specialist Shanghai Kohden Medical Electronic Instrument Corp. is pain-free and stress-free. Sales started in Europe in 2011 and clinical studies are continuing. Topics ■ Creating Innovation Nihon Kohden’s DCS-5000 series of Long-term ECG Analysis Devices Win 2015 Good Design Award ● Establishment of the Nihon Kohden Innovation Center This product analyzes heart function, blood enormous volume of data and consolidates the To reinforce its research and development structure in the United pressure and sleep apnea testing data under important information into a single screen. It also States, where cutting-edge technologies come together in one of the Hands-on experience with CPR Promotional activities in Mexico daily lifestyle conditions. Collecting biological has a feature to share data over a network. This world’s largest medical device industries, Nihon Kohden established and AEDs (Japan) information (ECG, breathing, blood pressure) reduces time spent and reduces the load on both the Nihon Kohden Innovation Center as an R&D site in Boston in over an extended period and using the product patients and medical staff. In the latest award, September 2014. to analyze the data can lead to the discovery of the product was highly regarded for its “superb ■ AED Workshops and Participation in the Past Five Years (Japan) Nihon Kohden will make use of the center to pursue cutting-edge intermittent high mortality arrhythmia, or detect system design equipped with a user interface DCS-5000 series long-term conditions during a post-treatment observation. allowing experts’ knowledge to be fully utilized.” ECG analysis device research in cooperation with US universities. Workshops Participants Nihon Kohden Innovation Center has an Advisory Board as an The product includes a function that takes an NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 FY2011 289 5,780 organization for accepting advice from outside experts on research FY2012 349 6,238 and development matters. US-based doctors and experts in electrical engineering have been brought on as advisors, and the FY2013 334 5,261 board pursues research and development while receiving advice FY2014 390 6,953 Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan and recommendations based on their respective expert standings. FY2015 338 5,891 ® Evaluation ● Launched SUKOYAKA monitoring telecare ● Promote widespread adoption of unique sensor Total 1,700 30,123 system technologies Good ● DCS-5000 series long-term ECG analysis device ● Continue to hold AED workshops in Japan and won 2015 Good Design Award overseas 32 33 Relationship with the Environment ■ Green Procurement ● Supplier-side environmental conservation We ask all our suppliers to take measures for effective environmental Environmental Philosophy As part of our efforts to provide eco-conscious products to the conservation such as establishing an environmental policy, Environment Environment market, we promote procurement of parts, materials and finished maintaining systems, and implementing education. and Policy products which have a low environmental impact according to the following policy (green procurement). ● Supplying low environmental impact products, parts, and materials To manage the chemicals that are used in our procured products, We strive to realize our environmental philosophy through our business activities and the actions of our employees. we request the following. 1 Prioritize purchasing from suppliers conducting ambitious Relationship with the Environment Relationship with the Environment 1. Create a quality control system for chemicals used in products environmental conservation activities while also excelling 2. Implement green procurement of parts and materials that reduce in areas that include quality, pricing, delivery times, and ■ Environmental Philosophy toxic substances and have low environmental impact I n 2 0 1 6 , t h e M I R A I To m i o k a services. In its business activities and the actions of its employees, Production Center underwent an 2 Prioritize the purchase of toxic substance-free products. ● Chemical substance content inspection expansion inspection and completed Nihon Kohden works towards the conservation and qualitative To evaluate the chemical substances in procured goods, we request registration. Our activities currently improvement of the earth priceless environment so that all people ● Requests to our suppliers all our suppliers respond to investigations of chemical substances span five sites. Ochiai Site: head can enjoy a healthy environment. To uphold our green procurement policy, the Nihon Kohden Group in the goods. We require suppliers to provide certificates of Established: November 4, 2008* office and development department; asks its suppliers to practice environmental conservation in their compliance for materials used in RoHS compliant products. Ts u r u g a s h i m a S i t e : s a l e s a n d business activities and supply products, parts and materials that ■ Environmental Policy shipping of ME consumables; have a low environmental impact. We also ask them to provide a Kawamoto Site: development of ME Based on its management and environmental philosophy, Nihon RoHS Declaration of Conformity and participate in various surveys. consumables and safety/reliability Kohden shall carry out this environmental policy. testing of ME devices; Fujioka Site: 1 Provide environmentally friendly products repair and maintenance; Tomioka ■ Goals, Targets and Results of the Environmental Management Program Site: manufacturing and shipping. In carrying out development, manufacturing, marketing, after sales service, and support for electronic medical Environmental Goals FY2015 Target Result ● The United Nations Global Compact devices, we provide environmentally friendly products which conserve energy and resources, and do not use In July 2015, based on the principles of the United Nations Global ・Implement business improvements to raise business efficiency Attainment Rate: ✓✓ hazardous substances 1. Reduce environ・Promote development and sale of sustainable products, and reduce Activities were implemented in a Compact to which the CEO of Nihon Kohden signed on to, the COO mental impact and environmental impact by an average of 5% compared with previous largely smooth fashion at each 2 Promote energy conservation and reduction of waste is driving activities to incorporate elements into its environmental prevent pollution in products for all newly developed products site, and we managed to maintain In all of our business activities, we continue to introduce targets, including preventative approaches to environmental issues, business activities ・Reduce first month defect rate by 5% compared with FY2014 reductions in environmental impact. low-carbon and high-efficiency technologies, and strive to ・Keep the repair failure rate for repaired goods to 0.20% or less leadership in taking responsibility for the environment, as well as the promote energy conservation, reduce waste through the 3 development and widespread adoption of sustainable technologies. Attainment Rate: ✓ R’s of Reduce/Reuse/Recycle, reduce CO2 emissions, and Although the target was not attained prevent environmental pollution. 2. Ongoing energy use ■ Group according to assessment of the reduction to reduce ・1% improvement over FY2014 per unit of energy consumed 3 Comply with laws and regulations President carbon footprint energy consumption rate, the target was met in terms of amount of In all business activities, we comply with all laws, consumption. regulations, ordinances, and agreements that concern Environmental Management Environmental the environment in Japan and overseas, and carry out our System Evaluation Manager Committee 3. Contribute to a Attainment Rate: ✓✓✓ responsibilities to stakeholders as a global company. ・Promote Reduce/Reuse/Recycle, and reduce waste for landfill and Environmental recycling-oriented We promoted recycling and met the incineration per unit by an average of 0.3% over FY2014 4 Promote environmental education Committee society target emissions per unit. In regard to environmental issues, Nihon Kohden Environmental Proposal Subcommittee Attainment Rates provides appropriate education and awareness-raising Review Board activities. We also promote education aimed at including ✓✓✓ 100% attainment environmental improvement activities into our everyday Environmental Management Internal Environmental ✓✓ At least 75% attainment Administration Unit Auditor ✓ Less than 75% attainment work. Established: March 28, 2013* ■ In-House Environmental Awareness Training Program Non-production Sites Production Sites Ochiai Site Tomioka Site Tsurugashima Site Kawamoto Site ■ Certifications and Signed Commitments Fujioka Site Introductory Training All employees undergo this training when joining the company. Employees become familiar with and deepen their understanding of general environmental issues, regulatory and legal compliance, ISO 14001 mechanisms and the initiatives pursued by Nihon Kohden, our environmental philosophy and policies, ● ISO 14001 understanding of environmental goals and targets, specific examples, and the need for full participation. ■ Site The Tomioka Factory obtained ISO 14001:1996 certification in October 2001, and underwent a transitional review for ISO Environmental Activities Manager Environmental Management Unit Training is conducted for all employees every other year (in even-numbered years). Employees learn about Training in environmental policies, goals and targets, including changes to the situation around them, and gain an 14001:2004 in October 2005. Our head office and production Even-numbered Years understanding of the activities underway in each division. NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 department were integrated and registered for joint certification in Environmental Management Administration Unit Awareness Raising In FY2016, we established an annual Environment Day on which we make known to all employees the need January 2007. Certification renewal inspections were completed in Activities for environmental activities. January 2010, January 2013 and January 2016. * Because of changes to senior management, on September 1, 2015, the environmental philosophy and policies of the CEO were re-approved by the COO. 34 35 Relationship with the Environment ■ Input and Output ● CO2 Emissions by Scope In FY2015, there was an increase in energy consumption at the Since FY2014 we have calculated Scope 3 emissions to the extent International Initiatives Environment Environment Tomioka Site in connection with the commissioning of the Tomioka that can be calculated and we made progress identifying emission Production Center. sources so that we can prioritize GHG reduction measures in the At other sites, efforts were made to streamline business supply chain. To save as many patients as possible using cutting-edge ME operations by promoting Work Style Reform. Energy consumption The results of calculations are published on CDP and also through technology, Nihon Kohden develops products that confirm to has decreased as a result. the environmental information disclosure program of the Ministry of the regulations and requirements of the countries where they will be used. Relationship with the Environment Relationship with the Environment the Environment. ■ Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) CO2 emissions and percentages by scope are given below. Production Sites Non-production Sites (FY) ■ CO2 Emissions and Percentages by Scope Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets ‘15 1,694 1,402 ‘14 1,375 1,475 Scope CO2 Emissions Percentage ● Provide environment friendly products and services by reducing ‘13 1,330 1,479 Provide environmentally friendly products energy consumption and resource usage and eliminating the use ‘12 1,366 1,380 Scope 1 Emissions 281.58t-CO2 0.12% of harmful substances ‘11 1,226 1,343 ‘10 1,444 1,531 Scope 2 Emissions 4,854.12t-CO2 2.09% ‘09 1,355 1,512 Scope 3 Emissions 227,628.13t-CO2 97.79% ■ Response to International Environmental ‘08 1,284 1,494 ‘07 1,166 1,494 Regulations Total 232,763.83t-CO2 100% ‘06 1,116 1,424 ● Response to RoHS Direcitive and REACH Regulation ● Response to the WEEE Directive (input in kL) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Nihon Kohden has established research systems to ensure In EU, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive ■ Scope 3 Breakdown compliance with the chemical substance regulations of each entered into force in February 2003. The purpose of this Directive FY2015, CO2 emissions were 5.14tCO2. CO2 emissions per unit Category Estimated Results Percentage country, including those in the EU. For example, we investigate is to reduce the amount of waste production in landfill by buliding of sales were 5.12tCO2 per 100 million yen. This came to 106.9% of banned substances under RoHS Directive*, examine SVHC** the system to reuse and recycle waste electrical and electronic Purchased Goods FY2014 levels. 123,954.48t-CO2 54.45% concentrations prescribed in REACH Regulation***, notify equipment. The Directive requires the manufacturers of such and Services ■ CO2 Emissions per Sales Unit governments as required, and respond to inquiries from customers. equipment to be aware of recycling in designing equipment and to Fuel and Energy When managing contained chemical substances, we developed provide information on recyclable materials contained in equipment. CO2 Emissions CO2 Emissions per Sales Unit 77,727.34t-CO2 34.15% Related Activities （t-CO2） (t-CO2 / 100 million yen) a system for quick provision of accurate information by utilizing Nihon Kohden is disclosing the Recycling Passport on our 6,000 8 Waste Generated a contained chemical substance management system so that website, including the information on recyclable and hazardous 11.60t-CO2 0.01% in Operations 7 business partners and related Nihon Kohden divisions such as materials contained in our products. 5,000 6 Business Travel 356.20t-CO2 0.16% quality control, technical development and procurement can share 4,000 5 information efficiently. Employee 3,000 4 907.61t-CO2 0.40% ■ Flow of providing information on contained chemical materials Commuting 3 2,000 Business Headquarters International sales International 2 Use of Sold partners subsidaries customers 24,670.90t-CO2 10.84% 1,000 Products 1 Providing Providing 0 0 Total 227,628.13t-CO2 100% information information ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 (FY) on contained on contained materials materials FY2015, total waste emissions were 535.6 tons. Our recycling rate was 99.9% which met our target of at least 99%. Managing At the Tomioka Site, we are continuing efforts to recover valuable Management system of information contained chemical materials on contained substances from waste, and at the Ochiai Site, we are recycling in response to RoHS/REACH materials infectious waste. Waste for landfill and incineration decreased 34.8% compared to FY2014. ■ Waste Emissions Initiatives in the EU Waste Emissions Recycling Rate In the EU, which requires the application of stringent enpropriately so that we can continue to supply products （t） 99.9% （％） vironmental laws and regulations, Nihon Kohden Europe that satisfy customers in terms of the environment as well. 98.9% 99.1% 99.6% 700 100 98.1% also sells products that confirm to RoHS Directive and Moving forward, we will remain keenly alert to worldNIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 600 99.1% 99.1% 99.6% Emi Yoshimoto various other regulations. wide trends as we strive to achieve a balance between 94.7% Quality Assurance Section, 95 We need to adapt to these regulations swiftly and apbusiness continuity and environmental preservation. Quality Assurance Department, 500 Quality Management Division 400 90 * RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive): RoHS Directive is enacted by the EU on July 1, 2006 to restrict the use and import of electrical and electronic products containing harmful substances. Medical devices (Category 8) have 300 been required to comply since July 22, 2014. While six substances were initially included, from July 22, 2021, the restriction will apply to ten substances (lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, PBB, PBDE, cadmium, DEHP, BBP, DBP, and DIBP). 200 87.2% 85 ** SVHC (Substances of Very High Concern): SVHC is a substance with carcinogenic, mutagenic or reproductive toxicity properties or similar properties (CMR), a substance with refractory, bioaccumulative, toxic or similar properties (PBT), 100 or a substance with highly refractory, highly bioaccumulative properties or similar properties (vPvB). 0 80 *** REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of CHemicals Regulation) ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 (FY) REACH Regulation is an EU regulation enacted on July 1, 2007 to control chemical substances and their use in light of public health and environmental protection. Those chemical substances that have a significant impact (substances of very high concern: approximately 1,500 substances) are summarized in an SVHC list. There are restrictions on usage volume, and prior registration is required. 36 37 Relationship with the Environment P-511X These are disposable defibrillator pads intended for use in Disposable Pads medical environments using X-rays. Environmentally Environment Environment The pads are more compact than previous models, and since Friendly Products they are disposable, they are designed to contain no harmful substances. Nihon Kohden works to develop environmentally friendly products as part of its efforts to contribute to society. Relationship with the Environment Relationship with the Environment Celltac PEAK The FCM-2200 is a flow cytometer that is able to swiftly measure FCM-2200 cellular DNA content from samples extracted during surgery. Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets High DNA Content An onscreen operation guide makes it easy to use so anyone Measurement can easily take measurements. ● Provide environment friendly products and services by reducing Provide environmentally friendly products Equipment The equipment does not contain the six designated RoHS energy consumption and resource usage and eliminating the use of harmful substances Directive substances, and it reduces waste by using fewer components than previous models. Including accessories in the product reduce waste products by using less packaging TG-980P By locating the intermediate processing unit inside the multi-connector, instead materials. CO2 Sensor Kit of in the middle of the cable, we were able to reduce the size and weight by about 50% compared to the previous model. TG-980P also uses fewer resources and produces fewer waste products. At the same time, input power WEP-5258/5268 Patient data for up to eight patients can be simultaneously has been reduced more than 80%, making it more energy efficient. The lead-free design also complies with RoHS Directive. Telemetry System displayed on a larger 19-inch color LCD display. The user can switch the number of displayed patients. Thanks to the more compact and lightweight design, it is now easier to handle Patient attributes can also be entered by an optional magnetic the cable during use. Cases where the cable falls out of the bed or medical card reader. This one-action entry procedure significantly device have been reduced, contributing to improved safety in medical care. reduces workload. As with previous products, the system does not contain the Cardiolife The AED-3100 can operate in environments as cold as -5°C. It also features six designated RoHS Directive substances. Moreover, while AED-3100 strong water and dust resistance compliant with the IP55 standard which allows Automated External volume has increased due to the larger screen, waste has been use even in harsh conditions. Defibrillator decreased due to reduction in packaging materials. After two minutes of CPR, AED-3100 completes analysis and charging in as few as 8 seconds. The interruption in CPR is short, and electric shocks can be delivered more quickly. Without compromising on the necessary functions, the QI-670P This is an interface for BSM-6000 series bedside monitors. volume of the main unit has been reduced 40% and the weight is 15% lighter than previous Nihon Kohden products. This makes the AED-3100 easier to carry Interface The interface does not contain the six designated RoHS Directive substances, uses fewer components, and achieves an and enables a smaller installation footprint. improved recycling rate. The weight of the main unit and packaging materials has been reduced thanks to the compact size and fewer components used. This allows us to reduce waste products. Power consumption has also been reduced, and together with other improvements, this product boasts greater energy efficiency. P-730 series These are the first AED electrode pads produced domestically in Japan. Disposable Pads Baseline wandering is less likely to occur during CPR, and the use of an anticling protective film improves handling while wearing gloves. TG-980P is a Product that Contributes to both Production Efficiency and After-sale Quality Control The pads can be connected to TEC-2600/2500 series semi-automated TG-980P CO2 sensor has eliminated the need for a relay be two separate parts but now they have been integratdefibrillators and TEC-8300 series defibrillators in order to shorten the time cable so we managed to reduce assembly man hours by ed and some components have been eliminated. This needed for life-saving. around 40% compared with previous models. Standby time allows better product traceability (history management). As the pads are disposable, they are designed to contain no harmful during the calibration process has also been halved, and I believe this product contributes to both production effiSatoshi Maru substances. we have also reduced man hours during the inspection ciency and after-sale quality control. Production Section 2, Kawamoto Production NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 process. The main sensor unit and relay cable used to Department Analysis time is only 3 seconds. Cardiolife S can be combined with P-740 series Nihon Kohden Cardiolife S Tomioka Corporation TEC-2601 disposable pads to enable use in environments as cold as -5°C. Cardiolife S Automated External has improved vibration resistance, operating time, and more operating cycles, Defibrillator striking a better balance between high-functionality and ruggedness compared Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan with previous models. Cardiolife S Evaluation ● Promote the development of sustainable While ruggedness has been improved, the models are actually lighter than ● Average environmental impact reduction rate of products and reduce the environmental impact TEC-2603 before, produce less waste, and have lower power consumption. Good 5.0% for all assessed newly developed products of all newly developed products by an average Semi-automated of 5.0% Defibrillator 38 39 Relationship with the Environment ■ Change in Power Consumption ■ Activities to Improve Production Efficiency and Streamline Operations in FY2015 from Among the Ten Departments at the Tomioka Site Site Report Comparison of Power Consumption in Environment Environment Month the Same Month in 2015 Department May 2016 10.6% reduction Responsible for Major Initiatives and Achievements the Activities June 2016 9.3% reduction Device Assembly Eliminate use of harmful substances Our activities span five sites taking on development, control, Production in production and continue to reduce manufacturing, shipping. and repair. July 2016 16.2% reduction Department standard work man hours Relationship with the Environment Relationship with the Environment Board Mounting As our third environmental target, we have worked to reduce Reduce waste through loss visualization Production and solder switching waste for landfill and incineration per unit of production. Initiatives Department Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets to cooperate in separate on-site waste and recycle have made Reagent Reduce operational errors, improve ● Introduce low-carbon, high-efficiency technologies, continue progress, and we reduced waste by 36.5% by implementing thermal Production productivity and prevent environmental Promote energy conservation and waste reduction improvement, promote energy conservation and contribute to Department pollution recycling of the small amounts of remaining rubber, resin and other waste reduction substances. Shipping Review storage space, improve work and Department boost transportation efficiency ■ Change in Amount of Waste for Landfill and Incineration ■ Environmental Activity Sites ● Raising Awareness of Environmental Proposals Tomioka Site Environmental Targets for FY2015 Year Comparison with Previous Fiscal Year ISO 14001 is in operation at five Nihon Kohden sites: Ochiai, As a way for the Environmental 1. Reduce environmental impact and prevent pollution in Tomioka, Tsurugashima, Kawamoto, and Fujioka. business activities FY2012 8.8% reduction Management Office to disseminate The Ochiai Site is made up of the Higashi-nakano Office, ● Implement business improvements to raise business information, notice boards are utilized FY2013 28.1% reduction efficiency in an effort to raise awareness of which operates as the head office and a training facility, and the ● Reduce first month defect rate by 5% compared with ●●環境目標に対する取り組みと成果 Nishiochiai Office which houses the company’s R&D base. We plan FY2014 FY2014 34.5% reduction environmental proposals. To further ● Endeavor to prevent environmental pollution to relocate some functions to Tokorozawa, Saitama Prefecture in invigorate proposal activities this 2. Ongoing energy use reduction to reduce carbon footprint FY2015 36.5% reduction 2016. year, the Environmental Management ● Endeavor to prevent environmental pollution The Tomioka Site is the main factory for Nihon Kohden products. ● Initiatives and Achievements by Each Department Office solicited “proposals that include 3. Contribute to a recycling-oriented society The MIRAI Tomioka Production Center began operation in May 2015 The production department responsible for device assembly and photos and words you want to preserve for the future.” A photograph ● Make a habit of behavior designed to conserve energy and is part of efforts to streamline production. and reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production by 1% board mounting gathers the line leaders for each assembled of a nearby field of sunflowers that included the words “that we may The Tsurugashima Site is a shipping base for the ME consumables on average over FY2014 product to receive training on the environmental targets from the always be able to look up at a beautiful sky and breathe in sweet air” used for medical devices, large-scale medical devices, and department head. was used for an environmental poster as the symbol of the Tomioka replacement devices for repair. The site also accepts imported We have continued to position reductions to the initial defect The production department responsible for reagents has pursued Site’s environmental activities in FY2016. goods and carries out inspections. The site is working with rate as our first environmental goal since FY2012, and while the ongoing improvement activities such as reducing the amount of The Tomioka Site has also raised improvement proposals transportation companies in an effort to improve transportation reduction bottomed out at 1% year on year in FY2015, we formed reagent disposal. The department has recognized the importance concerning the environment, actively makes use of the Tree efficiency. a new team as a priority measure to reduce initial defects and of environmental pollution as a departmental goal, and has created Environmental Proposal Commendation System that involves The Kawamoto Site engages in the development and production made efforts to reduce defects. As a result, the initial defect rate for opportunities for training in environmental pollution and toxic monthly commendations, and helped raise awareness of its of ME consumables and conducts reliability testing for in-house FY2015 marked a 17.7% reduction from FY2012 levels. substances as well as the sharing of quality information. environmental activities. products. The development division is striving to eliminate the use The shipping department has pursued initiatives to improve ■ Number of Proposals Submitted for the Tree Environmental ■ Change in Initial Defect Rate from FY2012 of harmful substances, while the production division is working to transportation efficiency in cooperation with shipping-related Proposal Commendation System （%） improve production efficiency to avoid wasteful disposal. packaging suppliers and delivery destinations. (Scope 3) Number of proposals from other sites 0 Number of proposals from the Tomioka Site 100 The Fujioka Site repairs products that could not be repaired at -5 nationwide service centers. The site is making efforts to improve -10 operational efficiency so that the items sent in for repairs by -17.7% 50 59 -15 customers can be returned to them accurately and in a short time. -20 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2 4 25 ■ Introduction to the Tomioka Site 0 Scene from training in 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) We have continued to address our second environmental goal departmental environmental ● Future Initiatives A new plant, dubbed the MIRAI Tomioka Production Center, was of reducing CO2 emissions per production energy unit. With the targets Moving forward, we will place importance on our relationship with commissioned in May 2015 as the main plant for Nihon Kohden relocation to a new plant, total floor area has increased by around the local community, make ongoing improvements to our main products. The plant was designed to accommodate expanded 60%, and since this was the first year following relocation, we operations and work to achieve the environmental targets of the NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 production capacity as well as to enhance production efficiency and experienced some challenges in the control of air conditioning Tomioka Site to achieve The CHANGE 2020 long-term vision as a reduce costs. equipment. As a result, CO 2 emissions increased 37.8% over critical production center of the Nihon Kohden Group. FY2014. However, in FY2016 air conditioners are being controlled ● Tomioka Site Environmental Targets appropriately in light of these results. Moreover, the administrative In line with the management goals set forth in Nihon Kohden division has also expanded energy-saving measures and an Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan Tomioka Corporation’s Four-Year Mid-term Management Plan, initiative to curb air conditioning costs is underway. As a result, we Evaluation ● 7.3% increase in energy consumption per unit ● 1% improvement in energy consumption per unit the Tomioka Site is working to reduce its direct and indirect are starting to see energy-saving effects. ry compared with FY2014 based on forecast values for FY2016 S atisfacto ● 67.7% decrease in waste for landfill and ● Maintain FY2015 performance in terms of waste for impact on the environment, and has declared and pursued three incineration per unit compared with FY2014 landfill and incineration per unit environmental targets. 40 41 Relationship with Business Partners ■ Compliance with the Nihon Kohden CSR Furthermore, opinions received through the questionnaires are Procurement Standards provided to the procurement division as feedback and utilized to Ensuring Fair Trade Practices With the aim of promoting the CSR Procurement Standards across the entire supply chain, Nihon Kohden also asks its business partachieve fair and responsible procurement activities. Society Society ners for their understanding and cooperation with the Nihon Kohden ● Training to Promote CSR Procurement CSR Procurement Standards. Business partners are required to When promoting CSR procurement, it is essential to understand We aim to achieve fair business practices across the entire conduct a periodic self-assessment on their environment and quality its importance and acquire knowledge of related laws, regulations value chain, including our business partners. activities and answer a “CSR Activity Questionnaire” to confirm and other requirements. Internally, we conduct annual training to Relationship with Business Partners Relationship with Business Partners awareness and state of compliance with the Nihon Kohden's CSR disseminate knowledge of CSR and its significance and promote Procurement Standards. understanding for related personnel in the procurement division who Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable 2017Targets Growth2017 SustainableGrowth 目標 will play a central role in promotion. In the course of communication with business partners through the CSR Activity Questionnaire, we ● Implement initiatives such as CSR procurement that lead to the Promote fair business practices Main items in the CSR Activity Questionnaire endeavor to create opportunities for business partners to recognize promotion of fair business practices Activities relating to the significance of CSR initiatives and the management resources ● Legal compliance and fair business practices that are required. ● Human rights ■ Basic Approach ● Quality ■ Initiatives to Maintain and Improve Quality ● The environment We strive to practice sound and fair purchasing and achieve fair Nihon Kohden CSR Procurement Standards To respond to customer needs, we strive to maintain and improve ● Information management trade across the value chain, including at our business partners. Our 1. Legal compliance/fair business practices the quality of the components and materials we procure. We have ● CSR promotion efforts to achieve fair trade include the running of in-house training new business partners cooperate with audits to confirm the appro1 Comply with applicable laws, ordinances, and goverment and the strengthening of relationships with our business partners. circulars such as the Companies Act, Anti-Monopoly Act, priate operation of quality management systems, and have existing Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, business partners cooperate with periodic reviews of operation and ■ Procurement Policy and Procurement Standards and relevant labor and environmental laws and regulations. quality audits based on the quality of delivered components. We To disseminate our stance on procurement to both inside and out2 Comply with relevant import/export laws and regulations strive to further enhance quality by getting business partners themside the company and ensure that our commitment will take root, we and the laws of countries and regions where we operate. selves to understand that the quality of delivered components can created the Nihon Kohden Procurement Policy and Nihon Kohden 3 Do not infringe upon intellectual properties, including pathave a significant impact on the quality of our end products. ent rights, copyrights, and trademarks, etc. CSR Procurement Standards in 2013. The Nihon Kohden ProcureWe work to ensure that ment Policy represents Nihon Kohden’s basic policy on procure4 Do not give or receive inappropriate personal benefits. CSR activities also extend ment. The Nihon Kohden CSR Procurement Standards represent the 5 Do not do business with anti-social persons or groups. to our business partners. compliance items Nihon Kohden expects its business partners to 2. Human rights ● Disseminating the Procurement Standards observe. 6 Respect the human rights of all people and not discrimiThe scope of CSR activities has gone beyond the company level nate against employees in their benefits or employment. and started to spread across the supply chain including support for 7 Do not use child labor or forced labor. Nihon Kohden Procurement Policy the CSR activities of suppliers. To promote CSR procurement, when 3. Quality As part of its corporate social responsibility efforts to bewe establish new business dealings we present the Nihon Kohden come a more global company, the Nihon Kohden Group val8 Comply with safety standards and regulations of all counProcurement Policy and Nihon Kohden CSR Procurement Standards tries and regions. ues its partnerships with its business partners and engages and ask the new supplier to confirm their understanding and comply in procurement activities in good faith following the policy 9 Strive to maintain and enhance quality and build a quality assurance system that meets our standards to meet cuswith the requirements outlined below. tomer needs. 1 Comply with relevant laws and ordinances and social ● Confirming the State of Compliance norms in business transactions. 4. Environment We promote CSR procurement while maintaining mutual communi2 Properly manage and protect confidential information ■ Promote environmentally aware green procurement. Strive and personal information obtained through business to reduce the impact of our products on the environment cation with business partners. To ascertain the state of compliance transactions. during their life cycle. with our procurement standards, every three years we ask all busi3 Build relationships of trust. Practice fair, equitable 5. Information management ness partners to answer a CSR Activity Questionnaire. Through the procurement. ■ Properly manage and protect confidential information and questionnaire, we have business partners themselves check their 4 Practice proper quality, cost and delivery for customer personal information obtained through business transacCSR activities while Nihon Kohden evaluates their state of complineeds. tions. ance. When an evaluation leads us to determine that a business 5 Reduce our impact on the environment and practice partner may not be meeting our CSR procurement standards, we procurement according to separately stipulated green confirm the state of management at the business partner in quesNIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 ■ Compliance Training procurement guidelines (*see page 35). tion, and encourage improvement. To ensure that each and every employee has a correct understanding and awareness of sound and fair business practices and Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan puts the CSR Procurement Standards into practice, we promote understanding and compliance with the Fair Competition Code, Act Evaluation ● Conducted CSR Activities Questionnaire for busi● Continue CSR Activities Questionnaire for business partners against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, and other codes Good ness partners ● Continue education and training to promote CSR procurement as part of the compliance training provided to all employees. 42 43 Relationship with Shareholders and Investors ■ Stock Information Enhancing Information ■ Change in Dividend per Share and Consolidated Dividend Payout Ratio ■ Ownership Breakdown (as of March 31, 2016) Disclosure and Shareholder Dividend per share Treasury Stock 4.5% Society Society Consolidated dividend payout ratio Return (yen) 80 60th Anniversary Stock Split （%） 90 Individuals and Other Our management is highly transparent through appropriate information Commemorative 70 70 14.3% Dividend Financial disclosure and we strive for stable long-term returns to shareholders. Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Institutions 60 35.8% 52 60 44 44 ■ Shareholder Returns Policy 40 37 37 6 35 35 ● Company briefings and events for individual investors Financial 30 Instrument Delivering shareholder returns is one of our most important manageWe hold company briefings so individual investors across Japan Foreign Investors Business 20 35% ment tasks. Our basic policy is to continually provide a stable longcan see our management strategy and business operations and 29% 28% 29% 26% 39.1% Operators 27% 25% 25% 25% 1.0% term dividend to shareholders with a target consolidated dividend extend their long-term support. We also have booths at investor re0 Other payout ratio of 30% or more, while securing necessary retained lations events for individual investors, so the general public can see 0 Domestic 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Forecast Companies earnings for future growth in areas such as R&D investment, capital Nihon Kohden’s products. 5.3% investment, M&A and human resource development. * Effective as of April 1, 2015, each share of common stock was split into two shares. Figures up to FY2014 list the actual dividend amounts paid before the stock split. ■ Information Disclosure Policy The Nihon Kohden Corporate Charter of Conduct requires that ■ Change in Share Price we aim for highly transparent management by fair and proper disNikkei Average (yen) Nihon Kohden (yen) closure of corporate information to shareholders and society. We 30,000 disclose Nihon Kohden Group related information in a timely, apEvents for Individual 3,000 Nihon Kohden propriate, fair and ease-to-understand manner. We seek to deepen Investors IR Forum 2016 in Osaka understanding and trust from all stakeholders and gain appropriate evaluation of the company. ● Investor relations page 20,000 ■ Shareholder and Investor Engagement Our website publishes key information needed by shareholders and 2,000 ● General shareholders meeting investors, such as management policy, financial and performance We hold our general shareholders meeting on a date that does not highlights, dividend information and various disclosure documents. conflict with those of other companies to ensure that shareholders Information about the company's long-term vision, mid-term busi1,000 can attend. For foreign shareholders, convocation notices, notice of ness plan, business segments and products is also published. Nikkei Average 10,000 resolutions and voting result are prepared in English and posted to our website. ● Factory Tours We also hold exhibitions of Nihon Kohden medical devices to exWe run tours of the Tomioka Production Center, which is the key 0 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 plain their features and other information to shareholders. production plant of Nihon Kohden, to give shareholders, securities analysts and institutional investors a deeper understanding of our * Effective as of April 1, 2015, Nihon Kohden Corporation carried out a stock split, with each share of common stock split into two shares. For the above share prices, trading values business and manufacturing. before the stock split date have also been adjusted retroactively. The tours introduce our initiatives to efficiently produce high quality products and include visits to the production areas for medical devices such as patient monitors and AEDs. Topics General Shareholders Nihon Kohden receives award for excellence in Nihon Kohden listed in JPX-Nikkei Index 400 Meeting exhibition Daiwa Investor Relations 2015 Internet IR Awards Nihon Kohden has been listed in the JPX-Nikkei Index 400 ● Earnings presentations Nihon Kohden received an award for excellence in the Daiwa since its disclosure in January 2014. This is a share index of NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Nihon Kohden hosts earnings presentations (interim and full year Investor Relations 2015 Internet IR Awards in November 2015. “companies that are highly attractive investments for investors” results) for securities analysts and institutional investors and orgaFactory tour for Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. evaluated and scored the IR and meet global investment standards, such as efficient capital shareholders nizes teleconferences (1st and 3rd quarter) where we discuss the sites of all 3,662 publicly-listed companies in Japan according utilization and management that recognizes investors. Company’s performance and strategy. Videos of the presentations to its independent standards and selected 144 companies with and materials are posted to our website and made available to all exceptional IR sites that are actively utilized for information shareholders and investors. disclosure and engagement. 44 45 Relationship with Employees ● Networking Events for Female Employees across Different Programs to Support Work-life Balance Industries and Business Sites Achieving a Fulfilling We host networking events across different industries and business 1 Childcare Leave Leave Period: Until the end of March after an employee’s Workplace sites so that women can discover a sense of achievement and fulfillchild reaches the age of one. Society Society ment in their careers and consider their future career paths. 2 Family Care Leave We believe that each employee demonstrating their skills and Leave Period: Up to two years of leave can be taken. abilities will lead to company growth. Therefore we strive to develop 3 Reduced Working Hours a workplace where diverse human resources can flourish. Relationship with Employees Relationship with Employees Details: Daily working hours can be reduced by up to one hour (this system is available when certain conditions are met while the child of an employee is an elementary school Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets student or younger). 4 Shifted Working Hours Respect human rights and promote appropriate working ● Initiatives for human rights and good working practices, such as use Cross-industry networking Details: The hours worked can be shifted by up to one hour practices of diverse human resources and work-life balance event for female employees without changing the daily working hours (this system is available when certain conditions are met while the child of ■ Percentage of Female Managers – Results and Target an employee is an elementary school student or younger). 5 Days with Fixed Work Departure Times ■ Basic Approach (%) ■ Percentage of International Employees Details: Wednesdays and Fridays have been set as days on 15 12.0% To continue contributing to the world as a truly global company in a Number of Consolidated Employees which employees must leave work by a set time. Percentage of International Employees 12 rapidly-changing age of fewer births, an aging population, increas(employees) (%) ingly diverse values and the advance of globalization, we need to 6,000 50 9 6.8% 6.4% create a workplace environment in which each employee can fully 4,495 4,616 4,776 6 4.5% 5.4% ■ Human Resource Development 4,360 40 utilize their skills. 3 ● Basic Approach 4,000 In addition to improving work environments and enhancing em30 Growth and development of each employee leads to corporate com0 ployee development systems, Nihon Kohden is committed to efforts 2012 2013 2014 2015 2018 (FY) petitiveness. Nihon Kohden set the following basic policy on human 20 Target 2,000 22% 23% resource development. that promote diversity and to the employment of human resources 20% 21% possessing a diverse range of traits. We also actively tackle the 10 promotion of work-life balance so that employees can go about their Human Resource Development Policy 0 ■ Supporting a Work-life Balance 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Strengthen the development of autonomous employees, work in a fulfilling and motivated fashion. professionals and leaders, and accelerate the cultivation ● Reforming Working Styles ■ Diversity Promotion of employees who can be successful globally. ■ Employment Rate of People with Disabilities Promoting harmony between work and home, where employees Enhance the ability to develop employees in the workplace, Respecting the diversity of each individual while allowing them to 4,000 work reasonable hours and take holidays and appropriate rest probolster personal growth and boost organizational strength think and act independently and demonstrate their individual char（%） motes employee health, encourages new work-related ideas and by enhancing awareness of employee development on the 3.0 part of all employees. acteristics at the organizational and group levels, and channeling awareness, enhances motivation, and has the effect of boosting 2.26% these qualities into organizational strengths translates into corporate 1.99% business efficiency. 1 Developing Autonomy 1.92% 2.0 1.72% People with a strong awareness of their roles and competitiveness. To promote diversity, we develop a workplace Nihon Kohden practices “Work Style Reform.” We encourage responsibilities who adapt flexibly to change as well as think environment in which each individual can demonstrate their full poindividuals to transform their mindsets, improve the way they do and act independently as they strive to reach their goals 1.0 tential and promote activities to enhance our ability to innovate as an business, and look at things from a different perspective. This brings 2 Developing Professionals organization. innovation to the job and also enhances creativity and productivity. People whose skills are highly rated both inside and 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) We promote “Health Management” so that our employees can outside the company, produce excellent results, and lead healthy and enriched lives. By thoroughly enforcing days with spare no effort to continually refine those skills Policy for Diversity Promotion Activities fixed work departure times and encouraging employees to take an3 Developing Leaders By respecting diversity and creating a workplace environment in which ■ Career Development Support for Female nual leave with pay, we promote improved business efficiency aimed People who have a positive effect on those around each individual can demonstrate Employees them, get the most out of members, and strive to attain their full potential, we seek to at a healthy work-life balance, encourage greater creativity, reduce organizational goals improve job fulfillment, create new ● Mentor Program working hours, and create more time for private activities. This alvalue, invigorate the organization, 4 Developing Global Competency and enhance corporate value. We run a mentor program for newly appointed female managers. lows employees to make more effective use of their time to invest in People who possess an understanding of and the ability to Diversity and Inclusion Corporate officer-level mentors with extensive knowledge and themselves, engage in self-improvement, form personal networks, adapt to other cultures, have a strong set of personal ideas, industry experience act as mentors to newly appointed female take care of their health, spend time with their families, and engage and who can take on new challenges while communicating ■ Employment Status (employees) managers, helping them to resolve career development issues and in interests or volunteer activities. in a diverse range of environments NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 Regular Fixed Term Temporary Post-retirement Part-time Total providing opportunities to support their personal growth. Employees Employees Employees Reemployment Employees Through dialogue, we also broaden outlooks, establish social ● Kurumin Certification 1,625 72 285 84 152 2,218 awareness, and support the strengthening of internal networks, and Nihon Kohden promotes an improved environFigures for Nihon Kohden Corporation seek to develop capabilities of judgment and leadership in female ment to help employees strike a balance beemployees, while helping them to set ambitious goals. tween work and child-rearing. As recognition of this, we obtained the “Kurumin” certification mark from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in March 2011. 46 47 Relationship with Local Community ● Education and Training Structure ■ Training Levels Nihon Kohden aims to cultivate employees who can be successful globally. To realize that, we believe employee need to be: 1) AutonNewly Appointed Senior Managers and Follow-up Training Nihon Kohden’s Contributions Manager Level to the Community Age 55 omous; 2) Professional; and 3) Leader who can foster the developBranch Managers Senior Manager Training Society Career Support Training Society ment of their subordinates. We have worked to establish education Follow-up Training and training systems and a personnel system designed to develop Newly Appointed Managers Job-specific Training and strengthen employees equipped with these three qualities. Manager Training We strive to be a good corporate citizen respecting culture Service The purpose of our multi-level training system is to have employSales and customs through active contribution to the community. Relationship with Employees Assistant Manager Level Employees around Relationship with Local Community Manager Challenge Training Production Developtheir 15th year ment ees take on challenges themselves rather than receiving training Newly Appointed Assistant Adminipassively. The company has developed its education and training Managers and Leaders Assistant Manager Training stration Other structure with the basic policy of supporting those challenges. Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets 9th Year Step-up 9th Year Training Global Challenge In addition, through the introduction of elective training, we help Program ● Contribute to local communities through NPOs individual employees improve their skills in specialized fields they 6th Year Step-up 6th Year Training Community involvement ● Donate medical devices for educational institutions have chosen themselves as a mechanism to boost their growth as 3rd Year Step-up 3rd Year Training professionals. Elective Training In FY2015, our employees engaged in 20 hours of training on av2nd Year Step-up 2nd Year Training Business Management ■ Donation of Medical Equipment to Training ■ International Medical Equipment Donations Staff Level erage, with average training costs of 20,000 yen per person. Follow-up Training Global Specialty New Graduates Schools for Clinical Engineers ● Donation to Operation Rainbow New Employee Training Personal Development Recently, the sophistication of medical equipment has been increasWhile medical systems have steadily improved in developing naProspective ing at the same fast rate as advances in information and communitions due to recent economic development, the current provision of Elective Training System Employees Prospective Employee Training cation technology (ICT). Training schools for clinical engineers have healthcare is still insufficient compared with developed countries. 1 Personal Training Subsidy System System to support the costs of voluntary training and ● International Training Program not kept pace, with some schools still using dated equipment for edThe US-based NGO Operation Rainbow is one of the groups provideducational activities an employee engages in on a The International Training Program is a program designed to give ucational purposes. For safety, Nihon Kohden discards or updates ing free healthcare to developing countries. Each month the group voluntary basis outside work to gain knowledge, techniques employees the experience, knowledge and adaptability they will a lot of equipment that could be refurbished and used for teaching sends American medical staff and medical equipment needed for or skills related to company work purposes. surgery to developing countries, primarily in Central and South need to be successful globally. 2 Personal Development Subsidy Through the program, we provide employees with opportunities In FY2014 we started donating such refurbished equipment to America, and provides on-site healthcare to children who need soSystem to subsidize tuition when an employee engages in for long-term study abroad at language schools, on-the-job trainschools in Japan. Upon donation, Nihon Kohden service engineers phisticated surgery. personal development with the aim of having employees improve their abilities to perform duties, and encouraging and ing at overseas offices, practical training at overseas research also ran a workshop on periodic inspection to support education To support the activities of Operation Rainbow, Nihon Kohden doenhancing their motivation to seek personal development institutions and companies, and study at overseas universities and that reflects actual work in the clinical field. nated patient monitors. We received words of thanks from one of the research institutes. members of the NGO who is an anesthesiology professor and holds ■ Results of Donations to Training Schools for Clinical Engineers Nihon Kohden patient monitors in high regard. Year Recipients Products Donated Total Moving forward, Nihon Kohden will continue to support activities Units Nihon Kohden’s Contributions to Global Healthcare I Felt through the International Training Program contributing to healthcare around the world. I had wanted to be successful internationally since my many users in Africa and the Middle East. Through the FY2014 8 schools Patient monitors, defibrillators, ECGs 8 days working in sales in Japan, and through my work at training, I built up experience communicating with people Patient monitors, EEGs, defibrillators, ● Donation to the American Epilepsy Society FY2015 16 schools 16 Nihon Kohden, I have learned about the solutions we can from various cultural backgrounds and got the impression ECGs, hematology analyzers To support the development of the American Epilepsy Society, Niprovide for healthcare and also studied English outside that Nihon Kohden’s products are making contributions to hon Kohden has donated part of the proceeds from the sale of its work hours. healthcare not only in Japan but around the world. EEGs to the society’s research and training fellowship for the past I expressed the desire to engage in training overseas In my current department, I value these experiences and Ryota Masuda seven years. In FY2015, EEG-1200 was sold to Sentara Hospital for on my own, and was allowed to take on the challenge. The am working together with my colleagues around the world Critical Care Solutions Sales & Marketing Department $28,176.84, the full amount of which was donated to the society. The training wasn’t just about acquiring English skills; I visited to make even more contributions to global healthcare. International Operations executive director of the society offered high praise for the donation, noting that it would support research and education, and facilitate Topics the prevention and treatment of epilepsy. Nihon Kohden America Selected as a Great Place to Work® Donation to Nihon Medical Welfare Donation to Shuto Iko College of Professional Training College Medical Care & Welfare In August 2015 and August 2016, Nihon Kohden’s communication, and bosses. This honor was US-based sales subsidiar y Nihon Kohden awarded by the independent analysts at Great America received the Great Place to Work ® Place to Work® Institute, the global authority on Certification based on feedback by its employees high-trust, high-performance workplace cultures. NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 in six areas including: the quality of the company’s The Certification recognizes the investment Nihon c h a l l e n g e s , a t m o s p h e re , re w a rd s , p r i d e , Kohden America makes in its people. Supporting the education of clinical engineers Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan Thanks to the help of the local sales rep and service and some employees reported a great boost of energy staff, we made our second donation of refurbished medfrom something that was different from their daily intense Evaluation ● Increase the percentage of women in management ical equipment without a hitch. Our staff were rewarded work. We hope to continue to actively promote these Sumito Oyagi ● Encouraged Work Style Reform aimed at promoting ● Promote Work Style Reform aimed at enhancing Good work-life balance creativity and productivity by the pure smiles and heartfelt thanks from the schools, kinds of initiatives in the future. Assistant Manager Planning Section, Business Promotion Department, Customer Service Operations 48 49 Third-party Feedback Third-party Feedback ■ International Scholarship Program ■ Bone Marrow Donor Lecture We have established a scholarship program for doctors in Asia As part of its social contribution activities, Nihon Kohden holds Overall Hideki Ishida that aims to help them acquire medical skills. In October 2015, we in-house bone marrow donor lectures. Looking at this year’s CSR report, the first thing that struck me was that the volProfessor Emeritus at Tohoku University cooperated with the NPO Japan Bangladesh Society to launch a It is believed that at least 2,000 patients are in need of transplants ume has increased by more than 50% over last year. I believe this is the result of Representative at Earth Village Research Lab LLC Society training program for Bangladeshi doctors. Two doctors selected each year. While our greatest wish is for that number to decline, more active information disclosure regarding the three fields of healthcare, envifrom the Society of Neurologists of Bangladesh were accepted into increasing the number of people registered with bone marrow banks ronment, and corporate activities in the Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan, as well as further breaking down corporate activities into governance and Healthcare the program and underwent practical training on EEGs and EMGs increases the possibility that patients can receive transplants. society and clarifying the action taken for each stakeholder. While I believe this overlaps with many parts found in the Strong Growth 2017 at Japanese medical institutions. The doctors were able to learn We hold periodic in-house lecture presentations so that Relationship with Local Community Of course, a large volume of information isn’t necessary good in its own right, mid-term business plan, Nihon Kohden has made “risk zero,” “high utilization techniques for reading EEG waves and other appropriate skills, employees can get a proper understanding of donor registration but my impression is that the necessary information has been disclosed in a rate by users” and “excellent usability” the basis of its policies in the value chain experience rare medical cases, and enhance their skills. and bone marrow transplants. well-organized manner. The inclusion of a photograph showing the 12 members and continued to launch revolutionary products that improve the quality of After returning to Bangladesh, they have made use of these from when the company was founded is also wonderful, as it gives a sense of healthcare, enhance patient QOL, improve the efficiency of medical practice experiences to play leading roles in contributing to educational how Nihon Kohden wants to present itself to and be seen by the world. and lead to preservation of the global environment, as exemplified by cap-ONE. CSR is the responsibility a company assumes for its impact on the environReading the special feature and about other such advancements brought me activities for junior doctors. ment and society through its own corporate activities in order to become a trustgreat excitement, and I sincerely hope that Nihon Kohden continues to aspire to ed company. It is by no means something reflecting the degree of social contrinew heights in product development. bution, and CSV* is also a part of it. That is to say, the concepts of society, the Meanwhile, with proactive communication through seminars and workshops environment, ethics, human rights, and consumers come together as a core for customers, planning of working styles and facilities by team-based female strategy of corporate activities, and it is important that this process is published employees at the newly commissioned MIRAI Tomioka Production Center, Nihon in a CSR report as a first step. On this point, the section on “Nihon Kohden in the Kohden continues to develop strong networks with various stakeholders. I would Bone marrow donor lecture presentation Hospital and Community” makes it easy to understand how the company’s busilike to see these endeavors continue to create greater value. Participants holding ness domains specifically affect stakeholders, while the four values created by completion certificates Nihon Kohden give a clear indication of the company’s future trajectory. In addiEnvironment for the international tion, the ten principles across the four areas of the United Nations Global ComThe newly commissioned Tomioka Production Center has completed ISO 14001 scholarship program pact are also incorporated in international CSR-related guidelines and I think it is registration, activities are ongoing at five sites, and as noted in the section on excellent that Nihon Kohden has signed on to the compact and is pursuing spehealthcare, Nihon Kohden has put an array of sustainable products on the mar■ Social Contribution by Employees cific activities in this regard. Moreover, linking the three policies and ten priority issues of Sustainable Growth 2017 with GRI guidelines is another extremely imket. That the company has established and worked towards quantitative targets concerning inputs and outputs is also commendable. Three targets have been ● Employee assistance programs portant perspective that clarifies the company’s stakeholders. In this way, this set at the Tomioka Site and we are seeing concrete results. That said, in the We support employees in the Japan Overseas Cooperation year’s report paints a clear picture of Nihon Kohden and the stakeholders surcontext of broader trends with Japan’s draft commitment to “cut CO2 emissions Vo l u n t e e r p ro g r a m a n d e m p l o y e e s s o c i a l c o n t r i b u t i o n s rounding it, and is structured so as to disclose information from that perspective. by 26% from 2013 levels by 2030” due to the COP21 Paris Agreement, which both professionally and privately such as work leave to This is the result of more essential CSR activities and I hope to see even greater was adopted in December 2015, while Nihon Kohden is pursuing scope-based development moving forward. GHG** reduction measures, it needs to include information on what action donate bone marrow or participate in volunteer activities. Sustainable Growth 2017 has been designed around three fields, namely should be considered for the future from a long-term perspective. healthcare, environment and corporate activities. I will offer feedback with re● Regional cleanup activities spect to each of these fields below (note that feedback on corporate activities is Society Nihon Kohden employees volunteer in cleaning activities in various separated into “governance” and “society.”) Nihon Kohden has sought to actively disclose information to outside stakeholdregions. Every summer, Nihon Kohden Tomioka Corporation ers through its corporate website and other media, and the running of factory employees undertake volunteer cleaning activities in the Tomioka Governance tours also deserves credit. Internally, the company seeks to develop its human In terms of corporate governance, Nihon Kohden has transitioned to the strucresources through measures that actively accept the diversity of its employees, Silk Mill world heritage site. Nihon Kohden Minami Kanto ture of a company with an audit & supervisory committee, and I expect that in the including networking events for female employees in different industries and Corporation employees collect trash over a wide area around the future, we will see more results from a stakeholder perspective. On the complibusiness sites, a mentoring program for newly appointed female managers, and company premises once a month. ance front, the report makes it difficult to see any concrete progress. The more a the international training program. As a result, the setting of ambitious targets company becomes a global corporation, the greater the need to not only comply such as a 12% female manager hiring rate in FY2018 is impressive. The donating with the laws and regulations of each country, but also engage in conduct on a of refurbished medical equipment to clinical engineer training schools, the donacross-sectional basis in light of corporate ethics. Depending on circumstances, tion of medical equipment internationally, and the international scholarship proeven if there is no change in substance (Nihon Kohden Code of Ethics and Congram are activities that further expand the definition of stakeholder and I hope duct), the promotion issues to be given priority may vary by country. I would like they will be continued. to see a more proactive disclosure of information including the results of educaIn closing, I hope Nihon Kohden continues to demonstrate even greater leadtional efforts. ership towards the creation of a sustainable future. * CSV: Created Shared Value ** GHG: Greenhouse Gases Cleanup volunteers at the Tomioka Silk Mill Response to the Third-party Feedback We are deeply grateful to Professor Ishida for again providing us with perspective in the environmental field and to provide more insight NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2016 valuable feedback on our CSR report as he did last year. into concrete progress made with regard to corporate activities. We Professor Ishida recognized that the Nihon Kohden Group has will treat this feedback and the issues raised as important areas clearly defined its stakeholders and disclosed information from each to address through the promotion of CSR and work to strengthen of their perspectives, and that we have incorporated international efforts in this regard. CSR-related guidelines into our CSR activities, and also expressed Through the realization of The CHANGE 2020 long-term vision, Takashi Seo Activities in FY2015 FY2016 Action Plan hopes that we would further develop those efforts. we aim to provide solutions to social issues, enhance our corporate Operating Officer Regarding the Sustainable Growth 2017 policies of healthcare, value and provide value to society. We will also strive to enhance our Corporate Strategy Evaluation ● Began scholarship program for international ● Enhance coordination with NPOs Department medical professionals environment and corporate activities, he recognized the value CSR activities so that Nihon Kohden continues to be a company that ● Continue scholarship program for international Good ● Donated medical equipment and made donations medical professionals created through Nihon Kohden Group products and services in the values its stakeholders, earns society’s trust and contributes to the to healthcare-related groups healthcare field. On the other hand, he expressed the desire for development of a sustainable society. us to share information on GHG reductions from a more long-term 50 51
