KBC Group Other KBC sites  Nederlands Français English Home  Corporate Investor Sustainability & Working About us Governance Relations Newsroom Responsibility at KBC  Sustainability & Responsibility  Performance & reporting Performance & reporting Share this Report to Society  GRI reporting information       Related links Sustainability Report and Report to Society Annual reports GRI Reporting information PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion Please note that as from 2014, we will no longer be publishing a separate document. All the information referred to in the GRI table is available on our corporate website (www.kbc.com), in our Annual Report 2015 and in our Report to Society 2015. Reporting period The KBC Group Sustainability Report 2015 deals with KBC’s sustainability performance in the period January to December 2015 (see below for further details) in its core markets of Belgium and Central and Eastern Europe, and in its operations in Western Europe and around the world. Report contents To define the report’s content, we drew up a materiality matrix to identify and focus on issues that really matter to our stakeholders (clients, shareholders, employees, suppliers, NGOs, etc.), for more information see Stakeholders – Intro. Our external reporting is based on the priorities from the stakeholder priority matrix; we concentrate in particular on those items that are important to our stakeholders and on the issues we need to focus on. Here you find an overview per entity of the issues to focus on and of the strengths. Non-financial data-gathering As in previous years, we used a group-wide tool to gather the necessary data, and also asked individual internal sustainability specialists for additional information. We distributed eight different questionnaires through the group-wide reporting tool to all KBC group entities. They covered topics such as credits, investments, clients, community involvement, human resources (qualitative and quantitative questionnaire), environment and supply chain. As in PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion the previous year, the reporting period was adjusted for practical reasons. • For the questionnaire on quantitative information regarding human resources, we requested information for the period 1 January to 30 September 2015 (which was then extrapolated for the remainder of the year). Wherever a status was given we referred to the cut-off date 30 September 2015. • The reporting period for all other questionnaire is the fourth quarter of 2014 to the third quarter of 2015. Scope The scope of the report is, in principle, all KBC group entities with more than 100 full-time equivalents (FTEs). Going forward, we intend to improve group-wide reporting on environmental performance and to make this widely available. The report has been produced in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines and G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures. The GRI table for 2015 was published on 14 April 2016. We report according to the ‘in accordance – Core’ option. Performance & reporting – GRI Archive of Sustainability Reports and Report to Society If you're interested in the previous editions of our Sustainability Report and Report to Society, you can look into the archive. If you have any questions about the report, please e-mail them to csr.feedback@kbc.be PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion Quick links Downloads Contacts Who we are  Annual report (PDF, 12.1 MB) Contacts and head office Leadership  Report to society (PDF, 3.39 MB) Complaints management Shareholder information  Company presentation (PDF, 1.17 MB) Reports Credit ratings Connect with us This website uses cookies. If you agree to the use of cookies, you will more easily be able to make use of our website and the information you see will be more relevant to you. Legal dislaimer Cookies Sitemap © KBC 2016 OK, I agree to the use of cookies More information PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion
