Dear Sirs, It is our pleasure to confirm further mcs Kick&Rush’s commitment to support the ten principles of the Global Compact regarding human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. This updated communication on progress is the opportunity to describe our process to promote and support those principles within our sphere of influence i.e. with our partners, suppliers, customers and to the public. The Global Compact and its principles are one of the pillars of our company strategy, culture and day to day operations. We believe that our company has to behave in a socially and ethically exemplary way as we are responsible for the people who take part in the production and support of our products and services worldwide, and that our industry should tend to meet those essential principles. You will find hereafter our 2016 COP, describing our progress since our first registration in 2014. Yours Sincerely, Thibaut Fontaine CEO mcs Kick&Rush COP to the Global Compact 2016 Version 2.0 HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals Mcs Kick&Rush’s goal is to use our sphere of influence so that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. To support our commitment, as a member of the IPPAG Cooperative for Belgium, we are using the IPPAG Code of conduct that we communicate to our suppliers and customers (http://www.ippag.net/corporatecitizenship). We also drafted our own sustainable development policy that is published on our website, and that is communicated to our business partners as well. Implementation The nature of our business creates the necessity to define a multi-tiered strategy for implementing our policy regarding Human Rights. We can purchase from wholesalers and use local printers to decorate the items. With those wholesalers, usually based in Europe, we check their own set-up regarding CSR. For example we check if they have a code of conduct and more specifically for each item, we can request documents showing the factories that produced the item offer the highest level of compliance. When we purchase directly from factories in Asia, or in Europe, we ask the suppliers to commit and sign our code of conduct before they can receive an order, and to sign our Conditions of Purchase, confirming this point. As a member of IPPAG, five of our largest Asian suppliers will be invited this year to take a Selfassessment survey with SAI (www.sa-intl.org), which is a first step to take the IPPAG SA8000 audit. Our Purchase manager and team have been following several trainings for CSR offered by IPPAG. Today IPPAG offers a large database of more than 200 suppliers that replied to the self-assessment. Among those suppliers, around 80 have been socially audited. Measurement of outcomes We are IPPAG member for Belgium, sharing the CSR policy of the association. We keep an up-to-date database of factories that are audited (whether BSCI, SA8000 or SMETA audits) that we share with our IPPAG colleagues on the intranet. When an audit is over 3 years old, we ask our suppliers to make a new one, otherwise they are taken off the list. We are a member of Sedex number S000000046207 (www.sedexglobal.com) We obtained the SILVER grade in the ECOVADIS assessment since 2013 (www.ecovadis.com) and improved our mark this year, reaching 60/100! We visit factories for an audit when starting a business relationship with them, and assessing their human rights policy is one of our key points of evaluation. If a breach to our principle exists, the supplier will be asked to address it within 3 months with a documented action plan. If the non compliance continues, the relationship will be terminated. mcs Kick&Rush COP to the Global Compact 2016 Version 2.0 LABOUR RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals While monitoring our suppliers on CSR, we not only check about their respecting the basic human rights principles, but also their respect of their local labour rights. Our code of conduct, shared with IPPAG members and based on EPPA model states all areas regarding Labour Principles Implementation This code of conduct is signed together with our Purchasing conditions by our suppliers. The employees of category 1 are entitled to an additonal Pension Scheme. 100% of our suppliers in Asia signed our code of conduct. Measurement of outcomes We are IPPAG member for Belgium, sharing the CSR policy of the association. We are a member of Sedex number S000000046207 (www.sedexglobal.com) We obtained the SILVER grade in the ECOVADIS assessment since 2013 with a grade of 60/100 (www.ecovadis.com) LABOUR RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals Our goal is not only to ensure a good knowledge of the products existing on the market together with a good understanding of their real features, but also to be able to communicate truthful information on the products to both our customers and our suppliers. Our EMS enables us to understand if a product or another is or isn’t eco-responsible, and what are exactly the eco-responsible features about it. Our approach within the EMS is consistent with our quality standards, among which the mastering of our supply chain. Our EMS has been built according to the EMAS Easy methodology, which is more adapted to the size of our company. It comprises an analysis of our environmental impact, but makes it also possible to ensure its continuous improvement throughout the targets to be achieved. We identified the responsibilities of each actor within the EMS, action plans for each part of our activity together with the means to implement them and finally listed the audits to perform in order to check that the EMS is working well. mcs Kick&Rush COP to the Global Compact 2016 Version 2.0 Implementation Our aim is to continually improve our environmental results with the following objectives: OFFICE • set up a waste management system in order to reduce and recycle waste of our offices • encourage efficient use of energy, water and paper in our offices • save energy, in particularly, electricity in our offices but also optimize the results for mobility • promote responsible and appropriate behavior by training, providing information to, and increasing the commitment of all the staff MISSION • analyze our current impact, understand it better in order to design our processes to allow a reduction of our impact on the environment • offer eco-responsible products and services to our customers when a real alternative can be meaningful by knowing the existing solutions on our market and putting them forward • influence our supply chain and partner network by setting the right example to lessen our general environmental impact • reduce carbon dioxide emissions for our activity by encouraging sustainable ways of doing business (ex : transport) This commitment is essential to mcs’ long-term strategy. The company and its staff commits to this policy, to protect the environment, prevent potential pollution and keep on minimizing our impact on it. Measurement of outcomes ISO14001 certification renewed in 2015 (number 13 EMS 663) EMAS Registration number BE-RW-48 REACh and RoHs II compliancy for our products (among other EU regulations compliancy) mcs Kick&Rush COP to the Global Compact 2016 Version 2.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, Policy and Goals Mcs Kick&Rush is considered as an honest, fair and ethical partner to do business with by our suppliers and our customers. Our reputation is built on our values as a company, the values of our employees and our collective commitment to acting with integrity throughout our organization. We are committed to acting professionally and fairly in all of our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate. We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption in all its forms and do not accept it in our business or in those we do business with. Implementation We uphold all relevant laws to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate and will actively co-operate with law enforcement authorities in the investigation and punishment of any act of corruption or bribery by any person employed by or associated with our company. Measurement of outcomes Today 100% of our Asian suppliers have been signing our anti-corruption policy. mcs Kick&Rush COP to the Global Compact 2016 Version 2.0
