INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS A The LEGO Group Responsibility Report LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 2015 Children and adults have used their creativity and imagination to build the many LEGO® Creations that are pictured throughout this report. Stacy and Amanda 12 years Mick 43 years Ella 6 years Gunvor 30 years Lana 24 years Lim 5 years Viggo 8 years Sofie and Ida 13 years Peter 34 years Kevin 9 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 1 Contents Introduction Society 02 The LEGO® Idea A letter from Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen 42 Care for employees 04 A letter from our CEO 43 A motivating and satisfying workplace 06 A strategic responsibility agenda 44 Safer at work 45 Gender-balanced leadership 47 Responsible and ethical business conduct Children 48 Business the LEGO way 10 Inspiring children to learn through play 49 Ensuring high standards at LEGO sites 11 The UN Sustainable Development Goals 50 Collaborating with our supply chain 14 LEGO Education 52 Engaging with local communities 17 LEGO Foundation 54 Human Rights in the value chain 18 Safe, high-quality play experiences for children 58 Creating impact through the value chain 21 Consumer satisfaction and feedback 22 Responsible business conduct towards children 24 Respectful communication with children Results 60 Results 2015 61 Notes Planet 65 Accounting policies 28 Environmental leadership 67 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 29 Adressing climate change 68 About this report 30 Reducing supply chain emissions 31 Energy-efficient manufacturing 32 Renewable energy 35 Responsible resource use 36 Innovating new materials 38 Reducing and recycling our waste LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 2 Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen, third generation owner of the family-owned LEGO Group. The LEGO® Idea – A letter from Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Children are curious, creative and imaginative. They embrace discovery and wonder. They are natural, intuitive learners that experience the world through play. As a third-generation member It is at the very heart of our of the family who founded the LEGO Group, I feel proud every time I see a child play with LEGO® bricks, because when children use the company to always strive LEGO System in Play, I can tell from the excitement written on their to do better. We aspire to faces that they experience the joy of building and pride of creation. give children the best play experiences, to be the best Every day, LEGO employees demonstrate dedication and creativity and strive their utmost to live out our mission to inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow and partner to work with, to be bring the LEGO play experience to children all over the world. This is indeed very the best workplace for our fulfilling for my family and me. It is our dream to keep inventing new play experiences for children, play that they will instantly understand and love. employees, and to be the best company for society. In my family; we dream of enabling future generations to build a better world, and Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen. I am sincerely confident that, in the hands of children, our play materials make a positive impact. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 3 We know LEGO play stimulates children’s imagination, Mission Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow creativity and learning and this is helping them to become Aspiration Globalize and innovate the LEGO System in Play creative problem solvers and fulfil their potential. I have Play Promise Partner Promise witnessed this myself in different parts of the world, tranJoy of building. Pride of creation Mutual value creation Promises scending age, gender, education and culture. Planet Promise Positive impact People Promise Succeed together Spirit Only the best is good enough We think of children as our role models, and they inspire Values Imagination Creativity Fun Learning Caring Quality us to be the best we can be. We must continue to act ­responsibly and strive to be as sustainable as possible in The LEGO Brand Framework defines how we will work to fulfil our mission. our operations. If we do so, I am confident that the LEGO Group and LEGO play will Learn more via this link last for centuries while continuing to make a positive impact on the world we are a part of. Our foundation for this will be the LEGO idea and the LEGO System in Play that my father and grandfather came up with more than 60 years ago. Globalising our values My grandfather founded our company on the values that were important to him, and passed them on to my father and me, as I do to the next generations. I believe the reason for our universal appeal is that we have stayed true to these core values: Imagination – Creativity – Fun – Learning – Caring – Quality. Together they make up the very foundation of the LEGO Brand Framework, shown above, thereby forming the fundamental building blocks of the LEGO Group. The LEGO Brand Framework defines how we work to fulfil our mission to inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. In the owner family we are proud of what our company and its employees have achieved, and we believe there is great potential to bring the LEGO play experience to even more children in the future. My kindest regards, Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen Third generation owner of the LEGO Group LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 4 Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, President and CEO of the LEGO Group. A letter from our CEO 2015 was another extraordinary year for the LEGO Group and for LEGO® play as we delivered our strongest impact to date. We estimate that more children, across the world, than ever before We estimate that more had a LEGO play experience in 2015. children, across the world, than ever before had a LEGO Again in 2015, LEGO employees all over the world have come together to provide children with high-quality LEGO play materials. Our employees’ passion and complay experience in 2015 – be mitment for sustaining our spirit of Only the best is good enough, is the foundation it through playing with great for our continued success as we keep on innovating new fun and creative LEGO play experiences. LEGO® play materials, in schools via LEGO Education I believe we stand on a solid platform, having a high quality organisation and employee base, which gives us the opportunity to fulfil our mission; to inspire and materials, by participating in develop the builders of tomorrow. Childhood is an important time that can define local community activities or the rest of a human being’s life, and we know that LEGO play can have a positive influence on a child’s development. That is why we want to reach and engage even receiving product donations more children around the world in LEGO play by globalising and innovating the driven by the LEGO Foundation. LEGO System in Play. Jørgen Vig Knudstorp President and CEO of the LEGO Group LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 5 We have made significant progress in 2015, and I want to emphasise a few highlights: • We reached approximately 100 million children through activities in the LEGO Children inspire us with their • Group, LEGO Education and the LEGO Foundation, according to our estimates We welcomed more than 2,500 colleagues at our expanding facilities around the playfulness and curiosity, world to strengthen our global organisation for future growth their eagerness to learn new • In 2015, we launched a total of 355 new creative and imaginative play experiences, including 17 digital play themes, for children all over the world to enjoy skills and their courage to try • We announced the launch of a Sustainable Materials Centre, where we will work tonew things. We apply these wards our ambition to use sustainable materials in all core LEGO products by 2030. qualities to our business. We We believe that by behaving responsibly we can make a positive impact on society. want to enhance children’s To guide us, we have clarified our medium and long-term responsibility ambitions and contemporary role in society: playfulness and while doing so, it is important to us to • Children are always our first priority. We aim to make a global difference to child learning through play, to product safety in the toy industry, and to business make sure we operate in a behaviour that promotes children’s rights. responsible manner. • We aim to lead on environmental performance in the toy industry and aspire to Jørgen Vig Knudstorp President and CEO of the LEGO Group make our impact on the environment a positive one. • We want to uphold our long-standing values and caring culture and to promote high standards through transparent and ethical business practice. This report is our Communication on Progress and reports our progress in relation to our continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and explains how we embrace and implement the ten underlying principles of the Compact in the way we operate our business. Children are our main concern and focus, which is why we believe we have an obligation to voice their perspectives. This has helped us inform and drive our action in relation to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. As we globalise our organisation and become a more diverse group of employees, we pay close attention to how we live the LEGO values inside as well as outside our company. We will continue to strive to furthering playful learning in society and children’s rights, work towards a more inclusive employee base, minimise our environmental impact where it is negative and collaborate with business partners and society to be a valued part of the local community. It is my hope and belief that in the years to come we will engage with even more children in parts of the world which have not yet experienced LEGO play. My kindest regards Jørgen Vig Knudstorp President and CEO of the LEGO Group LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 6 A strategic responsibility agenda In 2015, LEGO employees’ innovative and collaborative ideas and work ethic made it possible for us to achieve the ambitions we initiated back in 2009 with the formulation of the LEGO® Brand Framework. In 2009, we launched the LEGO Brand Framework (see page 3) and as part of it we also formulated a series of strategic ambitions within the responsibility area. This has been crucial for our work to integrate responsibility into our business and to make a positive impact. Six years later we conclude: • Since 2009, our global reach has increased and we estimate to have reached ­approximately 100 million children in 2015 through the joint activities of the LEGO Group, LEGO Education and the LEGO Foundation, thereby almost achieving our aim to support development and learning for 101 million children • Delivering play experiences of the highest quality and according to the highest ­safety standards is a continuous goal for us, so not having any product recalls in the last six years is a great achievement. • Our employees are safer at work than ever before. With 38 employee injuries in 2015, we have seen a drop of more than 37% in the number of injuries since 2009 while adding more than 5300 full time employees, and we will continue to strive for world-class employee safety. • With an improvement since 2009 of more than 24% in our energy efficiency and the opening of the Borkum Riffgrund 1 wind farm, we have taken major steps towards our 2020 goal of balancing our global consumption of energy with renewable energy. • Our zero waste mindset and actions have led to an increase in our recycling of waste to more than 93%, an increase of more than 5 percentage points since 2009. A new series of ambitions guide us to reach and engage children all over the world with our unique LEGO® play experiences and make a positive impact on our stakeholders, society and the environment. Children – we want to help children grow up as stronger shapers of their own future. Our contribution is the playful learning our play experiences deliver. We want to provide the safest play experiences for children and, at the same time, ensure that our actions live up to our ambition to operate a business that is responsible towards children. Planet – our ambition is a carbon neutral operation and to work with our supply chain to achieve the same. Our goal is to balance our consumption of energy with renewable energy by 2020. We also want to achieve zero waste and by 2030 use sustainable materials in all core LEGO products and packaging. Society – we want to promote a caring culture within our organisation, to be the safest and most motivating workplace we can be and be active in the local societies we are a part of. Our goal is to have a world-class employee safety record. Furthermore, we will have a high standard of ethical business practice with full compliance worldwide. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 7 CHILDREN Consumer product satisfaction (Net Promoter Index) 110 108 106 104 102 100 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2015, we continued to deliver industryIn 2015, some of the most sold themes, based leading safe and high-quality play materials, on revenue included: LEGO CITY, LEGO Star while reaching our sixth year of zero product Wars™, LEGO Friends, LEGO NINJAGO™ and recalls. LEGO DUPLO PLANET Energy efficiency improvement 25 % 20 % 15 % 10 % 5% 0% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 With an energy efficiency improvement of 14% In 2015, we made 175 million 2x4 LEGO bricks in three years, we reached our Climate Savers from reground material i.e. waste LEGO bricks partnership goal of a 10% reduction in CO2 – thereby reducing our use of resources. emissions one year earlier than planned. SOCIETY Recruited and appointed female leaders 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0% In 2015, we expanded our Local LEGO 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Community Engagement activities from 9 to 16 LEGO sites and engaged more than 66,000 children and 3,000 employees in activities for In 2015, 43% of all appointed and recruited the benefit of children and their families in the leaders were female, an increase of 20 communities where we are present. percentage points since 2011. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Little Helpers Mick from Denmark, 43 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 9 Children Our most important impact on the world is providing children with fun and exciting LEGO® experiences that develop the essential skills and competences that they need to create a better future for themselves and our planet. With LEGO Education we bring playful learning to children in classrooms all over the world and with the LEGO Foundation we help children develop lifelong learning skills. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 10 Inspiring children to learn through play All children should have the opportunity to play. Play is important to children and to their development because when children play, they learn. That is why we are pleased that more and more We want children to grow up children around the world have a fun, engaging and high-quality LEGO® play experience. as stronger shapers of their own future Our unique LEGO play experiences are built on the LEGO System in Play – a system that combines structure, logic and creativity while helping children develop valuable skills such as communication, imagination, empathy and problem solving. With LEGO play, we provide children with endless possibilities to turn their imagination into tangible and physical scenarios they can play with, share with others, and use as a means of expressing themselves. We believe this is the most important impact we have on society. While we also want to help children build 21st century skills so they can grow up as stronger shapers of their future. Unified to support playful learning for children In 2015, we took yet another step towards our aspiration: to innovate and globalise the LEGO System in Play and thereby reach children all over the world. We reached approximately 100 million children through activities in the LEGO Group, LEGO Education and the LEGO Foundation, according to our estimates. In 2015, we had the pleasure of serving children across more than 140 countries with our play experiences. With sales offices in 37 countries, we are establishing a truly global presence in order to create an organisation for the future. We serve our customers through business to business with retailers and secondly through our own retail operations: directly to consumers via our 125 LEGO Brand Retail stores and through our online shop at www.LEGO.com. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 11 The UN Sustainable Development Goals Play has the power to develop and transform skills and it contributes to children’s learning and development in ways that are fun and creative. We want to work with others who share our aspirations to ensure we make a positive impact for children. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals are of great inspiration to us. Our corporate responsibility agenda and this report document our support and work to promote several Sustainable Development Goals. Our key focus, however, is on what is most material to our business and where we can drive the most substantial impact: Sustainable Development Goal 4: Sustainable Development Goal 17: Ensure inclusive and equitable Strengthen the means of quality education and promote implementation and revitalise lifelong learning opportunities the global partnership for for all. sustainable development. Education is essential to children’s We work to make sure our activities development, which is why we work are respectful of children and through closely with UNICEF, the LEGO our commitment to the United Nations Foundation and LEGO Education Global Compact, the 10 Children’s to promote quality education and Rights and Business Principles, as well learning through play for children as our global partnership with UNICEF around the world. and the World Wildlife Fund, we are making steady progress. Read more in the case: Engaging with the local community Read more about this in the section: Our UNICEF partnership LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 12 Children’s Day Celebration in Mexico where Case: Reaching children in Mexico more than 300 children were invited to have a fun and playful day. 49 LEGO employees from the factory in Monterrey volunteered to help give the children a fun day. Since the early 1990’s the LEGO Group has been present in Mexico. A country where over the last 20 years children have become more familiar with the LEGO play experience and the Together with over 890 playful learning it provides. dedicated employees from the factory in Monterrey, we A LEGO factory in Monterrey, an office in the Mexico City area and this year we opened the first LEGO flagship shop-in-shop at Palacio de Hierro Moliere in Mexico engaged more than 3,600 City. The 240 sq. metre store invites children to enjoy hands-on LEGO play expechildren in 2015. riences, and it has a number of activities for children and parents that take place throughout the year. One activity which attracted more than 12,000 visitors to Mexico City in 2015 was a giant LEGO Star Wars™ building event. In November 2015 we initiated the expansion of our factory in Monterrey, Mexico. The expansion will include additional moulding, processing, packing and warehousing facilities and will create job opportunities for more than 4,000 employees to help meet the global demand for our playful products. The factory in Mexico is not only a production facility. It is also a place where local children and their families can come to enjoy guided tours to learn about the factory and its operations. Through the Local Community Engagement programme the LEGO Group works with the LEGO Foundation on a number of projects that have the aim of contributing to the well-being of children and their families. Together with over 890 dedicated employees from the factory in Monterrey, we engaged more than 3,600 children in 2015. Both children and adults were invited to embrace their creativity, imagination and playfulness through several Local Community Engagement activities emphasising high-quality play. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 13 We opened the first LEGO flagship shop-inshop at Palacio de Hierro Mollere in Mexico City in 2015. Using product donations and training for teachers, the LEGO Foundation is collaborating with Mexico-based Carlos Slim Foundation, the governmental social development institution Desarrollo Integral de la Familia (National System for Integral Family Development) and the local partner Care & Share to bring playful learning to childcare centres in Nuevo Leon State and Mexico City. During 2014, and 2015, the LEGO Foundation has scaled up the project and donated 980 LEGO DUPLO Charity boxes and provided training for 490 childcare centres – reaching more than 10,000 children below the age of 5. The local partner, Care & Share, has trained 900 practitioners and developed a training manual with activities adapted for the local context. The manual has been distributed to all the childcare centres and is currently being used by the practitioners. Playful learning also extends to schools and universities in Mexico. LEGO Education has delivered learning solutions in Mexico for more than 400,000 students in state and private schools and for more than 130,000 university students. Since 2013, LEGO Education has placed special focus on providing elementary schools with new, playful learning solutions for literacy and writing, mathematics and science. An important part of LEGO Education’s contribution to Mexican schools and universities is to develop student and teacher manuals in alignment with the national curriculum in Mexico. In 2015, the factory in Monterrey, Mexico, gave 130 guided tours to more than 3,000 local children and young adults to learn more about how LEGO bricks are made. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 14 Andreas Mogensen, the first Danish Case: Bringing playful learning experiences to astronaut, meeting students who have participated in the Build a Space Story contest hosted by LEGO Education and the the classroom – LEGO® Education European Space Agency. Together with the LEGO Group, LEGO Education aspires to bring out the very best in children, and we believe we can do this using LEGO® bricks and the LEGO® System in Play. We understand that adults and children learn best LEGO® Education, in partnership with educators for more than 35 years, offers when they are having fun, playful learning experiences to help every student succeed. Our full range of ­educational solutions are based on the LEGO System in Play, curriculum-relevant and they learn best when material, and physical and digital resources targeted at preschool, elementary there is no predetermined school, middle school, and after school. We provide curriculum from the humanities and linguistics to science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM). We believe outcome but when they are in building academic, innovation and life skills as well as expanding children’s able to use their imagination ­knowledge to create lifelong learners. and creativity. We impact students’ learning as they grow and strive to fully engage every type of learner. In preschool, LEGO Education solutions stimulate children’s curiosity to e­ xplore together and learn through play. During elementary school, we help ­educators lay the foundation for students to become engaged by igniting enthusiastic, effective, and lifelong learning. By middle school, we spur critical thinking and creativity in all students to help them understand challenging subjects, encourage them to develop problem-solving skills, grow their ideas, and make their own c ­ reations. In afterschool, we unfold each child’s potential through specifically designed workbooks to best facilitate each child’s learning and provide regular feedback to parents. At LEGO Education, we take the pursuit of hands-on learning very seriously. We do this in conjunction with educators who play a critical role in encouraging students’ emerging interest for learning during the span of their academic careers. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Sustainable space shuttle Gunvor from Norway, 30 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 16 Besides providing educational solutions ranging from humanities to science, LEGO Education engages in many activities each year. Some of the 2015 highlights include: FIRST® LEGO® League Build a Space Story FIRST® LEGO® League is an annual science and technology competition In June 2015, the European Space Agency and LEGO Education joined for children and young people aged 9 to 16 years. The competition was forces and hosted the Build a Space Story contest where schools were established in 1998 in a collaboration between the American non-profit encouraged to use LEGO Education StoryStarter as part of the Space organisation FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and TechJourney 2015 in LEGOLAND, Denmark. StoryStarter consists of a unique nology) and the LEGO Group to increase children’s and young people’s LEGO set that gives children hands-on, minds-on literacy solutions. interest in science and mathematical/technical subjects. Approximately 2,000 students in grades 0-3 from all over Denmark Teams consisting of up to 10 members build their own LEGO® MINDsubmitted more than 200 videos and five groups were nominated. Andreas STORMS® robots and compete with them on a special obstacle course. In Mogensen, the first Danish astronaut, served on the judging panel. From addition, the teams solve real-world challenges. the International Space Station, where Andreas Mogensen was stationed, he announced the winning team. In 2015, 275,000 children from more than 85 countries were involved in FIRST LEGO League. More information is available at www.FIRSTLEGOLeague.org In 2015, the LEGO Foundation’s work impacted more than 390,000 children. Activities totalled DKK 369 million and in addition, the total value of product donations from the Foundation was DKK 46 million. Some of the 2015 highlights include: Shared commitment to Changing teaching Establishing a research Improving the lives of quality early learning practice in Ukraine centre on play children and families in through play our shared communities In 2015, the LEGO Foundation and In 2015, the University of Camthe Ukrainian Ministry of Educabridge launched a new Research UNICEF and the LEGO Foundation The Local LEGO Community tion’s collaboration on improving Centre on Play in Education, Deshare a deep commitment to Engagement programme the quality of early learning velopment and Learning (PEDaL) children and their development. engages employees and supports extended from 63 to 118 kinderto examine the role of playfulness In 2015, we signed a 3.5-year local communities. The LEGO gartens. Through training sessions, in learning and development in partnership aimed at promoting Foundation conducts Play Agent teachers learn to understand the young children. The Centre was quality early learning through play workshops to build awareness critical link between play and set up with a £4 million donation for children around the world. and experience among LEGO® learning. This has shifted their from the LEGO Foundation, which Activities include global mapping employees about the transformapractice from a traditional chalkalso funds the leadership role of a of the inclusion of play in early tive power of learning through play and-talk approach to focusing on LEGO Professorship. childhood development and learnand also provides financial support playful learning. ing standards and ensuring play is to LEGO employees´ volunteer an integral part of national policies, work in their local communities. In Early Childhood Development 2015, more than 700 employees curricula and practitioner training participated in the Play Agent in South Africa. programme and more than 150 initiatives reached more than 50,000 children. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 17 Case: Re-imagining learning to address the global skills gap – the LEGO Foundation From South Africa to Ukraine, the LEGO Foundation aims to make children’s lives better – and communities stronger – by building a future where learning through play empowers children to become creative, engaged, lifelong learners. In 2015, the LEGO Foundation reached and impacted more than 390,000 children. The passion to learn is critical for the early years of a child’s life, but also something that must happen throughout life – lifelong learning. The LEGO Foundation works across settings – from home and early learning environments to community and school – to re-imagine how we learn. Children need to develop stronger life skills, including critical thinking, creativity and social skills. To achieve this, the LEGO Foundation combines three mutually reinforcing approaches in its strategic framework: • Identify and support programmes as examples of play that works Watch: • Build and share evidence to explain the value of play Building children’s writing skills through learning through play: • Communicate to learn more about how children learn best https://vimeo.com/142506730 The LEGO Foundation invests in early childhood development because it provides MIT Media Lab: https://vimeo.com/143620419 exceptional returns, not just for the chances of individual children, but also for society as a whole. Partnering with organisations, schools systems and governments who Changemakers – full video: https://vimeo.com/124817309 already work within the field of promoting play and quality early childhood education is essential to achieve a strong, sustained impact. The LEGO Foundation’s expertise Changemakers: is a deep knowledge of children’s development and learning processes, along with https://vimeo.com/124807943 https://vimeo.com/124817311 the training and tools educators need to release the potential of your children. https://vimeo.com/124813758 In 2015, the LEGO Foundation provided product donations to 240,000 children in vulnerable and non-sustainable situations and 150,000 students benefited from learning through play projects. The LEGO Foundation and the LEGO Group have a strong collaboration around the Local LEGO Community Engagement programme, which in 2015 reached more than 66,000 children and involved approximately 3,000 LEGO employees at 16 different locations around the world. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 18 Safe, high-quality play experiences for children In the LEGO Group, we want children to be safe when playing with LEGO® products and in 2015, we again lived up to our goal: providing the safest play experience for children, by having zero We want to provide the product recalls. safest play experience for children We push ourselves and hope to inspire others in our industry to maintain flawless product quality and safety. We take pride in our product safety process, which we integrate from product design to consumer use, while continuously incorporating new knowledge and adapting to consumer feedback. For decades, the LEGO Group has held chairs in the European (CEN) and International (ISO) Toy Safety Standardisation Committees. We also play an important role in the ASTM International Toy Safety Committee in shaping standards in the USA. In 2015, the LEGO Group expanded its relations by becoming a member of the Chinese National Technical Committee of Standardisation for Toys where we contribute to ensuring high safety standards. We see these partnerships as part of our effort to promote support in our industry for the principle of giving children Product safety number of product recalls the right to play safely with toys. We are also members of selected national and international associations where Target: 0 Actual: 0 Goal met: 00000 we continue our activities and commitment to articulate important issues such as children’s safety and rights. Feedback from consumers and our partners helps us improve our design and come up with new high-quality 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 play experiences every year. The building experience that comes with each LEGO set constitutes an essential element of the overall quality of our products and the LEGO play experience. Our creative designers put a lot of thought into the building experience connected to each LEGO set and to ensuring that we provide high-quality sets that are fun and exciting to build for children time and again. It is of equal importance that throughout the building process and once the LEGO set stands complete that it is stable and playable offering hours of fun – also after the building phase. We produce LEGO® bricks at our own factories around the world and according to the same high standards, and our highly trained production staff operate top-class equipment to manufacture billions of LEGO bricks. Again, in 2015, we had no safety notifications from national or regional authorities. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 19 Case: The details behind world-class The LEGO Group Safety Assessment product safety and quality Approval ve lati of raw N ele ew gis fety materials de men Le y sa ls sig ts to ecal ne r d SAFETY A ESSMENT Com S s feed umer S ety Saf t bac tes k CONSUMER TESTING We have made LEGO® elements since 1958, and in 2015, we sold approximately 72 billion n I TERACTION N GO ti o an e le m ib u a s d m o e nt new ones. Each LEGO element and all LEGO D i str le s se d & sa P R O D U CTIO N ss m e l products adhere to the strictest global safety LE ent 3r on and quality standards. d ap -par t du c ti pr o va y S a fe t y P ro t e s t l c o n t ro l Parents can rest assured that their children experience the many essential values of play while playing safely. To Physical and chemical testing – a few examples make LEGO elements as safe as scientifically reasonable we begin our work as soon as the idea of a new LEGO product is born. Bite test Impact test Compression test We simulate a child We drop a 1-kilogram We simulate a young • Making our safety assessment: we screen scientific biting LEGO® DUPLO® metal disc onto child stepping on research and legislation for updates and approve only elements to ensure potential weak points certain LEGO elements the raw materials we believe are the safest that nothing breaks off on LEGO® DUPLO® by pressing a metal during play. We use a elements from a height disc with a force equivadevice shaped as a of 12 centimetres. This lent to 15 kilograms on • Testing new LEGO products: we send individual LEGO child’s mouth and bite is to ensure the element the element to ensure with a force equivalent does not break or that it does not break or elements and the entire model through various internal to 22.5 kg. splinter during play. splinter during play and external chemical, physical, electrical, hygiene and flammability safety assessments and tests • Producing LEGO® elements: throughout production, we conduct tests to check the quality and safety of LEGO Drop test Full ingredients list Hazard classification elements We drop the elements We have the full We consult official from a height of 1.5 and ingredients list of hazard classification 1.0 metres five times every raw material and databases to check if • Interacting with stakeholders: in 2015, we interacted onto a hard surface decoration ink we use individual substances with more than 1.1 million children and parents, and to ensure that LEGO® for LEGO elements. We have an inherent hazard many gave us their feedback on our play experiences. DUPLO® and LEGO consider whether any that a child could be elements do not splinter additional substance exposed to during play. We also gather learning and scientific developments or break when a child could theoretically be from institutions and the industry. drops them during play. present, for example through unintentional contamination. It is our employees’ continued dedication to ensuring that we provide the billions of safe and high-quality LEGO elements we make every year, that makes it possible for us to live up to our promise of providing children with a fun, Colour migration Content analysis Substance migration We perform chemical We make a total content We also determine that creative and safe play experience. tests where we simulate analysis to determine no substance migrates children subjecting that no substances from LEGO elements, LEGO elements to sweat are present above at any level of concern, and saliva. This ensures legal limits or internally taking into considerathat no colour pigments adopted limits. tion that children could migrate from the LEGO put LEGO elements in element when in contact their mouth during play. with these fluids. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Working on Cloud 9 Peter from Denmark, 34 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 21 Consumer satisfaction and feedback When we design and develop new LEGO® products, we draw on a long history of deep knowledge and expert advice but we also engage with numerous children from all over the world, who test our play In 2015 our consumers experiences and provide us with their honest and sincere feedback. In 2015, our consumers reported the highest satisfaction ever. reported the highest satisfaction with our Each year we collect important data on consumers’ satisfaction with our products products ever and other experiences, such as online play experiences. In 2015, consumer insights revealed very positive results with 109 index points on the Net Promoter Score (NPS) Index – a customer loyalty metric that is calculated based on responses to a single question with scoring being based on a scale from 0-10 (10= best). The results, which are based on feedback from more than 1.1 million consumers from around the world, have exceeded all results from previous years making them our best results since 2011. Not only are we proud of consumer feedback leading to positive results but the feedback we receive also plays a crucial role when it comes to correcting mistakes and improving our play experiences. Feedback is reviewed by our designers and developers, who take the feedback very seriously, taking it into consideration when they design and update play experiences. We also monitor consumer feedback via the complaint call rate. In 2015, we had almost 1.8 million consumers approaching us, and in the dialogues we experienced the lowest complaint rate to date. The complaint rate decreased to 720 per one million sold products in 2015 due to general quality improvements, with reports of only minor issues, which have all been solved. The feedback we receive from our consumers serves as important knowledge to us, and we appreciate the learnings provided by children and parents through www. LEGO.com/service. This help us to make even more fun, creative, and high-quality play experiences. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 22 Responsible business conduct towards children We aspire to protect and respect the rights and well-being of children impacted by our business and to demonstrate child responsibility leadership. We are confident that we will create the We want to operate best results for children if we collaborate with relevant partners. a child responsible business, implementing Our company values and mission guide us towards ensuring business operations that support and safeguard children’s rights. The 10 Children’s Rights and Business where relevant the 10 Principles, launched by the United Nations Global Compact, UNICEF and Save the Children’s Rights and Children, guide our work. Business Principles, and These principles clarify what it takes to operate a business that acts responsibly to push the focus on child towards children, and it is important to our business to implement them where relevant. Furthermore, and to the benefit of children, we will push the focus on child responsibility higher on responsibility higher on the global corporate agenda. the global agenda In 2015, our main achievements include UNICEF supported development and LEGO top management approval of the LEGO Group Child Protection Policy and further strengthening of existing best practices on digital child safety and responsible marketing to children. They also include significant awareness generating activities, not least through our participation at the United Nations Private Sector Forum 2015 in New York in support of Children’s rights. Our UNICEF partnership In 2014, the LEGO Group launched its three-year partnership with UNICEF and throughout 2015, we have worked to strengthen our performance on children’s rights. With the partnership, we commit to implementing the 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles and to promoting how we do so externally to inspire others. Awareness is a key focus – by inspiring others to support child rights as well, we expect to drive increased positive impact on children. Children are some of the most vulnerable members of society, and it is inevitable that businesses interact with and have an effect on the lives of children – directly and indirectly. This year, supported by UNICEF, we mapped out our key risk activities where we engage with children and developed a child protection policy. The policy stresses our non-tolerance to child abuse in any form. Our policy calls on all LEGO® employees to protect children and endeavours to prevent inappropriate engagement wherever we interact with children. In 2016, the LEGO Group’s Child Protection Policy will be implemented in relevant departments, supported by guidelines and training of staff. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 23 The LEGO Group and the 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles The 10 Children’s Rights and Business The LEGO Group action Read more Principles 1. Meet their responsibility to respect In our Responsibility and Human Rights policy, we specifically state children’s rights. We promote the Read more on children’s rights and commit to supporting relevance of the 10 Principles in public, implement relevant Principles in our operations, and share best page 22 the human rights of children practices to inspire others. • Our CEO, Jørgen Vig Knudstorp attended a panel discussion at the partnership launch with UNICEF and the LEGO Foundation in March. In September at the UN Private Sector Forum in New York, he addressed the importance of a clear focus on the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals in support of children’s development • Developed together with UNICEF and the LEGO Foundation, the LEGO DUPLO Tower of Imagination campaign, reaching more than nine million pre-schoolers and parents with information on children’s rights and the importance of learning through play • LEGO employees participated in UNICEF business seminars to promote how we work with selected principles – mainly focused on responsible marketing to children and digital child safety. 2. Contribute to the elimination of child Our Supplier Code of Conduct prohibits child labour in our facilities and our supply chain. Read more on labour, including in all business activities • In 2015, third-party audits conducted reported no findings of non-compliance. pages 47, 48, and business relationships 50 and 54 3. Provide decent work for young workers, Our Supplier Code of Conduct and our Environmental Health and Safety policy covers essential labour Read more on parents and caregivers rights including a safe workplace, working hours, wages and leave periods to ensure we operate a decent pages 49-50 workplace and responsible supply chain. 4. Ensure the protection and safety of We engage with high numbers of children directly, through partners and on our digital platforms. It is key Read more on children in all business activities and for us to protect these children. Our COPPA certification is part of our protection of online interaction with page 22 facilities children. • We have worked with UNICEF to map our child engagement activities and evaluate our child protection systems in the many parts of our business where we engage with children • We developed a new child protection policy – our corporate commitment to work to protect the children we engage with to our best ability. We will implement it gradually and develop guidance and conduct training of relevant departments, guided by UNICEF recommendations. 5. Ensure that products and services are We develop, test and manufacture all LEGO® products against the strictest product safety and quality Read more on safe, and seek to support children’s rights standards globally. pages 18-19 through them • In 2015, we had no product recalls and sold approximately 72 billion LEGO elements. 6. Use marketing and advertising that Our Marketing to Children Standard and training of marketers ensure we use marketing material and Read more on respect and support children’s rights advertising that respect children’s rights pages 24-25 • In 2015, we have developed an online training module which marketers have to complete, and we have conducted follow-up face-to-face training. 7. Respect and support children’s rights We want to make a positive impact on children, society and the environment. Read more in relation to the environment and to land • In 2015, we continued to reduce the environmental and climate impact from LEGO® products and packon pages 28 acquisition and use aging. We increased our energy efficiency by 5% and our recycling of waste reached 93%. and 38 8. Respect and support children’s rights in At present, given the countries where we operate, our current evaluation is that this principle is not N.A. security arrangements material to us. 9. Help protect children affected by Through the LEGO Foundation and the Ole Kirk’s Foundation, LEGO® play experiences were provided to Read more on emergencies Syrian and Iraqi refugee children and conflict-affected children in Ukraine for example. pages 16-17 10. Reinforce community and government Through our UNICEF partnership, we publically promote the 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles Read more on efforts to protect and fulfil children’s rights and corporate responsibility towards children. The LEGO Foundation promotes Early Childhood Developpages 16-17 ment and the importance of play. Through the Foundation’s partnership with UNICEF there is for example and 22 a potential to reach millions of children in South Africa. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 24 To interact respectfully with children, we seek partnerships to ensure that we follow Respectful communication international best practices. with children This year, approximately 240 million children and adults visited www.LEGO.com. Over time and as technologies progress, we will keep pushing to be better for how we give children a safer online experience. Marketing to children requires special considerations Our business standards guide us when we develop our communication with children. We ensure our marketing respects and supports children’s rights and Principle 6 of the ‘Children’s Rights and Business Principles’. We have developed and implemented both a global Marketing to Children standard and a Gender Marketing guideline, and to ensure we comply with these in our worldwide reach, we monitor and review our work against the standards. Through our review processes, we find cases to learn from, and fine-tune and improve our communication accordingly. The principles apply to all LEGO® entities and all third parties who work with the LEGO brand. In 2015, we strengthened the implementation of our Marketing to Children standard with face-to-face training sessions and an e-learning programme that includes gender issues in marketing for all relevant employees. To interact respectfully with children we seek best practice and partnerships to ensure that we follow international best practices. For example, we are a member of the World Federation of Advertisers’ Responsible Advertising and Children LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 25 Programme and committed to complying with the International Chamber of Commerce’s Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice. Through our review In our communication and marketing to children, we dissociate from any form of discrimination, including discrimination based on gender. We always strive to treat processes, we find cases all children equally while showing consideration for their preferences, and we have to learn from, and fineestablished a communication approach to ensure that children are not subjected to, or limited by, gender stereotypes. tune and improve our communication accordingly. Online protection of children The LEGO Group grabs the attention of many children and parents online; every The principles apply to all month, www.LEGO.com has almost 20 million unique visits. In 2015, the LEGO YouTube LEGO® entities and all third channel had more than 1.3 billion views and we engaged with more than 28 million people on Facebook of which more than 11 million are LEGO fans on Facebook. parties who work with the Also, we have more than 5.7 million children as members of the LEGO® Club. LEGO brand. We hold large amounts of consumer data and we are mindful of how to ensure consumer trust extends into the digital sphere. We support children’s rights to online protection and safety as stated in the Children’s Rights and Business Principles, and we use the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) as our corporate policy for data collection from children under 13 years of age together with EU regulations on data privacy. www.LEGO.com is COPPA Safe Harbour Certified. In 2015, as part of our partnership with UNICEF we developed an online safety self-assessment tool for industries, aimed at identifying areas of good practice and areas where improvements can be made. The tool will be rolled out by UNICEF in 2016 to companies providing digital experiences aimed at children. Reviewing our marketing practice to raise the bar In 2015, regulators found no cases of violation of marketing practices by the LEGO Group. However, to keep raising the bar, we chose to review one case that we detected via our internal compliance processes. In the spring 2015, a LEGO Club magazine offered a series of “beauty tips” as part of a LEGO Friends storyline. We sincerely regret any disappointment it may have caused and as a result, we have reinforced our Gender Marketing guidelines and review process of the LEGO Club magazine. As part of a broader audit of the toy industry, the European Advertising Standards Alliance audited the LEGO Group’s marketing practices in multiple countries in the EU. The findings of this audit as well as those from our internal review are included in the development of our e-learning tools for marketers. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Dream vacation Lara from Vancouver, 24 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 27 Planet In 2015, we made substantial progress with a 5% improvement in our energy efficiency and with the opening of a wind farm to balance our energy consumption with renewable energy. We also committed an investment of DKK 1 billion towards our ambition to use sustainable materials in all core LEGO® products by 2030. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 28 Our ambition is to use sustainable materials in all our core LEGO® products by 2030 Environmental leadership In 2015, we continued our global expansion, while simultaneously achieving major environmental progress with a 5% improvement We want a carbon neutral in our energy efficiency, and committing to an investment of DKK 1 billion towards a Sustainable Materials Centre. operation and work with the supply chain to In 2015, we sold approximately 72 billion LEGO® elements which reached more chilachieve the same dren around the world than ever before. Being able to deliver the safest high-quality products where and when children want them requires us to build our manufacturing setup and capacity to accommodate this. All while having the aim of minimising Carbon Disclosure our environmental impact where it is negative. Project survey We work on two parallel streams; climate change and resources. We want to In 2015, we achieved a ‘B’ achieve a carbon-neutral operation and to work with the supply chain we are part of score on an A to E scale for to achieve the same. This means engaging both the producers of our raw materials performance and 99 points and the retailers we supply. In our operations we will work to improve our energy on a 100-point scale for efficiency and reach our 2020 goal to balance our global energy consumption our disclosure in the CDP with renewable energy capacity. In the supply chain (any company that provides (Carbon Disclosure Project™) us with materials, equipment or transport services required to make and distribute survey. This is the best in our LEGO products), we will work with our partners to reduce and eliminate their CO2 ­industry and the third year emissions through actions such as increasing energy efficiency, making production the LEGO Group has claimed improvements and using renewable energy. the ­position. CDP is a leading non-profit initiative working As for resources we will source and use raw materials responsibly and work with a zero with companies on discloswaste mindset. Finally, we will design our products to have as long a life as possible ing their actions and results and to be used by many children, even from generation to generation. We design our regarding climate change. products so that when they come to the end of their useful life they can be recycled. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 29 The Borkum Riffgrund 1 wind farm off the German coast. Photo: ©Dong Energy Addressing climate change In 2015, two milestones within our emissions and energy agenda stand out; Improvement in energy efficiency (%) Target: +2.5% • A 14% improvement in energy efficiency in three Actual: +5.0% Goal met: years marks our WWF Climate Savers goal one year ahead of plan 25 % • With the opening of the Borkum Riffgrund 1 wind farm, 20 % we are significantly closer to our goal of balancing our 15 % energy consumption with renewable energy by 2020. 10 % Our approach to climate change 5% To focus our efforts we work in three separate but highly 0% synergetic areas to ultimately deliver a positive impact: 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1. Avoid energy consumption – ‘switch off’ 2. Improve energy efficiency – ‘use energy better’ Efficient energy Renewable energy 3. Use renewable energy – ‘generate clean energy’ Installed new, more Celebrated the opening of modern and effective the new wind farm Borkum moulding machines that Riffgrund 1. The LEGO Group are also significantly more (KIRKBI A/S) owns 31.5% of energy efficient. the renewable energy output LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 30 Reducing supply chain emissions We base our environmental actions on an analytical approach to understand how and where we can direct our initiatives to be most influential. We know from our industry-leading environmental impact As our suppliers have assessment that our manufacturing accounts for approximately 10% of the total CO2 emissions in the value chain. We are committed to a concern for the fighting climate change together with our partners in the value chain. environment, we were able to involve more We have the most influence on our own operations, and therefore we drive the than 30 suppliers in our initiatives that we know are most beneficial and have the largest impact on emission reduction and, as part of our Climate Savers partnership, the World Wildlife Fund Engage2Reduce pilot project (WWF) assists us in evaluating our initiatives. in 2015, which aims to spur We know that 75% of the CO2 impact originates from our suppliers and we accollaboration and co-create knowledge that this is also within our domain. Therefore, we engage actively with a CO2 reduction initiatives. number of committed partners to reduce the total supply chain emissions. Finally, the remaining 15% of the total carbon emissions stems from the final stages of the value chain – from when our products leave the factories, including customers’ and retailers’ footprint and consumer use. We encourage consumers to keep and reuse our products, generation after generation. We monitor emissions and conduct an annual inventory using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Standard, which categorises greenhouse gas emissions into three separate scopes. • Scope 1: The emissions that arise directly from sources that are owned or controlled by the LEGO Group. • Scope 2: Emissions generated by purchased electricity and heat consumed by the LEGO Group. • Scope 3: The emissions that arise as a consequence of the LEGO Group’s activities but occur from sources not owned or controlled by the LEGO Group, including emissions associated with waste, water, business travel, commuting and procurement. We will publish our historical and 2015 greenhouse gas emission data on 1 September 2016 at www.LEGO.com/responsibility. Environmental co-creation with our supply chain As our suppliers share a concern for the environment, we were able to involve more than 30 suppliers in our Engage2Reduce pilot project in 2015, which aims to spur collaboration and co-create CO2 reduction initiatives. We are very impressed by their commitment. For instance, almost all submitted their environmental data via the Carbon Disclosure Project, to make it possible to form an analytical approach LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 31 Share of emissions 75% of our environmental 10% 15% impact impact is in impact is with our is in our the consumer & suppliers design & disposition production phase and find the most beneficial CO2 reduction initiatives. Together with a number of suppliers, we held the 2015 Innovation Camp to share approaches and define co-creation ideas. A few ideas show true potential and our suppliers are testing the ideas as prototypes. The project will continue in 2016 and will integrate learning such as earlier sharing of ideas and having the Innovation Camp as the selection forum for the very best projects. Energy-efficient manufacturing Throughout our five factories, the constant improvement of our manufacturing efficiency has a positive influence on our environmental footprint. We believe it is important to keep our environmental standards high and uniform wherever we operate and to transfer best practice between our sites. A key initiative toward this result is the installation of new and more modern moulding machines in Billund, Denmark. LEGO employees have optimised our moulding concept by adjusting standard moulding machines to produce significantly higher output per square metre for standard elements. This concept reduces energy use significantly. The first machines are already running, and we will look into options for a global implementation. In total, our activities delivered a 5.0% improvement in energy efficiency in 2015. With this accomplishment, we have made a 14% improvement in just three years. We therefore celebrate reaching our WWF Climate Savers goal of reducing the amount of energy used to manufacture one tonne of LEGO elements by 10% one year ahead of target. In 2015, the LEGO Group’s consumption of energy increased by approximately 8% to 309 GWh. Which is lower than our growth in our production due to energy efficiency improvements. We will continue to strive for a 2.5% energy efficiency improvement annually. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 32 Groundwater cooling reduces energy consumption In 2015, the LEGO Group opened a new centralised utility building to deliver groundwater cooling to several office buildings at our Headquarters in Billund, Denmark. The system is designed to deliver almost all of the cooling need in winter and more than half during the summer period. Compared to the most efficient alternative, the new groundwater cooling system will annually reduce energy consumption by more than 500 MWh, equivalent to the annual energy consumption of more than 80 Danish households. This will save energy as well as reduce carbon emissions. Groundwater cooling is not new to the LEGO Group, as we installed the first groundwater cooling system at our factory in Billund in 2006. Renewable energy To manufacture LEGO elements we have to use energy at our factories. However, we believe that firstly, we must reduce our consumption as much as possible, and secondly, we must remain committed to balancing the remaining consumption of energy with renewable energy. Our goal is to balance it by 2020 and beyond. This year we came a big step closer to reaching our goal. Through their investment KIRKBI A/S (KIRKBI A/S owns 75% of the LEGO Group) owns 31.5% of the output from the 78 wind turbines at the Borkum Riffgrund 1 wind farm constructed by DONG Energy. The wind farm is capable of producing a total nominal power of 312 MW, where our share of the electricity meets the energy needs of approximately 100,000 households annually. For us, investing in renewable capacity can be a good solution when possible, and such installations should be made where they are most feasible and give the best output. We will continue to pursue our goal and take the necessary actions. As per our climate strategy, we will always strive to avoid consumption of energy, use it efficiently and lastly, use renewable energy. For renewable energy we will always firstly look for any opportunities at our own manufacturing sites and evaluate the feasibility. Secondly, we will look for other remote locations to establish new renewable energy capacity. Current and potential future investments in renewable energy are made through our parent company KIRKBI A/S. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 33 Inauguration of the Borkum Riffgrund 1 offshore wind farm in Germany. Photo: ©DONG Energy Case: Opening of wind farm In October 2015, the inauguration of the Borkum Riffgrund 1 wind farm took place in Norden-Norddiech, Germany. The offshore wind farm is constructed by DONG Energy. KIRKBI A/S which owns 75% of the LEGO Group has been a partner in financing the wind farm. “It is a substantial step towards our 2020 goal to balance our global energy consumption with renewable energy capacity. We will reach this by focusing on improving our energy efficiency and by investing in renewable energy.” Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, President and Chief Executive Officer of the LEGO Group LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Christmas Dream Dog Stacy and Amanda from USA, 12 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 35 In 2015, we reached our goal of using 100% FSC-certified paper and packaging in our Responsible operations. resource use One of the six LEGO values is imagination, and in the LEGO Group there is a desire to find new ways to invent solutions and products We want to minimise in a more sustainable manner. It is inherent to LEGO employees to be creative, have expert knowledge and a constant commitment. our impact on the Some developments are taken inch by inch, gram by gram; others environment where are giant leaps into the future. it is negative and use sustainable materials in In 2015, we reached our goal of using 100% Forest Stewardship Council-certified paper and packaging in our operations. Being certified means that the paper and cardall our core LEGO products board we use is made from wood that is sourced in a way that supports a healthier and packaging planet and improves quality of life for forestry workers and their communities. By committing to purchase 100% FSC-certified material we are saying thank you to both the workers and landowners for taking care of the forest for future generations. In 2015, we also reached an all-time high 93% level of recycling waste and we decided to make a DKK 1 billion investment in a Sustainable Materials Centre where we will search for more sustainable raw materials to be used in our LEGO products and packaging. In our environmental agenda we aspire to make a positive impact. To drive this aspiration forward, we work towards a more sustainable LEGO play experience, which motivates us to get to zero waste and use sustainable materials in all our core LEGO products and packaging by 2030. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 36 Innovating new materials In the LEGO Group, we are committed, focused and working hard to reach our goal: healthy environments for children that allow them to thrive and develop. Our goal is to use sustainable materials in We make LEGO bricks from the highest quality plastics, as this is an extremely all core LEGO products, ­functional and durable material. However, the current raw materials we use are oilbased i.e. a scarce resource. When fossil fuels are processed they have a negative delivering the same play impact on the planet. That is why we have committed ourselves to use sustainable experience to children all materials in all our core LEGO products and packaging by 2030. This means we will have sustainable alternatives to our current oil-based plastic used in our bricks over the world, without and plastic packaging, and we will continue to improve the sustainability of our them ever noticing a paper-based boxes and instruction manuals. difference. It is a complex and formidable challenge, to which we aim to rise through ­collaboration with many other institutions. The quality and safety of our products are our main priority, and we will not compromise on this nor on the play experience, which we know children and parents rely on us to deliver. Our goal is to make the iconic LEGO brick based on more sustainable raw materials, where the plastic continues delivering the same durable and high-quality play experience to children all over the world, without them ever noticing a difference. In 2015, we announced that we would establish a Sustainable Materials Centre ­dedicated to the research, development and implementation of new sustainable raw materials in the manufacturing of LEGO® elements and packaging materials. We have begun the development of the Centre and the recruitment of the ­approximately 100 specialists who will work on this challenge. The packaging and building instructions we use for LEGO sets is also a significant contributor to our environmental footprint. It is essential that we source and use such materials responsibly and we are happy to have reached our 2015 goal of using 100% FSC-certified print and packaging. Efforts to shrink our boxes by 14% on average were implemented for new products over the course of 2013 and 2014, and this continues to save cardboard. In 2015 this amounted to us saving approximately 7,000 tonnes of cardboard. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 37 Case: More sustainable LEGO® bricks by 2030 “To me, the LEGO Group is a strong part of my heritage, and I truly care for the LEGO® brand and our values. Even more so, I care about the endless opportunities of the LEGO brick and the fact that play helps children develop their intellectual, emotional, social and creative skills that are of lifelong benefit to them and all of us. We have a responsibility as a leading provider of quality play experiences. We have a responsibility to everyone and everything that we impact through our operations. We are mindful of this, which is why we always strive to make a positive impact on society. I am impressed by how our skilled employees come up with innovative solutions to the challenges and aspirations we have as a company. One of these, the ambition to use sustainable materials in all our core LEGO products and packaging, is something Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, our CEO, and I have discussed many times and we both see it as an exciting and necessary ambition for us to fulfil. It is a daunting and complex challenge, but I know we have to meet it and I am absolutely confident we can. This year, I am proud that we decided to boost our commitment by investing DKK 1 billion to find a solution for using sustainable materials in all our core LEGO products and packaging by 2030. It is a daunting and complex I believe we should do everything we can to embrace the LEGO Brand Framework challenge, but I know we and the four promises we have formulated within it (see page 3). To me, it is imhave to meet it, and I am portant that we think of our promises in a unified way so our company actions are sustainable from a holistic perspective, for instance within the responsibility agenda. absolutely confident we can. Thomas Kirk Kristiansen represents the Identifying and using sustainable materials is an example of this and it certainly plays fourth generation of the family-owned a significant role in our overall mission: inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow.” LEGO Group The LEGO Sustainable Materials Centre will be based in the LEGO Group ­headquarters in Billund, Denmark. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 38 Reducing and recycling our waste We want to use our raw materials responsibly and we work towards achieving zero waste. Reducing pallets reduces waste in Mexico To get there we must eliminate waste in our production, use environmentally friendly At our production facility in Monterrey, Mexico, truckpackaging and implement more sustainable raw loads of goods arrive every day on pallets. We receive materials to manufacture LEGO elements. approximately 140,000 disposable pallets annually making them account for a significant amount of our waste. An internal, cross-functional team set up a sortOur approach to the use of resources: ing station at the facility, making it possible to fix some 1. Reduce our overall consumption of the broken pallets and use them again. The LEGO 2. Reuse as much as possible Group saves approximately 15,000 pallets which corre3. Recycle what we cannot use sponds to approximately 200 tonnes of waste. Good for the environment and for our business. In 2015, we experienced a growing worldwide demand for our products. As a result, our consumption of raw materials increased by approximately 18%, to 91.000 tonnes. In 2015, we recycled 93% of waste, mainly due to recycling all of our element waste. In total, we sent 1,073 tonnes to landfill from the total of 16,496 tonnes. The amount of waste increased by approximately 5%, which is significantly less than the increase in consumption of raw materials. To keep making progress with our ambitious mindset of zero waste, we launched an i­nternal efficiency measure for waste as a pilot scheme in 2015. Already, this has spurred great employee engagement and a range of actions is expected to create greater efficiency. LEGO bricks for the next generation All LEGO® bricks manufactured since 1958 are very durable and of the highest quality, and all LEGO bricks fit together no matter their age. We design our products so when they come to the end of their useful life they can be recycled. However, we believe that a product this durable should not be thrown away. If you no longer play with your LEGO bricks and they are still in good condition, we encourage you to donate them or pass them on to family and friends so that more children can be inspired and play with LEGO bricks. Controlling our water usage We are focused on limiting our use of water resources, especially at facilities where there is a scarcity of water, e.g. at our Mexican production facility. As we expand our operational footprint, our continued focus is on installing efficient water management systems and other solutions that lower our use of water. However, in 2015, our water consumption was 528,000 m3, an increase of 24% compared to 2014, being slightly ahead of our increase in raw material consumption. This is mainly due to our new factory in Hungary where we have installed a Tri-generation power plant, that in a highly efficient manner delivers combined heating, power and cooling from natural gas, but due to open cooling towers also has an increased use of water. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 On an exciting expedition Ella from Denmark, 7 years Housefrog Ida and Sofie from Denmark, 13 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 41 Society Our culture is characterised by openness and trust and our employees maintain a high level of satisfaction and motivation. In 2015, we strengthened our organisation with an additional 2532 colleagues while managing to make the LEGO Group a safer place to work. We continue to have strong collaboration with our suppliers in upholding high human rights and labour standards. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 42 We were joined by more than 2500 new colleagues in 2015. Our employCare for employees ees continue to report a high level of satisfaction and motivation. In the LEGO Group, we want our employees to have just the same creative, fun and safe experience at work, as when children enjoy our play experiences. We believe that a vibrant and trusting We want a caring culture, organisational culture will reflect in our performance and products. In 2015, our employees reported the highest motivation and the safest and most satisfaction score ever. motivating employee workplace In 2015, we continued our global growth, and we are increasing our global presence by expanding and opening new offices and manufacturing facilities. Since 2011, more than 6500 employees have joined and in 2015, we welcomed 2532 new colleagues. This year we welcome a younger and more diverse group of employees, approximately 50% of our new hires are below the age of 30, and many of these in locations such as London, Singapore and Billund. We have multiple initiatives to ensure that as we grow at such a fast pace we embed our culture and values from an e­ mployee’s first day, for instance through our thorough induction programme. Our continued growth means that today we are 17,294 employees and becoming a more diverse and inclusive organisation. To truly live and enforce our culture and collaborative ways of working, we shape our offices to make them a creative and supportive work environment which also functions as a melting pot for the LEGO DNA. A relatively flat corporate structure and an Activity Based Working approach in some of our offices facilitate and foster a collaborative spirit encouraging employees to think ‘end to end’ across the business. Already, in the main offices at London and Singapore employees report a high level of ­satisfaction with this approach. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 43 A motivating and satisfying workplace In 2015, our employees reported a very high level of motivation and satisfaction, 16 index points ahead of our benchmark, an improvement compared to last year. Again this year our employees reported an outstandingly high level of motivation and satisfaction. In our annual emNumber of full time employees ployee survey, which 95% of employees responded to, they told us they value their immediate manager and have a high 14,000 level of engagement in the tasks associated with furthering the LEGO Group’s mission. 13,000 12,000 Employees are very willing to recommend the LEGO Group 11,000 as an employer, indeed, they have such a positive and loyal sentiment towards the LEGO Group as an employer that it is 10,000 significantly ahead of the international benchmark. We strive 9,000 to foster a creative and empowered workforce with a culture 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of openness where all employees’ solutions are valued and no ‘one’ idea is right, but actually, several ideas could be right. Also, a deliberate decision to globalise and evoke the LEGO culture and be close to the market and employees in Employee motivation and satisfaction score the regional offices has meant that the corporate management presence in the last two years has increased. Target: > +10 Actual: +16 Goal met: 16 We understand that securing an employee satisfaction 15 score of 16 index points ahead of the European Employee 14 Index benchmark (see accounting policy 4) means that we must ensure leaders continue to have a professional skill 13 set, engage in more directive communication and that we 12 improve the physical surroundings in some of our locations. 11 Employee engagement and results are very positive, yet 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 differences remain within pockets of the organisation. In 2015, employees reported their work life balance score six index points ahead of the EEI benchmark, indicating a workload that they evaluate to be reasonable. For instance, our group of specialist employees in Denmark, China and the United Kingdom explain that they lack role clarity, clear expectations with regards to work performance and that it is complicated to navigate decision-making in a g ­ lobalising organisation. We have listened and set appropriate actions in motion to deal effectively with these concerns. Actions include continuously working with simplicity as a mantra for decision-making, top management hosting town hall sessions, having hands-on LEGO® play experience activities and local community engagement with employees. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 44 Safer at work In the LEGO Group, our culture of caring for employees, and keeping safety a priority, is deeply rooted across the organisation. In 2015, we reduced the number of injuries per one million working hours among employees to our lowest rate ever. In 2015, we managed to make the LEGO Group an even safer place to work, reducing the absence rate due to Employee safety lost time injury frequency injuries per one million working hours to 1.4 compared to 1.7 in 2014. In the past five years, we have reduced the rate Target: =<1.6 Actual: 1.4 Goal met: of injuries by more than 33%. 3.0 We believe this is due to increased safety awareness 2.5 among our employees at all LEGO factories and offices and LEGO Brand Retail stores around the world. In 2015, 2.0 a drop in injuries at our LEGO Brand Retail stores comes after a series of dedicated activities throughout the year. 1.5 In our offices, we continue to see a proportionally high 1 level of injuries where team-building days represent the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 majority of injuries. Specific findings in 2014 included the need to raise awareness on what constitutes good safety behaviour and a need to increase the focus on mental health. At the beginning of 2015, we conducted behaviour-based safety training at our factory in Mexico, at our headquarters in Billund, Denmark, and at our LEGO Brand Retail Stores, for more than 4,000 employees, which has improved our employees’ awareness of how to stay safe at work. Our top management continue to focus on employee safety together with local line management and the local Employee Health and Safety personnel, and we will keep going forward with training sessions to improve safety awareness among our employees. To keep increasing the focus on mental health and self-awareness, we have conducted a series of six awareness workshops in the USA and Denmark. The workshops provide employees with resources to help them deal with stress, anxiety, depression and managing workloads. Initial responses from the workshops have been positive and we will implement workshops globally in 2016. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 45 Gender-balanced leadership We believe a truly diverse composition of our organisation is required for our success to continue globally. We strive towards becoming a global organisation and our ever-growing diverse employee base brings about richer perspectives which results in better-informed decisions. Our ambition is to have a balanced composition of genders by 2032 at all organisational levels. Although we Females appointed and recruited to management level have seen improvements of 20 percentage points over the last five years, we are still not there. Our starting point is to Target: =>40% Actual: 43% Goal met: ensure a gender-balanced flow of talent to deliver on this ambition. In 2015, we achieved this by having 43% females 50 % among all newly appointed and recruited leaders. 40 % 30 % We believe the best way to embrace diversity in the LEGO culture is through embedding our values. We see that in 20 % general, the higher the organisational level, the lower the 10 % female share, so we acknowledge that this will take many 0% years, and we will remain committed. We believe that in 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 a culture characterised by openness, trust and inclusivness among our employees and management has become more integrated. It has also become a natural part of any hiring and reviewing people performance process. Specifically this year, we have implemented guidelines for writing non-gender biased job postings and conducting interview processes. We introduced a Leading Globalisation course for leaders to be more inclusive in daily leadership and training on minimising biases in assessing performance and potential of employees. Our Gender Diversity Policy guides these actions and it stipulates that we always hire the most suitable and competent person for any job. In 2015, our offices with a sales and administrative focus continued making progress in terms of a strong female leadership presence with an above 50% female share e.g. in Kladno, Czech Republic, Shanghai, China, Singapore and London, United Kingdom. In 2016, we will intensify our actions at locations with a lower than average share of females in leadership positions e.g. our HQ in Billund Denmark and at our production facilities in e.g. Monterrey, Mexico, Nyíregyháza, Hungary and Jiaxing, China. At top management level we have secured improvements where three of our 26 corporate management members are females compared to 2013, when none of the 23 members were female. Our long-term aspiration is to have a management team made up of an equal number of women and men. For the LEGO Group Board of Directors, it is the ambition to increase the number of female Board Members to a minimum of two Board Members by 1 January 2020. At present, one of the Board Members is female. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Pyro’s Endoskeleton Kevin from USA, 13 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 47 The new LEGO Group Singapore office one of the Group’s five main offices was Responsible and officially inaugurated on December 4th, 2015. The new office facilities support and encourage Activity Based Working and can house 400 LEGO employees, further ethical business conduct enabling the LEGO Group to adjust for expected future growth. We conduct our business as a reflection of our values and our ambition: to live up to the highest global standards for responsible We want to live up to the and ethical business conduct. Today, our values remain strong – more than 80 years after the founding of the LEGO Group. highest global standards for responsible and ethical As we grow, new colleagues from different regions and cultures around the world business conduct join the LEGO Group and must get accustomed to the LEGO way of doing business. To succeed together we evolve and communicate the LEGO values to reinforce the culture in a global and local context. Just as important, we evolve our internal capabilities, policies and business standards to facilitate the global organisation we are building. Our Corporate Policy framework, Business Code of Ethics, Code of Conduct and Responsibility and Human Rights Policy lay the foundation for how we embed and manage a responsible and ethical business in accordance with the highest global standards and serve as our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 48 Business the LEGO® way We want employees to be aware of our history and practise our values so we always conduct Leaders trained in business ethics business with a high level of integrity. Target: 100% Actual: 99% Goal met: 100 Doing the right thing is important to us, regardless of where we operate, and we support our employees in making business 80 decisions based on our values. We will keep this agenda high 60 in our employees’ awareness while we expand our activities 40 and grow our employee base. Corruption negatively affects the global economy and more importantly, it can obstruct 20 children’s access to social services, schooling and healthcare. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 To ensure employees are aware of their expected business behaviour, we embed the LEGO values and our Code of Ethical Business Conduct within the organisation and encourage all employees to promote an ethical and responsible mindset. In 2015, employee training in our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and a website with an interactive video training tool and app were launched. Almost all employees (99%) at Director level and above who were eligible for their biennial training on the Code of Ethical Business Conduct completed their training in 2015. The remaining 1% have completed their training in the first weeks of 2016. In 2015, we began implementing specific projects on IT and data security and privacy, procurement, as well as training on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. We have a comprehensive integrity due diligence process in place with our business partners to ensure they live up to our standards when acting on our behalf. LEGO compliance line We encourage employees to report any potential breaches of our ethical standards or any other matters they find to be in conflict with the law to their immediate manager or via the LEGO Compliance line. In 2015, the LEGO Group received a total of 14 incident reports through the LEGO Compliance line, and others through direct channels. Most non-compliance reports relate to internal employee matters or policy issues, release of proprietary information, potential thefts, potential fraud or harassment cases. In January 2016, the German federal competition authority, Das Bundeskartellamt, fined the LEGO Group €130,000. The case relates to a limited number of incidents in 2012 and 2013 where individual employees of the LEGO Group’s German subsidiary attempted to control retail prices on a limited number of LEGO products. The LEGO Group gave its full cooperation to Das Bundeskartellamt during the investigation and accepted the fine. The LEGO Group treats any such violations very seriously and sanctions were imposed on the employees who were responsible for the non-compliance, and an extensive increase in the comprehensive training programme on competition compliance, that was already in place globally, was initiated and has been executed. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 49 Each year we conduct third party audits at our own sites on compliance with our Code Ensuring high of Conduct, health and safety, and quality. standards at LEGO® sites The way LEGO employees conduct business and engage with children and business partners is a reflection of our values. It is the responsibility of all employees and the LEGO Group to ensure we act in accordance with human rights, run a safe, decent operation and have fair working conditions for our employees. Our Responsibility and Human Rights Policy and our Code of Conduct are our commitments to human rights. These policies reflect the LEGO Brand Framework and the United Nations Global Compact, the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework’ and the United Nations Guiding Principles. In 2015, in accordance with our audit risk criteria, we follow our biennial auditing of LEGO sites in intermediate-risk countries. We carried out 19 audits at LEGO sites on compliance with our Code of Conduct and regulations relating to the Environment, Employee Health and Safety, and Quality. In total, we found zero non-compliances. We went to Billund in Denmark and Monterrey in Mexico for ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and Code of Conduct, as well as Kladno in the Czech Republic and Nyíregyháza in Hungary for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Finally, we audited our Hong Kong site on OHSAS 18001. In total, we found zero non-compliances. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 50 Collaborating with our supply chain In the LEGO Group, we want to ensure responsible practices in our supply chain and work together with suppliers to improve business practice for the benefit of employees and businesses. In 2015, we We see that our conducted a total of 87 audits with our suppliers and found 44 ­nonconformities which we resolved. engagement with suppliers improves their Since 1997, we have required our suppliers and business partners to sign the LEGO understanding of and Group’s Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct specifies our requirements for compliance with the ethical, environmental and health & safety standards including our zero tolerance of child labour. Code of Conduct, as we continue to see a low We audit our suppliers and follow up on cases according to a third party country risk definition. We see that our engagement with suppliers improves their undernumber of findings. standing of and compliance with the Code of Conduct, as we continue to see a low number of findings, 27 findings in 2015. The issues we find mainly relate to working hours, health and safety, for example insufficient processes and equipment. The majority of audits and findings are from China, yet we also see improvement opportunities in the rest of the world. To ensure we consistently provide children with the highest quality play experiences, we have conducted 49 quality audits at our suppliers where we found and resolved 17 findings. We select suppliers from the LEGO Group’s Supplier list, which includes 160 suppliers’ main offices and/or manufacturing sites that provide us with raw materials, parts and finished goods. The LEGO Group’s Supplier list is available at www.LEGO.com/responsibility LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 51 Case: Stronger supplier collaboration on working hours Collaboration and engagement with our suppliers on responsible and ethical business in China has meant a change for employees’ working hours. Our largest Chinese suppliers report full compliance with a 60-hour working week. Through dialogue with suppliers, we have found understanding and means to meet the requirements of our Code of Conduct and regular audits. We experience a challenge with some of our Chinese suppliers’ commitment to comply with our Code of Conduct in relation to the international labour standards stating the maximum of 60 working hours per week including overtime per employee. We believe all employees must be treated decently, fairly and have a good level of well-being. To work with the LEGO Group it is a prerequisite to comply with our global compliance requirements. Initially, we have engaged systematically with five of our largest and strategic suppliers from China, with whom we have a longstanding and close partnership, to reduce excessive working hours, developing targets and a timeline for implementing 60hour working week requirements with our support and guidance. Engagement has been genuine, and positive progress achieved, as they now fully comply with the 60-hour working week requirements. Building upon our learnings from these cases we are working with an additional 14 suppliers and witnessing progress. Audits conducted at our Chinese suppliers indicate that our Code of Conduct compliance rate is high and we will continue to collaborate with suppliers to ensure that all LEGO suppliers meet our requirements and adhere to international standards and regulations. It is challenging and a gradual process to implement initiatives at all our extended suppliers and especially at our smaller suppliers. To reduce their employees’ excessive work hours, our suppliers have taken initiatives that involve upgrading their facilities to utilise automatic equipment for the purpose of enhancing efficiency, and they have adopted LEAN management and Industrial Engineering to optimise production processes. We follow up with monthly reports on employees’ weekly working hours and yearly face-to-face meetings with supplier responsible management members to gain a better understanding of the status quo and to provide guidance and support where needed. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 52 Engaging with local communities The LEGO Group works together with the LEGO Foundation to build, In 2015, activities were carried out at 16 maintain and support local communities where we are present. LEGO locations around the world; Austria, the Benelux, Canada, China, Czech RepubEmployees drive the programme through volunteer activities and lic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, by providing financial support and product donations. After a Italy, Mexico, Poland, Russia, Singapore, United Kingdom and USA. successful beginning in 2014, the programme expanded from nine to 16 LEGO locations in 2015. We estimate that in 2015 more than 3,000 LEGO employees were involved in local community activities that engaged more than 66,000 children. We work together with local organisations and global strategic partners on developing the most beneficial activities. To us, each activity is equally important for our ambition of making a positive impact on society. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 53 In 2015, more than 120 Local LEGO® Community Engagement activities took place around the world. A few examples: April 2015 – aiding social integration for disadvantaged children LEGO employees from our factory in Nyíregyháza in Hungary arranged summer school camps for 80 socially disadvantaged children from two primary schools in the local community. The purpose of the summer camps was to aid the children’s social integration by giving them the opportunity to experience life situations other than their normal routine lives. Many of the students are unable to participate in normal class excursions due to their social disadvantages. June 2015 – children build the world’s tallest LEGO tower In Milan, the LEGO Group and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) invited children and adults to join a fun and engaging building event. The purpose of the event was to inspire children to develop their creativity, imagination and team-working skills to build the world’s tallest LEGO® tower. For every centimetre built, the LEGO Group donated seven euros to support the protection and development of the Urban Oasis project initiated by the WWF. Urban Oasis aims to increase citizens’ knowledge and appreciation of nature and to encourage us all to be more responsible towards the environment we live in. More than 18,000 children used over 550,000 LEGO bricks to complete the tower that measured 35 metres in height. October 2015 – running for a good cause We held “Run for the Clowns” where more than 600 participants ran for a good cause. Profits from registration fees as well as food and beverage sales were donated in full to the Danish Hospital Clowns – a non-profit organisation for the purpose of bringing joy and laughter to children in Danish hospitals. October 2015 – playing with LEGO bricks for the first time At the LEGO factory in Jiaxing in China, a Build the Change event hosted by 35 LEGO employees took place at the Lan Xiang Experimental School for migrant children. Most of the children at the elementary school have migrated from remote villages in less developed provinces of China. Some of the children have been separated for long periods from their working parents, who have migrated to the cities in search for jobs. Many of the 720 children had never before seen or played with LEGO® bricks, and their initial hesitancy turned into hours of fun and challenging play experiences. Throughout 2015 – guided factory tours for local children The LEGO production facility in Mexico, Monterrey gave over 130 guided tours to more than 3,000 local children and young adults, from six years old through to university students, to show how the factory operates and meet some of the people who work there. All tours get to see the moulding and packaging processes as well as the warehouse – travelling by electric train. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 54 Human Rights in the value chain To counter any labour or human rights issues that may arise from our global business activities, POLICY human rights due diligence is an integrated part of how we operate our business. COMMITMENT TUAL GRIEVAN ESS AC MECHANIS CE OUR CORPORATE ASS POTENTIAL AND IMPACT In 2013, we assessed our human rights impact throughout the value chain we are part of. We identified four major human MS RESPONSIBILITY rights impacts, material for us to address. In 2015, four priority TO RESPECT areas still guide our work and we are making progress on HUMAN RIGHTS specific initiatives within each area: TR AC AT E MU K AND C O M ER N T EPGR U • Pioneer responsible business conduct towards c ­ hildren: FOR N IC A P I CTG ON To respect and support children’s rights and ensure a MAN TE A N D AFIN DIN ­positive impact on children, we implement and promote the CE 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles. In 2015, this work, framed within our partnership with UNICEF, generated The LEGO Group human rights due diligence process. awareness of the principles at relevant external business platforms and we further strengthened our internal child protection governance supported by UNICEF. • Care for employees: We work to increase employees’ motivation, their health and safety in the workplace, and to have a more diverse organisation. In 2015, for instance, we conducted a labour rights assessment and hosted self-awareness workshops for employees. We also increased our focus on Code of Conduct compliance, which has resulted in our top five strategic suppliers in China now adhering to our 60-hour working week requirements. • Responsible sourcing: We engage with our strategic suppliers and partners to ensure they conduct business in a responsible and ethical manner. We follow up on Code of Conduct compliance through a combination of audits conducted by an independent third party and follow-up dialogues. • Engage with local communities: In 2015, we involved approximately 3,000 LEGO employees and more than 66,000 children in fun and engaging activities at 16 different LEGO sites around the world. 2015 was also the year where we were accused of not supporting freedom of expression and human rights, based on our refusal to sell a large quantity of LEGO bricks intended for a political art project. This has shown us that even the best of intentions can be misunderstood, and as a result we have simplified our procedures. We have and will always support freedom of expression and human rights. The work, anchored within our social responsibility agenda, aims to ensure that we conduct our business in ways which fully reflect the LEGO Group values and live up to global standards, and document how we do it. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 55 The LEGO Factory in Jiaxing, China. Case: Building a factory in China In 2015, the first LEGO play sets left the packing line from the LEGO factory in Jiaxing, China. After one and a half years of construction, the 160,000 m2 factory has begun its initial operations. The factory will deliver the vast majority of products to children across China and the Asia Pacific region, and the factory is therefore an important facility and means of reaching children in the whole of Asia. Valuable learnings from cultural differences Every country is different; the culture, the language and the ways of working, and we believe we can gain valuable knowledge from these differences. As part of their initial training and introduction to the LEGO Group, new employees within various functions at the factory in Jiaxing visited other LEGO sites to learn best practices. LEGO employees from around the world have also visited the Jiaxing factory to learn from cultural differences and similarities and to gain valuable knowledge of how employees can support each other despite living in different countries. Throughout 2015, a total of 345 Jiaxing employees from operations received extensive training by 40 colleagues from Packing, Maintenance, Warehouse and Quality from our factory in Kladno, Czech Republic. They were supported by 30 Czech and Chinese interpreters and five expats from Kladno. During training, employees were also made aware of our high safety standards, which resulted in zero accidents and only seven minor incidents. We focus on ensuring that our employees’ rights and safety follow the same global standards at all our factories around the world. It is important that all our employees LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 56 are treated with equal respect and given the same opportunities. That is why we encourage our employees to report any breaches of our standards and requirements to their manager or via our global compliance line. We focus on ensuring that In 2015, we conducted more than 30 safety walks at our Jiaxing site to integrate our employees’ rights and behaviour-based safety and address anything observed to ensure the safety and safety follow the same well-being of our employees. Also, since the construction of the factory was completed senior management have conducted six monthly safety inspections. global standards at all our factories around the world. Minimising negative impact through efficient operations We have built the factory in Jiaxing according to exactly the same standards as our other efficient factories to ensure we minimise our impact on the environment where it is negative. Common to all our factories is that they have high levels of insulation, 100% LED lighting in indoor and outdoor areas (this is the first time for the LEGO Group), efficient water-saving installations, solar-powered water heaters and heat recovery from air compressors. All these initiatives contribute to our application for LEED certification. More importantly, they ensure we use as few resources as possible and in the most efficient way when we manufacture LEGO bricks. Furthermore, we are exploring the potential for installing on-site renewable energy capacity. We expect to begin moulding LEGO bricks in 2016 and for the site to be in full-scale operation by 2017. Creating opportunities for the local community To engage Jiaxing employees as well as children and parents in the local community, a series of Local Community Engagement activities have been carried out during 2015. These activities included two Build the Change events to engage children in the LEGO play experience while also introducing new LEGO employees to the important values of the LEGO Group through volunteering at the events. The events have engaged 1,220 children and 82 employees in total. The events have been key to making the new employees feel welcome and valued. One of our Build the Change events took place at the Lan Xiang Experimental School for migrant children. We estimate that at least 70% of our permanent employees in Jiaxing are migrant workers who have immigrated to the metropolis in search of work. They have had to grow accustomed to a new life in a new city, which can be a challenge for them and their children. Through our Local Community Engagement activities, we want to make it easier for migrant workers and their families and also give back to the local community by engaging children and their families through fun and inspiring play experiences. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Dream Castle Lim from Singapore, 5 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 58 Impacts of the LEGO Group value chain Input Impact We apply the strictest safety regulations to The safest high-quality play our manufacturing of the approximately materials for children 72 billion LEGO elements we sold in 2015 Bringing playful learning to classrooms CHILDREN Approximately 100 million children experienced LEGO play in 2015, according to our estimates through LEGO Education Helping children develop lifelong skills Communicating responsibly with children through the LEGO Foundation LEGO BRAND FRAMEWORK via all our platforms, e.g. more than Implementing a Child Protection policy 240 million visits to www.LEGO.com in collaboration with UNICEF Sourcing renewable energy through investing in the Borkum Riffgrund 1 offshore wind farm Ensuring our factories and offices live up A 5% energy efficiency to our high environmental standards improvement in our operations PLANET Efficient manufacturing of LEGO elements from 91.000 tonnes of raw materials Recycling 93% of waste from operations – our highest ever More than 4,000 employees Using 100% responsibly sourced attended a safety course to help increase FSC-certified paper and cardboard awareness of safety behaviour. 19 audits at LEGO sites showed no non-conformities A safer workplace – with the lowest Increased diversity in the organisation employee injury rate ever by recruiting and appointing 43% females SOCIETY to management levels Engaged 3,000 LEGO employees in more than More motivated and satisfied employees – 16 index points ahead of our benchmark Engaging with more local communities 120 Local Community Engagement activities, and children where we operate which more than 66,000 children enjoyed Expanding our activities also provides us with the opportunity to impact more local Creating impact communities with engagement activities that benefit children and their families. through the value chain We create value for our stakeholders through the numerous activities and far-reaching social, environmental and economic impact of the value chain we are part of. The issues and impacts are interrelated, which requires us to be mindful of our activities and of how they affect our stakeholders, society and the environment. Our biggest opportunity is to reach and engage as many children as p ­ ossible in our fun and creative play experiences and to make a global difference to child development through playful learning around the world. Expanding our a ­ ctivities also provides us with the opportunity to impact more local communities with engagement activities that benefit children and their families. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 59 See the illustration on page 58 for examples of how we create value and an impact on society through the activities we perform and the partners we work with in the value chain. The trust our stakeholders In 2015, the LEGO Group generated a total revenue of DKK 35.8 billion and a net put in us is critical for value add of DKK 18.2 billion in addition to the indirect economic activity generated our continued success through our suppliers. 6% of the net value added was distributed directly to the LEGO Foundation to support children and their learning and development through and growth. We need to play. In addition, the LEGO Group supported society through the distribution of keep earning this trust employee wages and taxes. 26% of net value added is reinvested to support the strategic capacity building of our company.* by understanding and meeting our stakeholders’ Globalising into new markets and cultures involves opportunities as well as risks. We remain aware of risks that, if not addressed properly and in a timely manner, could expectations. potentially damage our society, company and reputation. Our growth and the continuous changes to global standards and requirements call for us to be constantly ahead of new legislation. The trust our stakeholders put in us is critical for our continued success and growth. We need to keep earning this trust by understanding and meeting our stakeholders’ expectations. Tax The economic impact of our business on society is based on direct and indirect employment and associated money flows, including the amount of tax paid. We respect international and local tax laws and pay the taxes required of us. We have open and transparent relationships with authorities and enter into Advance Pricing Agreements and Tax Governance, and we seek to always adhere to OECD guidelines on transfer pricing. In 2015, the corporate income taxes paid for the LEGO Group totalled DKK 3.0 billion (see the LEGO Group Annual Report 2015, page 5 at www.LEGO.com). Materiality analysis The structure of this report is aligned with the detailed stakeholder engagement analysis we conducted in 2013 (details on page 68) and informed by our updated responsibility ambitions. The main report sections are respectively; Children, Planet and lastly, Society. *All data can be found in the LEGO Group Annual Report 2015, available at www.LEGO.com. Total revenue can be found in note 3, Expenses excluding employee costs in note 4, minus note 6 and Net value added is Total revenue minus Expenses excluding employee costs. To the LEGO Foundation in note 18 (dividend according to ownership), Tax on profit for the year in note 11, To the LEGO Group for reinvestment is Net value added minus the Items. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 60 Results 2015 Consumers Read 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 more on Definition Note Measures Result Result Result Target Target page 1 Product recalls 0 0 0 0 0 18 2 N Net Promoter Score Index ® 105 107 109 >105 107 21 3 Consumer complaint call rate 781 889 720 <750 <810 21 Employees 4 Motivation and satisfaction +14 +14 +16 >+10 >+10 43 5 Work-life balance +6 +6 +6 >0 >0 43 6 G,H,O,P Injury rate with absence 1.7 1.7 1.4 <1.6 <1.5 44 7 P Sick leave 2.0% 2.1% 2.0% <2.2% <2.2 44 8, 9 P Absence rate due to injuries 0.14 0.23 0.15 <0.16 N.A. 44 10 Females appointed and recruited 37% 43% 43% >40% >40% 45 11 Business integrity training 100% 100% 99% 100% 100% 48 12, 13 I LEGO site non-conformity resolution rate (EHS, CoC and Quality) 100% 100% 100%¹ 100% N.A. 49 14 I Number of audits conducted at main LEGO sites 12 24 19 49 15 A, C, F Number of Employees (Heads) 13,869 14,762 17,294 42 A, B, C Female 46.5% 46.4% 45.4% 45 A, B, C Male 53.5% 53.6% 54.6% 45 15 B Total number of permanent employees 12,695 13,594 16,074 61 16 Average number of Full Time Equivalents 11,755 12,582 13,974 43 17 E Rate of employee turnover 8.8 9.0 9.5 62 17 D Rate of new hires and rehires 20 14 25 62 6, 9 H Number of injuries with absence 36 41 38 44 18 Q, R Salaried employees trained in anti-corruption N.A. N.A. 85% 64 Environment 19 Energy efficiency improvement 6.7% 2.3% 5.0%² >2.5% >2.5% 31 20 Recycled waste 90% 91% 93% 90% 92% 38 21 Raw materials (1,000 tonnes) 68 77 91 38 22 Waste (tonnes) 14,590 15,638 16,496 38 23 Water consumption (1,000m3) 339 424 528 38 24 Energy consumption (GWh) 247 284 309³ 31 Partners 25 L Supplier quality non-conformity resolution rate 100% 100% 100%¹ 100% 100% 50 26 L, M Supplier Code of Conduct non-conformity resolution rate 100% 100% 100%¹ 100% 100% 50 27 J, Number of core line and extended line suppliers 110 155 160 50 27 K Number of quality audited suppliers 39 45 49 50 27 K Number of Code of Conduct audited suppliers 56 40 38 50 LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 61 Notes Note C Note A Total number of employees split Total number of employees 2013 2014 2015* on employee category 2013 2014 2015 Female 6,454 6,842 7,843 Top management 71 82 94 Male 7,415 7,920 9,451 Female 10 20 26 Total 13,869 14,762 17,294 Male 61 62 68 Age under 30 0 0 0 Permanent employees 12,695 13,594 16,074 Age 30-50 59 60 70 Fixed-term contract employees 1,174 1,168 1,220 Age 50+ 12 22 24 Total 13,869 14,762 17,294 Middle management 399 455 532 Asia/Pacific 366 491 1,544 Female 116 146 170 Female 244 324 701 Male 283 309 362 Male 235 283 843 Age under 30 0 0 1 Americas 4,666 4,982 5,169 Age 30-50 332 378 447 Female 2,030 2,153 2,269 Age 50+ 67 77 84 Male 2,523 2,713 2,900 Europe 8,837 9,289 10,581 1st level management 2,108 2,333 2,759 Female 4,180 4,365 4,873 Female 825 956 1,151 Male 4,657 4,924 5,708 Male 1,283 1,377 1,608 Total 13,869 14,762 17,294 Age under 30 136 139 151 Age 30-50 1,750 1,955 2,348 *Organisational changes in 2015. Pacific was previously part of Americas but is now part of APAC. Age 50+ 222 239 260 Other 11,291 11,892 13,909 Note B Total number of permanent employees 2013 2014 2015 Female 5,503 5,720 6,496 Full time (FTE) 10,957 11,773 14,205 Male 5,788 6,172 7,413 Female 4,996 5,363 6,341 Age under 30 4,347 4,560 5,607 Male 5,961 6,410 7,864 Age 30-50 5,623 5,963 6,904 Age 50+ 1,321 1,369 1,398 Part time 1,738 1,821 1,869 Total 13,869 14,762 17,294 Female 917 950 928 Male 821 871 941 Total 12,695 13,594 16,074 LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 62 Note D Note F Seasonal variations – Number of employees hired on a temporary New hires and rehires 2013* 2014* 2015 contract per month Number of new hires and rehires 2,431 1,868 3,662 Hourly Salaried Brand Retail Stores Associates Employees Rate of new hires and rehires 20 14 25 800 Female 993 857 1,540 600 Male 1,438 1,011 2,122 Total 2,431 1,868 3,662 400 200 Asia 147 185 1,019 Americas and Oceania 954 520 700 0 Europe 1,330 1,163 1,943 Month Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total 2,431 1,868 3,662 Age under 30 1,313 921 1,902 Note G Injury rate per million working Age 30-50 1,059 886 1,663 hours split by facility 2013 2014 2015 Age 50+ 59 61 97 Billund, Denmark 2.1 1.9 2.0 Total 2,431 1,868 3,662 Munich, Germany 1.9 0 6.5 Kladno, Czech republic 0.6 1.8 1.0 * Historical numbers have been updated to include hires and rehires. Shopper Marketing Agency, Czech republic 1.9 0 1.6 Monterrey, Mexico 0.9 0.7 0.6 Hong Kong, China N.A. N.A. 9.5 Note E Employee turnover 2013* 2014* 2015 Nyíregyháza, Hungary 0.4 0.8 0.7 Female 8.61 8.95 9.97 Slough, United Kingdom 0.0 2.0 0.0 Male 9.13 9.22 9.13 Singapore, Singapore N.A. N.A. 0.0 Enfield, United States of America 0.7 2.9 0.0 Asia/Pacific 7.16 8.59 8.32 LEGO Brand Retail Stores N.A. 5 2.8 Americas 17.26 16.26 16.52 Total 1.7 1.7 1.4 Europe, Middle East & Africa 4.98 5.61 6.23 Age under 30 19.41 18.47 18.87 Age 30-50 4.44 5.33 5.66 Age 50+ 5.45 5.42 5.68 Total 9.5 *Historical numbers have been updated to include hires and rehires. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 63 Merchandise Note J Bill of & Promotions Note H Total number of injuries with Total number of direct suppliers Materials / Extended absence split by facility 2013 2014 2015 split on Code of Conduct risk / Core line line Total Billund, Denmark 14 12 13 China/Hong Kong 16 8 24 Munich, Germany 1 0 3 Indonesia 1 0 1 Kladno, Czech republic 2 6 4 Mexico 21 0 21 Shopper Marketing Agency, Czech republic 1 0 1 Total high-risk countries 38 8 46 Monterrey, Mexico 4 3 4 Nyiregyhaza, Hungary 1 3 3 Hungary 7 0 7 Slough, UK 0 1 0 Italy 3 0 3 Enfield, USA 1 5 0 Spain 1 0 1 Singapore N.A. N.A. 0 Japan 0 0 0 Hong Kong, China N.A. N.A. 2 Korea 4 0 4 LEGO Brand Retail Stores N.A. 11 8 Poland 5 0 5 Total 36 41 38 Slovakia 2 0 2 Romania 1 0 1 Singapore 0 0 0 Taiwan 2 0 2 Note I Third-party audits for main LEGO Sites Certifications (weeks for audit) USA 4 0 4 Total intermediate risk countries 29 0 29 ISO ISO OHSAS Code of 9001 14001 18001 Conduct Billund, Denmark 1 1 1 Austria 3 0 3 Czech Republic 7 0 7 Kladno (MC), Czech Republic 1 1 1 Canada 0 0 0 Denmark 17 0 17 Kladno (Production), Czech Republic 1 1 1 Germany 27 0 27 Nyíregyháza, Hungary 1 1 1 Great Britain 4 0 4 Monterrey, Mexico 1 1 1 1 Netherlands 6 0 6 Hong Kong, China 1 1 Belgium 6 0 6 Slough, United Kingdom Switzerland 3 0 3 Enfield, USA Norway 1 0 1 Munich, Germany Sweden 11 0 11 Total number of audits 6 5 6 2 Total low risk countries 85 0 85 Total 152 8 160 Total number of major non-conformities 0 0 0 0 Only active suppliers with production in high and intermediate risk countries are audited. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 64 Note K Absence rate Total number of Bill of Materials / Merchandise & Code of Note P Absence rate due to injuries Promotion suppliers audited Conduct Quality Injury and absence rates Injury rate due to injuries + sickness High risk countries 27 33 Asia/Pacific 3.64 0.04 0.01 Intermediate risk countries 11 7 Americas 0.88 0.14 0.01 Low risk countries 0 9 Europe, Middle East & Africa 1.63 0.17 0.03 Total number of audits 38 49 Total 1.40 0.15 0.02 Note L Note Q Governance body members Total number of major non-conformities found at suppliers trained in anti-corruption, by region* Number Percentage Code of Conduct 27 Asia/Pacific 93 90% Quality 17 Americas 69 92% Europe, Middle East & Africa 417 93% Total 579 93% Note M Total number of major Code of Conduct non-conformities split on *Please consult accounting policy 28 for further information about Code of Conduct country risk ­ overnance body members and employees g Total number of non-conformities 27 High risk countries 21 Intermediate risk countries 6 Note R Salaried employees trained in anti-corruption The major non-conformities for the Code of Conduct area can be by region and organisational level’* Number Percentage summerised as: Asia/Pacific 762 83% 0 related to child labour 0 related to forced labour Americas 1,086 86% 4 related to wages and compensation Europe, Middle East & Africa 4,634 85% 7 related to working hours 1 related to employment terms Total 6,482 85% 0 related to freedom of association/expression and grievance 15 related to health & safety 0 related to environment Top management 88 94% 0 related to integrity and transparency Middle management 491 92% 0 related to corruption and bribery Total 27 1st level management 2,391 87% Other 3,512 82% Total 6,482 85% Note N Product Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction NPS index *Please consult accounting policy 28 for further information about Asia/Pacific 113 ­governance body members and employees Americas 106 Europe, Middle East & Africa 110 Total 109 *To make a direct comparison, 2011 NPS has been re-weighted using 2015 weights. 1 All non-conformities found at audits which have a deadline for the correcNote O tive action in the reporting year and have been solved within the agreed Injuries split by type and region Fatality Serious Lost time deadline. 2 The accounting policy states that energy loss, relating to energy generAsia/Pacific 0 0 2 ation from onsite power plants, is excluded from the energy consumption. Americas 0 0 9 Thus, the energy loss [MWh], from the onsite power plant (Trigen) at the LEGO factory in Hungary, has not been included in the total energy conEurope, Middle East & Africa 0 0 27 sumption [MWh] used to calculate the operational energy efficiency. Total 0 0 38 3 The total energy consumption includes the Trigen power plant in Hungary. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 65 Accounting policies Data has been calculated by consolidating data for the parent company (LEGO A/S) with data for all subsidiaries. Consolidation is based on standard data and calculated using the same methods. LEGO A/S is owned by KIRKBI A/S (75%) and the LEGO Foundation (25%). LEGO A/S consists of several subsidiaries, including LEGO Education, that together constitute the LEGO Group. Data relating to health and safety includes only data from sites with more than 100 employees. New sites with more than 100 employees will be added to the reporting scope by the beginning of a new reporting year. Similarly, environmental data relates only to production facilities. New production facilities will be added to the reporting scope 1 January +12 months from handover from project to operational facility department, of the entire manufacturing facility. Definitions, data measurement methods and the basis of calculations are addressed below. Any changes to historical data are only made if considered material. 1. Product recalls 5. Work-life balance Product recalls are calculated as launched products recalled from the The Work-life balance index is based on a LEGO® Work-life balance market due to product safety issues and calculated per stock keeping unit. index score on the basis of one question in our annual employee engagement survey ’the LEGO Pulse’ (I feel good about the workload in my 2. Net Promoter Score® Index job) and compared to a comparable benchmark called ’LEGO EEI’ which In connection with consumer engagement with LEGO products and is calculated as a weighted average of the EEI (European Employee LEGO experiences (e.g. LEGO Stores and LEGO.com), randomly Index) results for the eleven largest LEGO® employee countries. selected consumers are asked how likely they are, on a scale from 0-10 (10 = best), to recommend the product or experience to others. The 6. Injury rate with absence development in promoters (levels 9 and 10) minus the development in The number of occupational injuries is calculated as the number of detractors (levels 6-0) is calculated and shown in this Progress Report occupational injuries among all employees including external agency with 2011 as the index basis. The product NPS is calculated based on workers resulting in at least one day’s absence following the day of the various products lines. injury. The rate of occupational injuries is calculated per one million working hours for all employees excluding external agency workers. 3. Consumer complaint call rate Only data from sites with more than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand The consumer complaint call rate is calculated as the number of conRetail stores are included. Only cases clarified within the accounting sumer complaints received relating to products launched in the year of year are included in the full-year calculations. Cases pending authorities’ reporting as a parts per million (ppm) of the number of newly launched decisions throughout the accounting year will not be included in the products sold in the year of reporting. Due to the substantial Christmas full-year calculation. trade, and in order to give a true and fair view, complaints received in January in the following year are also included in the calculation, 7. Sick leave corresponding to a 13-month period. Sick leave is calculated as time lost due to the employees’ own illness. The sick leave is calculated as the number of absence hours as a 4. Motivation and satisfaction percentage of the total number of working hours excluding holidays and The Motivation and Satisfaction index is based on a LEGO® Motivation non-business days. Only data from sites with more than 100 employees & Satisfaction score calculated on the basis of four questions in our and LEGO® Brand Retail stores is included. Working hours and absence annual employee engagement survey ’the LEGO Pulse’ (1. I always look hours for external agency workers are not included. forward to going to work. 2. I feel motivated in my job. 3. From an overall point of view, how satisfied are you with your job at the LEGO Group? 4. 8. Absence rate due to injuries and absentee rate Imagine the perfect place of work. How close is this ideal to your place Absence rate due to injuries: The number of absence hours as a conseof work?) and compared to a comparable benchmark called ‘LEGO quence of occupational lost-time injuries. The rate is calculated per 1,000 EEI’ which is calculated as a weighted average of the EEI results for the working hours, and the absence is calculated from the day following the eleven largest LEGO® employee countries. injury. Absentee rate: The number of absence hours due to occupational lost-time injuries plus sick leave hours divided by the total number of working hours. Only data from sites with more than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand Retail stores is included. Working hours, absence hours and sick leave hours for external agency workers are not included. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 66 9. Injury type 20. Recycled waste The LEGO Group classifies injuries based on severity: 1) Fatality: A work The recycled waste percentage is calculated as the recycled quantities related injury that causes fatality. 2) Serious: A work related injury that of waste disposed of compared to total quantities of waste disposed of. causes permanent disability or amputation. 3) Lost-time injury: A work Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is included. related injury that causes absence for at least one day after the day of the incident. 21. Raw materials Raw materials are calculated as plastic granulate used in manufacturing 10. Females appointed and recruited at management levels at LEGO Group sites. The number of females internally appointed or externally recruited at management levels is shown as a percentage of all employees 22. Waste internally appointed or externally recruited into and at management Waste is calculated as the recorded quantities of waste disposed of by the levels. Specialist functions at management levels are included. Internal LEGO Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is included. appointments include both promotions and horizontal moves. 23. Water consumption 11. Business integrity training Water consumption is calculated as the quantity of water supplied to The percentage is calculated at director level and above (employed for the LEGO Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is more than three months) having completed the e-learning programme included. in Business Conduct biennially as a percentage of all director level and above (employed for more than three months) in the LEGO Group. 24. Energy consumption Energy consumption is calculated as the total energy in the form of 12. LEGO site non-conformity resolution rate electricity and heating supplied to the LEGO Group. Only data from the (Quality, EHS and Code of Conduct) LEGO Group sites with production is included. The percentage of major Quality, EHS and Code of Conduct non-conformities found by third-party audits at main LEGO Group sites which 25. Supplier quality non-conformity resolution rate have a deadline for the corrective action in the reporting year and which The percentage of major quality non-conformities found at suppliers have been resolved within the agreed deadline. which have a deadline for the corrective action plan in the reporting year and which have been solved within the agreed deadline. 13. Number of major non-conformities found at main LEGO Group sites (Quality/EHS/CoC) 26. Supplier Code of Conduct non-conformity resolution rate The number of major quality, EHS and Code of Conduct non-conformiThe percentage of major Code of Conduct non-conformities found at ties found during third-party audits conducted at LEGO Group sites. audited suppliers which have a deadline for the corrective action in the reporting year and which have been solved within the agreed deadline. 14. Number of audits conducted at main LEGO Group sites Non-conformities from potential new suppliers, which have been Code The number of audits conducted at LEGO Group sites is calculated as of Conduct and quality approved, are included. Non-conformities found third-party audits connected to the certification process or voluntary at ICTI Care certified suppliers are not included. Code of Conduct audits. 27. Data relating to suppliers and business partners 15. Number of employees The number of suppliers includes the LEGO Group’s active direct Comprises all internal jobs in the LEGO Group, including permanent suppliers calculated at the end of the reporting period. The number is employees and fixed-term employments such as trainees. This includes broken down into direct suppliers and extended line suppliers. Direct salaried and hourly paid employees and Brand Retail Store Associates. suppliers deliver bill of material (BOM) components whereas extended External agency workers in production facilities are not included. The line suppliers primarily deliver merchandise and promotions. Suppliers statement is calculated at the end of the year and measured as headdo not include indirect purchases. The number of suppliers who have count. The number of permanent employees are defined as the number been audited is calculated as the number of suppliers visited with a of permanent and inpatriated employees working full time or part time. view to formalised monitoring and reporting of compliance with quality standards or the Code of Conduct. The number of significant discrep16. Average number of Full Time Equivalents ancies is reported. These form the basis of continued dialogue with the FTE is a measurement equal to one employee working a full-time work suppliers in order to continuously work on improvements. schedule for one year. An employee working 30 hours a week all year is equivalent to 0.8 FTE, i.e. 30/37, provided that the normal working week is 28. Job classification 37 hours. An average of FTE’s during the year is calculated. FTE’s do not Top management comprises all employees at Vice President level or include employees on leave, maturnity leave etc. above. Middle management comprises Senior Directors and Directors. First-level management comprises Senior Managers and Managers. 17. Rate of employee turnover Management levels include top management, middle management Employee turnover is measured as the number of permanent employees and first-level management. Other employees are included in the group who have voluntarily left the LEGO Group during the reporting period ‘Others’. Members of governance bodies are defined as Top managecompared to the average number of permanent employees during the ment and Middle management. reporting period. The average is calculated on the basis of monthly data. The number of new recruits and rehires as well as dismissals is also stated. 18. Anti-corruption training The percentage of employees having completed the anti-corruption training is calculated by region and by organisational level. 19. Energy efficiency improvement The energy efficiency improvement is calculated as the rate between energy consumption and raw materials used. The data is shown with the previous year as the baseline. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is included. Energy loss relating to energy generations from onsite power plants is excluded from the energy consumption. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 67 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on the Non-financial Data for 2015 To the Stakeholders of the LEGO Group Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the non-financial listed above we: data of the LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2015 as expressed on pages 60-64 and 65-66. A multidisciplinary team including assurance practitioners, Through enquiries, obtained an understanding of the LEGO Group’s control engineers and other experts conducted this engagement. environment and information systems relevant to quantification and reporting of non-financial data; The LEGO Group’s Responsibility for the Non-financial Data The LEGO Group is responsible for the preparation of the non-financial data Made site visits in Denmark, Hungary and the UK to assess the completeness in accordance with Group non-financial accounting policies as expressed on of the non-financial data sources, data collection methods, source data and pages 65-66. This responsibility includes design, implementation and mainrelevant assumptions applicable to the sites. The sites selected for testing tenance of internal controls relevant to the preparation of the non-financial were chosen taking into consideration their share in relation to Group totals data ensuring that data is free from material mis-statement, whether due to and sites selected in prior periods. Our procedures included testing as far as fraud or error. underlying documentation as well as input data controls performed at these sites. The LEGO Group’s non-financial accounting policies contain Management’s reasoning for the selection of topics and indicators as well as defining the Planned and conducted interviews and show-me meetings with Group reporting scope for each data type. functions to assess consolidation processes, use of company-wide systems and controls performed at group level, as well as testing of non-financial Our Independence and Quality Control data prepared at Group level as far as underlying documentation. We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in naincludes independence and other requirements based on fundamental ture and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited confidentiality and professional behaviour. assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagePwC applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1, and accordingly ment. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented whether the LEGO Group’s non-financial data has been prepared, in all policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, material respects, in accordance with the non-financial accounting policies professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. applied and stated on pages 65-66. Our Responsibility Limited Assurance Conclusion Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have non-financial data stated on pages 60-64 based on the procedures we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited the consolidated non-financial data presented on pages 60-64 in the LEGO assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Group Responsibility Report 2015 has not been prepared, in all material Assurance Engagements 3000, “Assurance Engagements other than Audits aspects, in accordance with the stated non-financial accounting policies as or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International expressed on pages 65-66. Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the non-financial data is free from material mis-statement. Billund, Denmark, 22 February 2016 A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE 3000 involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of the LEGO Group’s use of stated accounting policies as the basis for the preparation of the non-financial data, assessing the risks of material mis-statement of the PricewaterhouseCoopers non-financial data whether due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed State Authorised Public Accountant risks as necessary in the circumstances and evaluating the overall presentation of the non-financial data. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen State Authorised Public Accountant The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. Henrik Trangeled Kristensen State Authorised Public Accountant LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS 68 About this Report The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2015 and the LEGO Group Annual The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2015 is published for the LEGO Report 2015 jointly account for the activities, development and progress on Group by Corporate Communications. targets for the Group in 2015. Editor-in-chief: Charlotte Simonsen, ­Senior Director, Corporate The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2015 complies with our legal and ­Communications. voluntary obligations, as well as with non-financial data reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). The report serves as our annual Communication On Contact point for questions: Progress (COP report), as required by the United Nations Global Compact Morten Vestberg, Communication Manager, Corporate Communications. and in accordance with the statutory statement on Corporate Social Mail: responsibility@LEGO.com Responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a. Design: Kontrapunkt The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2015 also serves to fulfil the statutory Print: Rosendahls statement on Corporate Social Responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99b. Photos: Page 7, DONG Energy Created and inspired by the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative Page 7, LEGO Foundation (GRI), version 4.0, and the AA1000 Accountability Principles, the report covers Page 14, LEGO Education all activities of the LEGO Group (see page 71 in the LEGO Group Annual Page 17, LEGO Foundation Report for companies). A GRI Content Index is available at www.LEGO.com/ Page 33, DONG Energy responsibility All others by the LEGO Group. PwC has reviewed the non-financial data (pages 60-64) and accounting LEGO, the LEGO logo, the Minifigure, the FRIENDS logo, MINDSTORMS and policies (pages 65-66) in this report. The review concluded that the NINJAGO are trademarks of the LEGO Group. ©2016 the LEGO Group. consolidated non-financial data is in accordance with the stated criteria. The complete Independent Auditor’s Report is on page 67. Net Promoter®, NPS® and Net Promoter Score® are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems Inc, Bain & Company and Fred Reichheld. No. 001 Scope of report and materiality analysis The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2015 covers the activities and our key social, environmental and economic impacts and the risks and opportunities related to our business operations including those related to our products and markets. The report is structured according to our 2013 stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment, which set out to understand how our stakeholders’ priorities are aligned with our own. We engaged with a broad range of stakeholders including consumers, customers, employees, NGOs and interest groups, and industry associations. We engaged with more than 1,500 respondents via an online survey, held interviews with 1,500 additional participants on 25 pre-identified issues to find, across stakeholder groups, their top priorities. The results of the online survey confirmed that our stakeholders’ priorities were aligned with our priorities and reflected our actions: • The safety of our products • The play and learning experience children get from our products • Employee safety • Anti-corruption • A respectful dialogue with children and parents • Climate change • Waste In 2016, we intend to conduct a new analysis, as it is important for our continued success have knowledge of our stakeholders’ priorities and their expectations of us. LEGO GROUP RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Ninjago school Viggo from Denmark, 8 years INTRODUCTION CHILDREN PLANET SOCIETY RESULTS The LEGO Group In our Annual Report you will find Aastvej 7190 Billund detailed i­nformation on the LEGO Denmark Tel.: +45 79 50 60 70 Group’s financial results for 2015 www.LEGO.com www.LEGO.com/aboutus
