AXFOOD2014 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P OR T Breakthrough for organic food Contents 4 CEO’s message 5 Corporate responsibility at Axfood ÅSA DOMEIJ Head of Environment and Social Responsibility 8 Sustainability programme Tel. +46-8-553 99 000 10 Environment – investments in environmental asa.domeij@axfood.se work generating results 12 Customers – growing interest in sustainable products 15 Suppliers – focus on responsible suppliers 18 Employees – commitment and development at work 21 Society – partnerships and dialogue on important responsibility issues 23 Goals and results 2014 24 GRI table Events during the year Bye-bye caged eggs! A bag of groceries from Willys should be not only cheap, but also sustainable. Willys’ share of organic products is growing every year, and animal welfare issues are high on the agenda. In October 2014 Willys stopped selling eggs from caged hens, a move that was applauded by customers. Hemköp sells only organic bananas On World Environment Day on 5 June, Hemköp was the first grocery chain in Sweden with its announcement to sell only organic bananas. The decision made a great impact in social media and had a very positive reception. Young at Axfood Getting your first job can be tough. We know this at Axfood, which is why we took an initiative in autumn 2014 for young people seeking a path in the job market through our Ung i Axfood (“Young at Axfood”) youth trainee programme. New cooperation with WWF on fish and shellfish issues In autumn 2014 Axfood entered into a partnership with WWF on fish and shellfish issues as part of a redoubled effort to ensure a sustainable offering to customers. A shared goal is that all seafood sold in Axfood’s stores will earn a “green light” in WWF’s seafood guide. 2 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Through profitable growth and innovative thinking, we will be the best food retail company in the Nordic region Food retailing is conducted through the wholly owned store chains Willys and Hemköp. Wholesaling is conducted through Dagab and Axfood Närlivs. 259 820 Collaboration with proprietor-run stores wholly owned stores Nasdaq Axfood has 259 wholly owned stores. In addition, Axfood collaborates with a large number of proprietorrun stores that are tied to Axfood through agreements, including stores in the Hemköp chain as well as stores OMX Axfood is listed on Nasdaq OMX run under the Handlar’n and Tempo brands. Stockholm AB’s Large Cap list. 20 % MARKET SHARE Axfood has an approximate 20% share of the food retail 20% 50% The principal owner is Axel Johnson AB, with 50.1% of market in Sweden. the shares. 3 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainability is a key to success Our goal is to make the smallest footANIMAL WELFARE CREATES VALUE Equally important is to ensure meat producprint on the environment as possible, tion that meets all of our demands. It is a for the sake of future generations. matter of good animal care, advocating for That is why we have taken an involvesome form of certification for the various types of animals, and continued work on ment in the Haga Initiative – to show reducing the use of antibiotics. The use of that environmental stewardship is antibiotics in healthy animals poses a great risk to us as people. profitable. I am proud of the work we have done at Axfood to date, but we SUSTAINABLE FISHING have a lot more to do. We must conAxfood has advocated for sustainable fishing practices since 2009, when we adopted tinue our determined work according a seafood policy in our wholly owned stores. to the strategic plan we have set. In doing so we have taken the vanguard in the industry and continue to do so today. Saving the environment requires the involveSince then we have further developed our ment of private people as well as companies, policy to where our stores quite simply may politicians and authorities. No one can pasnot sell red-listed seafood. All of Hemköp’s sively wait for someone else to do the job. It fish counters are MSC-certified. Our goal is is for this reason that we have set up ambito sell only fish assigned a green light from tious climate targets at Axfood. Our goal is to WWF by 2020. be climate-neutral as early as 2020. This The foundation for responsible work with means that we will have to reduce our cliproducts is to have control over their origin. mate impact by 75%. It is an ambitious goal. It is for this reason that all of our private label products will be labelled with informaOUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRODUCTS tion about where the main ingredients come With respect to food, the greatest environfrom. When it comes to indicating the mental impacts are caused by their actual source of meat ingredients on packaging, production, at the farm. This aspect is more this has already been accomplished for our difficult for Axfood to influence, so our enviprivate label products. ronmental responsibility is moved farther up the value chain. This requires hard work WORKING TOGETHER from our purchasing department, which We are on an exciting journey, and the level must make clear demands based on our of involvement within the organization is environmental plan and thereby develop a great. The store is an important meeting system of internal control to ensure we get place, where diversity among our employees what we have ordered. can create dynamism and innovative thinkPalm oil is an example of a food ingre­ ing to the customers’ benefit. The store is dient with a large environmental impact. also the stage, where together we can supOur strategy is to ensure that all palm oil port customers in making conscious used in our private label products is certified choices. It makes me very proud to see how and sustainably produced. We are working all aspects of our operation are working in intensively on this matter in our global effort concert towards the goal of being best in the towards increasing the share of certified industry at sustainability. This shared vision palm oil in general. In cases where palm oil within the company is great. For us sustainAnders Strålman is used in our products, it is to be certified. ability is a key to success. President and CEO, Axfood AB 4 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT AXFOOD Sustainability work that is contributing to the industry’s development Axfood has set a clear goal to be best in the industry at sustainability. This that the precautionary principle is to be used proactively in environmental work. requires a long-term and systematic approach with continuous development Axfood strives for continuous change in and close monitoring. This work is highly visible in Axfood’s customer offerits work with the environment, natural ings and helps strengthen the business. resources and social issues. Through systematic work with environmental and social issues – entailing clear targets, actions and Strategic work Axfood’s core values, Code of Conduct and monitoring – this work can be followed by Axfood’s goals and strategies rest on a consustainability programme, which includes customers, employees, owners and society viction that environmental and social measurable goals for both the short and in general. As part of this strategic work, the responsibility, strong customer orientation, long term. Group’s purchasing function has been and proud and committed employees are Axfood’s sustainability work is based on strengthened and further developed with vital drivers of the Company’s value crethe UN definition of sustainability: “Developrespect to the environment, social responsiation. Work with the environment and susment that meets the needs of the present bility and animal welfare. tainable development is therefore conwithout compromising the ability of future The UN’s guiding principles established ducted actively to make Axfood best in the generations to meet their own needs”. in 2011 for companies and human rights industry. The starting point for this work is Axfood’s environmental policy prescribes serve as the foundation for how Axfood The Global Compact’s ten principles Axfood became a signatory to the Global Compact’s principles in 2002. The UN’s Global Compact was formed to create international business principles with regard to human rights, labour issues, the environment and anti-corruption. Human rights Labour Environment Principle 1 Businesses should Principle 3 Businesses should Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protecuphold freedom of association support a precautionary tion of internationally proand the effective recognition of approach to environmental claimed human rights within the right to collective bargainchallenges; areas that they can have an ing; Principle 8 undertake initiatives impact; and Principle 4 the elimination of to promote greater environPrinciple 2 make sure that they all forms of forced and compulmental responsibility; and are not complicit in human sory labour; Principle 9 encourage the devel­ rights abuses. Principle 5 the effective aboliopment and diffusion of environtion of child labour; and mentally friendly technologies. Principle 6 the elimination of Anti-Corruption discrimination in respect of Principle 10 Businesses employment and occupation. should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 5 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT AXFOOD takes responsibility for human rights in its make harvests uncertain. Axfood is also conmand. There is a clear environmental and operations. The Group’s sustainability tributing to more sustainable production of health trend among consumers that is reflectreporting is conducted in accordance with palm oil and soy. ed in growing demand for such products. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GuideRising energy prices and stricter fuel Axfood’s guidelines for sustainable purlines 3.0, level B. emission standards affect Axfood’s operachasing have been more closely integrated tions. Moreover, consumption of electricity in the Group’s day-to-day purchasing activiChallenges and opportunities and fuel has a major climate impact. For this ties. Relationships with suppliers are governed Axfood’s operations are affected by environreason, the Company is working intensively by the Company’s Code of Conduct with remental policy decisions as well as by evolvto improve the efficiency of its energy use. spect to social and business ethics issues. ing public opinion regarding environmental A number of measures are being taken to issues and changes in consumer demand. improve the efficiency of road transports and Axfood’s Code of Conduct For example, new environmental policy deciincrease the use of biofuels. Greater use of Axfood is to conduct its business in accorsions may entail higher taxes or regulations rail transport is also seen as an opportunity. dance with generally accepted business that could give rise to a need for new investOver time, credible sustainability work is practice and high ethical standards in relaments. The Company therefore closely mondecisive for earning customers’ trust. Growtion to suppliers and other business partitors developments in this area and prioriing numbers of consumers are demanding ners. The Axfood Group Code of Conduct tizes climate and environmental aspects in foods with a clear origin. Axfood is therefore lays out the requirements and expectations all aspects of operations. During the year working actively to meet the rising demand that Axfood has on its suppliers. Axfood established a regulatory liaison posifor sustainable products. Through commuAxfood adheres to a set of ethical guidetion as a step towards strengthening relanication in stores, Axfood is also helping lines for matters such as the offering and tionships with politicians in Sweden and the customers make conscious choices, such as accepting of bribes and corruption, and EU, and to more closely monitor developby ensuring that all of its private label prodwhich also address other aspects of how we ments with relevance for Axfood. ucts that contain meat are clearly labelled at Axfood are to act in relation to our suppliThe climate issue is one of the greatest with the source of origin. Intensive work is ers and others in our operating environchallenges we face today. Climate change, now being conducted on labelling the counment. These guidelines are updated every as evidenced by droughts and floods, for try of origin for other food ingredients. year, and pertinent employees certify in writexample, poses significant risks for food proAxfood believes that the use of sustainability ing that they have read the guidelines. In duction. For Axfood this is putting greater certifications, such as for integrated produc2014, 1,040 (1,070) employees signed such demands on strategic purchasing, among tion, Global GAP and animal welfare, will a certification, including persons with payother things. This can entail, for example, increase in retailing and at stores. ment approval authorization and employees ensuring that the Group is not dependent on By actively working with the assortment who in some other way affect decisions food ingredients from a single region, as an of organic and vegetarian products, Axfood is about purchases of products or services. increased frequency of extreme weather can seizing opportunities to meet consumer deThe lower number is due to reorganization. Axfood’s stakeholders Axfood’s most important stakeholders are operations. The issues that are perceived its work with sustainability and corporate the groups of people who are affected by these stakeholders as being the most social responsibility. most by and/or affect the Company’s important provide guidance to Axfood in Owners Customers Axfood shall create enduring value Axfood aspires to offer its customfor its shareholders by exercising ers a wide range of environmentally corporate responsibility. adapted, healthy and safe products at competitive prices. Employees Axfood wants proud and committed Suppliers employees, and to be a collaborative By making demands and engagand effective organization. ing in dialogue, Axfood strives to raise the level of its suppliers’ sustainability work. Society Axfood strives to actively contribute to society by influencing and being responsive. 6 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT AXFOOD Organization and monitoring A prerequisite for integrated work is that the development of the role of sustainabilAxfood works with sustainability in an inteindividual companies and divisions within ity coordinator, which has strengthened grated and business-driven manner in all Axfood have operational responsibility for work in this area in pace with its growareas of operations. This fosters involvement their sustainability work. All of Axfood’s ing importance. throughout the organization. The Executive companies and larger departments have Axfood conducts continuous compeCommittee and Head of Environment and their own sustainability coordinator. tence enhancement activities to raise Social Responsibility are responsible for A new position as head of product susemployees’ knowledge about sustainability overarching strategies, goals and actions, tainability has been established in the qualissues and Axfood’s commercial benefit of and monitoring. ity assurance department and is a further being an industry leader in this area. SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION Responsibility for overarching CEO strategies, goals, actions and EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE monitoring rests with the Executive Committee and Head of Environment and Social Responsibility. The individual companies and divisions within the Axfood Group have AXFOOD’S operational responsiSUSTAINABILITY bility for their own sustainability work. WORK HEAD OF An example of this is SUSTAINABILITY the environmental ENVIRONMENT AND COORDINATORS ambassadors at all SOCIAL ­Willys stores. RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICERS AT STORES AXFOOD’S OPERATIONS Development of new packaging solution When designing a new package – whether it be for a new product or an improvement to a current solution – the starting point is to always choose the best possible material from an environmental standpoint. Making sure that the package is easy to recycle is one of the first considerations made by Lisa Säfwenberg, Axfood’s packaging developer. In the next step, she evaluates the form and design, to eliminate unnecessary waste. Lisa also makes sure that we are not transporting unnecessary air. In this regard it has been proven that square packages are often better than round ones. Generally speaking, every package should have as little air as possible to create room for more packages on each pallet, which in turn is positive from an environmental perspective. 7 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainability programme FOCUS AREA OVERARCHING GOALS SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS • Axfood will continuously improve its products Sustainability from an environmental perspective through adherence to the purchasing guidelines • Axfood will work actively for more sustainable programme production of palm oil and soy with challenging goals ENVIRONMENT – TRANSPORTS • Axfood will reduce its climate impact from transAxfood’s sustainability programme ports and business travel is a governance tool for the Group’s work. The programme describes the goals that have been set and includes a set of key ratios for monitoring. Every year the programme is updated ENVIRONMENT – ENERGY in pace with continuing work and the • Axfood will reduce its climate impact from formulation of new targets. Several own operations by 75% by 2020 (base year 2009), and be climate-neutral new targets were set in 2014, a few of which are highlighted in this section. A more detailed account of the programme and all targets and results is provided on page 23 and at axfood.se. SUPPLIERS • Axfood will promote respect for human rights, workers’ rights and environmental protection among its suppliers and business partners ANIMAL WELFARE • Axfood will contribute to improvements in animal welfare EMPLOYEES • Axfood will create workplaces that offer involvement, diversity and opportunities to develop 8 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainability programme TARGETS/KEY RATIOS RESULTS 2014 RESULTS 2013 • Willys will increase its sales of organic food to 3% of total sales in 2014 3.6 % 2.5 % • Hemköp will increase its sales of organic food to 6% of total sales in 2014 • Axfood’s private label products will include information about the country 6.0 % 4.6% of origin for the main ingredients by 2015 at the latest • The palm oil used in Garant products will be certified In progress New target set for 2014 • Certified soy or soy or soy certificates will begin to be used for a ­minimum of 50% of production of Axfood’s private label products 75.0 % Certification begun by 2014 at the latest and 100% by 2015 50 .0% Certification begun • Dagab will reduce its CO2 emissions from transports by 10% per tonne of transported goods in 2014 –11.0 % New target set for 2014 • The Axfood Group will reduce its air travel by 15% in 2014 (base year 2012) –4.0%1) +6.2 %1) • The Axfood Group will reduce its energy consumption by 25% per square metre by 2015 (base year 2009) –5.8 %2) –5.3 %2) • Dagab will reduce its consumption of district heating by 15% by year-end 2014 (base year 2012) –38.0 %2) New target set for 2014 • In 2014 Axfood will begin work on performing routine risk Work in progress. Axfood became a analyses in all supply chains with an elevated risk for nonAxfood has identified member of BSCI in 2013 compliance with Axfood’s sustainability requirements. Work 64 producers in some on mitigating and managing these risks will be started 40 product categories originating in some 30 risk countries • Hemköp’s sales of organic meat will amount to 4% of total meat sales in 2014 3.6 % 2.5 % • Packaging of Axfood’s private label products will include information about the country of origin for meat ingredients 100 % 98.0 % • Continued high work attendance rate of at least 95% 94.6% 94.7 % • Achieve an even gender balance in management positions, i.e., that 74.0% men 75.0 % men women and men will be represented within a range of 40%–60% 26.0 % women 25.0 % women • By 2020 at the latest, 20% of Axfood’s managers will have an Values for 2014 were 11.0 % international background not available at the time of publication of this report 1) The increase is mainly attributable to a larger amount of business travel associated with the project to implement the new business system, plus more trips booked via travel agencies. 2) Compared with base year. 9 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT Investments in environmental work generating results Axfood’s most relevant environmental aspects are energy consumption, transonly on RME biodiesel. In cooperation with Volvo, during the year Axfood tested two ports and material flows. The Group’s systematic environmental work is leading trucks powered by liquid petroleum gas. to continuous improvements, and analysis of the value chain is enabling decisions about which efforts can have the greatest impact. New ways of meeting The Group’s goal is to reduce business travel by offering alternative meeting forms, Successful improvements in energy need on a yearly basis and as much such as digital meeting platforms. Reducing energy efficiency as 20% during the summer months, when travel is an environmental issue as well as a Through systematic measurement and the need for refrigeration is the greatest. work environment issue. Consideration is monitoring, the Group’s energy need can also given to the employees’ opportunities be reduced. Axfood’s goal is to reduce its Greater precision in transport monitoring to combine their work and leisure time to electricity consumption by 25% per square Every day the Group handles substantial maintain a sound balance. For necessary metre by 2015 (base year 2009) at the same product flows in its operations, requiring travel, priority is to be given to rail or coach time that demand for fresh and refrigerated detailed transport and logistics planning. over air travel, and all air travel is climate-­ products is rising, which is increasing the In an effort to reduce their climate impact, compensated. During 2014 Axfood meaneed for refrigeration. Focus on energy effiDagab and Axfood Närlivs – which handle sured an increase in travel-free meetings ciency is therefore great in connection with the Group’s own transports – work with by more than 30%. Reducing the amount remodelling and new construction of stores. route planning, capacity utilization and of air travel continues to be a major chalSince the base year 2009, Axfood has reduced driver training in eco-driving. Axfood has lenge, as it requires changing patterns and its electricity consumption by -5.8%. a fleet of 137 (137) delivery trucks that creating new habits. Warehouses and cold storage wareaccount for roughly half of transports, while Axfood’s company cars meet all the houses are the single largest consumers the Group also uses the services of a numrequirements in the 2012 definition for of energy in the Group. During the year ber of independent hauliers. ­en­vironmental (“green”) cars. an evaluation was conducted of Axfood’s The trucks in Axfood’s own fleet use investment in 2013 in a solar panel system ­Evolution Diesel, which is a 25% blend of Recycling at stores at Dagab’s freezer warehouse in Gothenburg pine oil in standard diesel fuel, resulting in During the year Axfood adopted a new key and showed good results. The system covers lower CO2 emissions than standard diesel. ratio to measure reductions in the share approximately 5% of the warehouse’s The exception is the nine trucks that run of incinerable residual products in relation to sales. The aim is to increase material recycling through improved sorting. All of Axfood’s stores, warehouses and offices sort many fractions. Materials like Axfood’s vehicle fleet shrink wrap and corrugated board are sorted and are profitable fractions that are Newer delivery vehicles have a lower environmental impact. Axfood’s fleet is sold. A growing share of food waste is modern, and more than 85% of the vehicles meet EURO class 5 or 6. sorted for biogas production. Axfood is working in various ways to 117 ­optimize its use of resources and prevent Evolution Diesel1) food waste, such as through improved ordering routines and flow control. In addi18 tion, solutions are being pursued at the local level through collaboration with non-profit Biodiesel-fuelled (possible2)) organizations to donate food. Liquid petroleum gas 2 Environmental impact from products By analyzing the environmental cost of selected products, Axfood is seeking to iden1) 2  5% biofuel. tify opportunities to reduced the environ2) Certain vehicles cannot be run on biodiesel during the winter due to technical limitations in the vehicles’ performance. mental impact in its choice of products. By 10 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT instilling greater knowledge and making used directly or indirectly in Axfood’s private oil were used in Axfood’s private label prodclearer demands on suppliers, Axfood can label products. Soy is used in animal feed ucts. An estimated 1,500 tonnes were used focus on more sustainable products. and thus indirectly in Axfood’s products. in 2014. The reason for the increase was an In 2014, in partnership with 26 other Axfood is working to either substitute increase in the number of private label prodfood companies and organizations in the palm oil with other vegetable oils or to puructs by 68. “Swedish Soy Dialogue”, Axfood committed chase certificates for the volume of palm The SIN List1) is a key tool in the work on itself to purchasing soy certificates. Certifioil that is used in the Group’s private label ensuring that products are in compliance cates are bought both for the soy used in products. The next step is to change over to with future environmental standards. products and for soy used indirectly in the certified palm oil in products. The aim is to 1) SIN stands for “Substitute It Now!” and is a list of parti­ form of animal feed. Axfood began buying promote sustainable palm plantations and cularly hazardous substances that have been identified based on the criteria established by the EU chemicals certificates in 2014, with the goal, starting in production of palm oil, and thereby protect ­regulation REACH. 2015, to buy certificates for all soy that is rain forests. In 2013, 1,185 tonnes of palm ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION FOR GROUP-OWNED STORES AND WHOLESALE FACILITIES1) Retailing, MWh 2014 224,990 2013 237,890 2012 238,978 Priorities 2015 Wholesaling, MWh2) 28,744 28,280 29,740 Continue efficiency improvement work in all operations. Total, MWh 253,734 266,170 268,718 Number of stores 259 252 246 Monitor changes in the share of incinerable waste Electricity consumption kWh/m , stores 2 383 400 406 in relation to sales per store. Electricity consumption kWh/m2, wholesale facilities 205 210 228 Redouble efforts to avoid the use of unsuitable Total CO2, tonnes3) 25,435 16,264 18,726 chemicals in products. 1) Electricity consumption is calculated on a like-for-like basis for units that had electricity c ­ onsumption for the full year during the respective comparison years. 2) The warm summer and autumn had a negative impact on electricity consumption. 3) The value of the residual mix rose sharply in 2014, resulting in higher CO2 emissions. CO2 EMISSIONS, TRANSPORTS CO2 EMISSIONS, BUSINESS TRAVEL1) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2012 Total CO2, tonnes 9,636 10,207 CO2 air travel, tonnes2) 627 622 868 CO2 kg/tonne goods 20.0 21.9 CO2 rail travel, tonnes1) 0 0 0 CO2 kg/SEK m in sales1) 835.8 862.9 CO2 car travel, tonnes 527 620 738 Number of vehicles in fleet 137 137 1) Pertains to business travel booked by travel agencies. No. vehicles with breath alcohol 2) While the total number of business trips by air has decreased, CO2 emissions have ignition interlock devices 137 126 risen due to a larger number of international flights with longer distances. 1) Pertains to delivered value using own fleet. Swedish tomatoes have lowest environmental impact Axfood has commissioned a comparative are heated using fossil fuels. Despite longer scarce water and water pollution. Swedish study of the environmental impact of tomatransports, Spanish tomatoes performed greenhouses are generally heated using toes from the Netherlands, Spain and better in the comparison, since Spanish renewable fuels, there is no scarcity of ­Sweden. Tomatoes grown in the Nethergreenhouses do not need to be heated. water, and transport distances are short. lands have the highest environmental Spanish tomatoes have an elevated enviimpact, since the country’s greenhouses ronmental impact due to heavy use of ESTIMATED COST OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PER TONNE OF TOMATOES Netherlands SEK 2,054 Spain SEK 1,172 Sweden SEK 1,015 21% 85% Greenhouse gases 44% Air pollution 89% 25% Water consumption 1% 2% Water pollution 13% 8% 9% 2% 11 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CUSTOMERS Growing interest in sustainable products Axfood’s customers are showing a growing interest in local products and dients of its products. The country of origin for the main ingredients is to be shown organic alternatives at the same time that they want safe foods that give on the product labels. In 2015 Axfood will them value for money. During the year, work was focused on expanding the continue its work on achieving this goal. assortment of organic products and on making it easier for consumers to By year-end 2014 it was already achieved for a large number of products. For prodmake conscious, well informed choices in stores. ucts containing meat, the 100% goal has already been achieved. Only “green light” seafood by 2020 with respect to making better risk assessDuring the year, Axfood entered into a During the year Axfood made the decision to ments of seafood products. Axfood and partnership with a meat processing plant sell only fish and shellfish assigned a green WWF have also supported an evaluation of in Värmland that has committed capacity light in WWF’s seafood guide by 2020 at the new fishing gear for shrimp fishing off Swefor three hog farmers’ production. Without latest. While neither Willys nor Hemköp have den’s west coast. With better equipment, this support the three farms were at risk sold red light–listed fish since 2008, this fishermen can avoid catching undersized of closure. For Axfood the decision was new decision marks a further step forward. shrimp. Scientists from the Swedish Univer­motivated by an interest in securing its The challenge in changing over to the green sity of Agricultural Sciences are evaluating ­supply of Swedish meat in the future. list entirely is posed by ensuring a supply of the method, and the goal is to obtain MSC farmed salmon that meets the certification certification for west coast shrimp. Small Initiatives for improved animal welfare requirements of the ASC or KRAV standards, shrimp that are not profitable for sale in the Axfood has adopted new goals to strengthen since salmon accounts for such a large level marketplace are commonly tossed overboard, its work on safeguarding animal welfare. For of volume in the offering. In 2013 all of which is illegal. This practice was the main example, preference within the Group is given Hemköp’s staffed fish counters in its wholly reason for WWF’s decision in early 2014 to to organic meat certified by KRAV, since this owned stores were certified in accordance assign a red light to west coast shrimp. certification has the most far-reaching stanwith the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC). dards for animal welfare. Also, during 2014 In autumn 2014 Axfood signed a cooperSource labelling on the rise animal welfare certifications in various counation agreement with WWF to work together Clearer source labelling of foods is another tries were catalogued, and the next step will towards the goal of selling only seafood important area of focus for facilitating consumbe to decide if and how these certifications earning a green light and to raise the level of ers’ choices. Axfood was first in the industry will be included in the requirements for supcompetence within Axfood and its chains to set a goal to source-label the main ingrepliers of Axfood’s private label products. Focused path towards sustainable fish 2008: Axfood adopts seafood policy to not sell red-listed fish from WWF, and to strive to sell green-listed fish or environmentally certified fish. 2013: Decision on MSC certification of ­Hemköp’s fish counters. 2014: Decision to sell only green-listed ­seafood in all Axfood stores by 2020. 2014: Cooperation agreement with WWF to strengthen work on more sustainable fish counters at Axfood stores and to achieve the goal set for 2020. 12 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CUSTOMERS During the year, Willys stopped selling eggs Axfood has also decided that tea and coffee Quality assurance of private label products from caged hens at all of its stores and has sold under its Garant private label must Axfood’s private label products play a key now changed over entirely to eggs from free come from Rainforest Alliance–certified role in the Group’s efforts to offer high qualrange hens. Hemköp has sold only eggs plantations. This has positive effects for the ity products that offer value for money. from free-range hens for several years, and environment, economy and social condiRegardless of the product and level of qualthe response from customers has been very tions among suppliers. ity, producers of Axfood’s private label food positive. In addition, there is strong interest Another new measure is the requirement products must have facilities that are certiin organic eggs: nearly one in ten eggs sold that dried foods, such as rice, flour and fied according to any of the standards sancby Willys stores is organic, while for Hemköp pasta, be certified for integrated production tioned by the Global Food Safety Initiative one in five eggs sold is organic. by 2015 according to the Svenskt Sigill, (GFSI). The quality of work on food safety is One initiative that is expected to generate Global GAP or other equivalent standards. also monitored in yearly analyses performed clearer results in the near term is an evaluaFor the year in total, organic products by Axfood’s quality assurance staff. tion of suppliers of imported meat, focusing accounted for 4.1% of total sales, and For 2015 a new requirement has been on the use of antibiotics and its minimizaAxfood’s assortment now includes 1,254 adopted for certification of subcontractors tion. Together with Axfoundation and Martin (950) organic products. in the processing stage. This requirement & Servera, Axfood has been working with an Another relevant trend is the marked applies for all suppliers that handle and proexpert panel on development of a list of crigrowth in sales of vegetarian products, duce products with meat ingredients. The teria that purchasers can use for suppliers which reflects the growing interest in envirequirement aims to quality-assure the hanconcerning the use of antibiotics and animal ronmental and health issues. During the dling of meat in the processing stage. welfare. The hopes are to encourage the year Axfood’s sales of vegetarian alternaindustry as a whole to embrace the issue of tives to minced meat, meatballs and sauEthical exclusions and control programmes responsible use of antibiotics. sages increased by 40%. Axfood makes exclusions on a regular basis out of concern for the environment, people Focus on sustainable production Ecolabelled stores and animals – such as seafood assigned a The growing interest in organic products is Willys offers “Sweden’s cheapest bag of red light by WWF, foie gras and “gourmet” being driven by a number of inter-related organic groceries”. But the chain also wants veal. Moreover, in the Group’s wholly owned factors, including greater environmental and to ensure its customers that the environstores, Axfood has chosen to refrain from health awareness, but also concerns about ment is a priority issue even for its physical selling products that are contrary to the pesticide residues in food. For certain prodstores. Willys has cooperated with the SwedCompany’s values, including magazines ucts, organic alternatives have made an ish Society for Nature Conservation (SSNC) with a pornographic content and cider and extra large impact. Such is the case with to earn the “Good environmental choice” “alcopop” beverages with an alcohol content bananas. In June, Hemköp celebrated World ecolabel for all of its stores. The certification higher than 2.25%. Nor are concentrated Environment Day with an announcement to is based on the criteria for an organic prodenergy drinks (“shots”) sold in Axfood’s sell only organic bananas. The phase-out uct selection, avoidance of environmentally stores. To ensure adherence to minimum has taken place gradually. During the sumhazardous products, and work with energy age limits for purchases of alcohol, tobacco mer all Group-owned stores stopped selling efficiency and waste sorting. and OTC medicines – whether they are legal conventional bananas. By year-end, all prolimits or the Group’s own voluntary limits – prietor-run stores had also changed over to Axfood conducts training and has routines selling only organic bananas. for checking ages. Monitoring is conducted in stores through the Group’s internal control programme. Quality standards In cooperation with the trade organization Svensk Dagligvaruhandel and others, TYPE OF PRODUCT SUPPLIER REQUIREMENT Axfood has helped draw up the industry-wide “Safe food in your store” guidelines, Household chemical products, ISO 9001 or GPM which have been approved by the Swedish cosmetics and hair care products National Food Agency. The guidelines’ recommendations are applied in Axfood stores Vegetables, root vegetables and fruit Certification according to Global and serve as a template for the design of the GAP or similar stores’ own internal control programmes. In such a control programme, the stores Certain non-food items, such as toys Documentation and certificate perform certain daily checks, including and electrical appliances of CE labelling arrival inspections and temperature inspections at the departmental level. Clear rouProducts designed for contact with food Certification that the product is tines are in place for unpackaged foods, for manufactured using material approved example, to ensure that food hygiene is in accordance with Normpack’s rules maintained and to preserve the integrity of the cold chain. Suppliers that have not completed certification can request dispensation if they can present a credible timetable for certification. 13 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CUSTOMERS Indian tea plantations Food from the doing good for people and world at Axfood the environment Customers are showing a growing interest not only in organic foods, but also in vegetarian prodAxfood has visited Indian tea plantations certified by the Rainforest Alliance. ucts and products with cultural roots. As SweThe certification vouches not only for environmental issues, but also for develden’s population grows increasingly diverse and opment towards more sustainable farming in several dimensions. people travel more, consumers have higher The Indian tea plantations visited by Axfood bear witness to requirements expectations for a more international and varied for limited use of chemicals, efficient use of water, a safer work environment, product offering at stores. adoption of methods for greater productivity, climate-smart growing and For its part, Axfood has taken note of changes decent wages. These measures together contribute to better conditions both in demand during Ramadan, the Muslim month for people and the environment. of fasting. And just like Christmas and other holidays, Axfood markets different foods that traditionally go hand in hand with this festival – such as dates, pâtés and lamb. To ensure a wide and varied product offering, in autumn 2014 Axfood made an appeal to its customers and employees – “Help us be best in the world at food!”. The goal is to expand the global assortment offered at both Willys and Hemköp and to find new products and brands that are currently unavailable on store shelves. Priorities 2015 Continued focus on source labelling of private label products. Increase the offering of organic and vegetarian products. Continue work on setting standards for animal welfare certification. QUALITY ASSURANCE OF PRIVATE LABEL PRODUCTS 2014 2013 2012 Product recalls from stores, private label products, number 24 31 22 Product recalls from stores, other, number 58 68 30 Share of private label product suppliers approved according to GFSI, % 99 99 98 KEY DATA PER STORE CHAIN Hemköp Willys Willys Hemma 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Number of organic products 1,212 907 1,008 712 605 524 843 366 340 Sales as % of total food sales 5.97 4.55 4.20 3.53 2.49 2.26 4.53 3.15 2.91 Number of Fairtrade Certified products 114 90 72 67 50 42 91 32 31 Sales as % of total food sales 0.89 0.27 0.23 0.53 0.13 0.12 0.80 0.16 0.16 Number of hypoallergenic products 995 576 555 795 434 420 1,007 310 276 14 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUPPLIERS Focus on responsible requirements are that Axfood puts on the supplier. Risk is also to be weighed more heavily into purchasing decisions. suppliers This way of working will be implemented in the purchasing organization starting in January 2015. Examples of risk categories include preserved fruit, frozen berries, juice, and non-food products. While Axfood bases its risk assessment Axfood aspires to be a partner in its suppliers’ sustainability work and work primarily on BSCI’s country risk list, upholds generally accepted business practices and high ethical standards in risks also exist in Europe. In total, Axfood is estimated to have some 100 suppliers in risk its relationships. During the year, the Group’s purchasing work was further countries across some 40 product categories systematized in an effort to be able to set more qualified standards and from some 30 risk countries. In 2015 Axfood ensure a product offering that meets customers’ expectations. Axfood’s will begin to adopt stricter routines for ten or so tender processes for new product launches membership in the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), together with and for selected, current suppliers. a strengthened purchasing organization, is contributing to development of work with corporate social responsibility. Social audits and inspections Through its membership in BSCI, Axfood will start reporting its social audits in the organiCode of Conduct – updated the inclusion of the so-called Ruggie Princization’s shared database and will thereby also values foundation ples1) on business and human rights, which have access to other audits. Today Axfood Axfood’s Code of Conduct applies for all require that businesses actively inform already performs social audits to examine operations and lays out a set of requirethemselves and minimize risks. how well its suppliers adhere to the Group’s ments for all suppliers. The Code clarifies The updated Code of Conduct will be Code of Conduct and requirements and conAxfood’s undertaking and expectations in integrated in the supplier requirements for ditions in their respective countries. Together internal and external relationships, and is current as well as prospective suppliers. with local auditors, Axfood performs social based on internationally recognized convenaudits of selected suppliers. The protocol for tions for human rights, working conditions Stricter purchasing requirements the audits is based on SA8000, an internaand the environment. for risk categories tional social certification standard for workAll companies that supply products or As part of its efforts to prioritize work with ing conditions and human rights. services to Axfood Group companies are suppliers, during the year Axfood drew up A total of 14 (23) social audits were required to adhere to the Code of Conduct. new routines for its purchasing process. ­performed in 2014. Axfood consciously perThey are also required to ensure that their By analyzing the risks for deviations from formed fewer social audits during year, as subcontractors in turn adhere to the Code. the Code of Conduct, priority is given to catthe priority was shifted to the implementaIn connection with its membership in egories with the highest risks. Buyers as well tion of new routines based on risk analyses BSCI, in which a network of companies are as quality assurance staff receive training in and new methods. The audits are followed collaborating to improve working conditions environmental and social risks pertaining to up by a review of cases in which deviations in the global value chain, Axfood revised its suppliers, and training activities are continuhave been noted, where Axfood engages the Code of Conduct in 2014. One of the most ing in 2015. The higher the risks are judged supplier in a dialogue in an effort to bring important adjustments made to harmonize to be regarding the environment, communiabout improvements. If no improvements the Code with BSCI’s code of conduct was ties and social impact, the more detailed the are made, Axfood may terminate the coop1) These are the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted by the UN Human Rights Council, which stand for “Protect, Respect and Remedy”. They were authored under the direction of Professor John Ruggie and are used as guidance in efforts to protect and manage risks for adverse impacts of business activities on human rights. 15 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUPPLIERS eration. The purchasing office that Axfood uously to make demands and monitor workJoint efforts established in Shanghai in 2009 plays a key ing conditions for foreign guest workers Apart from its collaboration within BSCI, for role in this work, as it has extensive experiworking in fruit and vegetable fields. a number of years Axfood has participated ence from performing social audits based During the year, Axfood took measures to in the United Nordic purchasing network, on a confirmation of the actual conditions at ensure that its suppliers and employees with a focus on dried goods. The network is the supplier. In China, on-site assessments completed both BSCI’s and other CSR trainmade up of representatives from Norway, are always conducted prior to entering into ing. In 2014, 11 suppliers in China, ThaiFinland, Denmark and Sweden, which a business relationship. land, Morocco and Spain attended various together can obtain larger purchasing voltraining courses in social standards. umes than they would as individual actors. Beyond requirements and controls Axfood’s own employees have completed This gives them an opportunity to influence Based on the debate about social responsiten training courses on environmental and pricing and make demands. During the past bility and an evaluation of own experiences, social responsibility arranged by BSCI or year, concerted activities surrounding CSR Axfood has determined that requirements other organizations. and sustainability gained momentum. and controls are not sufficient for making In 2014 Axfood participated in a system Axfood is also looking into opportunities improvements to poor social conditions in work group that has produced a manual and for greater cooperation with local civic orgathe production of products. Axfood is audit protocol for BSCI’s new code of connizations that are in close proximity to supinstead now focusing more on dialogue and duct. In addition, Axfood was an active parpliers’ operations and have good knowledge training. During 2014, Axfood’s Head of Susticipant in the Swedish BSCI group’s meetabout specific challenges and prevailing tainability in the Assortment & Purchasing ings during the year. conditions. department paid ten visits to suppliers and held in-depth talks regarding how they can best improve the conditions for their employees and ensure that their subcontractors do the same. Starting in 2015 Axfood will be working together with the company QuizRR on training a number of suppliers in China on labour law and work environment issues at all levels. Over time, Axfood will be able to choose suppliers whose employees and management have demonstrated an understanding of workers’ rights. Together with Martin & Servera and Axfoundation, Axfood has initiated work to address deviations in the application of labour laws and work environment rules for foreign guest workers at Swedish fruit and vegetable growers. Axfood is working continWork with local ­organizations in Morocco During the winter of 2014 Axfood started a dialogue in Morocco with the local Oxfam organization, which advocates for the rights of seasonal women workers. Through the organization Axfood had the opportunity to meet workers and learn about their housing and working conditions, which led to the discovery that many women had to contend with sexual harassment from male foremen. As a result of Axfood’s collaboration with Oxfam and Axfood’s observations, the supplier initiated a dialogue with Oxfam on site. A clear plan of action has also been drawn up to address the work environment challenges. At BSCI’s annual conference in Brussels, Axfood and Oxfam together presented their collaboration model as an opportunity for greater learning about local conditions. 16 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUPPLIERS The social audit process Axfood decides to conduct a On-site meeting Review of documents, Concluding An action plan is drafted through Within 6 to social audit of a particular with the supplier’s such as time cards, meeting with dialogue with the supplier in the 12 months supplier or producer. The management at payroll slips, employsupplier’s man­ event any deviations have been after the visit, decision on which supplier to the plant along ment contracts and agement to go discovered. Examples of meaa follow-up be visited is based on specific with a review of policies. Inspection through any sures can include a demand that visit is made criteria that weigh in such how the audit will of the production deviations from social security contributions be to ensure that factors as risk country and be performed, facility’s premises the requirements paid, that working hours be shortthe action risk industry. Starting in based on Axfood’s and interviews with in the Code of ened, or that improvements be plan has been 2015, most social audits will Code of Conduct. employees. Conduct. made to the work environment. followed. be performed via BSCI. The challenges in working conditions are global Companies commonly focus on problems in social conditions in other parts of the world. But problems with working conditions can exist even in our own backyard. During the berry harvest season in 2014 Axfood paid a visit to berry pickers in Junsele, in northern Sweden, to gain a better understanding of the demands that can be put on buyers of berries from independent pickers and ensure that human rights are respected. Among other things, berry buyers are to have routines for verifying that pickers are free to sell the berries where they want and that there is no intermediary. In recent years the conditions have improved for berry pickers who are brought in as organized labour from Thailand, as a result of efforts by the Kommunal union to ensure that they are covered by collective agreements. In order for Axfood to be able to buy berries picked by independent workers, we must ensure that European workers, who have been ill-treated on frequent occasions in the past, are treated fairly by berry buyers. Priorities 2015 Update the Code of Conduct to align it with BSCI’s code and disseminate it among suppliers. Use BSCI’s database for greater ­coverage of social audits. Conduct risk assessments and monitoring of risk categories, and improve routines for selecting suppliers. Conduct training among suppliers and the purchasing organization, such as in Axfood’s Code of Conduct. 17 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES Commitment and development at work At Axfood we believe that our company should reflect the diversity of our after. Axfood works with various methods for evaluating and monitoring leadership and ­customers and offer all employees equal opportunities. Focus during the year employee attributes that will ensure a syswas on diversity work, competence development, internal career paths and tem and structure for leadership succession on creating job opportunities for young people. and identify potential leadership talents. The goal is for 75% of the Group’s managers to be recruited internally. The aim is to Diversity important for business • Communication – a clear communicabalance length of experience with new thinkBased on the conviction that greater divertion plan and collaborations that support ing and create conditions for constructive sity is a key success factor for Axfood, intendiversity work dynamics. Axfood provides obligatory trainsive work was begun towards this goal in ing in Axfood’s core values and view of lead2013, when the Board of Directors adopted Equal opportunity is a part of diversity work. ership for all managers. a challenging diversity target – that 20% of Axfood’s long-term goal is to achieve an even managers in Axfood should have an internagender balance in management positions. Grow with Axfood tional background by 2020. Today 18% of This entails a representation by both men and Human resource work aims to give more Axfood’s employees come from an internawomen within a range of 40%–60%. Today employees opportunities to grow with tional background, but in management posithe Group meets this goal at the mid-manAxfood. By more clearly linking competency tions the average is lower. During the year, agement level, while in other management requirements and training to various roles, Axfood participated in Axel Johnson’s Axelpositions there is still development potential. opportunities for development within the erate initiative, in which employees have In 2014 the share of women in management Group are made more accessible for identified numerous activities to promote positions at Axfood was 26% (25%), and the employees. Annual performance dialogues diversity. In addition to formulating challengshare of women store managers was 29% are part of this work. ing and quantifiable targets, Axfood’s man(26%). The Group’s management training For the second year in a row, Axfood agement decided to focus on the following: programmes have an even gender balance, received an award as Competence Company • Objective succession planning – in order and in the 2014 store manager trainee proof the Year for 2013 as recognition of its for every manager to be able to appoint gramme, the majority of candidates were strategic focus on competence development his or her potential successor, all managwomen for the first time. The programme focusing on the needs of both the individual ers are to adhere to and receive training aims to ensure access to competent and and operations. The Axfood Academy has in objective recruitment methods and committed future store managers. played a key role in this work. In addition, for norm-critical thinking the second year in a row, Axfood was named • Culture – internal dialogue on diversity Values-based leadership as “Career company of the year” by the and inclusion, diversity training for trainAxfood has a Group-wide leader profile that business weekly Dagens Industri. ees, and a diversity council clarifies which type of leadership is sought 18 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES During the year Axfood decided to launch opportunities to quickly be able to employ Ung i Axfood (“Young at Axfood”), a youth effective rehabilitation measures, lower trainee programme focusing on retailing sickness-related absenteeism and promote for new secondary school grad­uates. The Equalisters a faster return to work after an illness or programme is planned for spring 2015 injury. Parallel with this, measures are and aims to attract talented young people and Axfood being employed to discover signs of illto the trade while also addressing the health at an early stage. problem of growing youth unemployment. challenge Axfood’s company health services have a clear focus on preventive care, and wellAxfood Academy ­business ness activities are encouraged, such as Axfood Academy is the Group’s centre for through a fitness subsidy from Axfood. training and trainee programmes. Digital ­community Omtag hälsa has also implemented training platforms make it possible to cost-­ improved routines for incident reporting effectively provide competence developvia the Swedish retail trade’s work environment to all employees – at a time and ment information system (HIA). The aim is location that suits them. An e-learning to identify risks at an early stage and be course is completed every 15 minutes at able to prevent injuries and minimize the Axfood. In 2015, in addition to instructor­risk for operational disruptions. led courses, Axfood Academy will focus even more on digital courses in an effort Satisfied employees – attractive to reach more participants. workplace In 2014, 7,532 employees participated Axfood’s core values provide guidance in a combined total of 4,500 training days. for all employees. Axfood aims to instil In addition, 1,200 employees completed involvement and initiative with the help of the Group-wide environmental training managers who clearly communicate and course during the year. delegate. Proud and committed employA total of 36,000 e-learning courses ees are an asset in the work towards were completed during the year, among Axfood’s overarching goals. other things to raise the basic level of Axfood’s employee survey from 2014 competency at stores. Axfood has a broad shows a high score for employee satis­ array of e-learning courses that cover such faction – 91 compared with the industry areas as the environment and sustainabilbenchmark of 82. A new KPI for the year ity, age verification, safety and security, pertains to the share of proud employees In 2014 Axfood became the main food hygiene and OTC medicines. and ambassadors, which shows a per­ ­sponsor for Equalisters (Rättviseför­med­ centage that is three times higher than lingen), and together we are challenging Strategic health work the benchmark. The survey indicates that the business community to work together Activities under the Group’s health strat86% of our employees are proud about for better diversity in Swedish business. egy, Omtag hälsa (“Health reboot”), conAxfood’s diversity work. In all, 92% of emUnder the partnership, Axfood will tinued during the year. A new Group-wide ployees participated in the year’s survey. advertise new job positions in Equalisters’ rehabilitation process has created greater channels and carry out joint activities to inspire other companies to take a more goal-oriented approach to diversity. AXFOOD’S EMPLOYEE STRATEGY Since 2010 Equalisters has advocated for workplace equality. The organization Develop business skills and a customer-centric organization. is a non-profit movement comprising more than 60,000 people working together to help projects and organizaStrengthen values-steered leadership and active employeeship. tions find norm-breaking competence. Attract, recruit, retain and develop employees. Strengthen a distinct Axfood culture. Adopt user-friendly, cost-effective and secure HR processes. 19 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEES Instagram – new career window Every week a new employee takes responsito career paths both within the respective bility for Axfood’s official Instagram account. companies and the Group as a whole. Through this social media channel, employees Axfood’s Instagram account has also share pictures from their daily work in stores, ­attracted many external followers. Axfood warehouses or offices. The initiative has made hopes that prospective future employees will a big impact among the Group’s employees, be attracted by the firsthand images of what giving them greater insight into other comit entails to work with the Group’s operations. panies in the Group and opening a window What makes you proud to work at Axfood? “I am proud to work at Axfood “Axfood is a well organized “It makes me proud to work for “Axfood is a workplace to grow “It makes me proud to work with Snabbgross because of the and solid Group with great a company that actively works at. We are strong together, and motivated and driven colleagues great company culture in the ­concepts. This makes me with the employees’ work en­ I am proud about our work with who always strive to do the best Axfood Group, where the dis­ proud to go to work everyday.” vironment and development. diversity and equal opportunity. business, without cutting back tance is short from idea, to Peter Luppe Lundin, Nothing makes me happier than I am also proud to belong to an on quality, the environment decision and execution, and Head of Dairy, to see my colleagues develop organization with a winning or working conditions in pro­ where the company believes Willys Västerås and enjoy their work, and as a mentality that promotes indi­ duction. In the end, being able and invests in its employees result we have happier custom­ vidual development and taps to choose the right products – which leads to profitable ers. I feel at home at Axfood!” into the potential that exists from the right producers for our growth on the bottom line.” Mirdita Jusufi, within the organization.” private label products leads to Anna Åkesson, Marketing Checkout Manager, Therese Bultar, more satisfied customers.” and Business Development Hemköp Torsplan Store Manager, Johan Birath, Team Leader, Manager, Axfood Snabbgross Willys Tumba Private Label Purchasing, Axfood Sverige AB EMPLOYEE STATISTICS 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Priorities 2015 Work attendance, retail, % 94.8 94.9 95.1 95.5 95.4 Work attendance, wholesale, % 93.4 93.7 93.9 94.1 93.9 Digitization with the help of a Work attendance, staffs, % 96.4 96.7 98.7 96.9 97.3 new HR system. Employee turnover rate, % 12.7 8.9 9.1 11.1 11.8 Men/women, % 12.2/13.0 8.0/9.6 8.7/9.4 10.8/11.4 10.8/12.6 Implementation of the Ung i Axfood Age category –29, % 16.5 12.7 13.0 16.1 16.2 youth trainee programme focusing Age category 30–49, % 10.1 6.7 6.7 8.2 8.8 on retailing for new secondary school Age category 50–, % 12.9 8.7 8.9 10.6 12.3 graduates. Average service time, years 10.3 9.8 10.5 9.8 9.1 Number of full-time employees 4,422 4,386 4,367 4,318 4,332 Continue work on strengthening Number of part-time employees 4,139 4,016 3,758 3,484 3,486 Axfood’s reputation as an attractive Average number of employees 1) 8,481 8,285 8,021 7,062 6,895 Number of men 3,913 3,837 3,341 3,268 3,214 employer. Number of women 4,568 4,448 3,913 3,794 3,681 Number of training days 4,506 4,300 5,000 4,000 3,900 1) Based on 1,920 working hours per year. 20 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETY Partnerships and dialogue on important responsibility issues Axfood takes measures to uphold its relationships with society and its various stakeholders, ranging from consumers to authorities. Together with non-profit organizations and other actors from business and industry, the Group works with issues that require a broad base of participation or joint solutions. Greater collaboration surrounding suppliers Through its membership in the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), Axfood will be stepping up its work for improved conditions among suppliers. The initiative entails sharing knowledge and experiences as well as results from social audits, and stronger auditing capacity. In addition, the long-standing purchasing collaboration within United Nordic continues to evolve with a focus on adopting joint sustainability requirements among suppliers. Diversity in European cooperation Axfood was one of the initiative-takers behind Diversity Charter in Sweden, part of a European business network with thousands of members who are seeking to strengthen their work by sharing knowledge and experiences about diversity. All members of the Diversity Charter have signed a contract pledging to work actively with diversity based on a set of common goals. Axfood’s Head of Human Resources is ­currently chair of the Swedish network. ­ limate issues in Swedish newspapers. c Trade organization monitoring regulations All members in the network have pledged to The retail trade organization Svensk DagligCompany networks reduce their carbon emissions by at least varuhandel advocates for issues that involve Axfood is also one of the founders of the 40% by 2020. the entire food retail industry. Among other Haga Initiative, a climate-focused network The Network for Sustainable Business things, the association develops standards that aims to reduce carbon emissions, high(formerly the Swedish Association of Enviand studies how EU regulations should be light the climate issue and provide a model ronmental Managers) and CSR Sweden are implemented in Sweden. Axfood also particfor work on combating climate change. another two company networks focusing on ipates in other trade organizations, such as During the year its members published a sustainable and responsible business in for packaging and newspaper recycling, number of articles and op-ed pieces on which Axfood participates. since these are relevant for operations. 21 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIETY Non-profit organizations with companies and organizations, Axfood In its dialogue with SSNC, for example, focus In the area of sustainability, Axfood takes a participates in the Roundtable on Sustainable has been on the use of chemicals. Palm oil is more long-term approach in its partnerships Palm Oil and the Round Table on Responsianother important focus area in discussions with a number of non-profit organizations. ble Soy Association, both of which are dediwith SSNC, WWF and Greenpeace. SustainFor example, Willys is a main partner to cated to protecting the world’s rain forests able fishing is also a recurring issue in Axfood’s Save the Children Sweden and also works and advocating for sustainable production dialogue with environmental organizations. together with the Swedish Society for Nature of palm oil and soybeans. The focus is curFair Trade Center focuses on social condiConservation. Hemköp works together with rently on establishing an effective system for tions in production and among suppliers. SOS Children’s Villages, among others. trading in certified palm oil and soybeans. Swedish consumers are voicing growing Axfood is an active participant in concern about issues related to animal welUNICEF’s Corporate Network for Children’s Stakeholder dialogue fare and product labelling. Animal Rights Rights, which focuses on dialogue and the Axfood maintains regular contact with Sweden was a main driver of the issue of sharing of experience surrounding how a number of stakeholder organizations on eggs from free range hens. business principles concerning children’s sustainability issues, including the Swedish rights can be applied and implemented. Society for Nature Conservation (SSNC), WWF, In autumn 2014 Axfood signed a cooperGreenpeace, Fair Trade Center, the Swedish ation agreement on sustainable fishing with Consumers Association, Animal Welfare the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Together Sweden and Animal Rights Sweden. Almedalen – an arena for influencing Axfood believes it is important to take a stance on issues that affect society and our business. We do this both through our daily contact with customers and other stakeholders and by engaging ourselves together with other actors in society. One important arena for debate, dialogue and advocacy is the annual “politicians’ week” conference in Almedalen. At the 2014 Almedal conference, Axfood’s Head of Environment and Social Responsibility and Head of HR participated and provided input in the debate on sustainable food ingredients, climate benefit, consumer power, sustainable fishing, antibiotics in food, food waste, smart packaging and management in retailing, including leadership for the future. 22 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GOALS AND RESULTS 2014 Axfood’s sustainability programme providing focus The table below provides an overview of focus areas that Axfood worked with during the year, shortand Achieved long-term goals, and the results that have been achieved to date. The goals are followed up yearly, and in Work in progress 2014 a number of new goals were set, which replace the goals that were reported on for 2013. Not achieved Area Overarching goals Goals/key ratios Results 2014 Status Sustainable Axfood will make • Willys will continue to offer Sweden’s “cheapest bag of organic groceries”. products ­continuous improve• Willys will increase its sales of organic food to 3% of total sales in 2014. 3.6% ments to its products • Hemköp will increase its sales of organic food to 6% of total sales in 2014. 6.0% from an environmental perspective with • Hemköp will increase its sales of organic food to 10% of total sales by 2017. support from the pur• Hemköp’s proprietor-run stores will adhere to the Group’s sustainability chasing guidelines. decisions like the Group-owned stores. Axfood will work • Axfood’s stores will sell only fish and shellfish assigned a green light in WWF’s actively for more susseafood guide by 2020 at the latest. tainable production of • A requirement for IP (Integrated Production) or Global GAP will be introduced in palm oil and soy. 2015 also for the dried goods product category. • Packaging of Axfood’s private label products will include information about the country of origin for the main ingredients by 2015 at the latest. • The palm oil used in Garant products will be certified. • Certified soy or soy or soy certificates will begin to be used for a minimum of 50% of 50% production of Axfood’s private label products by 2014 at the latest and 100% by 2015. • Axfood’s companies will reduce the share of incinerable residual products in relation to sales. New goal – no comparison data • Axfood Snabbgross will quality-assure its sorting at all stores. Environment Axfood will reduce • Dagab will reduce its CO2 emissions from transports by 10% per tonne –11.0% – transports its climate impact of transported goods in 2014. from transports and • The Axfood Group will reduce its air travel by 15% in 2014 (base year 2012). –4.0% business travel. • All company cars will be environmental-classed cars. Environment Axfood will reduce its • The Axfood Group will reduce its climate impact from own operations – energy climate impact from by 75% by 2020, and be climate-neutral. and use of own operations by • The Axfood Group will reduce its energy consumption by 25% per square premises 75% by 2020 (base metre by 2015 (base year 2009). year 2009), and be • The Axfood Group will reduce its energy consumption by 4% per square –1.0% ­climate-neutral. metre by year-end 2014 (base year 20131)). • Dagab will reduce its consumption of district heating by 15% –38.0% by year-end 2014 (base year 20122)). • The Axfood Group will halve its climate impact from refrigerants by 2015 (base year 2009). • For investments in refrigeration systems at stores, refrigerants without an adverse climate impact will always be used. • The Axfood Group will use eco-labelled office equipment (computers, printers and copying machines) when such alternatives exist. Suppliers Axfood will promote • By 2016 at the latest, Axfood will adopt the improvements that Axfood has respect for human undertaken to make through its membership in BSCI by ensuring that its suppliers rights, workers’ rights improve their adherence to BSCI’s requirements on working conditions. and environmental • In 2014 a number of selected, key suppliers in risk countries will participate in ­protection among its BSCI’s training programme. suppliers and busi• In 2014 Axfood will begin work on performing routine risk analyses in all supply ness partners. chains with an elevated risk for deficiencies in Axfood’s sustainability requirements and initiate work on minimizing and managing these risks. • By 2014 at the latest, the selection process for all purchases from private label product suppliers in risk countries/risk categories will be steered by new, stricter routines for supplier assessments. Employees Axfood will create • By 2020 at the latest, 20% of Axfood’s managers will have an international background. ­workplaces that offer • Maintain a continued high work attendance rate of at least 95%. 94.6% involvement, diversity • Maintain an Employee Satisfaction Index score of at least 90%. and opportunities to develop. • Increase that share of travel-free meetings. Video +36% Teleweb +15% • Achieve an even gender balance in management positions, i.e., that women and men will be represented within a range of 40%–60%. • All employees will have participated in fundamental environmental training. Animal Axfood will contribute • Hemköp’s sales of organic meat will amount to 4% of total meat sales in 2014. 3.6% welfare to improvements in • Packaging of Axfood’s private label products will include information about the country ­animal welfare. of origin for meat ingredients. • Implementation of some form of animal welfare certification for meat ingredients in imported private label products by 2015 at the latest. • Pork from hog farms at which castration without the use of anaesthesia is practiced will no longer be included in Axfood’s private label products by 2015. 1) The warm summer and autumn required an unusually high level of energy to run the large refrigeration and freezer systems in the wholesale operations, and as a result the goal was not achieved. 2) The base year has been changed from 2011 to 2012, since district heating was not monitored separately prior to 2012. 23 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GRI TABLE GRI table For the seventh year in a row, Axfood is reporting its sustainability the wholesale operations. In this respect, the report does not differ work in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guide­ from Axfood’s previous reports and the methods used there. Certain lines, level B. The report is not subject to external verification. Axfood emission factors were changed between 2012 and 2013, as previ­ is a participant in the Global Compact and adheres to its sustain­ ously communicated. ability principles. During the year, Axfood was not issued any fines or sanctions for The calculation methods for CO2 emissions are based in part on violations of environmental laws, food safety or other laws. the guidelines outlined in the Haga Initiative, which are based on the The table below references where the information is presented in GHG protocol. The calculation method used in the Haga Initiative is the report. In addition to the profile and governance data prescribed described in more detail on Axfood’s website: axfood.se. by the GRI, the table covers all core indicators as well as complemen­ The sustainability indicators cover Group-owned retail and whole­ tary indicators that are judged to be relevant for Axfood. The symbols sale operations. The Group’s franchise stores currently do not report show if the respective indicators are complete. Some reporting refers sustainability data centrally to Axfood and are therefore not covered to information in the Annual Report (AR). by the report. The same applies for external transport contractors in Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Page Page Axfood reference Degree Axfood reference Degree Profile 1. STRATEGY & ANALYSIS 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 1.1 CEO statement 4 Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, 6, AR 40–41 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 7, AR 44–46 risks and opportunities 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role in the AR 48 organization­ 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive AR 46 board members 2.1 Name of the organization Back cover 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees AR 45 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 3, Back cover to provide recommendations to the board AR 14–17 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 73–75 2.3 Operational structure of the organization AR 16–17 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in AR 46 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover the board 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 3, 15 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of AR 45–46 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 3, AR 90–91 board members 2.7 Markets 3, AR flap 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 5–6, AR 6 2.8 Scale of the organization 3, AR flap 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work AR 44 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 2–3 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s work AR 48 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period AR 18 Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 5 p ­ recautionary principle is applied 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, 5, 11–14, Report profile p ­ rinciples or other initiatives 15–16, 19 3.1 Reporting period 24 4.13 Memberships in associations 21–22 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 24 Stakeholder engagement 3.3 Reporting cycle Administration report 24 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 6, 21–22 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 6 ­stakeholders with whom to engage Report scope and boundary 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 21–22 3.5 Process for defining report content 5–6, 8–9 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 21–22 3.6 Boundary of the report 24 through stakeholder engagement 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope 24 or boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint 24, AR 65–66 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS ventures, subsidiaries, etc. Sustainability governance, Finance AR 4–9 3.9 Data measurement techniques 24, AR 65–66 and calculation principles EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 56–63 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of 24 EC2. Risks and opportunities for the organization due 5–6, 10–11 information provided in earlier reports to climate changes 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 24, AR 65–66 EC3. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit AR 80–82 periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. plan obligations GRI content index EC4. Financial assistance received from government AR 79 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 24–25 EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of Standard Disclosures in the report spending on locally-based suppliers 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 24 EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior manage­ 18 seeking external assurance for the report ment hired from the local community EC8. Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes 24 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GRI TABLE Page Page Axfood reference Degree Axfood reference Degree 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LA8. Education, training, prevention and risk-control 19 programmes in place Sustainability governance, Environment 5–11 LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal AR 37 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume agreements­with trade unions EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee 19 EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary source 11 LA12. Employees receiving regular performance and 18 EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 11 career development reviews EN5. Energy saved due to conservation 8–11 LA13. Composition of governance bodies and 18, 20, and efficiency improvement employees according to diversity indicators AR 52–55 EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 8–11 LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women consumption and results EN8. Total water withdrawal by source Human rights EN11. Location/scope of land owned near protected HR1. Investment agreements that include human 15–17 areas/areas of biodiversity value rights clauses EN12. Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity HR2. Suppliers that have undergone screening on 15–17 EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse 8–111) ­human rights, and actions taken gas emissions, by weight HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse 8–11 actions taken gas emissions, and result HR5. Operations where freedom of association and 15–17 EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 9–11, 13 collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances HR6. Operations identified as having significant risk for 15–17 EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions, incidents of child labour and actions taken by weight per type HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk 15–17 EN21. Total water discharge, quality and recipient for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 10–11 actions taken EN23. Number and volume of significant spills Society EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 8–9, 11, 12–14 SO1. Programmes for evaluating the operation’s of products and services impacts on communities EN27. Products sold and their packaging 7, 10–11 materials that are reclaimed SO2. Business units analysed for risks related to AR 39–40 ­corruption EN28. Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for 24 ­non-compliance with environmental laws SO3. Employees trained in the organization’s 6 ­anti-corruption policies and procedures EN29. Environmental impact of transports 10–11 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of ­corruption 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SO5. Participation in public policy development and 21–22 Sustainability governance, Social 7–9, 15–20 lobbying Employment conditions and terms SO8. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 24 applicable laws LA1. Total workforce by employment type, 20 contract and region Product responsibility LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, 20 PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety 11–13 gender and region ­impacts of products and services are assessed LA3. Benefits to full-time employees 19 PR3. Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products LA4. Percentage of employees covered AR 37 ­subject to such information requirements collective bargaining agreements PR6. Programmes for adherence to laws, 12–14 LA5. Minimum notice period(s) AR 37 ­standards and voluntary codes for marketing regarding operational changes c­ommunications LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in 19 PR9. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 24 formal joint management-worker health and regulations concerning the use of products and safety committees services LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, 20 lost days, work-related fatalities 1) Pertains to trading operations, not staff functions at head offices. Text and production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson in cooperation with Axfood. Design and final art: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photos: Mats Lundqvist p. 4, Johnér bildbyrå p. 8, Elin Andersson p. 12, James Morgan/ WWF International p. 15, Mats Wingborg p. 17, Helene Svanholm p. 20, Ledarna p. 21 a.o. English translation: Joseph Brennan. 25 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Axfood AB Axfood IT AB Hemköpskedjan AB Dagab SE-107 69 Stockholm SE-107 69 Stockholm SE-107 69 Stockholm Box 640 SE-136 26 Haninge Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Norra Stationsgatan 80C Norra Stationsgatan 80C Norra Stationsgatan 80C Visitors’ address Lillsjövägen 7 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Jordbro Företagspark info@axfood.se info@axfood.se info@hemkop.se Tel +46-8-500 710 00 www.axfood.se www.hemkop.se info@axfood.se Axfood Sverige AB Axfood AB Willys AB Axfood Närlivs SE-107 69 Stockholm Shared Service Center SE-412 86 Göteborg Box 1742 SE-701 17 Örebro Visitors’ address SE-551 93 Jönköping Visitors’ address Norra Stationsgatan 80C Falkenbergsgatan 3 Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Handelsgatan 5 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Bataljonsgatan 12 Tel +46-31-733 31 00 Tel +46-19-603 03 50 info@axfood.se Tel +46-36-36 41 00 info@willys.se www.willys.se info@narlivs.se info@axfood.se www.narlivs.se www.snabbgross.se
