Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Corporate Philosophy “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world” Editorial Policy  The Citizen Group publishes a CSR report to convey to stakeholders the CSR initiatives in which it engages. As a special feature, the Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 introduces the value creation process of the entire Citizen Group. The report focuses on the value the Citizen Group provides to customers, society, and employees through its business and explains efforts the Citizen Group is making to realize the development of a sustainable society. Furthermore, centered on reporting in accordance with ISO 26000, the Data section includes targets and results of environmental management activities as well as fiscal 2015 data for each management indicator. Also, the Citizen Group’s CSR activities are posted in a comprehensive manner on the Citizen Holdings CSR site. In particular, the site provides details of the various social contribution activities the Citizen Group is undertaking. 01 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Contents 01 Corporate Philosophy / Cover: Citizen Museum Editorial Policy In March 2016, the Citizen Museum was opened within the Tokyo Head Office of Citizen 03 Corporate Profile Holdings as part of a project to commemorate the Company’s 100-year anniversary. In addition 04 Progress in Implementing Our to Citizen’s founding spirit, which has been passed down through Medium-Term Management Plan the years, and dedication to manufacturing, the museum also introduces the evolution of the 05 Message from the Management Citizen Group, including the historic products and new businesses it has created. S P E C I A L F E A T U R E Website (detailed version) The Citizen Group’s CSR-related informa07 Putting CSV into Practice tion is posted in a comprehensive manner on the Citizen Holdings CSR site. Group-Wide http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/csr/ 09 The Citizen Group’s Value Creation Booklet (digest version) Process In accordance with the core subjects of ISO 26000, the CSR report communicates The Value We Offer Our Customers the Citizen Group’s CSR initiatives in an easy-to-understand way. The Value We Offer to Society High The Value We Offer Our Employees Level of stakeholder interest CSR Report 2016 Website 17 CSR at the Citizen Group 19 Report on Activities Aligned High Level of importance to the Citizen Group with ISO 26000 19  Consumer Issues Date of Publication  20 Fair Business Practices August 2016 (Previous report: August 2015 / Next report: August 2017) Guidelines Referenced  21 Environment Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) 23 Labor Practices Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) 24 Human Rights This report includes information on the standard disclosure items of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 25 Community Participation A GRI G4 guidelines index can be found on the Citizen Holdings CSR site. and Development Disclaimer  27 Organizational Governance This publication includes future projections based on the information available when the report was written. The actual results of activities documented may differ from such future projections. Organizations Covered in the Report  Economic and social data: 27 domestic and 31 Data (Environment / Employees) 72 overseas companies (total 99) Environmental data: 26 domestic and 16 overseas companies (total 42) 32 Third-Party Comments / Period Covered by the Report  Response to Third-Party Comments Fiscal 2015 (April 1, 2015, to March 31, 2016) Some data from fiscal 2016 is also included. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 02 Corporate Profile With the corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world,” the Citizen Group has been launching diverse businesses around the globe that make use of the expertise in downsizing, precision, and power efficiency technologies it has built up in its watch division. Corporate Data (Year ended March 31, 2016)  Name Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Net Sales (Years ended March 31) Establishment May 28, 1930 (Billion yen) Location of Head Office 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, 400 348.2 Tokyo 188-8511, Japan 309.9 328.4 300 279.7 272.0 Representative Toshio Tokura, President and CEO Capitalization ¥32,649 million* 200 Employees 17,046 (consolidated)* 100 Net Sales ¥348.2 billion (consolidated) Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange, 1st Section 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) * (As of March 31, 2016) Net Sales by Business Category Net Sales by Region Number of Employees by Region ¥ 348.2 ¥ 348.2 17,046 billion billion Watches and Clocks 52.0% Japan 32.7% Japan 5,853 34.3% Machine Tools 14.8% Asia 33.7% Overseas 11,193 65.7% Devices and Components 23.2% Americas 19.8% Electronic Products 6.7% Europe 13.1% Other Products 3.3% Others 0.7% Principal Products  Watches and Clocks “The fusion of technology and beauty.” We create new value by blending the latest technology with delicate beauty. Machine Tools Devices and Components We develop machine tools for smallWith miniaturization and precision diameter precision parts machining production technologies developed for the automotive, medical, and IT through watch manufacturing, we industries as well as medium-diameprovide a variety of electronic compoter and short part machining for the nents that are used in products that oil and air hydraulics and construcsupport society. tion equipment industries. Electronic Products Other Products We create new comfort and conveThis division provides wedding rings nience all over, in business and daily and other jewelry as well as ice skatlife, from health management to ing and other leisure services. information equipment. 03 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Progress in Implementing Our Medium-Term Management Plan The Citizen Group is implementing a medium-term management plan called the “Citizen Global Plan 2018.” In the later three years of this plan, beginning fiscal 2016, we will continue to further strengthen our production capability in order to overcome global competition, which continues to intensify, and improve profitability. At the same time, we will expand our business by proactively undertaking growth investments. In these ways, we aim to become a truly global company by fiscal 2018. Aiming to Be a Truly Global Company A Corporate Group Marked by Speed and Dynamism Medium-Term Management Policy 1. We will focus on business domains where we can leverage the strengths cultivated in the watch and clock business, aiming to become a business conglomerate that is a globally competitive category leader. 2. We will promote manufacturing innovation and strengthen our earnings power in order to establish a high-profit business structure. Tasks to Address CSR Initiatives for Realizing Specific Strategies 1. Thorough structural improvement/strengthening of 1. Develop and manufacture eco-friendly products production capability 2. Cultivate human resources 2. Aggressive investment for business growth and strength3. Embrace diversity ening of marketing capability 4. Build even stronger relationships with local communities 3. Selection and concentration of products and businesses 4. Enhancement of human resources and promotion of efficiency in productivity Overview of Stages in the Medium-Term Management Plan STE P STE P STE P 1 2 3 Implement Thorough Structural Reforms and Enhance Business Performance Improvements to Build the Foundations for Growth Achieve Goals through Aggressive Investment Operating income Operating income in fiscal 2015 target for fiscal 2018 ¥30.4 billion ¥ 40.0 billion Become a truly ROA ROA global company Operating income in fiscal 2014 3.2% 6.0% to survive against international competition ¥27.8 billion Operating income in fiscal 2013 ¥23.7 billion Operating income in fiscal 2012 ¥11.5 billion 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FY Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 04 Message from the Management We will realize the Citizen Group’s CSV*1 and resolve social issues. In doing so, we aim to be a company striving to be respected and trusted by the citizens of the world. 05 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Entering the Next Stage in Realizing Promoting Diversity, an Indispensable Further Growth Factor in Realizing Further Growth Our medium-term management plan “Citizen Global In March 2016, the Citizen Group welcomed its first Plan 2018” commenced in fiscal 2013. With the female director*2. At Citizen, our ratio of female conclusion of the first three years of the plan, employees is at a standard level globally, and we fiscal 2016 represents our entrance into the next have established a welcoming environment for stage in realizing further growth under the second female employees, reflecting, among other factors, half of the plan. During the first half of the plan, the high percentage of female employees who we adopted and engaged in thorough initiatives in have returned to work after taking childcare leave. structural reform and reinforcement, including the However, historically, Citizen has not had a high integration of our manufacturing companies. number of female employees, and we view the low However, we have still yet to see the accomplishpercentage of female employees in managerial ments of these initiatives from such perspectives as positions as a serious issue demanding our prompt improved profitability. In the next three years, we will attention. As such, we aim to have female employmake efforts to further reinforce our business strucees account for more than 7% of our managerial ture while conducting aggressive marketing activities. staff by the end of March 2021. To this end, we will Specifically, we will make efforts in Group-wide establish an even more welcoming environment for cooperation. By managing human resources and female employees through such means as creating infrastructure in a more effective manner, I believe career plans, cultivating a workplace culture that we can enhance the Group’s comprehensive power. encourages female employees to play an active role, To this end, we intend to transition Citizen Holdings and making reforms to internal systems. I believe to an operating holding company structure, dissolvthat, amid these efforts, welcoming our first female ing the current Citizen Watch Co., Ltd., and taking director into the Group will have an extremely on that name for the new company’s trade name. positive impact internally. With this transition, we will promptly enhance Group The Citizen Group will continue to promote diversity functions and strengthen Group cohesiveness. as it aims to become an enterprise that generates synergies among diverse human resources. Providing Solutions with Citizen’s CSV*1 Initiatives Striving to Be Respected and Trusted In March 2016, Citizen Watch released the ethical by the Citizens of the World luxury watch brand CITIZEN L, the first of its kind in Citizen aims to enhance its corporate value and the watch industry. CITIZEN L brand watches not realize sustainable growth as a truly global company. only offer beautiful designs; they are sustainable To achieve this aim, we will maintain an awareness watches that give consideration to people and society of social issues amid constant social change and as a whole, which only a manufacture d’horlogerie promote in-depth communication with our customers like Citizen can make. By giving consideration to and society as whole, using our corporate philosophy the environment and human rights, we ensure the and code of conduct as our foundation. We will also CITIZEN L brand’s transparency in terms of engage in business planning and development that responding to conflict mineral issues and disclosing allows us to be one step ahead of our competitors CO2 emission amounts. As ethical products like in offering the products and services customers CITIZEN L can help lead to the resolution of social need. In these ways, we will continue to expand our issues, the selection of such products provides business together with society. In fact, growing consumers with a new sense of values. together with society represents the essence of the The creation of such offerings as CITIZEN L that Citizen Group’s approach to CSV. By further pursunot only satisfy the customer but also raise awareing this kind of growth, we aim to be a company ness of social issues and lead to their eventual striving to be respected and trusted by the citizens resolution while, at the same time, contributing to of the world. corporate profits is precisely the kind of solution we are aiming for with our CSV initiatives. Furthermore, June 2016 from the early stages of conception, CITIZEN L was created by female employees who were aiming for CSV. In that sense, as well, CITIZEN L has been a epoch-making project. CITIZEN L demonstrates our corporate attitude. Toshio Tokura While CITIZEN L represents a CSV initiative in just President and CEO one brand, we will leverage the strengths we have Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. *1 C  SV: Creating Shared Value cultivated in each of our businesses to promote CSV represents efforts made by the Citizen Group to create shared value further CSV initiatives Group-wide going forward. through its core business in order to resolve social issues. *2 T  he Citizen Group’s first female director is the chief executive officer of Citizen Watches Australia Pty Ltd. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 06 SPECIAL FEATURE Putting CSV into Practice Group-Wide Tackling the Challenge of Ethical Manufacturing Taking action now to build a better future Citizen has continued to create products that are both people-friendly and environmentally friendly, including its “Eco-Drive” and “Super TitaniumTM” series of watches. Currently, we are further promoting our CSV initiatives and tackling the challenge of creating ethical watches. 07 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Creating Watches That Realize an Ethical Spirit At Citizen, we asked ourselves, what kind of efforts can we make to better connect our products to the resolution of social issues? The answer to our question was ethical manufacturing. The word “ethical” implies an approach that attempts to resolve social issues. In addition to giving consideration to the natural environment, ethical initiatives work to realize production, distribution, and consumption that bear in mind human rights and social norms. Ethical initiatives include improving work environments, resolving poverty issues in developing countries, and engaging in fair trade. With the spirit of ethical initiatives resonating throughout the Citizen Group, we have created CITIZEN L Ambiluna, a luxury watch that offers new value and a fresh sensation. Providing a New Luxury Watch That Embodies Confidence and Courage At Citizen, we believe that beautiful things emanate from a beautiful mind. This belief means that our products have a rich story behind their creation and give consideration to people and society as whole, rather than being just something worn in extravagance. This belief also reflects our 21st century view on luxury, which is having a product design with universal and timeless beauty. These days, an increasing number of consumers are selecting products based on the new value they offer, not just their price. For example, consumers now have the option to choose products that are made through sustainable initiatives that give consideration to people, society, and the natural environment. These products include cosmetics that were not tested on animals, jewelry that does not use conflict minerals, and fashion apparel that uses organic cotton. Equipped with the light-powered “Eco-Drive” technology, CITIZEN L Ambiluna is a watch that possesses both beauty and an ethical spirit. Accordingly, CITIZEN L Ambiluna embodies confidence and courage for women seeking to make the world a better place. Assessing Our Current Course of Action as the Culmination of CSV At Citizen, we give consideration to what we can do now to build a better future. While making superior products that sell is an obvious task for us as a corporate group, these products must also be good for the environment, people, and society itself. As such, we place equal importance on activities to improve corporate value and initiatives to resolve social issues. The creation of CITIZEN L Ambiluna represents exactly the kind of efforts we can engage in today to make tomorrow even better. The passion incorporated into CITIZEN L Ambiluna and the process we use to manufacture the watch embody the culmination of CSV. Going forward, we will continue to take initiatives to build a better future. Promoting the Ethical Commitment of CITIZEN L  Disclosure of Disclosure of “DRC conflict-free” Reduced-size Sustainable materials CO2 emissions mineral audit user manual packaging CITIZEN L is completely We present the total We do not use any minerals We eliminated the use of Instead of a disposable transparent about the volume of greenhouse sourced from smelters linked paper for instruction box designed solely to disclosure of the materigases emitted from the to illegal mining operations in manuals by putting the protect the watch prior als—both what and how whole product life cycle the Democratic Republic of watch’s nine-language to purchase, we have much—we use for every and receive third-party* Congo whose profits go instruction manual created an improved component. verification, toward financing armed online, reducing environpackage that can be a watch-industry first. groups. (Tantalum, tungsten, mental impact. reused for other purgold, and tin are all examposes afterwards. ples of conflict minerals.) * Approved by JEMAI (Japan Environmental Association for Industry) under the CFP (Carbon Footprint of Products) program. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 08 SPECIAL FEATURE The Citizen Group’s Value Creation Process The Citizen Group’s Value Creation Process The Citizen Group has adopted “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world” as its corporate philosophy. Guided by this philosophy, we are working to significantly contribute to the lifestyles of people around the world through “a manufacturing style that is well-known and respected by the citizens of the world.” By investing the various capital it possesses, the Citizen Group has been globally expanding diverse businesses that leverage its downsizing, precision, and power efficiency technologies, which it has cultivated in its watch business. Amid this global expansion, we aim for sustainable development by creating new value for our customers and employees as well as for society as a whole. Accumulated Advantages Citizen’s Invested Capital Funds from shareholders and Corporate Philosophy Citizen Group Code of Conduct Financial capital other investors Value Chain Downsizing and precision Manufacturing technologies, environmental Procurement capital impact reduction technologies, internally developed manufacturing equipment Intellectual Improvement of business competitiveness and brand capital value Design Inventors of the Future, Diligent Human capital Artisans, People Who Strive for Ongoing Improvement Business activities that inherit the DNA of the watch business Relationships with all Social capital stakeholders, CSR procurement, social contribution Research Natural capital Secure and safe raw materials, and water Development Follow-up Services 09 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Customer satisfaction CUSTOMERS Competitive edge P11 OUTCOME Created value SOCIETY EMPLOYEES Resolution of social issues  ctive role of diverse human A resources  ontribution to local communities C and environmental conservation Improvement in technical skills P13 P15 Offering watches across the globe that give rise to innovation Watches through the combination of and clocks superior technological business capabilities and creative, beautiful designs Leading the way through the provision of world-class Machine tools manufacturing equipment and innovative production solutions business in order to realize “Ko no Ryosan” Taking on further initiatives in Devices and downsizing, precision, and Manufacturing components power efficiency to provide our cutting-edge technologies as business a foundation for society Electronic Pursuing new value and convenience while focusing on products people’s health and lifestyles business Providing a jewelry business grounded in sophisticated Other polishing techniques and a products publishing business backed by Sales business catalog printing, in addition to leisure services OUTPUT Product and service provision Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 10 S P E C I A L F E A T U R E The Citizen Group’s Value Creation Process Customers Society Employees The Value Customers We Offer Our Society Employees Customers Customers Society Employees The Citizen Group always lends an ear to the voices of its customers. By not only developing technology-driven products but also creating value together with customers to meet the changing needs of society, we aim to continue to be an enterprise that evolves with its customers as their valued partner. We believe that this aim is embodied in our CSV initiatives. 11 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Providing the Manufacturing Industry with Solutions for New Value  Citizen Machinery Co., Ltd., provides the “alkapplysolution” service has helped Citizen Machinery evolve its ICT infraservice, a collection of solutions that meld the functional and structure and realize the establishment of e-learning programs, technological know-how the company has long accumulated the visualization of machine conditions, and cloud-based with ICT*1 and IoT*2. support for program creation. Notwithstanding the trend of automating factories to the By strengthening the partnership it has with its customers greatest extent possible, which was strongly advocated in and continuing to provide solutions to the issues they face, the 1980s, we pushed for “Human Oriented Factories” Citizen Machinery will contribute to the evolution of manufac(1990, CFA*360). We did so under the belief that people are turing around the world. not tools to raise efficiency but rather represent the founda*1 ICT: Information & Communication Technology tion for the creation of quality products, and, by virtue of that, *2 IoT: Internet of Things *3 CFA: An abbreviation for Citizen Factory Automation, an event that presents Citizen’s the presence of people on the factory floor is indispensable. vision for metalworking factories with a focus on factory automation The “alkapplysolution” service was created out of this support for “Human Oriented Factories.” As an initiative to advance “Human Oriented Factories,” we began to advocate for “Impressive Value Production” (2000, CFA70), which shares added value with customers in addition to the value provided through manufacturing. Through the promotion of the idea of “Impressive Value Production,” we implemented “Ko no Ryosan”—the creation of many different products—at CFA85 in 2015. The “alkapplysolution” service supports this concept. Further, the Promoting Product Development That Pursues “Quality of Light”  Citizen Electronics Co., Ltd., has manufactured and sold responds to the changing needs of its customers and further LEDs for lighting since 2003 and has developed various pursues the value of the “quality of light.” technologies that enhance brightness and reduce environmental impact of its products. Conventional lighting (HID) Lighting with enhanced In recent years, customer needs have been changing, “quality of light” (LED) related to not only power consumption, efficiency, and brightness but also the value of the “quality of light.” Customers now desire products that focus on details and tones of objects, such as high color-rendering LEDs, which closely reproduce natural colors, and high coloring LEDs, which vividly illuminate objects. Citizen Electronics properly Kitaguchi Hongu Fuji Sengen Shrine’s Fujisan Ootorii  aking on the Challenge of Developing New Hybrid Machines to Respond to T Customer Needs  Citizen Machinery has been responding to needs for medical Even when processing costs are high, using one machine parts centered primarily on its “Cincom” sliding headstock is less expensive than introducing multiple machines for septype automatic lathes. However, the company faced chalarate processes. In addition, this hybrid machine conserves lenges in regard to micromachining for stents that dilate space and contributes to reductions in equipment costs and blood vessels. increases in productivity. To overcome these challenges, we developed a hybrid Through collaboration with a third party that possesses machine equipped with a laser device suitable for micro­ technology featuring system integrator functions, we will conmachining, the first machine of its kind. tinue to cooperate with our When cutting and laser machining is carried out with one customers and develop machine, extremely precise machining is able to be pertechnology that meets formed with stents and endoscopy forceps. Medical parts their potential needs. In made with this hybrid machine help reduce the physical doing so, we aim to create burden on patients. further value together with our customers. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 12 S P E C I A L F E A T U R E The Citizen Group’s Value Creation Process Society Employees Customers Society Employees The Value Customers We Offer to SocietySociety Employees The Citizen Group bears in mind the impact its products have on society. As such, we promote R&D with a constant awareness toward contributing to environmental conservation and the resolution of other social issues. Not only do we make efforts to reduce our environmental impact, we provide value to society through new branding in our advertising and sales activities. In these ways, we aspire to further improve our corporate value. 13 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Endorsing the “Because I am a Girl” Campaign  Citizen Watch Co., Ltd., has endorsed the “Because I am continue to promote participation in activities to resolve a Girl” Campaign. Promoted by the NGO Plan International, social issues through its support of the “Because I am a Girl” the campaign supports girls and women in developing counCampaign. tries. Citizen Watch is providing support for the campaign in At the same time, the company will move forward with a such ways as donating a portion of the proceeds from sales variety of initiatives under the aim of establishing brands that of its “Citizen xC” watches. provide social value. By lending its support in this way, Citizen Watch helps raise awareness of social issues among a great number of people through product advertising and sales. In addition, the purchase of “Citizen xC” watches allows customers to personally get involved with activities to resolve social issues. Donations in 2015 were put to meaningful use in an educational program for girls in Pakistan as well as a project to Because I am a Girl × xC improve the livelihood of women in Mali. Citizen Watch will http://citizen.jp/product/xc/girl/index.html (Japanese only) Promoting CSR Development and Responding to the Issue of Conflict Minerals  Grounded in the spirit of the Citizen Group Code of Conduct inspections. In addition, these and the U.N. Global Compact, the Citizen Group gives concompanies request that their sideration to social issues related to human rights, labor, the business partners do not use environment, and anti-corruption. conflict minerals. In these Citizen Watch and Citizen Electronics have established ways, Citizen Watch and CSR procurement guidelines and are working to clarify the Citizen Electronics aim to guidelines’ stance on human rights, the environment, and eventually eradicate the ethics with their business partners. Specifically, the compasource of funds for armed nies are making efforts to clarify the important items of the groups in these countries. guidelines with their suppliers. Furthermore, Citizen Watch More information on the initiaand Citizen Electronics conduct inspections in response to tives these companies are ©Amnesty International customer requests to determine whether or not their prodtaking toward conflict minerals ucts contain conflict minerals—namely, tantalum, tin, tungis posted on the Citizen Children selecting minerals at a cobaltite mine in the Democratic sten, and gold—mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo Holdings CSR site. Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and disclose the results of these Building on 40 Years of “Eco-Drive” (Light-powered Technology)  In 1976, 40 years ago this year, Citizen Watch launched the contribution to improving consumer awareness about the world’s first light-powered analog watch. From only a small environment through the widespread use of its “Eco-Drive” amount of light, the technology used in this watch can series of watches. harness enough power to allow the watch to continue to run. The manufacture of products incorporating the environThe technology’s name “Eco-Drive” represents the mentally friendly “Eco-Drive” technology has helped change technology’s benefits to people, society, and the the way employees of the Citizen Group think about the environment, as well as the fact that this light-powered environment and encourage initiatives toward environmental technology allows watches to continue to run over a long conservation as well as cosponsorship and philanthropy. period of time. “Eco-Drive” promotes non-polluting clean energy as there is no need to periodically change batteries. Accordingly, “Eco-Drive” has received high praise for its environmentally friendly qualities. In 1996, the “Eco-Drive” watch became the first wrist watch to receive the Eco Mark product certification. Furthermore, in 2014, Citizen Watch became the first watch company to receive a gold prize at the “Eco Mark Award 2014.” This award recognized the company’s Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 14 S P E C I A L F E A T U R E The Citizen Group’s Value Creation Process Society Employees Customers Society Employees The Value We Offer Our Employees As a basic principle, the Citizen Group maintains the belief that fostering employee growth and development is directly concomitant with improvement in corporate value. Based on this belief, we conduct educational training to encourage employees to improve their careers on their own initiative. To create a corporate culture that not only allows employees to improve their technical skills but also grow on a personal level, we provide opportunities for employees to actively communicate with each other regardless of whether they are general staff or managers. 15 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Aiming for All Employees to Acquire the QC Certification  Since its establishment in 2013, Citizen Watch achieving a 100% acquisition rate for rank four in April 2016. Manufacturing Co., Ltd., has worked to improve the How our employees will leverage their acquired certification professional capabilities of all employees by aiming to in their daily work will be a major issue for us going forward. achieve a 100% acquisition rate for the Quality Control (QC) As such, we will continue to promote initiatives to improve Certification. the professional capabilities of our employees. In doing so, In addition, through the establishment of an in-house certiwe will make groupfication system for contract employees, we have sought to wide efforts to conimprove the level of employee expertise group-wide. tinue pursuing our In fiscal 2015, three years after the establishment of goal of “Building the Citizen Watch Manufacturing, we were able to reach an 80% World’s Foremost acquisition rate for the QC Certification. We also proactively Watch Factory.” implemented the in-house certification system at such locations as Guangzhou Most Crown Electronics LTD. in China, Promoting Diversity and the Active Role of Women in the Workplace  Toshio Tokura, President and CEO of Citizen Holdings, has a company. Participants in the seminar made such comments declared that Citizen will promote diversity and vigorously as, “I became aware that some of my views were narrowcreate a work environment that embraces diversity. minded, making it difficult to accept diversity” and “Diversity is By exercising the individual capabilities of diverse human an important, long-term theme that I hope we can make resources, diversity helps maximize the accomplishments well-known throughout the Company.” These lectures prothe Citizen Group can make as an organization. The Group vided employees with an opportunity to recognize the will be able to develop superior personnel and achieve its importance of diversity on an individual level. management targets by having all employees utilize their Going forward, the Citizen Group will engage in specific individual strengths and work in an outgoing manner. initiatives toward In order to raise employee awareness toward diversity, enhancing diversity, Citizen Holdings invited an external instructor to come to its including efforts in offices to hold a seminar. At the seminar, the instructor response to the Act gave lectures on the importance to realizing one’s own to Advance Women’s unconscious bias and prejudice as well as on the kind of Success in Their merits the active role of women in the workplace can bring to Working Life. VOICE  A Message from Citizen’s First Female CEO I feel that the Citizen Group has in place a welcoming work environment for female employees. However, for the future promotion of diversity, I believe it is important to take a broader approach that establishes a comfortable work environment from the perspective of not only female employees but also employees of different nationalities, mid-career employees, and employees who are providing nursing care. In addition, I feel there is a need to put in place a structure that allows all employees, not only female employees, to fully comprehend what kind of abilities they possess and how they should develop their careers going forward. I believe that if all employees of the Group continue to maintain their own personal vision when confronted with various difficulties, opportunities to grow on a personal level will present themselves. I also believe that constantly being respectful to others and expressing gratitude can lead to future career opportunities. The level of responsibility for me as the representative director and chairperson of Citizen Watches Australia is higher than ever before. While I of course feel some pressure, I am excited to tackle the challenges I will face in this position. Shiori Takahashi Chief Executive Officer, Citizen Watches Australia Pty Ltd. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 16 CSR at the Citizen Group Supporting the United Nations Global Compact  By realizing its corporate philosophy, the Citizen Group The 10 Principles of the U.N. Global Compact strives toward the sustainable development of society and Group growth, while aiming to be a company that is loved, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect respected, and truly needed by society. In 2005, we joined the protection of internationally Human proclaimed human rights; and the U.N. Global Compact*, and we develop our business in Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit accordance with the precepts of the Global Compact and in human rights abuses. through CSR activities based on the Citizen Group Code of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Conduct. We consider conducting our management in keepassociation and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ing with stakeholder requests and expectations essential to Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour maximizing the value we provide compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and to society, and we are reinforcing Principle 6:  the elimination of discrimination in respect stakeholder communications of employment and occupation. accordingly. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anticorruption in all its forms, including Corruption extortion and bribery. *U .N. Global Compact: By demonstrating responsible and creative leadership, companies and other organizations behave as good members of society and participate voluntarily in an international framework to realize sustainable growth. Joining the compact indicates a company’s dedication to initiatives to achieve the 10 principles, based on a commitment by top management. CSR Promotion System  The Citizen Group has established the Group CSR enhancing the CSR activities of each Group company. At the Promotion Committee where the president of Citizen same time, the committee conducts CSR awareness surveys Holdings provides ultimate supervision and the CSR director of all employees, including executives, to evaluate the acts as a committee member. In addition, the CSR Group’s CSR activities and identify potential issues. Department acts as the CSR Promotion Office. The Group CSR Promotion Committee determines ­policies and drafts measures for the Citizen Group and oversees their implementation. In addition, the committee conducts seminars and CSR training with the aim of promoting and Schematic Diagram of Our CSR Promotion System Policy planning / Deliberation Board of Directors of Citizen Holdings and decision making President of Citizen Holdings / Head of Group CSR CSR Director of Citizen Holdings CSR Promotion Office (CSR Department) Implementation Group CSR Promotion Committee (operating subsidiaries) Each Group Company CSR Committee 17 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Citizen Group Code of Conduct  CITIZEN GROUP CODE OF CONDUCT 1P  rovide our customers with products and services that demonstrate our concern for safety, quality, and the environment. 2E  ngage in fair, transparent and open competition in business transactions, and maintain healthy relationships with our suppliers and government regulatory authorities. 3W  ork to communicate with the general public, taking the initiative in making corporate information openly available, while at the same time practicing responsible data management. 4R  ecognize that environmental issues are a common concern of mankind and a crucial issue for management in terms of the survival and activities of the company, and engage these issues in a voluntary, proactive manner. 5V  alue symbiosis with local communities, and strive to contribute to society as a good corporate citizen. 6E  nsure a safe and pleasant working environment and encourage the development of our employees’ abilities and energies while respecting their characters, individuality, and diversity. 7R  espond to anti-social behavior by individuals and organizations in a decisive manner. 8V  alue and respect the different cultures and customs of all countries and regions, and contribute to the development of local communities. 9T  he top management of the Citizen group recognize that implementing this Code of Conduct is their personal responsibility, and that they must take the lead not only in enforcing it within the company, but in conveying it to our business partners and suppliers. In addition, they must always be conversant with opinion within the company and outside it, develop an effective internal system for compliance with the Code of Conduct, and work to ensure a thorough adherence to corporate ethics. The company and its employees will make untiring efforts to observe this Code of Conduct. If a situation that contravenes this Code of Conduct arises, the company will strive to resolve it and prevent its recurrence, and make an appropriate public report. The company will also take strict disciplinary measures upon determining the responsibility and authority of those involved. Effective April 6, 2007 Enacted by the Corporate Strategy Committee of the Citizen Group CSR Seminars for Employees  In the 9th CSR Awareness Survey, employees expressed a desire to deepen their understanding of ISO 26000. In response to this feedback, we invited outside instructors to provide lectures on ISO 26000 and our CSR activities as well as integrated reporting. Participants’ comments included, “How to go about enhancing the quality of our daily CSR activities is an issue we must address, and these lectures gave me a chance to once again consider the role of my division in overcoming this issue” and “The discussion on how the disclosure of non-financial information is gaining the attention of institutional investors as a means to ensure the credibility of corporate activities in general was extremely interesting.” In this way, this seminar provided employees with an opportunity to consider the relationship that a company’s business activities has with the development of a sustainable society. Seminar conducted by the Group CSR Promotion Committee Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 18 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Consumer Issues The Citizen Group provides products aimed at resolving issues that customers face and making their lives more enjoyable. The products the Citizen Group manufactures take safety, quality, and the environment into consideration. In addition, rather than considering our responsibilities to be complete once products are sold, we offer thorough product support and follow-up services in an effort to develop long-term customer relationships. Activities to Ensure Customer Loyalty  At Citizen Watch Co., Ltd., we are promoting initiatives that aim to improve “Customer Experience Value*.” At the Citizen Customer Service Desk, we are responding to customer needs by performing prompt and thorough repairs and maintenance on the watches of customers. In addition, we are taking initiatives to enhance our service system so that our customers can receive the same level of service from anywhere across the world with peace of mind. Going forward, we will continue our efforts to build relationships with our customers in order to ensure their loyalty. * “Customer Experience Value” refers to not only the physical value of product function and performance but also the value of inspiring and impressing ­customers when they purchase our products and use our services. Citizen Customer Service Desk C  ontributions to the Safety and Security of In-Vehicle Product Use (LCOS* Module)  Compared with conventional products, the ferroelectric liquid crystal panels offered by Citizen Finedevice Co., Ltd., have a higher level of responsiveness and allow for displays with high resolution, definition, and brightness. Also, these panels are small and light due to the fact that all of their drive circuits are embedded into a single silicon backplane. When used in a vehicle’s heads-up display, these ferroelectric liquid crystal panels project turn signals, vehicle speed, and other important information on to the vehicle’s windshield. By eliminating the need for drivers to change their line of vision, these panels help increase driving safety. In doing so, they contribute to the creation of an even safer and more secure society. Discussion on development stages * LCOS: Liquid Crystal on Silicon  evoted Attention to “Genuine Customer Feedback” and the Resolution D of Customer Issues  At Citizen Systems Japan Co., Ltd., a Group company that deals with healthcare products, 70% of feedback that the company’s customer service center receives comes from the elderly, and an even more considerate and warm approach CTE707 is essential in responding to such feedback. We leverage the accumulation of this kind of “genuine customer feedback” as a source for developing new products that resolve customer issues. The CTE707 Digital Thermometer, launched in October 2015, was developed in response to such “genuine customer feedback.” Going forward, we will endeavor to improve our levels of customer satisfaction in order to offer exciting products that exceed customer expectations. Customer service center 19 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Fair Business Practices To promote sustainable business activities, the Citizen Group engages in fair, transparent, and open competition in business transactions, and it maintains healthy relationships with suppliers and government regulatory authorities. Our intellectual property activities respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we protect our own intellectual property, which is essential for creating customer value. We also promote an intellectual property strategy to protect the Citizen brand and gain competitive advantage. Intellectual Property Activities That Secure a Competitive Edge for Our Business  The Citizen Group respects the intellectual property rights of companies from acquiring intellectual property rights for an other companies and makes efforts so as not to infringe upon idea or a technology, the Intellectual Property Department is them. Furthermore, we acquire intellectual property rights for able to promptly inform the Planning Department of that barour proprietary core technologies and peripheral technologies rier, allowing us to move the development of an idea or a and work to establish barriers to deter entry by our competitechnology in a different direction. In other words, by being tors. At the same time, we take strict measures to counter able to switch the direction of development at an early stage, the infringement by third parties. we are able to increase the possibility for us to secure The most important aspect of our intellectual property advantageous intellectual property rights. activities is having the Planning, Development, and To continue to be successful in our intellectual property Intellectual Property departments engage in efforts as one activities, we will work to swiftly establish a system that furdepartment. From the stage of initial planning, if another ther enhances the quality of methods to provide information company already has a barrier in place to prevent other on intellectual properties. Intellectual Property Activities That Unite the Planning, Development, and Intellectual Property Departments as One Department Securing a competitive edge for the Citizen Group Planning Development Department Department Intellectual Property Department Strengthening cooperation between the Planning, Development, and Intellectual Property departments Appropriate Business Transactions  The Citizen Group’s business is supported by a large numTo realize an ideal transaction with a subcontractor, it is ber of business partners at every level of the value chain. important to make attempts to revise the transaction method Without the cooperation of these business partners, we used. There are cases where the best transaction method may would not be able to realize business sustainability. not be in place even though we have been conducting transWith the aim of establishing a win-win relationship actions with a certain subcontractor for a long period of time. between an orderer and a subcontractor, we created the To ensure that fair transactions are being carried out in Appropriate Transaction Guidelines to be used across the accordance with laws, regulations, and social norms without entire Group. These guidelines introduce specific examples exception, we are working to raise employee awareness by of ideal transactions, thereby allowing the Group to engage conducting classes on the Japanese Subcontract Act using in beneficial negotiations by referencing these examples. the Appropriate Transaction Guidelines. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 20 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Environment We recognize that environmental issues are a common concern for humankind and of topmost importance to companies. The Citizen Group strives to reduce environmental impact through its products and services. Extending beyond the production stage, these efforts include proactive measures to lower the environmental impact of our products during use by customers.  fforts Aimed at Strengthening the Citizen Group’s Environmental Policies E and Management  Our environmental initiatives are based on the Citizen Group aimed at integrating environmental management with the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2018, which was estabbusiness management consistent with the ISO 14001:2015 lished in 2013 with the aim of enhancing environmental manrevision. We make efforts to ensure Group-wide activities agement from a global perspective. The first three years of through the leadership of our top management to realize the plan focus on strengthening the Group’s environmental an efficient environmental management system. Outside management in Japan, and the last three years of the plan Japan, as we have already established a framework to focus on strengthening the Group’s environmental manageassess environmental performance and environmental risks, ment globally. In addition, we are promoting environmental we believe that we can achieve our plan for the reduction initiatives under our action plan Citizen Eco-Action 100. of global environmental loads. In the middle of fiscal 2015, we launched a subcommittee to compile our Environmental Management Manual, which is Citizen Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2018 Promote environmental management Strengthen Group environmental Strengthen Group global 2016 2018 management in Japan environmental management Waste Global environmental performance Improvement Chemical risks Reduction Communication with overseas Reinforcement Greenhouse gases production bases Eco-friendly approach to improving brand value / Environmental and social contribution activities Domestic Results and Medium-Term Targets through Fiscal 2015 Amount of Greenhouse Recycling Rate Amount of Water Used Transaction Volume of Gas Emissions Chemical Substances Subject to the PRTR Act* (kt-CO2) (%) (km3) (t) 140 Medium-term target Medium-term target 2,400 Medium-term target 200 Medium-term target Comparison with fiscal 2005 100% Comparison with fiscal 2005 Comparison with fiscal 2012 120 –30% –10% –36% 1,800 150 100 100 80 80 1,200 100 60 60 40 40 600 50 20 20 0 0 0 0 2005 2013 2014 2015 2018 2005 2013 2014 2015 2018 2005 2013 2014 2015 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2018 *C hemical substances subject to the PRTR Act 2001: 354 substances; 2010: 462 substances 21 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Results of Specific Initiatives  Reduction of CO2 Emissions at Watch Manufacturing Plants Citizen Watch Manufacturing Co., Ltd., adopted the reduction of CO2 emissions as one of its environmental targets in fiscal 2015. To achieve this target, the company is working to reduce the consumption of electric power, which accounts for nearly 91% of energy the company uses, primarily at its five major manufacturing plants in Japan. The company has established an extensive action plan for improving the efficiency of plant facilities, including the replacement of lighting with LEDs and the introduction of highly efficient air conditioning units, compressors, and unit control systems. Air leak inspection On the production floor, the company has steadily promoted initiatives for preventing air leaks from lines connected to air compressors and adjusting the optimal air pressure levels for plant operation. Furthermore, on some windows, so-called Results Achieved in Reducing CO2 Emission Amounts (t-CO2) green curtains made of vines for shielding from direct sunlight have been set up for lowing the air conditioning power. As a 34,000 –2,131 t-CO2 result of these efforts, Citizen Watch Manufacturing was able 32,000 to realize a 6.6% reduction in CO2 emission amounts; in terms 30,000 of volume, that represents a 2,131 t-CO2 reduction. As the CO2 emission amounts of Citizen Watch Manufacturing 28,000 account for nearly one-third of the entire domestic Citizen 26,000 Group’s emissions, the company will continue to improve its 0 environmental performance going forward. 2014 2015 Initiatives to Strengthen Global Environmental Management After the Group consolidated ISO 14001 certification in performance at each plant. In this way, we have facilitated 2014, each Group company and the Group Environmental better communication with local staff. We will make an Headquarters joined forces to conduct environmental effort to create a truly global environmental management inspections at overseas plants, assessing environmental system along with our overseas Group companies, who will management implementation and environmental lead these activities. On-site inspections of overseas production bases Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 22 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Labor Practices The Citizen Group endeavors to provide true value to stakeholders by ensuring a safe and pleasant working environment, encouraging the development of its employees’ abilities and energies, and invigorating each of its workers. We conduct a variety of educational and training programs to augment skills and foster an environment where employees can further their personal growth. Support of Activities for Employees with Disabilities  At Citizen Watch Goodrington (China) Ltd., 13 employees able to work together by leveraging the strengths of others with disabilities are fulfilling various roles on the production while fully exercising their own abilities. floor. Each of these employees participates actively as part of the company’s valued workforce. We are innovating and improving operations so that employees with or without disabilities can further enhance their potential. In doing so, we are making concerted efforts to create a welcoming work environment for all employees. The Citizen Group regards the employment of people with disabilities as a social responsibility of a public entity to secure a valuable addition to its workforce and does not do so simply because it is stipulated by law. Under this belief, we aim to be a lively enterprise where all employees have a proper understanding of disabilities and diversity and are Innovations being made to the work environment An Invigorating Work Environment  Citizen Watch Goodrington listens carefully to the opinions better understand each other and carry out their duties with of its employees. With the aim of it becoming an even more peace of mind. competitive company that works hand-in-hand with its employees, we are strengthening our communication with labor unions. In addition, we are making efforts to establish a work environment where employees can voice their opinions and suggestions at any time, not just during deliberations on important projects. The content of these efforts is shared between the company and labor unions. Furthermore, we are enhancing our employee welfare programs and taking initiatives to deepen exchange among employees by holding athletic meets and basketball tournaments. In these ways, we are focusing our efforts on establishing a welcoming work environment where employees can Basketball tournament IkuBoss Conference  The term IkuBoss refers to managers or supervisors who are take regular paid leave as well as the need to control overunderstanding of male employees and subordinates’ particitime hours. Through such discussion, these lectures offered pation in raising children and work to establish an environment an opportunity for us to reconsider the current state and where employees can balance their work life with parenting future outlook of the workplace. through the promotion of childcare leave and other means. Citizen Electronics Co., Ltd., held visiting lectures on IkuBoss sponsored by the Fujiyoshida City Gender Equality Promotion Council. At these lectures, employees who are raising children engaged in discussion with their supervisors on establishing an environment that is conducive to maintaining a work-life balance. While these employees are highly satisfied with the company’s childcare leave, many expressed the need for the company to make it easier to IkuBoss lecture 23 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Human Rights Recognizing itself as a member of international society, the Citizen Group values and respects the different cultures and customs of other countries and seeks to eliminate discrimination in all forms. Meanwhile, we accept and respect employees’ characters, individuality, and diversity in our efforts to achieve further increases in corporate value. Initiatives to Prevent Harassment  In June 2015, Citizen Holdings, Citizen Watch, and Citizen Going forward, we will continue to make efforts to estabBusiness Expert Co., Ltd., established regulations related to lish a healthy work environment by further enhancing the prevention of sexual harassment and power harassment, employee understanding toward harassment prevention and which have become major social issues. In conjunction with thoroughly enforcing in-house regulations. the establishment of these regulations, we invited Yasuo Mikami, an attorney, to conduct a seminar on harassment prevention at our offices in September 2015. This seminar served as a way to raise employee understanding and awareness of harassment as well as to ensure compliance with in-house regulations. The seminar targeted management personnel who held a position above section head and shared practical and specific details on harassment, focusing primarily on situations during day-to-day work where harassment often occurs. In doing so, the seminar provided our management personnel with an opportunity to deepen their understanding of harassment prevention and in-house regulations. Seminar on harassment prevention People-Friendly Corporate Management  The Citizen Group has made a swift entrance into Thailand, together as a team as well as to encourage them to act with several production bases already established. We posiindependently. tion the country as a primary location for our manufacturing bases following China. In 2001, Keiichi Nakajima, the current president of Citizen Machinery Co., Ltd., set up Citizen Machinery Asia Co., Ltd., with only three employees. At a time when most companies considered local hiring to be only for the purpose of providing manpower, Mr. Nakajima respected and valued his employees as important business partners. Due to the success of that approach, Citizen Machinery Asia became a model for Japanese companies’ entrance into Thailand and was publicly honored by the country’s king. Carrying on this tradition of respecting and valuing employees, we hold regular events to communicate to our employees the excitement and importance of working Citizen Machinery Asia employees Response to the Act to Advance Women’s Success in Their Working Life  To create an employment environment where women can Citizen Holdings, Citizen Watch, and Citizen Business play an active role, the Citizen Group is taking steps to Expert, which are scheduled to merge into one company in enhance career training and has established various action October 2016, have set a target to have more than 7% of plans, including plans to reform work habits to place greater female employees working as managers by fiscal 2021; as of emphasis on maintaining a work-life balance. In addition, fiscal 2015, the percentage of female managers was 5.7%. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 24 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Community Participation and Development Based on its corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world,” the Citizen Group values a peaceful co-existence with local communities and strives to contribute to society as a good corporate citizen. We endeavor to address social issues through our business activities and, by fulfilling our responsibility as a member of the international community and growing together with local communities, strive to help create a sustainable society. Activities That Hand Over Dreams to the Next Generation  In its contributions to local communities, the Citizen Group holds various events for children and people with disabilities to experience the excitement manufacturing and work life has to offer. These events include short-term educational courses, work experience programs, tours of Group plants, and classes on manufacturing. The events are undertaken with the aim of not only cultivating the human resources who will oversee the future of the Citizen Group but also supporting the development of manufacturing in Japan by educating the next generation. Employees at Citizen Watch Manufacturing’s Tohoku Kitakami Plant Children enthusiastically participating in activities have been participating in “Oni Job Fair for Kids,” an event that aims to teach elementary school chilWe will continue to encourage children of local dren in Kitakami-shi, Iwate, about society while having them communities to take an interest in watches and how they enjoy games and other activities. are manufactured. Donation of an Automatic Lathe to Engineering School in Thailand  In August 2015, Citizen Machinery Asia donated a company-manufactured automatic lathe to the Saraburi School of Technology, a school from which many of its employees have graduated. For some time, we have been facing difficulty in employing people that have technical experience with automatic lathes. Until now, there has not been a school in the Saraburi region that owned an automatic lathe and where students could study the theory of metal cutting. However, by making this donation of an automatic lathe, not only have we increased our chances of employing promising students in the future, we are contributing to increasing the number of Donation ceremony students in Thailand with sophisticated technical expertise, which in turn can help lead to continued Going forward, we will strive to enhance the Citizen economic development for the country. Taking advantage of brand value by establishing solid relationships with the local the opportunities this donation presents, we have also set up communities in which we operate. a system to accept student interns from the Saraburi School of Technology, thereby expanding our employment base. 25 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Fiscal 2015 “Citizen of the Year” Awards  “Citizen of the Year” is an annual award program that recognizes citizens who have inspired local residents and made significant contributions to the development, happiness, and all-around enhancement of their local communities. The program was established in 1990 in accordance with our corporate philosophy and is tied in with the spirit of our company name. Thus far, the “Citizen of the Year” Awards have honored 79 people (groups) involved in a wide variety of activities related to social contribution, international contribution, selfexpression, life-saving acts, and environmental conservation. Guided by our corporate philosophy of Fiscal 2015 “Citizen of the Year” Awards “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world,” we will continue to support socially significant activities of local citizens. Fiscal 2015 Award Recipients  http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/coy/ • Japan Hair Donation & Charity, a specified NPO that provides wigs free of charge to children fighting illness or receiving medical treatment • Mitsuaki Yamazaki, who has been managing for 10 years Osakana Post, a facility that handles aquarium fish in order to preserve the ecosystem surrounding the Tama River • Yoshikazu Shiraishi, who engages in initiatives to support the self-reliance and employment of young people that have stopped attending school or are dealing with social withdrawal Local Networking Events of the Citizen Table Tennis Club  The Citizen Table Tennis Club is a corporate table tennis team with 50 years of history and tradition. As one of the pioneers of corporate table tennis, the club consistently competes at the top level of corporate sports in Japan. To communicate the fun of sports through table tennis and deepen our exchange with the local community, we hold table tennis events every year at ­cities across Japan where our offices are located. In fiscal 2015, we visited Kitakami, in Iwate, where Citizen Watch Manufacturing’s Tohoku Kitakami Plant is situated, and Kawajima-machi, Saitama, where Citizen Logistics Service Co., Ltd., is based. These events gave participants an Networking event in Kitakami opportunity to witness the skills of top-level Citizen Table Tennis Club table tennis players and actually compete with them. http://www.citizen-tabletennisclub.jp/ Participant comments included, “I was extremely happy to have the chance to experience first-hand table tennis techniques that I had not seen before.” Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 26 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Organizational Governance The Citizen Group strives to create effective internal systems, with responsibility resting with top management of each of its Group companies, and ensure thorough corporate ethics. In fulfilling our corporate social responsibility, we endeavor to build and implement systems that provide value to stakeholders, reinforcing our governance to ensure accountability, transparency, and fairness. Corporate Governance  Under the corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and strivWe strive to enhance corporate governance in recognition of ing to be respected by the citizens of the world,” from which the importance of ensuring management transparency and its name derives, Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. (the Company), effectively supervising management from various angles. endeavors to contribute to society and increase its corporate As part of these efforts, we established the Nominating value through sustainable corporate activities that are in harCommittee and the Compensation Committee as advisory mony with the local community and the global environment. boards composed of the president and outside directors. Corporate Governance Structure of Citizen Holdings Shareholders’ Meeting Appointments and dismissals Appointments Appointments Nominating Committee Compensation Committee and dismissals and dismissals Proposals and recommendations Advice and recommendations Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Independent Auditors Audits Accounting Appointments, audits dismissals, and supervision Reports Representative Director Group Management Committee Recommendations Internal Audit Department Internal audits Direction and supervision Subsidiaries Overview of Company Institutions  The Board of Directors of the Company comprises five Acting in accordance with auditing policies and auditing directors, who are familiar with the Company’s business plans determined at the Audit & Supervisory Board meetlines, and two outside directors, who maintain a high level of ings, each auditor attends the Board of Directors’ meetings independence. The Board supervises and makes decisions and meetings on Group management as well as inspects related to business execution. various documents from directors, such as reports on busiIn addition, the Company has adopted the Audit & ness execution conditions and documents regarding important Supervisory Board, which comprises three auditors, two of decisions. The auditors also conduct strict audits of the busiwhom are outside auditors. ness execution by directors through surveys of work duties The Company has also established the Nominating and assets. Through these efforts, the auditors are working Committee and the Compensation Committee, both of to further enhance the Company’s corporate governance. which comprise a majority of outside directors, as voluntary In addition, the Company has established the Internal institutions to enhance the transparency of its management. Audit Department, which functions as an internal auditing The Nominating Committee deliberates matters concerning division. Based on yearly auditing plans, the Internal Audit the appointment of the representative director, the president Department conducts audits to determine if the business and CEO, and the chairman of the Board of Directors execution of the Company and its subsidiaries is appropriate and makes proposals to the Board of Directors. The and rational. Compensation Committee deliberates matters concerning Also, the Audit & Supervisory Board, the Internal Audit the policies and standards for director compensation and Department, and the internal control department maintain provides advice to the Board of Directors. close communication. 27 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Message from an Outside Director  CSR Activities That Realize the Citizen Group’s Corporate Philosophy Outside Director Masaaki Komatsu PROF IL E  Mr. Komatsu joined Shiseido Company, Limited, in 1969. In 1996, he assumed the position of president and director of Shiseido International France S.A.S. After returning to the head office in 2003, he assumed the positions of company director and operating officer and then director and senior managing officer. He was appointed as an outside director at Citizen Holdings in June 2015. Overview of the Citizen Group’s Governance even more proactive in assembling a group of diverse perAmong Japanese companies, I believe that Citizen Holdings sonnel that includes not only people with different levels of has been making significant progress in regard to corporate work experience and expertise but also people of different governance (CG). The Company has been operating with a age and nationality. With the implementation of the Act to two-person outside director system for nine years. Also, Advance Women’s Success in Their Working Life in April while having adopted the “Company with Board of Company 2016, women are expected to play an even more active role Auditors” system, it has voluntarily established the at many Japanese companies. I feel confident that the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee. Citizen Group’s response to this act will not simply be an In these ways, the Company has been taking progressive extension of the approach it has taken in the past. Rather, initiatives toward CG. the Group will respond in a way that will allow it to realize With that said, although the Citizen Group is fulfilling its sustainable growth through an increased number of female disclosure responsibilities to outside stakeholders to improve managers and significantly more involvement from female its CG, I feel that disclosure within the Group, specifically to employees in the workplace. employees, is less than sufficient. By providing ample disclosure and explanation, the Group can deepen employees’ True Nature of Citizen’s CSR Activities Lies understanding of CG and raise individual awareness. That, in turn, strengthens the Group’s cohesiveness and solidarity, in the Pursuit of the Corporate Philosophy If there was one word to describe CSR, it would be “trust.” which is key in taking on new challenges that lead to further Without trust, a company’s business activities will not resogrowth. In addition, I believe that the deep understanding nate with society. and heightened awareness of employees will help realize the Trust, itself, can be perceived as the underlying message underlying goal of CG, which is to enhance corporate value. of the Citizen Group’s corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world.” Initiatives to Diversify and Evolve By firmly positioning the corporate philosophy and the Within an increasingly diverse society, history proves that if a Citizen Group Code of Conduct, which derives from that phicompany does not advance measures to diversify its personlosophy, as its foundation and encouraging each employee nel and internal organization, society will pass by that comto act independently, the Citizen Group will be able to further pany and eventually weed it out. build upon its CSR activities. At the Citizen Group, efforts to embrace diversification are surging ahead. It goes without saying, the Group has been Without forgetting my objective standpoint as an outside promoting diversification within its organization and working director, I intend to assist the Citizen Group as much as I can structure, as well as in the way it leverages human in accelerating the speed of its evolution and growth. resources, for many years. I believe that to better leverage its human resources going forward, the Group needs to be Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 28 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Risk Management  In order to achieve Group-wide business targets and ensure activities to appropriately manage risk based on the results sound and sustainable development, the Citizen Group of these efforts. assesses, analyzes, and evaluates risk and engages in Group Risk Management Committee The Citizen Group has established the Group Risk Management Head Office in accordance with the specific risks that the Committee, with the president of Citizen Holdings serving as Group faces. The Group has also set up committees to the committee chairman, to promote the establishment, respond to each major risk theme in an effort to support operation, and monitoring of risk management Group-wide. Group-wide risk management activities. In addition, the Group has stationed risk management officers and established the risk management department at its Risk Management Structure of Citizen Holdings Group Risk Management Committee Group Legal Group Group Group Intellectual Group Group Business Group Human Affairs and Environmental Accounting Property Information Continuity Resources Compliance Management Finance Management Governance Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Crisis Management To prepare for and respond to major crises, including accireports to Head Office. Further, in the event of a crisis, meadents, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, scandals, and sures have been put in place to convene emergency meetother incidents, that could occur in any area in which it operings to evaluate its severity. The Group has also established ates, the Citizen Group is working to establish a crisis manthe Crisis Task Force, which examines specific ways to agement structure on a global basis. respond to risk. In these ways, the Group has put in place a With the aim of collecting, evaluating, and disclosing system to minimize the impact risks have on its business crisis-related information in a swift and appropriate manner, and stakeholders. the Group has taken steps to clarify standards for making Business Continuity Plan (BCP) To prepare for an event where management resources are occurrence of such events. significantly impacted by a large-scale natural disaster and a While aiming to be able to respond to changes in risks and business must be halted or suspended, or an event that the improve the effectiveness and sophistication of its BCP, the possibility of business suspension is high, the Group has Group implements training exercises to prepare for disasters determined the necessary systems, tasks, and procedures and promotes BCP maintenance. to continue or quickly restore business operations. In addiIn fiscal 2015, Citizen’s first ever overseas BCP training tion, the Group has formulated a BCP that will allow it to exercises were carried out at the production bases of the continue the supply of products and services, or realize a Group’s watch business in China and Thailand. prompt recovery should that supply be suspended, in the BCP training exercise at a production base in China BCP training exercise at a production base in Thailand 29 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Compliance  The Citizen Group undertakes compliance measures based ethical and moral principles with the foundation of legal on the Citizen Group Code of Conduct as a priority issue compliance. within its CSR activities. We aim to act in accordance with Internal Reporting System We have set up the Corporate Ethics Hotline in accordance operated an environment that encourages employees to with the Internal Reporting System Rules, both for prevention report misconduct. or early detection of legal violations or misconduct stemming from dishonest actions and for improvement in the levels of Internal Reporting System Usage Frequency self-regulation. Our Internal Reporting System Rules state Fiscal year Times that the reporting party’s privacy must be respected. They also state that the subject of the report must be given the 2013 17 opportunity to refute claims made against them and that the reporting party must not be subjected to unfair treatment. 2014 28 Since 2008, we have established an external contact office to allow employees to file reports anonymously. This example 2015 37 is just one of the ways in which we have created and 20 major Group companies in Japan CSR Awareness Surveys Would you use the Corporate Ethics To determine the state of CSR and corporate ethics and how to Q Hotline (CSR Hotline) if you detected a legal better promotion future CSR activities, the Citizen Group conviolation that was difficult to discuss with ducts annual CSR awareness surveys of the executives and your superior? employees of its 41 Group companies, including temporary employees. Survey responses reveal that although awareness of the Corporate Ethics Hotline (CSR Hotline) is gradually Fiscal 2013 36% 20% 44% increasing year to year, the number of people indicating they are not sure whether they would use the hotline has not changed. Fiscal 2014 34% 20% 46% Issues that were identified in the 9th CSR Awareness Survey were as follows. Fiscal 2015 34% 18% 48% • Improving the level of trust in the hotline 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 • Further developing harassment education Yes No Don’t know • Improving educational activities and raising comprehension of ISO 26000 8,153 / 9,253 people (response rate of 88.1%) Training for Corporate Ethics Hotline Respondents  The Citizen Group called in an outside instructor to provide training for its Corporate Ethics Hotline respondents. Going forward, we will continue with efforts to improve training for hotline respondents, raise awareness of the hotline, and increase trustworthiness in its reporting process. Promotion of Mental Healthcare  Following revisions to the Japanese Industrial Safety and Health Law in December 2015, offices with more than 50 employees are now required to implement stress checks of every employee. However, at Citizen’s Tokyo Office, we have been carrying out checks of occupational stress via simple questionnaires since 2004. As these checks allow employees to evaluate the amount of stress they are experiencing on their own, they provide employees with an opportunity to consider the methods for managing health and eliminating stress that best suit them. Further, since 2007, we have been collecting data and performing analyses by employee group based on these questionnaires and making efforts to improve each workplace. In addition to these questionnaires, we have also set up internal and external hotlines where employees can easily receive consultation 24 hours a day. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 30 Data Environment  Results for the First Half of the Citizen Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2018 (Excerpt) Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Evaluations : Achieved : Partly achieved : Not achieved Target Results Evaluations (t-CO2) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 150,000 • Acquired consolidated Group environmental certification 124,344 Consolidate Group • Obtain consolidated Group • Implemented internal Group audits and environmental environmental certification 100,000 93,377 93,112 90,636 89,118 management • Strengthen Group environmental compliance audits 83,875 • Increased precision of overseas environsystem ­management system mental data and regularly implemented activities to reduce environmental burden 50,000 • Eco-friendly approach to improving Promote environmental management • Received “Eco Mark Award Gold Prize” Provide eco-friendly brand value products and • Practice green procurement and •A  cquired third-party certification for carbon 0 footprint 2000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 services expand range of eco-friendly • Issued Group Green Procurement Guideline Electricity Gas Heavy oil Others products • Responded to RoHS Directive revisions and implemented CE marking Respond to • Respond to global environmental environmental laws laws and regulations, including • Strengthened response to restricted subGroup-Wide Waste Generated* stances of REACH regulation (Ni, Pb, Cr6+) and regulations ­chemical regulations • Bolstered management systems for chemical substances (t)(%) • Received external recognition for energy96 99 99 99 99 conserving activities 10,000 100 • Control greenhouse gas emissions Help create low• Responded to revised Fluorocarbons Law carbon society and and help prevent global warming • Implemented recycling governance for 8,000 7,840 7,372 7,258 7,442 80 • Reduce waste and promote 6,677 6,662 recycling-oriented waste recycling 6,000 60 society • Established targets to reduce handling 55 • Reduce chemical risks volumes of chemical substances covered 4,000 40 by PRTR Law • Implemented environmental activities deeply 2,000 20 Protect nature and • Conduct nature protection and rooted in local communities conduct community 0 0 regional environmental initiatives • Carried out greening initiatives at Group 2000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 activities offices, giving consideration to biodiversity Recycled Land-filled Incinerated Recycling rate Business Activities and Environmental Impact *W  aste generated = industrial waste + general waste + valuable resources Japan Overseas Total energy input (GJ) 2,136,797 1,148,626 Water resource input (km3) 1,757 995 Citizen Group Transaction Volume INPUT Repeated use of water within the 55 85 of Chemical Substances Subject to the organization (km3) PRTR Act* Chemical substance input (tons) 141 2,239 (t) Containers and packaging used (tons) 77 1,631 300 281 CO2 emissions (tons-CO2) 83,875 42,953 NOx emissions (tons) 4 0 240 SOx emissions (tons) 2 0 180 Water drainage (km3) 1,177 574 138 138 129 142 141 OUTPUT 120 BOD emissions (tons) 15 7 COD emissions (tons) 8 17 60 Waste generated (tons) 6,662 7,864 0 Waste land-filled (tons) 17 3,875 2001 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Input and output data does not include environmental impact at the distribution/sales, usage, or procurement stages. *C  hemical substances Subject to the PRTR Act Target period: April 1, 2015, to March 31, 2016, for companies in Japan; January 1, 2015, to December 31, 2001: 354 substances; 2010: 462 substances 2015, for companies overseas Scope of data: 26 companies in Japan; 16 companies overseas Employees  Recent Graduates Hired Implementation of Specific Health Checkups and FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Specific Counseling Guidance (at 32 worksites) Male 73 38 87 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Female 18 12 35 Specified medical examination rate 80.1% 81.1% 76.4% Employees Hired Mid-Career (employee & family) Metabolic syndrome rate 11.9% 11.8% 12.0% FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Pre-metabolic Male 61 32 15 12.5% 11.5% 12.2% syndrome rate Female 25 4 14 Specific counseling 26.8% 38.0% 41.1% guidance rate Average Age Average Years of Service FY2015 FY2015 Male 42.2 years Male 17.8 years Occurrence of Accidents Female 39.7 years Female 16.3 years FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Accidents resulting in Personnel Information employee absence 8 7 10 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Percentage of female Scope: Fiscal 2013: 13 principal Group companies in Japan 3.27% 3.40% 3.50% Fiscal 2014: 13 principal Group companies in Japan managers Usage of system for Fiscal 2015: 12 principal Group companies in Japan 2 (0) 2 (1) 4 (1) nursing care leave (reflecting the merger of two main Group companies in Japan in April 2015) Number of people taking 35 (0) 51 (0) 53 (3) childcare leave Percentage of employees 1.88% 2.03% 2.14% with disabilities Figures in parentheses are for male employees. 31 Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 Third-Party Comments Below, I offer my professional opinion on the content of the Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 as well as on matters deemed to be of high importance in the report. As a reference for future policies and information disclosure, I hope that my opinions can help the Citizen Group (hereinafter, General Manager, Business Development Department Citizen) implement its CSR activities on an even higher level Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited going forward. GRI Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) The beginning of this CSR report introduces the CITIZEN L brand ethical watches. As a concrete example of Citizen’s Hidemi Tomita CSV initiatives, I believe that CITIZEN L represents an excellent line of products that can appeal to both consumers and the watch industry in a symbolic manner. CITIZEN L reflects Citizen’s efforts in fusing the casual qualities that customers Group delve deeper into how it realizes value creation, what seek in a watch with new sustainable and ethical value, and the driving force of that unique value creation is, how it it is my hope that Citizen continues these efforts as a guiding approaches the formulation of business models, and how principle of its manufacturing practices. Moreover, in addition the results of its value creation efforts tie into the creation of to displaying the carbon footprint of these watches in their social value. list of components, CITIZEN L brand watches have been The section “CSR at the Citizen Group,” in the second half certified as “DRC conflict-free.” I believe that to be another of the report, adopts ISO 26000 as its main theme. While the noteworthy accomplishment. At the same time, the fact that progress of Citizen’s efforts related to this theme is listed in a the plan for CITIZEN L was created by female employees somewhat comprehensive manner, this section is limited to makes the brand a prime example of diversity management. examples of Citizen’s initiatives and brief explanations of their In addition to developing products with superior specificaresults. In contrast, in the “Message from the Management” tions, as Citizen has done with CITIZEN L, I would like to see section, President Toshio Tokura describes in detail the targets the Group make efforts to incorporate a high-level of ethics and results of Citizen’s efforts to improve diversity and frankly in other parts of its operations through such means as makalludes to the issues the Company faces. In each of the ing its supply chain even more transparent and further sections on ISO 26000, I would have liked the report to emphasizing respect for human rights and fair labor pracproactively disclose information related to the kinds of issues tices in its manufacturing processes. and risks the Company is dealing with in a similar manner. The section on the value Citizen provides to its customers At the same time, as clearly defining policies, KPIs, and and employees as well as to society as a whole in the first targets on a global level and expanding on numerical inforhalf of the report communicates the Group’s approach to mation related to performance helps arouse the interest of CSV more clearly than last year’s report. Furthermore, such stakeholders as ESG investors, I hope Citizen can while no citation is given, Citizen’s value creation process leverage its website and other means to improve the quality described in the report incorporates the basic ideas of the of its information disclosure going forward. IIRC Framework. As such, I feel that Citizen has made progThrough the structural reforms planned to take place this ress in improving its response to international disclosure year, I am expecting the Company to further deepen the initiatives, which I had mentioned in my opinion piece on last participation of its directors and management in CSR activities year’s CSR report. For future reports, in addition to providing as it continues to make progress in becoming an enterprise examples of the value Citizen creates, I would like to see the worthy of its name, Citizen. Response to Third-Party Comments  Thank you for your helpful and constructive comments. In addition to continuing to ensure compliance management, there are many issues we must tackle in order to realize the goal of becoming a “Truly Global Company,” which was adopted in the “Citizen Global Plan 2018,” such as resolving social issues and further contributing to society, building trust-based relationships with our stakeholders, relating to ESG, and engaging in proactive disclosure. While our efforts have just begun, the promotion of CSV initiatives is gradually taking General Manager, hold in each Group business. Going forward, we will promote CSV initiatives in a more CSR Department vigorous manner. Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Guided by our corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and striving to be respected by Yoshio Iizuka the citizens of the world,” we would like to continue efforts to ensure that our CSR reports deepen stakeholder understanding of our business activities based on the opinions you have provided. We deeply appreciate your thoughtful suggestions. Citizen Group CSR Report 2016 32 CSR Department at Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 188-8511, Japan Tel: +81-42-468-4776 Fax: +81-42-466-1280 Website: http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/csr/ Published: August 2016 is a registered trademark of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd.
