Annual Review 2015 i Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Contents ii-09 10-13 14-25 Strategic overview Research and Crops in focus ii At a glance Development 14 Cereals 01 Bringing plant potential to life 10 The industry’s most productive 16 Corn 02 Chairman’s statement innovation engine 17 Diverse fi ld crops 04 Chief Executive Officer’s 18 Rice statement 20 Soybean 06 Our business model 21 Specialty crops 08 Our strategy 23 Sugar cane 23 Vegetables 24 Lawn and Garden 26-35 36-45 The Good Growth Plan Operational performance 37 People 38 Sustainable operations 42 Business integrity 44 Public debates 27 Make crops more efficient 31 Empower smallholders 28 Rescue more farmland 32 Help people stay safe 30 Help biodiversity flourish 34 Look after every worker 46-63 64-67 Performance data Corporate 46 Regional performance 63 Independent Assurance Report information 47 Product line performance on the Syngenta Non-financial 64 Board of Directors Reporting 48 Financial information 65 Executive Committee 55 Non-financial information 66 Shareholder information About the Syngenta Annual Report For further information, including the Form 20-F, The full print edition of Syngenta’s Annual Report 2015 comprises: the Our Industry publication and a section with answers to many “Questions about Syngenta”, the  Annual Review 2015, summarizing both financial visit our corporate website: www.syngenta.com and non-fi ancial performance Syngenta’s Annual Report also serves as our the Financial Report 2015 annual Communication on Progress (COP) for the  Corporate Governance Report and Compensation the United Nations Global Compact. Report 2015. You can find our online Annual Report 2015 on: The Annual Review includes quantitative and qualitative www.ar2015.syngenta.com information on strategies, policies and actions taken regarding our business and corporate responsibility goals. ii Syngenta Annual Review 2015 At a glance Group performance Our focus has been on improving profitability while continuing to support our customers in a volatile economic environment. Financial performance Group sales Crop Protection sales2 Earnings per share3 Research and Development investment $13.4bn $10.0bn $17.78 $1.4bn +1% (CER1) -1% (CER1) -8% -3% (CER1) 2015 13.41 2015 10.00 2015 17.78 2015 1.36 2014 15.13 2014 11.38 2014 19.42 2014 1.43 2013 14.69 2013 10.92 2013 19.30 2013 1.38 Cash flow return Seeds sales Dividend per share5 EBITDA on investment4 11% $2.8bn CHF11.00 $2.8bn +5% (CER1) 0% +16% (CER1) 2015 11% 2015 2.84 2015 11.00 2015 2.78 2014 11% 2014 3.16 2014 11.00 2014 2.93 2013 13% 2013 3.20 2013 10.00 2013 2.90 Non-financial performance People trained Seed supply farms in Recordable illness Smallholders reached8 on safe use our fair labor program6 and injury rate7 5.7m 84% 0.38 17.2m 2015 5.7 2015 84% 2015 0.38 2015 17.2 2014 4.7 2014 53% 2014 0.37 2014 13.8 2013 2.8 2013 0.41 1 Growth at constant exchange rates (CER) 5 2015 dividend is subject to shareholder approval at  ead more about “Financial information” R 2 Including sales of Crop Protection products the Annual General Meeting on April 26, 2016 on pages 48–54 to Seeds 6 2014 value was estimated and not assured 3 Fully diluted excluding restructuring and impairment 7 Per 200,000 hours, according to US OSHA definition Read more about “Non-financial information” 4 For a definition of cash flow return on investment, 8 Through sales on pages 55–62 see page 54 Crop performance Crop sales $m1 We are using our deep understanding of crops Cereals $1,686m Soybean $2,515m to develop integrated offers, which increasingly bring together genetics and chemistry.  ead more about “Crops” R Corn $3,161m Specialty crops on pages 14–25 $1,882m Diverse field crops Sugar cane $271m $1,105m Vegetables $1,540m Rice $588m Lawn and Garden $648m 1 Crop sales are based on Syngenta estimates iii Syngenta Annual Review 2015 At a glance Business highlights Throughout 2015, we continued to strengthen our offer through market-leading innovation and collaboration. Here are some highlights from the year. Breakthrough corn herbicide New high-performance fungicides R&D Days: unparalleled pipeline Syngenta received US EPA approval for ORONDIS™ and SOLATENOL™ received We demonstrated that our R&D is the most ACURON®, providing a step change in US EPA approval, expanding Syngenta’s productive in the industry and set out a technology to address herbicide resistance. market-leading fungicide portfolio. pipeline of unparalleled innovation across Read more on page 17 Read more on pages 11 and 15 chemistry, seeds and traits. Read more on pages 10–13 Corn traits licensing agreement Syngenta and DSM partnership The Good Growth Plan Our licensing collaboration with KWS and The companies will develop and jointly We made significant progress and, with Limagrain is further affirmation of the value commercialize microbial-based agricultural the Open Data Institute, published data to of Syngenta’s innovative GM traits portfolio. solutions, including bio-controls, bioenable the unlocking of environmental, social Read more on page 16 pesticides and bio-stimulants. and economic value. Read more on page 12 Read more on pages 26–35 Our global reach Europe, Africa and Middle East Sales 1 $m 3,884 Countries Our teams around the world combine their local knowledge Employees 2,3 Research and Development sites 13,047 47 90 with our global assets and expertise, tailoring solutions Production and Supply sites 42 that create value for growers. Production and North America Sales 1 $m 3,410 Supply sites 4 North Europe, Africa America and Middle East Employees 2 Research and Development sites Production and Supply sites 4,335 34 35 112 Latin America Research and Sales 1 $m 3,632 Development Employees 2 4,962 sites 119 Research and Development sites 13 Production and Supply sites 12 Asia Pacific Sales 1 $m 1,837 Employees Employees 2 6,360 Research and Development sites Production and Supply sites 25 23 28,704 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden Latin Asia 2 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) as of September 30, 2015 America Paciﬁc 3 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 4 Including six multi-functional production sites Syngenta Annual Review 2015 01 Bringing plant potential to life Strategic overview We apply world-class science and the most productive research and development in the industry to achieve a step change Research and in agricultural productivity. Development In more than 90 countries around the world, we enable millions of farmers to improve Crops global food security by making in focus better, more sustainable use of available resources. The Good Growth Plan Operational performance Performance data Corporate information 02 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Chairman’s statement Extraordinary 2015 was a challenging year on a number of fronts, but one during which Syngenta demonstrated its resilience, circumstances, outperformance and excellence. In agricultural markets, crop prices remained subdued and impacted the willingness impressive resilience of growers to invest in technology. Nevertheless, preliminary data suggest that the Company managed to gain and a promising future market share on a global basis, while posting an improvement in margin. In these extraordinary circumstances, the Board is proud of what our Company “Preliminary data suggest that the Company managed to gain has achieved. market share on a global basis, while posting an improvement Economic uncertainty in emerging in margin. In these extraordinary circumstances, the Board is markets, which represent over 50 percent proud of what our Company has achieved.” of our sales, led to significant currency weakness, notably in Brazil and the CIS. Michel Demaré These devaluations restricted our sales Chairman growth, but our teams managed to cope with the turbulence through a number of actions in the field – leveraging the quality of our offer – which enabled us to progressively increase prices. While profit growth was curtailed by difficult agricultural markets and currency headwinds, profitability improved driven by the Accelerating Operational Leverage program which, in its second year, delivered more than the targeted savings. The program is really gaining momentum in the organization, and I am confident that our 2018 savings target of $1 billion will be achieved and result in clear profitability and cash flow leadership. Chairman’s statement Syngenta Annual Review 2015 03 Strategic overview Our industry-leading Research and We also made significant progress In that context, I was very pleased Research and Development productivity and innovation in developing a clear framework for to announce on February 3, 2016, pipeline was showcased at our R&D measuring and tracking the sustainability a transaction with ChemChina that Development days, attended by more than 570 investors, of our own operations. These are I firmly believe is in the best interests of customers, stakeholders and employees centered on five areas – energy, water, shareholders and all other stakeholders over three days in September. With unrivaled waste, suppliers and logistics – and the in Syngenta, including our employees, breadth and depth of technologies across majority of associated actions will be our customers and our communities. chemicals, seeds and biotech traits, completed by the end of 2016. It is a transaction for growth and longSyngenta is in a very strong position to term investment, and one which The Good Growth Plan and the Syngenta drive future growth. The ongoing success recognizes the tremendous value of our Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture, Crops of the new fungicide ELATUS™ in Brazil, Company – our innovation, our broad and which continued its excellent job in the launch of the novel herbicide deep market presence and the excellence in focus supporting smallholders across the world, ACURON® in the USA and the expansion of our people. Moreover, the governance really place Syngenta at the forefront of of our corn traits licensing – evidenced structure agreed in the transaction reflects sustainability in our industry and make, by the license agreement concluded with the high standards that have guided the in my opinion, a real difference. KWS/Limagrain in October – demonstrate Company since its inception in 2000 – not just our innovation power, but also our In October, Chief Executive Officer Syngenta remains Syngenta, and will ability to create significant value from Mike Mack informed the Board of his continue its ambitious standalone strategy that innovation. decision to step down from his role after supported by an ambitious owner. Even The Good eight years. Mike led the Company with better, growers around the world will Excellent progress was made during passion and dynamism, developing an continue to have a choice. Growth Plan the year with The Good Growth Plan. innovative integrated strategy, driving Each target within our six commitments I should like to thank my Board colleagues significant growth in sales and creating was achieved, and we remain on track to for their judgment and support during a new relationship with society through meet our 2020 goals. We also increased this process, and for their guidance during The Good Growth Plan. On behalf of the number of reference farms in our the year. the Board of Directors, I should like to network to over 1,000 globally, giving thank Mike for his immense contribution Finally, I should particularly like to thank us extensive and rich data. We reinforced to Syngenta. all the employees of Syngenta for their Operational our transparent approach by publishing dedication, hard work and commitment to these data in partnership with the Mike was succeeded by John Ramsay, the Company. The volatility created by the performance Open Data Institute, so that interested who has a long and distinguished track markets and by the industry consolidation stakeholders can analyze and work record of leadership in the Company. discussions have not caused them to lose with our results. John is currently acting in an ad interim focus. On the contrary, they start 2016 capacity, while a full internal and external In addition, 2015 was the first year in with the same determination and pride search is conducted. The Company is which we achieved audit level of in what Syngenta has to offer to farmers in solid hands, which allows a disciplined assurance for The Good Growth Plan. around the world. I am confident they will process to take place to select our This is unique in the industry – and very deliver again, whatever the circumstances. Performance future leader. rare in any industrial sector – and demonstrates the rigorous nature of 2015 witnessed much speculation The Good Growth Plan and the real, about industry consolidation, and a data quantifiable and tangible benefits that merger was announced towards the it brings to society and the environment. end of the year between two of our Finally, we became the first agriculture US-based competitors. This was partly company to receive accreditation by driven by challenging market conditions Michel Demaré the Fair Labor Association (FLA) for and diminishing returns on R&D, while Chairman our program in India. Building on this investors expect greater and faster strong foundation, we are now working returns from the industry as a whole. Corporate information with the FLA on accreditation for our As the structure of the industry started global program. to show irrevocable signs of profound changes, it was important for the Company to remain agile and assume no status-quo. 04 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Chief Executive Officer’s statement Clear goals are key As shareholders in an agriculture company, you are familiar with the impact – positive or negative – that to our objective commodity prices can have on our business. The evolution of commodity prices is determined by multiple factors, of outperformance including notably the weather. However, over the last two years, geopolitical and economic events have also had a significant influence on our business. “I remain convinced that the emerging markets, which today Managing currency volatility are experiencing such turmoil, continue to represent the The 2014 events in Russia and Ukraine major growth driver for our industry in the future. I am had continuing implications in 2015 equally convinced that Syngenta has the necessary skills because of the massive currency and experience, as well as the right portfolio, to succeed devaluations in those two countries. in these markets.” I am pleased to say that we were successful in offsetting these devaluations John Ramsay through price increases. While higher Chief Executive Officer Ad interim prices had some impact on sales of seeds, where local alternatives were available, our crop protection business was virtually unscathed. This shows the importance of high-value chemistry to customers in these countries and the strength of our market positions. In January 2015, the Swiss National Bank removed the Swiss franc peg against the Euro, resulting in a rapid appreciation of the franc. With some 13 percent of our costs in Swiss francs compared with less than 1 percent of our sales we, like many other Swiss companies, stood to be adversely affected by this move. However, thanks to our wellestablished hedging program we were able to minimize the impact. Chief Executive Officer’s statement Syngenta Annual Review 2015 05 Strategic overview The next currency challenge was the Managing for profitability I took over as the CEO ad interim of Research and rapid devaluation of the Brazilian real, Syngenta at the end of October. One I am conscious that in recent years our of my first moves has been to align the which accelerated during the summer – profitability has fallen short of our own Development just as the planting season was getting organization behind clear goals which and our shareholders’ expectations. I am are key to our objective of outperformance. underway. With growers confronted therefore pleased that in 2015, despite low with severe liquidity constraints, it has The goals comprise: meeting or exceeding commodity prices and currency volatility, our financial commitments; further not been possible immediately to raise we were able to increase profitability. prices in response to the movement in improving the customer experience in In the current environment, the need for order to maintain and grow market share; the currency. In the coming season, efficiency improvements has emerged however, we will begin to do so, building and driving simplification in everything as a prevalent industry theme. Syngenta on our experience in the CIS countries. we do to increase our speed and impact. Crops took early action in this respect, having I am confident that we have the framework In the meantime, our focus has been in focus announced our Accelerating Operational in place to achieve these goals, all of which on helping our customers through this Leverage (AOL) program in February period of economic difficulty, while are underpinned by the AOL program. 2014. The program has three pillars – Our strength in innovation, which has safeguarding our balance sheet global operations, commercial and R&D – through rigorous risk management. been amply demonstrated in the course with targeted savings of $1 billion in 2018. of 2015, will be a further driver in terms Overall I am proud of the way we have We delivered savings ahead of target of the customer experience. navigated through this period of currency at $ 300 million in 2015 and are firmly instability. Currency movements reduced on track to deliver the 2016 target. I have been deeply impressed by the our sales by $1.8 billion in 2015 and yet loyalty and determination of our people The Good As part of our commitment to improved during the last year, which has brought Growth Plan the impact on EBITDA was contained profitability, we have undertaken a review at around $100 million. considerable challenges. This gives me of all our seeds businesses, which will be the utmost conviction that we can concluded at the end of the first quarter Ongoing promise achieve our goals and deliver on of 2016. We will assess the profitability Syngenta’s immense promise. of emerging markets potential of each asset as well as its During my career of over 30 years at importance in the context of an Syngenta and its legacy companies, integrated offer. Operational I have spent extended periods in both Latin America and Asia Pacific. I remain R&D excellence performance convinced that the emerging markets, At our R&D Days in September, we which today are experiencing such demonstrated that Syngenta has the turmoil, continue to represent the major most productive R&D engine in the John Ramsay growth driver for our industry in the future. industry, with every dollar spent generating Chief Executive Officer I am equally convinced that Syngenta $ 10.70 in sales over the last ten years. Ad interim has the necessary skills and experience, We also explained that investment in as well as the right portfolio, to succeed R&D is not just about invention – it must Performance in these markets. also enable products to be successfully brought to market. With regulatory hurdles becoming steeper, our expertise data and foresight in this area are increasingly important – Syngenta has a 100 percent success rate in bringing products from development to launch. We have now put in place the platforms that will enable us further to increase R&D productivity, while continuing to excel at the invention Corporate information and the development of new products. 06 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Our business model Creating value The resources through innovation we depend on Our business enables growers to meet ever-growing demand for food and other plant-based resources such as biofuels. Demand is rising: both for greater quantity, driven primarily Financial capital by population growth, and for higher quality, driven by rising affluence and changing diets. People and the These needs must be met without putting further pressure intellectual property on resources that are already overstretched. We help farmers they create rise to the challenge through innovation rooted in our deep understanding of crops and the needs of growers worldwide. Chemical, biological, genetic and computational sciences Uniquely equipped to succeed It gives us particular strength in serving No competitor comes close to our smallholders and emerging markets, range of experience: in biosciences and where the greatest opportunities for yield improvement – and our business Natural resources breeding; in chemistry; across a huge variety of crops; and across geographies growth – exist. and climate zones worldwide. Our expertise and our open, collaborative Facilities and services This enhances the scope and pace of culture have made us a trusted and our innovation, enabling us to transfer sought-after partner: we have built technologies between crops and a rich network of productive alliances Local communities address challenges with holistic with academic institutions, other solutions that integrate both seed agricultural businesses and growers. and crop protection science. These relationships leverage our own Laws and regulations resources – accelerating our innovation, sharpening our production efficiency and increasing our flexibility. Our business model Syngenta Annual Review 2015 07 Strategic overview What What we The value Research and we do create we provide Development Crops Research and development Products, services and solutions Return on investment in focus What we do Who we work with for growers C  rop protection S  cientists and and shareholders discovery universities and innovation Research institutions A  dvanced seed Crops Farmers and suppliers breeding NGOs Food, feed, fuel and fiber  ddressing insect, A fungus, weed and  gricultural extension A environmental stress services Integrated The Good on crops solutions Sustainable intensification for growers of agriculture to provide Growth Plan Production Adjacent food security Products technologies What we do Who we work with Active ingredients Chemical suppliers Agronomic Intermediates Toll manufacturers know-how Grower and  ormulation, fill F Seed supply farms customer satisfaction and packaging  awn and Garden L Seed production supply chain Adjacent Operational Products Crops technologies Sustainable production Commercial Herbicides Cereals Nutrients performance What we do Who we work with Insecticides Corn F  inancial P  roduct Growers Fungicides D  iverse services Development of our management Distributors field crops I nformation people and partners Seedcare Crop-based offers systems Demonstration farms Seeds Rice along the value chain M  arketing, sales  rocessors P Soybean and distribution Traits and the food chain  pecialty S Agronomists crops Economic value shared Performance  gricultural A Sugar cane extension services with employees, suppliers, Vegetables Technology providers governments and communities data L  awn and Garden Supporting activities What we do Who we work with Collective wellbeing Stewardship Industry associations of communities Product registration NGOs and IGOs H  ealth, Safety, Environment, Stimulating research and sharing knowledge Corporate Quality and Security  echnology and T information engineering M  ulti-stakeholder dialogue 08 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Our strategy Accelerating Integration: five years on value creation Create integrated offers in the field supported by agronomic expertise and Our focus is on delivering higher profitability and above-market a deep understanding of growth, building on the success of our innovation. We are grower needs now and adapting our integrated strategy where necessary to ensure in the future that it is closely aligned with the varying needs of our customers around the world. Strong new products are vital for success, and our ongoing investment in Research and Development is securing the flow of innovation for many years to come. Syngenta was the first company to develop an integrated strategy combining crop protection, seeds, seed care and traits. The value of the strategy is now In a turbulent market environment, Our strategy needs to be at the service widely recognized across the industry. Syngenta’s ambition remains unchanged: of profitability as well as growth. We have to bring greater food security in heightened our focus on cost efficiency, In the first five years of strategy an environmentally sustainable way enabling us to deliver higher margins implementation, we have gathered to an increasingly populous world even in a context of lower crop prices. numerous insights from customers and by creating a worldwide step change In doing so, we are exploiting the global from our sales people around the world. in farm productivity. The launch of platforms put in place since launching This is enabling us to adapt and fine tune The Good Growth Plan and its increasing our integrated strategy in 2011. the strategy in accordance with the influence across the business is taking conditions of each territory. us nearer to realizing our ambition. Broad technology platforms Broad technology platforms, underpinned by Research and Development (R&D), are a pre-requisite for providing comprehensive solutions across crops. Syngenta is well placed as the world number one in crop protection, number three in seeds and a leading player in both seed treatment and genetically modified traits. We recognize, however, that alone we cannot fulfil every need. We have already demonstrated our willingness to enter into partnerships and collaborations to give our customers access to additional tools. Strong emerging market presence The integrated strategy achieved early success in the emerging markets, where technology adoption and intensification are resulting in ongoing demand for complete solutions accompanied by agronomic advice. As a consequence, we have been able to show share gains in both crop protection and seeds in many of these countries. Our strategy Syngenta Annual Review 2015 09 Strategic overview Flow of innovation Innovation in seed breeding Market outperformance Research and An upturn in innovation is now leading and traits Our objective of above-market growth to share gain in a number of developed 2015–2020 is underpinned by our recent new product Development markets too. While a fully integrated Our HYVIDO® hybrid barley will expand launches, current strong pipeline and approach cannot be applied uniformly in further, demonstrating how innovation experience in tailoring and adapting every market, we continue to strengthen can spur integrated offers in developed integrated offers. We are well placed in our positions through the breadth and markets. In corn, our focus is increasingly the emerging markets, having completed depth of our portfolio. With differentiated on the realization of trait revenues through a period of extensive investments, and seeds technologies such as HYVIDO® and licensing agreements as well as through our long experience of managing risk is ENOGEN®, we can generate additional our branded business. In recent years, enabling us to navigate the current volatility Crops crop protection sales by demonstrating Syngenta has had the highest rate of trait in several of these countries. in focus the superior results achieved through innovation in the industry, and this has combining genetics and chemistry. stimulated demand for both existing and Focus on seeds future traits. As a result, trait revenue is Marketing seeds, which are often the expected to more than double between grower’s first decision point, can expand 2014 and 2020. the opportunity for crop protection sales. Innovation: delivering 2020–2025 While we have already seen evidence of now and in the future Syngenta has a leading position in the this in practice, we are also focusing on maximizing profitability for each of our The Good Bring strong new products development of hybrid wheat, building seeds assets. We are developing clear to market and combine on the success of HYVIDO®. We expect to Growth Plan actions for each of the different crops chemistry and genetics be first to market with this game-changing within the business, with a particular focus to create new solutions technology, with progressive launches on those where profitability is significantly across three regions. and business models below the average. 2025–2030 Starting in the middle of the next decade, Accelerating the industry will see a new wave of trait Operational Leverage Operational innovation in which Syngenta will again The improvement in seeds gross margin Following the launch in 2014 of three play a leading role. Our pipeline includes will contribute to the increase in EBITDA performance new active ingredients – including the replacement traits for insect control and margin targeted under the Accelerating blockbuster ELATUS™ – in 2015, we solutions for problems not yet addressed Operational Leverage program. The launched ACURON®, a new corn herbicide by traits, including sucking pests and program targets savings of $ 1 billion in and another blockbuster. The introduction soybean rust. 2018, with around 40 percent coming from in the USA was positively received as a global supply, 40 percent from commercial major step forward in managing resistant operations and 20 percent from R&D. weeds. Meanwhile, ELATUS™ continued There are multiple work streams driving Outperform: targeting Performance to grow in its second season in Brazil. progress for each of these pillars. Cost The success of both products shows above-market growth savings account for about 60 percent of data that our customers have an appetite the $ 1 billion target, with the remainder Our goal is to improve for new technologies even in depressed dependent on market growth of around profitability while creating 4 percent. Achievement of the cost market conditions. value for our customers savings is a paramount objective through higher yields and throughout the organization. better use of resources Corporate information 10 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Research and Development The industry’s Further solutions will come from our work on bio-controls, which offer the advantage of precisely targeted action and can most productive be used alongside synthetic chemistry. Examples of current projects in this area include RNA-based bio-controls to innovation engine combat Colorado potato beetle, and we are now aiming to extend the scope of this technology to corn rootworm and other pests. Syngenta invests around $ 1.4 billion a year in R&D, and is unique Challenges such as heat, drought and in combining chemistry, genetics, breeding and computational cold are known as abiotic stress – and science to develop new products and solutions. Our R&D represent future opportunity. Our recent function is already the most productive and innovative in the solutions have included AGRISURE industry, and we continue to increase returns while accelerating ARTESIAN® – optimized for water use the pace of innovation. efficiency – and ISABION®, which increases rice yields by protecting young plants from cold during transplantation. Our markets present major opportunities Major opportunities for creating long-term, sustainable value to create sustainable value through the successful development Today’s solutions are mostly in the area and application of technology. To of biotic stress: controlling weeds, insects realize these opportunities in 2015, and disease. These challenges never we invested $1.36 billion into research stand still. We must constantly find new and development (R&D). ways to address emerging new pests Investment in Research and resistance to established solutions. and Development $bn We aim to anticipate problems, leveraging 2015 1.36 our broad portfolio of technologies to 2014 1.43 create new solutions. For example, we predicted the emergence of glyphosate2013 1.38 resistant weeds and began work on Our R&D strategy aims to anticipate and meeting the challenge a decade ago. meet growers’ needs, faster and better This has yielded a series of new than our competitors. products – most recently ACURON®, which combines multiple modes of action to combat resistant weeds and inhibit the development of further resistance. We launched ACURON® in 2015 in the USA, where resistant weed infestations in corn have risen by 50 percent in just four years. Research and Development Syngenta Annual Review 2015 11 Strategic overview Accelerating the pace The major product launch in weed control ORONDIS™ is based on the AI Research and of innovation was ACURON® – a breakthrough solution oxathiapiprolin, licensed from DuPont: providing four active ingredients and three one example of the way we are using Between 2008 and 2014, we launched an Development different modes of action to help growers partnerships to bring innovation to the average of one new active ingredient (AI) manage weed resistance. We also market faster. Across our crop protection a year and over 600 new crop protection received US approval for ORONDIS™, portfolio in 2015, we released more than products. Between 2016 and 2024, which offers a step change in controlling 70 new formulations. we are stepping up the pace, with 10 new diseases such as downy mildew and late AI launches planned from a pipeline with blight, at significantly lower application over $ 4 billion of sales potential. rates than other fungicides. Crops in focus Recent active ingredient launches Products introduced since 2008 Product Indication Crops Year of peak sales Peak sales SEGURIS® Fungicide Cereals, diverse field crops, rice, 2018 >$ 150m specialty crops, vegetables VIBRANCE® Fungicide Cereals, corn, diverse field crops, rice, 2020 ~$ 500m soybean, specialty crops, vegetables The Good Growth Plan CLARIVA® Seedcare Cereals, diverse field crops, soybean 2018 >$ 200m ELATUS™ Fungicide Cereals, corn, diverse field crops, 2020 ~$ 1,000m SOLATENOL™ soybean, specialty crops, vegetables FORTENZA® Seedcare Cereals, corn, diverse field crops, rice, 2018 >$ 400m MINECTO™ soybean, specialty crops, vegetables 2020 ACURON® Herbicide Cereals, corn, diverse field crops 2020 >$ 500m Operational New Crop Protection pipeline performance New blockbusters in large markets Product Indication Crops Status Launch year Peak sales ADEPIDYN™ Fungicide Cereals, corn, soybean, Stage 3 2016/2017 >$ 750m specialty crops, vegetables Lead 1 Insecticide Multiple crops Stage 3 2021 >$ 750m Performance Lead 2 Herbicide Multiple crops Stage 2 2023 >$ 600m Lead 3 Fungicide Cereals, soybean Stage 1 (late) 2022 >$ 600m Lead 8 Herbicide Multiple crops Stage 1 (late) 2024 >$ 500m data Large products in smaller segments Product Indication Crops Status Launch year Peak sales Corporate ORONDIS™ Fungicide Vegetables, specialty crops Stage 3 2016 >$ 150m Lead 4 Insecticide Vegetables, specialty crops Stage 3 2021 >$ 250m Lead 5 Seedcare Cereals, corn, soybean Stage 1 (late) 2021 >$ 400m information Lead 6 Seedcare Multiple crops Stage 1 (late) 2022 >$ 200m Lead 7 Seedcare Multiple crops Stage 1 (late) 2022 >$ 100m Stage 1: Invention, optimization Stage 2: Evaluation Stage 3: Development and launch 12 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 In seeds, we achieved the largest number of genetically modified (GM) trait New traits pipeline introductions in the industry between The industry’s next wave of new GM traits is some years Next generation traits 2010 and 2014. We are progressing out, but Syngenta has the platform and the capabilities New abiotic stress traits three new GM traits for soybean and to continue delivering leading trait innovation to the market. New traits corn through the regulatory approval processes. These are OH2 soybean and corn molecular stacks for herbicide Corn rootworm tolerance and corn rootworm. We also Herbicide tolerance Relative probability of launch have a strong research pipeline, with more than 20 corn trait leads in late research or with late research potential. Our traits Broad Lepidoptera have now been licensed by all our major Drought stress in corn competitors, reﬂecting the strength New soybean rust of our technology. Carbohydrate yield in corn In 2015, our breeding programs resulted in significant new launches in corn, soybean and rice, as well as new yield Sucking insects records for wheat and barley. In Vietnam, the first hybrid developed in Syngenta’s 10 15 20 local rice breeding program was Years Size of circles represents relative sales potential approved for sale. We expect to launch our first products Our integrated technology approach Hybrid wheat launch plan around the end of the decade. enables us to combine genetics, chemistry Syngenta wheat hybrids could cover and computational science to develop 82 million hectares. Productivity is rising new AIs with precisely targeted modes of We are accelerating the pace of new action. In seeds, our unified R&D platform 2020 product launches, while also increasing allows us to take full advantage of our France, USA their value. Average sales per AI launch global presence and the broadest range 2021 India more than doubled from $ 0.2 billion in of crops in the industry, applying our 2000–2004 to $ 0.5 billion in 2010–2014. strengths in genomics, molecular markers 2022 Canada Trait productivity is also increasing, with and precision trialing to transfer technology 2023 combined peak sales potential of across crops. Germany, $ 0.9 billion in 2010–2014, compared Partnerships with academic institutions UK 2024 with just $ 0.1 billion in 2000–2004. and technology companies are key to the Poland Integrating our breeding, traits and productivity and pace of our innovation. 2025 CIS chemical innovation engines into a single In November, Syngenta and DSM R&D structure has allowed us to innovate announced an R&D partnership to develop Technical proof of concept already achieved: at scale across crops and indications while microbial-based agricultural solutions, Yield performance of hybrids enhancing collaboration and removing including bio-controls, bio-pesticides Robustness of sterility system duplication of functions. In product safety and bio-stimulants. The collaboration Seed production capability and regulatory activities, outsourcing more aims to accelerate the delivery of a broad than half our re-registration work has cut spectrum of products based on naturally product safety cost per active ingredient occurring micro-organisms for preand We are currently working to translate the to two-thirds of the industry average. post-harvest application around the world. success of non-GM technology HYVIDO® The collaboration is underpinned by the hybrid barley into hybrid wheat, thereby potential of double-digit growth in the use revolutionizing the world’s largest crop. of biological solutions over the next We have already demonstrated the yield 10 years. performance of hybrids in wheat and see long-term sales potential of over $ 3 billion. Research and Development Syngenta Annual Review 2015 13 Strategic overview Investing in people Research and and resources Talent development is crucial to maintaining leadership in innovation. Development Our talent strategy attracts, retains and develops scientists who can lead highperforming teams. Diversity of experience is fundamental to our approach, and we actively pursue cross-functional development across Syngenta. Additional Crops momentum comes from the launch of in focus our cross-functional Career Development Center with its purpose to drive career aspirations and promote activities such as mentoring and coaching. The excellence of our teams continues to win external recognition. Accolades in 2015 included the election of Mary Dell The Good Chilton to the National Inventors Hall of Fame in the USA; Principal Chemistry Fellow Alain de Mesmaeker was appointed Growth Plan the President of the Swiss Chemical Society for his foundational work in biotechnology; and our soybean breeding program received the 2015 Franz Edelman Award. Smarter breeding brings results and rewards Developing higher-yielding crop varieties is essential to Operational We support our talented people with constant investment in high-quality R&D producing more from less. One answer lies in agriculture’s performance facilities. Our $ 94 million investment in next science revolution – analytics. a new Innovation Center at Research The Syngenta R&D soybean breeding team used advanced Triangle Park in North Carolina, USA, is mathematics and new tools to improve the process of growing nearing completion for occupation in the a wider variety of healthy crops. The tools dramatically second quarter of 2016. This will provide improved project lead training, decision-making and planning. world-class facilities designed to stimulate interactions across functions to drive The soybean breeding program won the 2015 Franz Edelman Performance innovation to new heights – a testament to Award, the most prestigious recognition of applying advanced our long-term commitment to advancing analytics to benefit business and humanitarian outcomes. data sustainable agricultural productivity. The power of analytics is truly transformational in agriculture, and we are now customizing these tools for use on corn, sunflowers, rice and even watermelons. Corporate information 14 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Crops in focus Cereals Seeing the world as growers see it Sales $m $1,686 m Our aim is to transform the way crops are grown by looking Crop Protection 1,553 at each crop through the eyes of the grower. We’ve integrated Seeds 133 our business so that we can combine a broad range of technologies that will have the greatest impact on yields, Current portfolio highlights quality and resource efficiency. No other company offers L  eading seeds business: wheat, solutions for such a large number of crops. conventional and hybrid barley Integrated growing systems, varietyspecific protocols: optimizing yield Focus on returns supported By integrating seeds and chemistry and quality delivery by ongoing innovation into protocols, we can offer farmers simple and reliable ways to maximize  DHI fungicide technology: S Farmers are investors. Whatever the SOLATENOL™, SEGURIS®/ performance. And we are transferring scale of their activities, they must weigh BONTIMA®, VIBRANCE® know-how across our broad crop the amount they invest in inputs against portfolio: experience with GROMORE™ the returns they can reap in terms of yield in rice, for example, has informed the and quality. Cereals is the world’s largest crop by development of similar offerings in acreage, grown in over 120 countries In 2015, commodity prices remained soft soybean, potatoes, vegetables, worldwide thanks to its exceptional for all major crops. Such conditions put cotton and sugar cane. Our expertise agronomic versatility. Wheat is also product performance under even greater in hybridization has expanded the the world’s largest food crop. scrutiny: growers must be convinced sunflower market and is now that their investment in seeds and crop revolutionizing barley growing; With leading positions in crop protection, protection technology will be worthwhile, we are making significant progress seed treatment and seeds, we are even at lower crop prices. in rice and expect to launch wheat uniquely placed to offer compelling hybrids at the end of the decade. solutions to growers’ challenges. We have Innovation can bring competitive edge taken a lead in helping growers meet the in challenging markets. Pest pressures, specific needs of their various customers resistance and climate change present including food companies, pasta makers, constantly evolving threats to farmers’ brewers and maltsters. Our integrated returns, and demand new solutions solutions – combining seeds with crop regardless of the crop price cycle. protection and agronomic protocols – enable growers to raise both their yields and quality. Cereals present major opportunities for technification. Syngenta has made substantial investments that have placed us at the forefront of the technology drive, and we are already beginning to reap the benefits. Our hybrid-seed technology is revolutionizing barley farming and is set to do the same for wheat – a much larger opportunity – in the 2020s. All crop sales in this section are based on Syngenta estimates. Crops in focus Syngenta Annual Review 2015 15 The cereals market was not an easy one in 2015, as softening commodity prices Strategic made premium products harder to sell. overview Despite these conditions, we built on our crop protection success in 2014, increasing share in most markets. This reflects the strength of our portfolio: with both traditional and new technologies, we offer an unrivaled breadth of solutions across all geographies, notably in the Research and area of resistance management. Towards the end of the year, we received registration for our breakthrough SDHI Development fungicide SOLATENOL™ for wheat in the USA. This new chemistry has already shown major success against soybean rust in Latin America. The US registration came too late to affect 2015 sales significantly, but will be a major driver Crops in 2016. in focus Increasing our leadership in wheat The German and Italian seed businesses acquired in 2014 have reinforced our global leadership in conventional wheat. They have expanded our industry-leading Boosting biogas production with HYVIDO® hybrid barley The Good germplasm portfolio and strengthened the opportunities open to us as we transfer In Italy, farmers have increased the production of biogas, Growth Plan our hybridization technology from barley which is used to generate electrical power or heat, by planting to wheat. HYVIDO® hybrid barley instead of corn, wheat or triticale. We are currently developing wheat hybrids HYVIDO® offers several advantages over other crops; for adapted to the highest-value markets, and example, it is more able to resist diseases, is more resilient made encouraging progress in 2015 after to severe weather conditions and produces more organic successfully completing technical proof of material from each hectare. Also, farmers are able to plant concept in late 2014. Having tackled the two crops a year instead of one because HYVIDO® technological aspects, we expect to launch has a shorter production time than alternative crops. Operational performance hybrid wheat around the end of this decade. In 2015, after just two years, HYVIDO® accounted for 30,000 hectares in Italy. Profiting from innovation in barley Meanwhile, HYVIDO® has positioned us at the forefront of driving hybrid barley In France, the ongoing introduction of Outlook adoption. In 2015, in a market facing the new hybrids has added to the attraction In 2016, we expect continued progress. Performance lowest commodity prices for a decade, of the offer: 40 percent of our 2015 sales We will drive further cereals sales in the we increased European acreage of this were for products launched that year. Americas and in Europe through our data premium product by 20 percent. With Backing HYVIDO® with our Cashback partnerships with the value chain, 2015 launches in Italy, Serbia, Hungary, Yield Guarantee makes the choice very particularly in pasta and malting barley Bulgaria and Romania, HYVIDO® is rapidly attractive for farmers, and planted acreage for beer. SOLATENOL™ will be launched replacing older technologies, with a strong doubled from 25,000 hectares in 2014 in North America, where it has significant pull-through of our complementary crop to 50,000 hectares in 2015. We are sales potential, and has just received a protection products. As the expansion targeting a similar increase in 2016. registration in Europe. VIBRANCE® – one of HYVIDO® continues, we are also of our fastest-growing Seedcare products Corporate increasing profitability by developing new in North America and Europe – will also hybrids that cost less to produce and by benefit from new European registrations. outsourcing hybrid supply. information 16 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Corn Sales $m $ 3,161m Crop Protection 1,988 Seeds 1,173 Current portfolio highlights A  CURON®: new herbicide for enhanced weed control ENOGEN® corn offer  ater optimization native trait: W AGRISURE ARTESIAN® GM corn tackles pests, weeds and weather Integrated insect and weed Growing corn in Vietnam is challenging due to the Asian corn resistance management solutions borer – the most damaging corn pest in Asia – weeds and adverse weather. Syngenta is helping farmers overcome these issues with genetically modified (GM) corn. It is the first GM Corn is Syngenta’s largest single crop. crop to be approved and grown in Vietnam. It is widely grown across the world – The double-stack corn variety – which is herbicide tolerant and for food, animal feed and, in the USA, insect resistant – improves productivity and crop quality. for bio-ethanol. Farmers receive a better return on investment, and Vietnam’s Corn growers in many areas face a variety dependence on corn imports is reduced. of pest pressures and unpredictable The introduction of GM corn in 2015 supports Syngenta’s weather conditions. Our technological market leadership in Vietnam and is another step towards leadership enables us to address these meeting the global demand for food, feed, fiber and biofuels. challenges with innovative and clearly differentiated solutions. Our strong proprietary trait platform is enabling us to expand our footprint and profitability in conditions. Although there were no Our CELLERATE™ process, co-developed seeds, with increasing revenues coming widespread corn drought events in 2014, with Cellulosic Ethanol Technologies, from trait licensing as well as seed sales. high grower satisfaction resulted in a enhances production yields by producing In 2015, we announced a licensing 50 percent uplift to 600,000 hectares ethanol from waste corn kernel fibers. agreement with KWS and Limagrain planted in 2015. The first plant fitted with this technology under which we provide the two reached production scale in 2015. It has companies and their joint ventures with In the biofuels market, corn with our demonstrated potential to increase worldwide rights to our GM corn traits ENOGEN® trait makes bio-ethanol production from existing plants by a further portfolio. This collaboration follows on production substantially more efficient. 6 percent – or an extra 7.7 billion liters of from licensing agreements with all other As well as producing more fuel from a fuel annually – on top of ENOGEN®-based major corn seed companies. given amount of crop input, it can cut yield improvements. a typical bio-ethanol plant’s water use Producing more with less by around 1.7 million liters a year. In 2015, Water efficiency is a cost issue as well as We help growers to reduce their water ENOGEN® acres more than doubled an environmental one: irrigation can cost needs. In 2014, North American growers compared to 2014. Contracted production US farmers $ 550 a hectare. Our response planted 400,000 hectares of our plants currently have a combined annual is Water+ Intelligent Irrigation, an integrated AGRISURE ARTESIAN® hybrids – which capacity of over 4.75 billion liters of approach that cuts water inputs by provide season-long drought protection ENOGEN®-based ethanol. combining AGRISURE ARTESIAN® and also provide high yields in normal Crops in focus Syngenta Annual Review 2015 17 with agronomic protocols and irrigation equipment developed with Lindsay Strategic Corporation. In 2015, the number of overview hectares enrolled was up 70 percent – with growers earning a return on investment of around $ 230 per hectare. Combating weed and insect resistance Resistant weeds and insects are eroding Globally, we have 30 percent market Diverse field crops Research and the effectiveness of conventional crop share of planted sunflower acreage but protection practices and products. This 38 percent of crop value due to the high Development provides increasing opportunity for our value and performance of our hybrids. strong technology portfolio and solutions Portfolio rejuvenation is a key part of our with multiple modes of action. strategy, and between 2015 and 2016 we will have replaced a third of our seeds In 2015, our breakthrough herbicide portfolio as we introduce new nextACURON® received approval by the generation herbicide-tolerant varieties US Environmental Protection Agency. as well as high-oleic varieties that meet Combining a new chemical, bicyclopyrone, market needs. Crops with three other active ingredients, it in focus controls a wider range of weeds than Herbicide tolerance is a cost-effective any existing selective herbicide used in Sales $m way to improve yield, particularly in corn and will be critical in making corn combination with our leading herbicides production more sustainable. Though approval came towards the end of the $1,105m for broomrape control: LISTEGO® and CAPTORA®. Our integrated offer is the planting season, 200,000 hectares were Crop Protection 593 only successful solution for broomrape, treated in 2015; global sales are forecast Seeds 512 which can destroy a crop entirely. It will spearhead our drive for growth across The Good to reach $ 500 million by 2020. the market in 2016. Current portfolio highlights Growth Plan Sales of our insect control traits are expanding, boosted by China’s approval H  igh-value hybrids: NK®, Oilseed rape of AGRISURE VIPTERA® corn for import. SYNGENTA®, SPS®, MARIBO®, We achieved ambitious crop protection Insect resistance is a particular issue in HILLESHÖG® sales targets in our key European markets. the tropical conditions of Latin America, Seeds sales grew strongly as the market Integrated sunflower weed control where AGRISURE VIPTERA® is the only trend towards hybridization continued. We system: native trait, LISTEGO®, trait without resistance issues and the successfully integrated the German and CAPTORA® only effective response to a critical Operational Polish winter oilseed rape breeding challenge, fall armyworm. In North Enhanced root health: VIBRANCE® operations acquired in 2014. performance America, our AGRISURE DURACADE® trait and FORCE® insecticide are key European farmers continue to face crop Diverse ﬁeld crops – principally consisting damage resulting from the EU’s temporary tools for farmers combating corn of sunﬂower, oilseed rape and sugar suspension of neonicotinoid seed rootworm pests. beet – are attractive crops offering treatment, which prevents use of the Profiting from generally robust margins. Demand insecticide CRUISER®. No current is driven by a wide range of markets: technology leadership alternatives are as effective as vegetable oils and sugars, animal feed, CRUISER®, but our contingency plans Performance In the year ahead, sales and profit industrial applications and biofuel growth will be powered by our unique for replacement, as well as our continuing production. Productivity varies widely, work on renewing our insecticide portfolio, data technologies – particularly ENOGEN®, offering ample scope for growth through AGRISURE ARTESIAN® and ACURON®. are resulting in important new products technology intensiﬁcation. for both the short and longer term. We also expect further progress in Asia Pacific: we are spearheading trait Sunflower In the Canadian canola seed market, expansion in Vietnam, where we are Syngenta is the market leader in our integrated whole-farm approach – already market leader and have received sunflowers. In our largest markets, seed, crop protection and rotation with approval for a trait that controls Asian Russia and Ukraine, 2015 revenues were cereal crops – is delivering good results, Corporate corn borer, a significant corn pest in impacted by adverse exchange rates and and further growth is expected in 2016. ASEAN countries. information soft commodity prices. We were, however, able to maintain profitability through price increases. 18 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Building a differentiated offer Rice In most of our key markets, we are the leaders in crop protection, with a consistent record of growth. In recent years, we have become more active in seeds, with emphasis on hybrid seeds and technologies offering substantial productivity increases – particularly for the low-tech farmers who grow most of Sugar beet the world’s rice. This effort has gathered A global oversupply of sugar caused momentum since the 2012 acquisition reductions in sugar beet acreage in of Devgen’s two-line hybrid technology 2015, although in Russia poor weather and broad germplasm portfolio. Hybrids Sales $m conditions resulted in many farmers represent a significant market opportunity, replanting. Business performance was disappointing and we are currently $ 588 m as their penetration outside China is less than 5 percent. focusing on driving improved profitability. Crop Protection 575 We have three strategic aims: maximizing Seeds 13 We are working with European farmers the potential of our crop protection to prepare for the elimination of EU sugar portfolio; building a profitable seeds quotas in 2017, which will intensify Current portfolio highlights business; and building a differentiated offer competition from imported cane sugar. around labor saving and convenience.  ROMORE™: G We expect sugar beet’s share of the Underpinning all these is the GROMORE™ integrated rice protocols world sugar market to remain stable as program, which integrates seeds and crop European companies strive to improve N  ew crop protection products: protection protocols to deliver major their sugar production cost efficiency. CHESS® and VOLIAM TARGO® advances in productivity, reliability and Although the changes will be challenging L  eading native trait quality. GROMORE™ has now reached for smaller players, they will bring new for bacterial leaf blight over a million growers across Asia Pacific, export opportunities for the biggest consistently raising yields by up to processors – who are becoming more 30 percent. demanding customers as a result. Rice is a staple for more than 2 billion There is already growing pressure in people, providing livelihoods for almost Reaching smallholders the market for higher quality produce a billion growers and workers in the value more efficiently at competitive prices. chain. Our activities in Rice are focused A focus on smallholders is central to on Asia Pacific, where 125 million hectares our strategy. The challenge is one of of rice are grown: around 27 percent of scale: Asia Pacific has over 300 million Syngenta’s Asian revenues come from smallholder rice farmers, so we need our Rice business. an efficient way to reach them, generate Crop productivity varies considerably – demand and service them while keeping Asia’s most technified markets average close track of effectiveness and around 6–7 tonnes per hectare, roughly profitability. Having developed double the yields achieved by less GROMORE™ as a proven and scalable developed countries. But current agronomic solution, we have now improvements in productivity are not established an efficient industrialized keeping pace with demand and resources platform for smallholders that will be are under pressure – the supply of water piloted in Thailand in early 2016. for this water-intensive crop is diminishing, and urbanization and industrialization are reducing the availability of land and labor. Crops in focus Syngenta Annual Review 2015 19 Falling market prices for rice, and adverse weather in South Asia and ASEAN, had Strategic an adverse effect on crop protection overview sales in 2015. But successful product introductions included CHESS® and VOLIAM TARGO®, which performed particularly well in South Asia and China. Building our position in hybrids In seeds, we are progressing with work Research and on the Devgen two-line hybrid technology platform. We anticipate market launch of Development our first two-line products in 2018 in the Philippines. Meanwhile, we have registered our first locally-developed hybrid in the important Vietnamese market. We have been building capability in our R&D and production organizations to support future growth, while rationalizing Crops our existing seeds portfolio to raise in focus average margins. We have discontinued the TEGRA® mechanized offer, which was not realizing sufficient levels of profitability; however, we will continue to work on the related technology, leveraging our experience ISABION® Untreated in the GROMORE™ protocols. The Good In 2016, we will be expanding the Overcoming natural threats to rice Growth Plan smallholder approach to drive GROMORE™ Rice faces not only pests and disease, but also abiotic stress sales in many more smallholder rice such as heat and cold. This affects growers in terms of yield, markets, while building on the success time and ultimately their livelihood. of our recent crop protection launches. With ISABION®, a biostimulant, rice can better withstand abiotic stress. By enhancing the plant’s nutrient uptake, ISABION® mitigates the impact of heat or cold and delivers Operational superior yield under stress conditions. This is particularly important in light of climate change. In trials across Asia, rice seedlings treated with ISABION® performance were more vigorous and yielded up to 10–15 percent more than untreated plants. ISABION® is available in Asia including China and India. New offerings in more countries and for other crops will follow. Performance data Corporate information 20 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Soybean Sales $m $ 2,515 m Crop Protection 2,124 Seeds 391 Current portfolio highlights  LATUS™: market-leading E soybean rust control E  lite varieties with herbicide-tolerant and insect-resistant traits B  road portfolio for weed resistance and early weed management Customized solution Soybeans are the largest protein source to help increase productivity in agriculture and are also used in biofuels. Some 120 million hectares are planted Soybean growers need to meet rising demand without in 25 countries. Over 70 percent of this increasing the amount of farmland used, so improving acreage is in Brazil, Argentina and yields is a constant challenge. North America, which – as a result of In Brazil, Syngenta provides its High Yield Soybean high yields – account for over 80 percent integrated crop solution, locally named INTEGRARE™. of global production. The offer – designed based on grower insights and our Global demand for soybean is growing at technology expertise – can be customized to different 4 percent annually. Yields are threatened environments. It includes best-in-class seeds, seed by resistant weeds, particularly in the treatments and crop protection with robust protocols, USA, and by disease and insects in combined with a choice of agronomic or financial services Latin America. As suitable acreage is such as nutritional advice or risk management tools. limited, soybean growers are under Following initial field results delivering 5–10 percent better pressure to increase yields and are hence yield than competitors’ crops, the INTEGRARE™ solution very receptive to technological solutions was used on 300,000 hectares in 2015. in breeding, genetically modified (GM) traits and in chemistry, where Syngenta is the market leader. Leading the field Our herbicides also achieved strong Our strategy focuses on delivering growth, driven by the success of our solutions to growers that enhance yields in crop protection weed management programs in the without using more land, water or inputs. In crop protection, we have the leading USA and Argentina to combat We have been accelerating the pace of technology in herbicides, fungicides glyphosate resistance. innovation, not only in crop protection but and insecticides. also in seeds – where we have pioneered The highlight of 2015 was the ramp-up the use of applied analytics to breed of ELATUS™ in Brazil, following its launch higher-performing varieties faster. in 2014. This breakthrough fungicide provides exceptional protection against rust, and sales to soybean growers in Brazil reached $ 384 million. Crops in focus Syngenta Annual Review 2015 21 Raising profitability through efficiency, Strategic partnerships and innovation overview In soybean seeds, our emphasis in 2015 was on increasing profitability. Building on our excellent germplasm portfolio, our use of applied analytics has further enhanced our ability to develop differentiated, highyielding varieties that complement our In 2015, we achieved more than crop protection technology. Research and Specialty crops 270 new use registrations in Specialty The rapid introduction of new traited crops. These included applications for Development varieties in our Brazil portfolio was our chlorantraniliprole-based insecticide supported by a new partnership model, mixtures – DURIVO®, AMPLIGO® and which has multipliers in the market, VOLIAM TARGO® – across Europe. We as well as by a focus on efficiency anticipate a particularly strong grower within the Accelerating Operational response to the launch in 2016 of our Leverage program. new high-performance fungicide, ORONDIS™, which achieved An integrated strategy US registration in late 2015. Crops for growth in focus We also enhance existing products. We are uniquely placed to help growers Sales $ m In 2015, we gained first registration for increase their yields sustainably, and our an innovative new formulation of our integrated crop strategy in soybean builds on the broadest portfolio in the industry. $1,882 m emamectin insecticide. On fruit trees, potatoes and grapes, the new formula We developed our High Yield Soybean Crop Protection 1,882 halves the application rate by using a solution in close collaboration with our Seeds 0 sunscreen additive to reduce ultraviolet customers, looking at their specific needs degradation of the active ingredient. for each crop stage and providing them The Good Current portfolio highlights Potatoes: contributing Growth Plan with a complete offer to increase yield and provide assurance of return on investment. B  road crop protection technology to food security in China footprint and breadth Over the past three years of trial and This solution combines our best-in-class portfolio – seeds, seed treatment and R  ecent launches: ELATUS™, commercial use, our Potato Healthy crop protection – and customized REFLECT®, DYNALI®, AMPLIGO®, Tuber solution – combining quality protocols with agronomic support such DURIVO®, VIBRANCE® seed potatoes, chemistry and growing as nutrition advice and financial services  ommercial ramp-up of C protocols – has helped Chinese growers Operational including risk management. Tailored sustainability-based solutions to increase yields by over 30 percent for each territory, it was first launched and earn a 3:1 return on their investment. performance in Brazil as INTEGRARE™, with In 2016, we plan further enhancements 300,000 hectares planted in 2015. Our Specialty crops business is in partnership with other leading suppliers It is now being expanded in the USA focused on crop protection in more in areas such as breeding and machinery. under the AGRIEDGE® umbrella with than 40 high-value crops around the 150,000 hectares planted in 2015, world. It holds strong positions in many Fruits: enhancing growers’ and being piloted in Argentina markets, with around 80 percent access to markets as INTEGRASOJA™. of sales coming from four principal Changing regulatory and food chain Performance Specialty crop groups: potatoes, requirements make it increasingly difficult Looking ahead cotton, fruits and plantation crops. for fruit growers to access profitable In 2016, we expect to extend our crop Specialty crop growers often have limited markets for their produce. Our Fruit Quality data protection leadership as we drive access to new technology, as individually Contract solution provides market access SOLATENOL™ sales in Latin and North their markets are too small to justify guidance backed by tailored crop America and launch a further SDHI substantial research and development protection protocols. In 2015, we tripled fungicide, based on the new active investment. We bring Syngenta’s broad its coverage to 30,000 hectares. Current ingredient ADEPIDYN™, in Argentina. We portfolio of crop protection technology acreage is mainly in Europe, but we see will continue to enhance seed profitability to these smaller market sectors by potential in rapidly-growing export markets as we introduce new traited varieties in our assessing new active ingredients for such as Chile and India. Growth will be Corporate information portfolio, and will further extend our High their applicability to specialty crops. boosted in 2016 by unique new digital Yield Soybean solution. Where necessary, we then introduce applications offering faster and more new formulations or make the best use precise market access recommendations. of existing solutions. 22 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Cotton: improving agronomic Helping growers access attractive markets knowledge in India Apple growers can face a challenge in exporting to some Our integrated FAST START European countries. Supermarkets, especially in Germany, PERFORMANCE™ (FSP) program is demand high-quality fruit with minimum pesticide residue gaining rapid acceptance among cotton levels that are even lower than European Union requirements. growers in India, with participants up Syngenta has responded with the Fruit Quality Contract (FQC). from 3,500 to more than 12,000 in 2015. In 2015, we began working with seven grower groups in Poland. FSP enhances growers’ agronomic We provide growers with training and customized advice knowledge, while its optimized chemistry on crop protection using fast-degrading active ingredients. and protocols support early crop Residue levels are met, and growers gain access to establishment and ensure strong plant attractive markets. growth. Average yield increases of over 20 percent and improved fiber quality The goal for 2016 is to scale up to 3,000 hectares of apple have raised growers’ profitability and orchards in Poland. satisfaction. We launched FSP to over 700 industry representatives in Australia for the 2015 season, in partnership with Cotton Seed Distributors. Trials will continue in 2016 to assess new seed treatment approaches. Coffee: expanding NUCOFFEE® In Brazil, we continue to grow our NUCOFFEE® program. This enhances growers’ profitability through agronomic protocols to improve productivity, combined with quality assurance to secure higher prices. In 2015, we expanded NUCOFFEE® to smaller farms in Brazil and introduced it to leading growers and cooperatives in Colombia. Further expansion will follow in 2016. Crops in focus Syngenta Annual Review 2015 23 Revolutionizing Sugar cane sugar cane cultivation Strategic In order to raise vigor and yields, we have overview been developing new crop protection protocols while pursuing our work on breeding. We are producing high-quality seedlings under the PLENE® brand at our Itápolis biofactory in Brazil. Branded PLENE® PB, these pre-germinated plants are used by sugar mills and growers to Research and plant their nurseries and to fill the gaps Vegetables found in fields after crop establishment Sales $ m or after harvesting, with the aim of Development recovering the full yield potential of the $ 271 m fields. PLENE® PB was introduced on 380 hectares in 2014 and planted on Crop Protection 271 2,500 hectares in 2015. Seeds 0 Meanwhile, we are making further progress towards the launch in 2017 Crops Current portfolio highlights of the full PLENE® program, incorporating in focus  nique chemical solutions for biotic U a system of direct mechanized planting. This system is being developed through Sales $ m stress: MODDUS®, CALLISTO®, ACTARA® Integrated fields a licensing agreement for CEEDS™ (Crop Expansion Encapsulation and $1,540 m Drilling Systems), a technology allowing Crop Protection 924 Nursery solution: PLENE® PB growers to plant small encapsulated Seeds 616 seedlings instead of large pieces of cut sugar cane. This increases the number The Good Demand for sugar cane continues to of hectares that can be planted in a day, Current portfolio highlights grow – to feed the world’s increasing enabling mills and growers to further Innovative cyantraniliprole insecticide Growth Plan appetite for sugar and also for use in improve yields and quality by planting only and seed treatment mixtures: biofuel production. More than 40 percent in optimal weather conditions. In 2016, sucking pests of the world’s sugar cane is now produced we will run the first demonstration plots in Brazil, which has more than doubled with customers. B  road seeds portfolio with leading its production in the past decade. Brazil native traits: leafy and fruity is therefore our largest single market for We are also harnessing our experience in vegetables, brassicas Operational sugar cane. genetically modified traits for soybean and C  ommercial ramp-up of MAXVEG™ corn to develop new sugar cane varieties integrated smallholder offer performance In comparison to other field crops, as part of integrated solutions against relatively few technologies are available for insects and herbicide resistance. sugar cane, signifying considerable scope Our global Vegetables business covers for intensification. Yields currently average Rationalizing to more than 30 species across five 75 tonnes per hectare, but could enhance profitability categories: peppers and tomatoes, potentially be raised to several hundred melons and cucumbers, salad vegetables, In 2015, we rationalized our crop tonnes. Until recently, cultivation methods brassicas and sweet corn. Across all protection portfolio but increased remained highly traditional, with pest Performance profitability. We moved away from some these markets, there is an overall trend control achieved largely by pre-harvest of rising expectations in terms of both high-volume but low-margin products, data crop burning. Now many countries are quality and seasonal availability. We help to focus on fungicides and insecticides phasing out crop burning – the practice growers meet the requirements of their where our products are clearly will soon be banned throughout Brazil – customers – whether consumers, retailers differentiated from the competition. and harvesting is becoming increasingly or processors – while improving their The launch of AMPLIGO® for borers mechanized. These trends are driving productivity and sustainability. and other insects was well received greater demand for herbicides, and sales have been growing rapidly. insecticides and fungicides. Currently our major Vegetables markets are Europe and the USA, which continue to grow well. We are targeting future Corporate information growth in Latin America, Africa and Asia Pacific and, in particular, see substantial potential in China and sub-Saharan Africa. 24 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Lawn and Garden Bringing big crop solutions Bringing technology benefits to smaller crops to smallholders As is the case for specialty crops, Smallholders are increasingly important vegetable growers can miss out on new to us as we expand our reach in emerging Sales $ m technology as their separate crops cannot markets. We aim to boost their profitability justify substantial investment in R&D. To give growers access to Syngenta’s broad by making technology more accessible. Our MAXVEG™ platform integrates modern $ 648 m portfolio of crop protection technology, chemistry and agronomy to maximize Crop Protection 455 we evaluate new active ingredients under marketable yields through safe, effective Seeds 193 development for larger crops to identify use of crop protection – consistently suitable applications for vegetables. raising productivity by more than We then introduce new formulations that 20 percent. Our Lawn and Garden business provides bring vegetable growers the benefits of industry-leading chemistry for professional In 2015, we expanded MAXVEG™ turf and landscape markets such as the latest chemistry, or ensure that they throughout India and China. Reaching golf courses, and for industrial pest can make best use of products formulated vast numbers of smallholders, particularly management. It also includes Syngenta for other crops. in Asia, is a challenge we also face in rice. Flowers, a market leader in mass market This cost-effective approach has made We are drawing on our experience of the and value-added plants which develops us a top-three player in all five of our GROMORE™ rice program for the mass innovative solutions for seasoned and Vegetable categories, maximizing the marketing and delivery of MAXVEG™ hobby gardeners alike. Our high-value value of our innovation. across a wide range of vegetables. chemistry solutions, flower offerings We achieved more than 400 new use and retail partnerships help to enrich lives Innovating in Vegetables Seeds, and make living environments inspiring registrations in Vegetables in 2015. growing crop protection and healthy. These included a range of vegetable applications in Europe for our insecticide Our Vegetables Seeds business is high Lawn and Garden achieved a strong mixtures DURIVO®, AMPLIGO® and margin with a significant global footprint financial performance in 2015. We drove VOLIAM TARGO®. and a wide array of class-leading varieties. growth by launching new products, It has an excellent record of innovation and In 2015, we received first registration increasing market penetration, introduced 180 new varieties in 2015. for an innovative new formulation of our broadening our reach in new and emamectin insecticide, which halves the In our crop protection business, we can established markets and expanding application rate by reducing ultraviolet leverage technology from other parts our flower retail programs. And, although degradation of the active ingredient. of the business. Our product pipeline we faced some market headwinds, we remains very strong, and in 2016 we will mitigated risks by prioritizing investments benefit from the US launch of our new and controlling costs. high-performance fungicide, ORONDIS™. Crops in focus Syngenta Annual Review 2015 25 Innovations drive market share growth Strategic In our key North American turf and overview ornamentals market, we gained market share through new product launches including APPEAR®, HERITAGE ACTION™, MAINSPRING®, SECURE® and VELISTA®. These offer customers value by increasing productivity and sustainability – and, in turf applications, playability. Research and Our professional pest management Development business has expanded mainly in North America, following successful integration of the DuPont professional insecticides portfolio acquired in 2012. Numerous registrations currently pending will enable us to introduce this innovative chemistry portfolio in all of our other regions. The potential was demonstrated in Crops 2015 by the excellent take-up of in focus ACTELLIC® CS300, which we launched into many African countries. This encapsulated insecticide provides long-lasting control against malarial mosquitoes resistant to pyrethroids. We also made promising progress in Controlling multiple turf diseases The Good new tree care technologies – including micro-injection to control pests in trees The fungicide VELISTA® successfully controls multiple diseases Growth Plan in France. This is a highly profitable affecting turf through the innovative SDHI mode of action. It is business where we are strongly a valuable addition to our portfolio, and can be used in rotation positioned for growth through our with other fungicides to help manage the resistance of turf combination of high-value chemistry grass to other treatments. and product innovation based on deep understanding of customer needs. Syngenta’s formulation department was quickly able to develop the newly-acquired active ingredient, penthiopyrad, Flowers offer pleases retailers into a product that met the quality and efficacy required by the company and its customers. Operational Our premium flowers business is based performance on industry-leading innovation, high-quality VELISTA® has been well accepted by customers in the genetics and an efficient distribution important golf sector, and sales have outstripped expectations. network. A strong performance in 2015 resulted from increased profitability in the mass market plants business, successful reorganization of the Europe-based FLORIPRO SERVICES® and an improved Performance seeds forecasting process. Our flowers retail programs showed continued data success during the crucial spring period, setting new value-added price points while boosting profitability for our retail and channel partners. We also made significant progress in attaining GLOBALG.A.P. and GRASP certification for our flowers farms. Corporate information 26 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 The Good Growth Plan Securing a Across our six commitments, we are establishing a growing body of productive partnerships. We are sustainable future maximizing the value of what we learn by leveraging knowledge across projects, partners, territories and crops. The challenge of feeding a fast-growing world population is well Supporting the documented. As a business that serves the agricultural industry, UN’s Sustainable helping farmers rise to that challenge is part of our mission. Development Goals It’s central to our strategy for business growth. In 2015, the United Nations (UN) announced 17 Sustainable Development The Good Growth Plan goes further: it’s our commitment Goals (SDGs) that member states will be to help farmers meet the challenge sustainably. That’s central expected to use to frame their agendas to our strategy for ensuring that our own business has a and political policies over the 15 years sustainable long-term future. This is far-sighted business from January 2016. planning with hard, stretch targets. We’re consciously setting We welcome these goals, and believe our sights higher – and measuring and reporting the impact. they will help to mobilize the action and innovation needed to make a better and more sustainable world. The Good Growth Plan is an integral As part of our business strategy, it sets To achieve them, member states part of our business strategy. Its six targets that are quantified, measurable will need to build multi-stakeholder commitments focus our skills and and ambitious. While we cannot be partnerships, address governance resources on understanding and certain that we will achieve them all by challenges, and invest in new meeting the most pressing needs the 2020 target date, we do know that technologies and business models. of our customers and stakeholders. we will not achieve them on our own. They will need better data for It demands innovation and enterprise Working in partnership with others – monitoring and accountability, from every part of our organization. farmers, academic institutions, NGOs, made openly accessible to governments and other organizations – accelerate sustainable innovation The Plan considers: the resource is an essential part of the Plan. To foster and technological advancement. efficiency that must underpin current collaboration, we are publishing our With The Good Growth Plan, we productivity; the ecosystem resilience targets and results transparently, and believe Syngenta has already begun necessary to sustain future productivity; sharing data openly so that all interested to make its contribution. and the knowledge transfer needed parties can build on what we learn. to support and strengthen rural F  or more on the UN’s SDGs, visit: communities. It pays particular attention Two years into The Good Growth Plan, sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics to smallholders, because they have more than 3,600 farmers and many  ee detailed performance data for S the greatest potential to increase organizations are working with us to The Good Growth Plan on pages 57–58 farm productivity. demonstrate and measure what is possible for 21 crops, the environment and the people in 42 countries. We are gathering increasingly reliable data, independently collected and validated, and publishing it in accordance with best practice – using open data formats to be as transparent, accountable and useful as possible. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2015 27 Higher quality wheat for better pasta production Strategic Make crops Producing high-quality pasta begins with growing top-quality more efficient overview durum wheat, which has consistently high protein content. In Italy, we are helping growers produce more, top-quality durum Increase the average productivity wheat through the value chain project “Grano Armando”, of the world’s major crops by guaranteeing them a higher, more reliable income. 20 percent without using more land, water or inputs More than 1,000 growers benefit from a sustainable cultivation protocol, quality seeds and farmer support. The growers also join a network that connects them with pasta manufacturers Research and Average productivity increase1 in Italy. 2% Yields are 15 percent higher than average, and the protein Development 2020 20% content of the wheat is 14 percent, as opposed to the Italian average of 12 percent. 2015 2 2% 2014 0% 1 On reference farms compared to baseline 2014 Farm network Crops 2015 2014 in focus No. of Reference farms 1,062 860 No. of Benchmark farms 2,586 2,738 Progress and key achievements Improved statistical precision by increasing the number of The Good reference farms  hared results with farmers, S researchers and those seeking Growth Plan to understand how best to save scarce resources C  ollaborating to harmonize data exchange standards to accelerate innovation in agriculture Operational Feeding a fast-growing world population, while mitigating the impacts of climate performance change, requires a step change in farm productivity and resource efficiency. We are working with farmers to help them grow more from less – focusing particularly on smallholders, who have the greatest In 2015, the network covered more than We are now gathering an abundance potential to increase productivity. Performance 1,000 reference farms and just under of real-world farm data for 21 crops in 2,600 benchmark farms. In some areas, 42 countries. For 2015, the global average Syngenta at the forefront of data such as China and parts of Latin America, productivity increase on reference farms open data in agriculture we’ve doubled the number of reference was 2 percent. To test and measure what’s possible, farms to gain better insights. we have created a network of reference The unique and unprecedented data farms across crops and regions in our Our crop advisers have been working with resource of The Good Growth Plan will key markets. These farmers are working reference farmers to optimize the way they help us to understand what makes crops with our ﬁeld experts to trial new solutions use new products coming out of our R&D and protocols more efficient. To turn the pipeline and to provide feedback data for data into knowledge and insight, we’re Corporate and raise productivity. In 2014, we established 860 of these farms, and our technical teams. We share performance actively sharing data with growers, information signed-up additional benchmark farms reports with reference and benchmark academics and governments to unlock for comparison. farmers, so that they can compare results the benefits as quickly as possible. with their peers and identify opportunities for improving efficiency. 28 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 And to increase the speed of innovation and knowledge transfer, we’ve been collaborating with the Open Data Institute (ODI) and have published our aggregated baseline and progress data for anyone to access online and use free of charge. This puts us at the forefront of open data in agriculture, enabling us to reach people and communities with ideas and solutions, Demonstrating the benefits quickly and cost-effectively. It opens our data to scrutiny, helping to ensure that it’s Rescue of soil conservation collected and used with rigor. And it’s a more farmland This work is about changing perspectives: two-way flow: we should be able to link land’s economic value is chronically our farm data with other agricultural data Improve the fertility of understated. Land has long been valued on open-access collaborative platforms. 10 million hectares of farmland solely for its current productivity, while on the brink of degradation often disregarding ecosystem resilience As part of this effort we have joined Global and future productivity. But it is also about Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrition meeting clear grower expectations. (GODAN), a consortium of companies, Impacted farmland m ha1 governments and NGOs working to make agricultural data accessible and usable 2.4m We continue to build our best soil knowledge and tools – diagnostics, worldwide. We want to work with GODAN 2020 10.0 management practices and technologies – to use open data better, so that we help 2015 1.6 2.4 into our commercial offers. But achieving to create insights on what works best the desired benefits of soil conservation 2014 0.8 on the farm to optimize the use of depends on many other tools and services 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 scarce resources. at farm level. That’s why we support the Progress and key achievements creation of inclusive platforms where What next? multiple stakeholders – including those  mbedded soil protocols E representing machinery, financial solutions We’re working to improve the way we in our commercial offers share The Good Growth Plan data with and educational opportunities – join growers, empowering them to make C  onsulted multiple stakeholders forces to offer farmers a compelling soil positive changes by highlighting best to inform our program conservation proposition. We have piloted practices linked to efficiency results. While E  ngaged decision makers on soil this approach for smallholders in Mexico, continuing our collaboration with the ODI, policy, in partnership with UNCCD medium-sized growers in Hungary and we look forward to supporting GODAN large-scale farmers in Russia. with the harmonization of agricultural data At the same time, we have run smaller exchange standards that are accessible to Agriculture relies on healthy and fertile demonstration projects in many countries, all. And we’re aiming to build a community soil. But a third of the world’s arable land generally in partnership with local around our data by developing tools and is thought to have been affected by universities or non-governmental platforms that make it easier to use. degradation and desertification. organizations, to show growers what can We are raising awareness of this issue and be achieved under local conditions and promoting conservation practices based how sound practices result in better yields on minimum soil disturbance, crop rotation and livelihoods. and permanent ground cover. These are In 2015, our programs impacted 1.6 million aimed at preventing, halting and reversing hectares of land, bringing the two-year land degradation by contributing to cumulative total to 2.4 million hectares. organic carbon storage, water retention and soil biological activity. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2015 29 Strategic overview Sustainable implementation on the farm Research and also requires supportive agricultural policy frameworks. That’s why we work with the Development United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) and have developed the Soil Leadership Academy for policy and decision makers. In October 2015, the Academy successfully ran its first simulation exercise for national policy makers at the UNCCD Conference in Turkey. Crops in focus We have also worked with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on developing a set of sustainable soil management principles. These were published in October 2015 after extensive stakeholder consultation. What next? In the coming year, we will continue The Good Growth Plan working with our commercial teams on building good practices into our offer, supporting demonstration projects on the ground and building multi-stakeholder networks that promote integrated offers. In addition to this ‘push’ activity, we are also encouraging ‘pull’ from the value Better soil leads to better crops Operational chain – raising awareness of good soil practices among food processors and Fertile soil is the foundation of sustainable agriculture. But poor performance retailers while promoting the benefits of farming practices and extreme weather lead to erosion and marketing these practices to consumers, infertility. In Eastern Russia, we are helping farmers switch from to stimulate demand for more sustainably traditional plowing to new techniques that preserve soil and grown produce. increase growers’ yields. Working with local universities, we educate farmers in minimum tillage, which avoids churning up the earth. Soil retains moisture and porosity, as the passages made by root systems, worms and insects are undisturbed. Performance data Minimum tillage, along with crop rotation, is leading to costeffective, high-quality production. In 2015, we held four events connecting 245 farmers with scientists and Syngenta employees. So far, the project involves seven farms covering 464,000 hectares. Corporate information 30 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 erosion and protect waterways while scheme rewards farmers with seeds and boosting biodiversity. support for planting field margins. Help biodiversity flourish A joined-up approach However, achieving desired results on the ground is a slow and resource-intensive to landscape connectivity Enhance biodiversity on process. Growers have to be convinced 5 million hectares of farmland Syngenta has a long history of biodiversity to invest in marginal and less productive enhancement projects: our Ecoaguas land for biodiversity, and they need project has been restoring and managing support in implementing the necessary Impacted farmland m ha1 riparian forests in Colombia for two management protocols. 1.6m decades. In Germany, our customer loyalty 2020 5.0 2015 0.9 1.6 2014 0.7 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 Progress and key achievements Integrated biodiversity conservation in customer loyalty programs  pened new demonstration plots with O universities and local stakeholders F  orged breakthrough implantation partnership in US potato fields Biodiversity determines the health and resilience of ecosystems – directly affecting erosion control, soil formation, nutrient cycling, pollination, biological pest control and climate regulation. In the past 35 years, biodiversity has declined by more than a quarter – an unprecedented rate. The main causes are population growth, consumption patterns and habitat destruction. Biodiversity is damaged as species’ habitats are lost or fragmented. Smaller, Redundant land becomes home more isolated species populations limit to bees and butterflies genetic variation and evolutionary adaption, and increase the possibility R.D. Offutt, the largest potato grower in the USA, planted nonof extinction; and climate change productive corners of its potato fields in Minnesota with regional exacerbates these trends. Landscape wildflower seeds to create environmentally diverse habitats and connectivity is recognized as the greatest increase the number of pollinators. The habitats provide forage opportunity to enhance biodiversity in for honeybees, monarch butterflies and other pollinating insects, agricultural landscapes. Planting rich as well as reducing soil erosion and protecting water resources. habitats on marginal and less productive Syngenta advised on how to prepare the sites and which plants farmland alongside fields and waterways to use. In 2015, more than 240 hectares were planted – a good creates interconnected habitat size project when even small areas of less than half a hectare infrastructures and corridors. We call can make a difference. them multifunctional field margins, because they help to prevent soil The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2015 31 Our contact with smallholders comes primarily through our sales teams. In Strategic Empower emerging and less developed economies, smallholders overview millions of growers are so small-scale and dispersed that it is not easy to know where Reach 20 million smallholders they are, what they grow or how to contact and enable them to increase them. Our sales management information productivity by 50 percent system helps us reach them more effectively by integrating information that Two years into The Good Growth Plan, Smallholders reached1 identifies smallholders and tracks our 17.2m Research and we have projects in over 30 countries interactions with them. We have been across Europe, Latin America, North standardizing the way we do this in Asia, Development America and Asia. These encompass 2020 20.0 and we expect to do the same in Latin a variety of local partnerships and 2015 17.2 America in 2016. This will help us to build environmental and cultural approaches local smallholder profiles, understand 2014 13.8 to create multifunctional field margins, grower needs, develop and promote 1 Through sales managed forests and biodiversitylocally tailored protocols and training, friendly farming. Progress and key achievements and improve our go-to-market strategies. Our programs are now impacting a  arried out Social Impact C Our commitment is not just to reach Crops total area of 1.6 million hectares – with Assessments in China, India smallholders but to empower them. in focus 0.9 million hectares added in 2015 alone – and Mexico To better understand smallholders’ but we still have a long way to go. We have needs, we are working with development C  ollaborated with University been working with partners around the agencies and other partners such as: of Zurich to develop a sustainability world to identify priority programs, agree IDH, The Sustainable Trade Initiative; the embeddedness model speciﬁc targets and deﬁne protocols for Sustainable Markets Intelligence Center implementation. The core task is still to E  stablished new partnerships aimed (CIMS); and the Sustainable Food Lab. raise awareness and establish biodiversity at empowering smallholders To measure the benefits we are bringing alongside water and soil conservation The Good to local communities, we are using social as a primary goal for farmers and valueimpact assessments of our smallholder The world’s estimated 500 million Growth Plan chain partners. go-to-market strategies. smallholders hold the key to future Our work is dependent on engaging food security. Their relatively low In 2015, for example, an independent stakeholders to stimulate dialogue and productivity means they offer the assessment by CIMS found that growers explore environmental governance issues. greatest potential for steeply increasing in our Nicaraguan FRIJOLNICA™ In 2015, we held two major international food production sustainably. program – which now has over workshops attended by more than 12,000 participants – were achieving With partners such as USAID, we aim 60 experts, with another 175 contributing double the national average kidney and Operational to raise smallholders’ productivity and through surveys. These have helped us black bean yield. They were more earnings sustainably – not only by bringing to find common ground and develop a optimistic about the future than the control performance them products, know-how and training compelling framework for implementing group and keen to spread good practice but also by helping them to ﬁnance and reporting biodiversity projects by sharing their insights with neighbors. higher-yielding products and reach more effectively and cost efficiently. markets to sell their crops. We are now carrying out similar What next? assessments in other smallholder Reaching more, markets: China, India and Mexico. We continue to work with external and measuring our impact stakeholders – academics, policymakers Performance We estimate that over half of our sales Partnering to extend our reach and conservation experts – to build on experience from the demonstration sites. are in developing economies dominated Through the World Economic Forum’s data To achieve the expected long-term by smallholder farmers, particularly in Grow Africa and Grow Asia platforms, we economic benefits of biodiversity Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa. work with other public and private players conservation, we are also working to In 2015, we increased the number of to develop partnerships that enable link growers to consumers. We are smallholders we reach through sales smallholder farmers to produce more encouraging retailers and food processors from 13.8 million to 17.2 million. in a sustainable way. In this way we can to set biodiversity enhancement standards empower more growers, equipping them for their suppliers, enabling them to with agronomic know-how and training promote sustainable food production that help them use inputs safely Corporate and efficiently. information and consumption to consumers. Another key goal is to incorporate the concept of multifunctional habitats into our commercial offer, and make investment in field margin habitats simpler and cheaper for farmers. 32 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Help people stay safe Train 20 million farm workers on labor safety, especially in developing countries People trained on safe use1 10.4m 2020 20.0 2015 5.7 10.4 2014 4.7 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 Farmers help each other Progress and key achievements to become more prosperous Encouraging progressive smallholders to share expertise R  olled out new guidelines for safe with others makes a tangible difference by increasing yields and responsible use training and incomes. R  edesigned train-the-trainer program and launched new online tool In East Java, Indonesia, successful rice growers are educating other farmers in good agricultural practices and the E  ngaged with stakeholders implementation of our GROMORE™ solution. Rice growers who at global Farmer Safety Workshop raise yields to 10 tonnes per hectare are invited to join the Rice Ten Tonne Club. Supported by Syngenta agronomists and We share a responsibility to help improve government farming counselors, these lead farmers then pass occupational health and safety in on their knowledge to groups of smallholders. agriculture – particularly among So far, more than 15,000 smallholders are benefiting from smallholders and farm workers in modern methods of growing rice. developing countries. Our training programs raise awareness of hazards, principally those related to crop protection products, and show how to manage and We continue to seek new partnerships effects of locally-embedded Swiss-based prevent them. More than 90 percent of our and opportunities to reach smallholders multinational companies in developing training is delivered by our own sales and worldwide. In 2015, we were invited to join countries. University students are working stewardship teams. To extend our reach, the Advisory Board of the Sustainable with local academics, value chain we also work with both commercial and Food Lab, whose social impact representatives and other stakeholders academic partners. assessment framework we have been to assess Syngenta’s impact in Colombia using. We became the first company and Kenya. in our industry to be accepted as a supporting partner by Sustainability What next? Initiative Fruits and Vegetables, part of We’ll continue to extend our smallholder the Dutch government’s IDH initiative. reach with the help of our growing body We also became one of the three of partners. We’ll also be extending corporate participants in a University the social impact assessment program of Zurich project, funded by the Swiss into other countries, and sharing what we Commission for Technology and learn to show transparently where we are Innovation (CTI), aimed at designing a toolactive and what difference we are making. kit that measures the positive sustainability The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2015 33 Strategic overview Better training, Training farmers to stay safe Research and more lasting impact As we work with farmers in Mexico to increase productivity In 2015, we reached 5.7 million people – Development in a sustainable way, we ensure they are also trained in safe more than 70 percent of them use of crop protection products. smallholders – through dedicated safety training programs or through safe use We have joined with government and partners from industry briefings linked to commercial activities. in the MasAgro program – The Sustainable Modernization The cumulative total of people reached of Traditional Agriculture, overseen by the International Maize in the first two years of this commitment and Wheat Improvement Center or CIMMYT. The aim is to target exceeded 10 million. smallholders who lack access to agricultural technologies and Crops markets to help them raise productivity of corn and wheat, Safe use training has for many years been in focus increasing incomes. an integral part of the way we do business worldwide, but our approach has varied To ensure as many people as possible are trained, Syngenta from country to country. As part of The experts educate CIMMYT technicians who then train farmers. Good Growth Plan commitment we have In 2015, the program reached 2,600 smallholders. harmonized our approach, developing guidelines and tools that enable our people to plan and implement training The Good consistently. These were launched in 2015 and are now distributed in six languages. Growth Plan To embed the new guidelines, we also rolled out revised train-the-trainer protocols in 2015 – initially in Latin America and Asia. The primary focus of this work is not on the number of farm workers we reach, but on the quality of training that our trainers Operational impart and its lasting impact. To support this initiative, we created a new online performance tool: www.pesticidewise.com. Targeting farmers and trainers, this aims to raise awareness of the hazards and risks of using pesticides and explains what users can do to mitigate them. Performance data Corporate information 34 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Major endorsement Look after for our Fair Labor Program every worker In 2015, we completed implementation of our Fair Labor Program in the Philippines Strive for fair labor conditions and began implementation in China. throughout our entire By the end of the year, the program supply chain network covered 27,091 suppliers in Asia Pacific, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Seed supply farms This represented 84 percent of our seed We recognize that we don’t have all the in our Fair Labor Program1 supply chain, and we remain on track for answers, and it is important to learn 100 percent by 2020. The total number 84% from others working in related fields. In of seed suppliers in 2015 was significantly November 2015, we held a global Farmer lower than in previous years, reflecting Safety Workshop to share experience 2015 84% market demand and our work on and ideas with representatives of the value 2014 53% streamlining the supply chain. chain, academia and other civil society 1 2014 value was estimated and not assured organizations such as the Sustainable In 2015, we became the first agriculture Agriculture Network, Solidaridad and Progress and key achievements company to receive FLA accreditation, the Centre for Development Innovation for our program in India. This major  irst agricultural company to receive F at Wageningen UR. This has deepened endorsement confirms that we have FLA accreditation our understanding of the many cultural effective systems and procedures across and behavioral factors involved in helping  LOBALG.A.P./GRASP certification G all our production and supply operations farmers to work more responsibly and for our flower farms to communicate our standards, assess safely. For example, we need to improve J oined Together for compliance, train staff to assess and our training to target women in countries Sustainability initiative resolve non-compliance, and give workers where they do much of the farm work, confidential reporting channels. but have not been encouraged to actively Labor standards are a priority concern The program demonstrated its participate in training sessions. for all our farms and production plants. effectiveness by identifying key areas What next? We expect the same from our suppliers, requiring improvement. These included and take positive action to ensure fair wage payments, on-farm health, safety In the year ahead we will be rolling out labor conditions in our supply chain. and environmental measures, and access new training programs based on our to grievance mechanisms. Corrective revised guidelines and incorporating Our more than 30,000 seed supply farms action plans were developed and actions the learning from our Farmer Safety in 36 countries pose particular challenges. piloted in the following growing season. Workshop. We are also adopting new Since 2004, we have worked with the approaches and partnerships to extend Fair Labor Association (FLA) to address All our own flower seeds production sites our training footprint – particularly in labor standards on these farms. Under in the Europe, Africa and Middle East Africa and other areas where we need to our Fair Labor Program, our supplier region and our site in Guatemala are supplement our own internal resources contracts set out standards in nine GLOBALG.A.P. certified, and our sites in in order to reach the number of people areas: Employment Relationship; Portugal and the Netherlands are certified we have committed to train. Nondiscrimination; Harassment and Abuse; to G.A.P.’s social practice standard Forced Labor; Child Labor; Freedom of (GRASP). By the end of 2015, our larger Association and Collective Bargaining; third-party suppliers had also achieved Health, Safety and Environment; Hours G.A.P. certification. of Work; and Compensation. Each year, we audit compliance on at least 20 percent of farms in each country; the FLA independently audits a further 2 to 5 percent in higher-risk countries, and ensures transparency by publishing all its findings. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Annual Review 2015 35 There are around 900 companies in our chemicals supply chain, and our Strategic assessment program checks their overview compliance with our health, safety, quality and labor standards. In 2015, we joined the Together for Sustainability initiative. This brings together international chemical companies – 14 so far – to share joint supplier audits on health, safety, environmental, social and ethical issues Research and in line with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, Responsible Development Care and the International Labor Organization. This enables us to reach deeper into our supply chain and to raise the bar for suppliers. It will also free up resources so that we can conduct ‘deep dive’ assessments of our strategically most important suppliers. Crops What next? in focus In 2016, we will continue to roll out our Fair Labor Program for seeds suppliers, completing coverage of Latin America and Asia Pacific. We will also begin reporting compliance levels for all countries in the program – an important step for transparency. While we have come a long way in improving labor The Good conditions in the supply chain, we Taking a stand for fair labor recognize that there is still more to be In Argentina, millions of people work in agriculture. Fair labor on Growth Plan done. The Good Growth Plan measures farms is an issue of great importance. In 2011, an audit of our fair will enable better informed discussion of labor compliance in Argentina carried out in partnership with the the challenges we face and the progress Fair Labor Association (FLA) showed key areas for improvement. we are making. A subsequent supply chain review led to an ambitious program to enhance labor and safety practices for field workers on our Operational seed supply farms. This included improving workers’ access Keep up to date with to training, focusing on health and safety risk identification The Good Growth Plan performance and reporting. In 2015, our Argentine supply chain achieved Throughout the year, we provide 99.5 percent compliance with the FLA Code of Conduct. updates on The Good Growth Plan website. There, you’ll find more information about each commitment as well as a range of case studies from the field. Visit: Performance www.goodgrowthplan.com To find more about our approach to open data or to access the files, visit: data www.data.syngenta.com Corporate information 36 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Operational performance Maximizing the value of innovation Excellence in innovation underpins our business strategy and The Good Growth Plan. As a sustainable business, we aim to capture all the potential value that our innovation creates. We need a talented and motivated workforce. We must be efficient and profitable. And we have to earn the support of employees, regulators and the public as a responsible and respected organization. Delivering outstanding quality We have built an internal Operational We now have a framework for with focus on profitability Excellence team and trained our own sustainable operations, based on the coaches so that we have in-house principle that we will maximize the pace Our operations strategy encompasses capability to apply this methodology and impact of our initiatives if we focus all our procurement, supply, production, over the long term. on the areas offering greatest scope distribution, quality and business for beneficial change. This framework services. It aims to support profitable We continue to invest in our production identifies five focus areas: energy, water, growth by ensuring we deliver innovation assets to ensure that we have the right waste, suppliers and logistics. to growers with scale, agility and facilities and capacity to satisfy demand efficiency. Our efforts have been efficiently. As part of our ongoing review Our operational performance has many strengthened by Syngenta’s Accelerating of capacity, we also consider where we facets. But it all depends on one factor: Operational Leverage (AOL) program, need our own production facilities and our people. The long-term success of which has focused attention across whether it makes better sense to partner our business will be shaped by the talent, the business on enhancing efficiency, with external suppliers instead. skills and motivation of the people who profitability and the experience we work here. As an integral element of our operations provide for customers. strategy, we have continued to focus  ee Non-financial information and data S A key enabler of AOL is the Operational on the sustainability of our operations. on pages 55–62 Excellence program that we are Just as The Good Growth Plan seeks implementing. This is a well-proven to increase the sustainability of our offers approach to systematically and in the ﬁeld by 2020, this work aims to continuously improve the efficiency and secure the long-term viability of our value of our operations. It is designed to internal and external operations. unleash the potential of our people by giving them a greater sense of direction, engagement and achievement in their work. It augments our culture of innovation by bringing greater rigor and discipline to the way we work. And it will ensure that we improve the customer experience as we increase the efficiency of our operations. Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2015 37 People Strategic overview Research and Attrition rate % Development 2015 6.1 2014 5.5 2013 5.5 Crops Recordable illness and injury rate per 200,000 hours in focus 2015 0.38 2014 0.37 2013 0.41 In our rapidly evolving industry, we need The Good innovation not only in the way we develop Connecting employees and customers new products, but in the way we lead A group of employees based in the Philippines gained a better and change the organization. We invest in understanding of rice farmers and of The Good Growth Plan Growth Plan recruiting, developing and enabling talented commitments with a visit to one of our learning centers. people who can meet the challenges and The employees learned more about the training we conduct opportunities of our industry successfully. for farmers on technology, products and stewardship, helping Developing our people to bring to life The Good Growth Plan commitments. and capabilities The employees also experienced the daily tasks farmers carry In 2015, we invested $ 25.1 million (2014: out when the group took part in harvesting or planting rice Operational $ 29.8 million) in training programs to help at the center. our employees achieve their potential performance and to build the capabilities we need. All employees took part in performance review, goal setting and personal Managing change successfully The AOL program has resulted in around development discussions with their line and responsibly 1,800 job reductions and relocations managers throughout the year, and we across the business. As anticipated in last We also invested in equipping a broad continue to invest in building a more diverse year’s report, the majority of these were cross-section of managers to lead and Performance and inclusive culture through a variety of completed in 2015. We opened a new manage change; this helps us successfully Global Operations Center in Manchester, data programs and activities. We continued to plan and implement performance engage people in The Good Growth Plan, UK, and a new European Finance Center improvement projects in our Accelerating and recognize our employees’ achievements in Budapest, Hungary. These moves, while Operational Leverage (AOL) program. in our biennial Syngenta Awards. difficult for impacted employees, were completed successfully and employee Enhancing efficiency and profitability morale in both centers is high. is a strategic priority throughout the business, demanding constant attention from our leadership teams. Investing in Corporate our executive development is a priority and, throughout the year, many senior information leaders participated in a new Executive Leadership Program specifically focused on enterprise leadership. 38 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Building our talent pool Since the launch of our new Health, Safety, efficiently Environment and Security reporting system at the end of 2013, we were able We continued to have a high employee to collect more and better data on health retention rate in 2015. Due to restructuring, and safety incidents. In 2015, we have total turnover was 12.5 percent – higher been able to use this data to analyze risks than in 2014 (9.9 percent) but still lower to our people’s health and safety more than in 2013 (14.1 percent). The number closely and take appropriate action to of voluntary leavers – which excludes control and minimize them. retirement and restructuring – rose slightly to 6.1 percent (2014: 5.5 percent). Since 2011, our Goal Zero initiative has Although our staff turnover remains sought to achieve zero harm to people Sustainable relatively low, we still need to recruit new and zero safety incidents, on the principle operations that all accidents are preventable. The people each year – not only to replace construction project to quadruple the size those who retire or leave, but also to enter of our Formosa plant in Brazil exemplifies new markets and acquire new skills this commitment. While the plant and experience. In 2015, we entered a maintained operations throughout the twopartnership agreement with IBM Kenexa, year project, with up to 1,500 people on one of the world’s largest recruitment site, in 2015 it completed 1.2 million hours consultancies, to manage our global worked without a single lost-time incident. recruitment. Starting in the UK and Asia Pacific in 2015, it will operate globally We also take the security of our people, by the end of 2016. products, assets and information CO2e emissions intensity g/$sales extremely seriously at all times. As a global 2015 124 Working safely and securely organization, we remain exposed to a 2014 114 We aim to be an industry leader in health significant and complex range of potential risks – from the counterfeiting of our 2013 116 and safety standards and performance. To this end, we make continuous products to cybercrime. We aim to assess investments in our safety program and address emerging security risks Hazardous waste intensity g/$sales to sustain a best-in-class Illness and proactively, before they become live 2015 14.4 Injury Rate (IIR) of below 0.5. The rate issues, and we train our local security remained low in 2015, at 0.38 recordable staff in how to handle emergencies to 2014 15.6 incidents per 200,000 hours (2014: 0.37). safeguard our people and surrounding 2013 16.0 This was a good performance in a year communities. In 2015, under our Security that saw a further increase in the 360° program, our security professionals Water usage intensity liters/$sales proportion of field work, where injury evaluated 117 sites to determine risk levels, rates tend to be higher. and helped to develop site-specific risk 2015 2.6 management plans. 2014 2.5 Sadly, there was one fatality during the 2013 2.5 year: a sales promotion employee in Counterfeiting of our products can be Bangladesh died when his motorcycle hazardous to users, the public and the collided with a bus while he was returning environment. We have increased our from a business meeting. We have resources for combating it, and in 2015 Our efficiency and our sustainability go programs in place to continuously improve played an active part in securing seizures hand-in-hand. Our viability – now and in the safety of our sales force when driving, of some 323 tonnes of counterfeit the future – depends on using resources including online e-training targeted at and illegally imported chemicals (2014: efﬁciently and maintaining our license accident causes. In Latin America, we 178 tonnes) with an estimated retail value to operate by minimizing our external have introduced satellite-based tracking of $ 43 million (2014: $ 17 million). We also impacts. This is why our sustainability of fleet vehicles. This generates reports contributed to the seizures of 91 tonnes standards and performance are on parameters such as speed, seat belt of counterfeit seeds with an estimated closely scrutinized and approved use and driving time, which we use to market value of $ 11.4 million. by Syngenta’s Board. identify the need for improvement. In Brazil, where it now covers one-third of all vehicles, vehicle incidents in 2015 were 60 percent lower than in 2014. Across Syngenta, the number of incidents per million km driven was 1.3 in 2015 – lower than our benchmark figure of 2.0–3.0. Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2015 39 Strategic overview Ensuring we have Research and the capacity to deliver Our Finished Product Processing teams continue to deliver high-quality seeds Development and crop protection products to meet demand – safely, reliably, responsively and cost effectively. Production is carried out both in-house and through toll manufacturers: we continually review our in-house production assets to Crops increase agility, minimize disruption, in focus reduce idle capacity and ensure delivery in line with our integrated strategy and long-term goals. In 2015, investment continued at our Paulinia site in Brazil to ensure we can meet demand for SOLATENOL™ in Latin America. We continue to build The Good on established relationships with toll manufacturers who have demonstrated their ability to deliver to our quality and Growth Plan cost standards. All our eight global active ingredient sites have ongoing ‘lean’ initiatives to enhance Operational Excellence and have Empowering people to achieve excellence maintained their ability to deliver at high Increased customer demand for crop protection products Operational capacity. All expansion projects were created production challenges at Syngenta’s diversified delivered on time and budget, including agri-chemical formulating and packaging facility in Omaha, performance key projects at Huddersfield, UK, and USA. Employees faced rising overtime and heavy workloads. Monthey, Switzerland, as well as at Nantong in China. In 2015, we announced To meet production targets without putting undue — and our intention to divest our site in Goa, unsustainable — strain on resources, management introduced India, in a further consolidation of Operational Excellence: a well-proven approach to continuously internal capacity. improve efficiency and value. By embracing the idea of continuous improvement, employees changed the culture of Performance their site through a focus on new techniques and teamwork. Today, four years on, overtime has been reduced, work processes are more efficient and there is a more positive data working environment. Corporate information 40 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Making our operations more sustainable These are the principal actions currently underway to enable us to understand what is necessary to ensure the sustainability of our operations and to set appropriate targets. The majority of these actions are due for completion by the end of 2016. Action by focus area Significance Completion Energy Carry out detailed audit of our top 10 sites, The energy audit program is based on EU energy requirements: 2016 accounting for over 80 percent of our audits will set baselines for all sites in the program with targets energy use for improvement Water Establish a water footprint for the Seed supply is our principal water-using activity, so we are including 2016 seed supply business it in our data collection process and will cover water types and usage patterns Waste Establish waste footprints for the 10 active Our hazardous waste comes mainly from active ingredient production: 2016 ingredients generating over 80 percent a life-cycle approach to key products will cut hazardous waste generation of our hazardous waste by optimizing processes and enhancing recycling and reuse Suppliers Conduct sustainability risk assessments This will identify the supply markets which represent the biggest 2016 for 100 percent of direct and indirect sustainability risks, to guide future action procurement categories Actively participate in the Together for By applying consistent standards across the industry, this initiative 2016 Sustainability (TfS) initiative is improving sustainable sourcing and raising standards across the supply chain while cutting complexity and costs Ensure 100 percent participation by active Regular audits will reduce risks from third-party waste management 2020 ingredient and other strategic suppliers in our improvement program, and by key third-party waste treatment providers in our compliance program Logistics Adopt fourth-party logistics (4PL) to cover A 4PL supplier acts as a single interface between the client and 2020 our global operations in Crop Protection multiple logistics service providers. Their role is to optimize the and field crops logistics and transportation network in order to drive continuous service improvement and cost reduction. This can significantly cut CO2 emissions by optimizing road, rail and sea transport and storage Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2015 41 Strategic overview Ensuring our viability We have identified priority actions for our The contribution to our carbon footprint Research and for the future sustainability performance in these five from distribution has remained stable focus areas. Our work so far has centered while the need for business travel has In 2015, we increased our effort to analyze Development on understanding our footprints, to see been reduced by the installation of the external impacts of our operations where the risks are highest and how we telepresence rooms at all our major sites. and identified five key focus areas can invest efficiently to achieve desirable Enabling people to join virtual meetings for reducing our impact – as set out change. This in turn will allow us to set instead of traveling saves energy, travel in the table: “Making our operations location-specific targets that are relevant costs and management time. more sustainable”. and demanding – a process scheduled Waste Three of the focus areas concern the to complete by the end of 2016. In the One of our major impacts is hazardous Crops way we use resources: energy, waste meantime, we have continued to work waste, generated mostly by our active and water. Our energy and waste impacts on tracking and reducing our impacts, in focus ingredient manufacturing sites. As well come primarily from our production sites; as we have done for many years. as reducing the waste generated during and although we have some 300 of these, Using resources more efficiently production, we aim to convert or reuse just 10 sites account for about 80 percent as much waste as possible. To do this, of the impacts. We have, therefore, been Our environmental impacts arise mostly we constantly review the opportunities focusing our attention on these sites. in the areas of energy, hazardous waste, for optimizing both new and existing While our water efficiency initiatives are wastewater and water consumption. processes, and for regenerating or concentrating on the most water-intensive A summary of each of these follows – reusing unavoidable waste – usually manufacturing sites, we understand that for more detailed performance data see as an additional source of energy. The Good pages 60–61. We report our performance Growth Plan our greatest water-consuming activity by both in absolute terms and as intensity In 2015, we reduced hazardous far is seed production. We have, therefore, expressed per dollar of sales. The benefits waste generation by 18 percent to been devoting considerable attention to of concentrating attention on the sites 193,000 tonnes – due principally to water use on our seed supply farms and where our impacts are greatest are evident a substantial initiative at our Huddersfield, how best to manage it. in the 2015 figures. UK, site and reduced production in Goa, The two other focus areas concern the India. The reduction in intensity was way we work with third-party suppliers. Energy 8 percent. Operational Our business model is evolving to place We have energy efficiency programs at all our sites. The drive for ever-greater Water greater emphasis on outsourcing. performance efficiency is continuous and permanent: Until recently, our data collection on As a result, external suppliers now when targets are met, we will set new water use has been largely confined account for a large – and growing – and more demanding ones. to our manufacturing sites. In 2015, we part of our environmental footprint. So commissioned a major third-party analysis we are placing more attention on the way We are currently undertaking detailed of our water footprint across our toll we work together to help them manage energy audits on our top 10 sites, which manufacturing and seed production their environmental impacts effectively and account for over 80 percent of our energy supply chains, as well as our own sites. efficiently. In addition to our production use. These audits will guide target setting Performance This highlighted the impact of seed suppliers, we are also looking closely and action plans in 2016. production, which used more than at logistics – the way we transport and data In 2015, we continued to reduce our 1.1 billion m3 of rain and irrigation water store materials through the distribution energy consumption. Absolute energy in 2015, compared with just 35 million m3 chain – where greater efficiency will have consumption reduced by 7 percent for chemical manufacturing plants. We are a substantial impact on costs as well to 9,222 TJ, driven by the reduction now gaining a better understanding of our as our environmental footprint. in production over the year. Energy water use and profiling more accurately intensity and, consequently, CO2e to discriminate, for example, between emissions intensity increased slightly. rain-fed and irrigation-fed water use in Corporate fields. This work is continuing so that we can fully understand the risk implications of measures to reduce our water footprint. information 42 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 In 2015, water use was down 7 percent In our drive to ensure sustainable in absolute terms and practically procurement – and to audit suppliers unchanged in intensity. In our rigorously and efficiently – we successfully manufacturing operations, the applied to join Together for Sustainability principal factor was a reduction in (TfS) in 2015. TfS brings together water consumption for processing 14 international chemical companies mainly in our sites at Goa, India, to work jointly on supplier audits and Huddersfield, UK, and St. Gabriel, USA. assessments on health, safety and the environment, as well as social and ethical Wastewater effluents were down 6 percent issues which support the principles of the overall, although the principal factor was reduced production. UN Global Compact, Responsible Care Business integrity and the International Labor Organization. Air emissions Its vision is to become the global standard Air emissions reduced in both absolute for sustainability in chemical supply and intensity terms. This was partly due chains. TfS membership will help to lower SO2 emissions resulting from us meet the commitments contained reduced production at our Goa site. in The Good Growth Plan; and by eliminating duplication of audits, it Working in partnership enables us to raise the bar for suppliers with suppliers while achieving greater efficiency. Our strategic approach to suppliers ensures that we work with partners Distributing more efficiently, with less CO2 Compliance cases reported who meet our standards of operation, possess differentiated technical capability During 2015, we began optimizing our 2015 196 and are able to meet our expectations logistics activities – both transport and 2014 96 of year-on-year cost savings, as well as storage – to enable cost-efficient growth, 2013 110 understanding the benefits and risks of increased compliance and improved working in our industry. visibility of operations while reducing our carbon footprint. This work involves Corporate community investment In 2015, our supply chain included more $m standardizing and optimizing processes, than 30,000 seed supply farms. We are leveraging scale and making increasing 2015 24 committed to covering all these suppliers use of ‘fourth-party logistics’ providers in 2014 25 with our Fair Labor Program, developed which a single partner integrates and coover more than a decade with the 2013 21 ordinates all logistics operations across the Fair Labor Association (FLA). This program supply chain. This work will cut our CO2 aims to communicate, monitor and ensure emissions, while increasing the efficiency, FLA-approved standards on child labor, We believe that building and maintaining a scalability and productivity of the way we health and safety, rights awareness, culture of doing the right thing is crucial to deliver our products to customers. wages and beneﬁts, working hours, managing risk and growing a sustainably harassment, abuse and discrimination. successful business. It is also the essential In 2015, 84 percent of seed supply farms foundation on which The Good Growth Plan were covered by the program. For more is built. details, see “Look after every worker” on page 34. We comply with all local, national and international laws, codes and conventions, In October 2015, we received accreditation and uphold the principles set out in the from the FLA for the Fair Labor Program Universal Declaration of Human Rights in India. FLA accreditation is significant and the International Labor Organization’s recognition, and we are the first agriculture Core Conventions. We expect our company to receive it. The FLA concluded suppliers to do the same. that we have appropriately rigorous systems and procedures to ensure fair labor standards throughout our Indian production and supply operations. Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2015 43 Strategic overview But real business integrity demands more Our Compliance and Risk Management At many production sites we have Research and than regulatory and legal compliance. We Committees (CRMCs) at region, territory introduced training programs for local have been moving beyond a rules-based and function levels have been instrumental suppliers on our Code of Conduct and Development approach to build a values-based culture in raising compliance awareness and other important policies. of doing the right thing, which we share fostering the manager-led compliance In 2016, we will continue to work on our with our partners and suppliers. This sessions. These committees are our most compliance culture and business integrity supports our longstanding policy of important drivers of a compliance and risk through manager-led sessions. For new engaging actively with the communities management mindset and culture, and in recruits, we will be supplementing the in which we operate, to build mutual 2015, we produced a CRMC handbook existing Code of Conduct training with a understanding and benefit. to help leaders establish and run these new e-learning module providing a fuller Crops meetings effectively. Building a ‘do the right overview of our key compliance policies, in focus Our success in establishing a climate of and we are taking additional steps to thing’ culture openness is demonstrated by a steady ensure that all new joiners complete Our Code of Conduct sets out clear increase in questions being raised – the courses in full. ethical, environmental, and social through line managers, CRMCs and the responsibilities for all employees; we helpline. To give us a clearer overview, Earning the support expect them to honor these and report all matters initiated through any of these of our neighbors any suspected breaches. We also monitor routes are being entered into a single Every country and region expects us to our suppliers’ compliance – both with our case-management system. We have now The Good meet its legal and regulatory requirements; standards and external regulations – on adopted the annual total number of entries but we also strive to meet wider social issues such as health and safety, the Growth Plan as the most useful performance indicator expectations. Our operations are part of environment, fair labor practices and in this area: in 2015, the total was 196. local economies and communities, urban animal welfare. We continue to make our approach to and rural, in more than 90 countries Building a ‘do the right thing’ culture is an compliance more systematic and worldwide. We aim to beneﬁt them in explicit line management responsibility. consistent globally. When we appoint a variety of ways. We have introduced compliance sessions third-party service providers, we have We provide economic beneﬁt by paying in which managers meet with their teams begun using a new due diligence process taxes and providing employment, as well Operational to discuss relevant compliance topics and to screen them for compliance risks. This as by buying goods and services, which encourage employees to speak up if they includes an online questionnaire and riskwe source locally where appropriate. performance have concerns. We want to create a scoring tool that automates consistent Each year, we report this contribution climate in which people feel confident assessment, approvals and controls. as “Economic value shared”. In 2015, about speaking to their leaders without We are introducing the new process it totaled $ 13,440 million (2014: hesitation, so that ethical issues can be progressively, using a risk-based $ 14,982 million). The lower figure in 2015 addressed before they become problems. approach. In 2015, we piloted it in was due largely to reductions in purchased Our compliance helpline, successfully reArgentina, China, Morocco and Turkey goods and in savings as a result of our launched in 2014, remains a vital part of to assess its effectiveness under a range Accelerating Operational Leverage Performance our vigilance in monitoring, detecting and of different conditions. In 2016, we will program – there is a detailed breakdown preventing misconduct by allowing roll it out to 10 more countries. data of the figures on page 62. employees to seek advice or report concerns confidentially. Corporate information 44 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Our economic contribution is only part use of technology such as social media of the picture. For many years we have to do this more effectively – for example, made it a priority to engage directly by using social media to communicate and responsively with local communities site news or alert neighbors before testing wherever we operate. Good relationships emergency sirens. are good for our business. We believe our We support community initiatives through interests are best served when we listen sponsorships, donations and support to local communities, share knowledge, in kind. Under our new Community protect the environment, promote health Engagement policy launched in 2014, and improve the quality of life so that these contributions have focused more we protect our reputation and earn closely on five areas where our support Public debates their support. has particular relevance: water efficiency, For many years, our site managers have land use efficiency, support for agricultural had an explicit responsibility to be open production and education, community and available to their local community health and nutrition, and science and respond quickly to its needs and and education. concerns. Many have made increasing Raising awareness among tomorrow’s farmers The Escola no Campo program (School in the Field) has been From time to time, issues arise that divide introducing schoolchildren in rural Brazil to sustainable opinion among our stakeholders and the agriculture, environment and the important role of biodiversity wider public. Different groups may seek for more than 20 years. divergent outcomes. In such cases, we Targeting the future farmers of Brazil, the program has seek open and constructive discussion increasingly focused on elements closely linked to our with all relevant interest groups to find commitments in The Good Growth Plan – in particular solutions. In 2015, such issues included environmental awareness, the importance of helping bee health, food security, pesticide biodiversity flourish, and topics such as child labor labeling and the treatment of suppliers. prevention and good practices. Protecting bee health So far, more than 430,000 children in 11 states in Brazil In recent years, the health of bees and have taken part. The program, developed in partnership other pollinators has been a growing with the Abrinq Foundation, has received several national concern across Europe and North America. sustainable agriculture awards. After European campaigners claimed that neonicotinoid pesticides, including our thiamethoxam, were damaging bees, the EU imposed a restriction on using some of these chemicals in certain applications from December 2013. We have challenged the measure because field-level research and many years of independent monitoring have shown that neonicotinoids do not adversely affect bee health when used properly, nor are they the cause of the decline in bee health. Since the restriction on use began, EU farmers have expressed increasing concern that it has reduced yields and forced them to use older, less effective chemicals. Several EU countries have allowed temporary use of neonicotinoids in emergency situations so that farmers can protect their crops from pests. In North America, the number of honey bee populations has increased in both Canada and the USA. Bees are thriving in crops where neonicotinoids are used – including a range of bee-attractive crops Operational performance Syngenta Annual Review 2015 45 Strategic overview such as canola. In July 2015, the province Ensuring safe use of pesticides This case highlights a broader issue: the Research and of Ontario implemented a new regulation Many agricultural chemicals can be need for greater harmonization between targeting an 80 percent reduction in hazardous if used incorrectly. So we countries to achieve more consistent Development neonicotinoid-treated corn and soybean attach great importance to growers using approaches to labeling and safe use seeds by 2017. We are disappointed with them safely and responsibly. Our focus is standards. We believe the FAO is the this decision, as the arbitrary reduction on product labels and on providing safe appropriate facilitator and arbiter for in treated seeds planted is not evidenceuse training for farm workers – one of our this work. based and will disadvantage growers commitments in The Good Growth Plan,  ead more on the ICCPM: R www.fao.org – and search “ICCPM” without contributing to bee health. see page 32. Bees and bee health are crucial to We aim to comply with all local legislation Treating growers fairly Crops agriculture, and much of our industry’s on product labeling, marketing and In December 2014, the Danish NGO, in focus seed production depends on bees for safe use training – and we review our DanWatch, published an online pollination. This is why we have been compliance regularly. As a member of documentary alleging that we dealt committed to bee health for many years the industry body CropLife International, improperly with seed growers in rural through initiatives like Operation Pollinator, we also undertake to comply with the Andhra Pradesh, India. It claimed that which focuses on improving pollinator International Code of Conduct on Syngenta was party to exploitative habitats and nutrition in the farm Pesticide Management (ICCPM) set moneylending to growers – and that this, landscape across the globe. out by the UN’s Food and Agriculture together with low seed prices paid to The Good  ead more on R www.operationpollinator.com Organization (FAO) and the World growers, was linked to labor violations Health Organization. on farms. Debating how to feed the planet In 2015, a group of European NGOs filed Serious allegations demand a serious Growth Plan Syngenta joined Basel’s exhibit at EXPO a complaint with the FAO stating that response. We have worked with the Milano 2015, where the theme was Syngenta, among others, was selling a Fair Labor Association (FLA) since 2004 “Feeding the planet, energy for life”. number of products in the Indian Punjab to address labor conditions in our seed Our display highlighted the challenges market carrying labels inconsistent with supply chain – see “Look after every of food security and our R&D innovations the ICCPM standards. They argued that worker” on page 34. So we asked the and partnerships in pursuit of Indian labeling regulations are inadequate, FLA to commission an urgent independent sustainable solutions. and that we should therefore apply ICCPM investigation. This confirmed that the Operational performance standards instead. moneylending and low-price allegations Our participation drew criticism from some were unfounded; but it did highlight areas NGOs – who, in anticipation of EXPO In line with agreed procedures, the FAO is for improvement – particularly in the Milano, staged a protest against Syngenta. currently consulting on this issue with the transparency of money flows between Their overall charge was that Syngenta Indian government and other stakeholders; intermediaries and growers. We took is part of a globalized agricultural system we have welcomed this approach. To prompt action to implement improvements. based on fossil fuels, chemistry and date, given the incompatibilities between genetic research, which in their view Indian government regulations and the India faces acute labor and worker welfare Performance is unsustainable. ICCPM recommendations, we have to challenges, and we recognize low wages comply with local regulations. However, in particular as an issue requiring constant data We engaged in open discussion and we have confirmed that we will work with attention. As part of our response to the confirmed our view that there is no single other stakeholders to address any independent investigation, we announced solution to the world’s food security problems that the FAO consultations may a joint FLA-Syngenta multi-stakeholder challenges. Many approaches and identify, and to seek solutions. We have consultation event in India in January 2016 methodologies are needed, and we can also invited representatives of the NGOs to address ways of ensuring that our only be one part of a much wider effort. concerned to join our ongoing work on suppliers pay agreed minimum wages. Investments in agricultural research enhancing training protocols. We are confident that this will result in Corporate are a fundamental part of the solution. positive change. Together with our partners, we are information  Read more on committed to innovating for food security. www.fairlabor.org/affiliate/syngenta Our participation in Expo Milano has stimulated the debate. 46 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Regional performance The deliberate reduction in glyphosate The deliberate reduction in glyphosate Europe, Africa volumes and lower glyphosate prices volumes and lower glyphosate prices and the Middle East reduced full year sales by 4 percent. reduced sales by $ 224 million. In the USA, ongoing low commodity Sales1 $m prices negatively affected the demand for crop enhancement applications. Asia Pacific 2015 3,884 In Canada, sales were lower owing to 2014 4,547 dry weather conditions and high channel Sales1 $m 2013 4,223 inventories of Seedcare products. 2015 1,837 2014 2,033 The region achieved further growth at constant exchange rates in the fourth Latin America 2013 1,935 quarter, measured against a strong finish to the 2014 season: higher volumes Sales1 $m Full year sales volumes were affected in the quarter were supported by a by extended drought conditions in 2015 3,632 successful campaign for corn and ASEAN and the phase-out of paraquat 2014 4,279 sales in China due to a regulatory sunflower seeds. 2013 3,991 change Pricing gains however were Full year growth reflected significant broad-based, with significant increases price increases in the CIS which offset Market conditions deteriorated in the notably in South Asia; seeds sales in currency depreciation. Crop Protection second half of the year, with the sharp ASEAN reflected the continued adoption volumes were slightly above 2014 levels – depreciation of the Brazilian real as well of genetically modified (GM) technology. despite dry conditions, low disease as tight credit conditions for growers in Australasia saw good volume growth pressure and depressed cereals prices – both Brazil and Argentina. Despite this, with increased cotton acreage driving with strong performances by the cereal ELATUS™ performed well in its second higher Seedcare sales. fungicides SEGURIS® and MODDUS® year in Brazil, demonstrating the as well as Seedcare. This offset the continuing customer demand for erosion of seeds volumes in the CIS new technology. caused by price increases. The fourth quarter also included $ 55 million in trait revenue from the North America KWS and Limagrain agreement. In 2015, the Company implemented a change in contractual sales terms Sales1 $m for crop protection products in Brazil, 2015 3,410 which caused a timing change in sales 2014 3,582 recognition. The full year effect was 2013 3,848 a $ 239 million increase in sales. Volume growth was strong in the fourth quarter, driven by the success of ACURON™, a newly launched herbicide that provides corn farmers with an effective solution to combat weed resistance. Sales in the quarter also included trait revenues of $145 million from the licensing agreement with KWS and Limagrain announced in October. 1 Excluding Lawn and Garden All sales commentaries are at constant exchange rates. Performance data Syngenta Annual Review 2015 47 Product line performance Strategic overview Insecticides Strong price gains were recorded in Asia Crop Protection Sales1 $m Pacific, driven by increased adoption of GM technology. Soybean sales in Latin Selective herbicides 2015 1,705 America were lower, as sales were shifted Sales1 $m 2014 2,066 to distributors as part of the implementation 2013 1,912 of the Integrated Business Partner model 2015 2,894 in Brazil. Research and 2014 3,083 2013 3,051 Growth came from price increases in Europe and volume growth in Asia Pacific, Diverse field crops Development Sales $m as well as new product introductions in Sales performance in North America China and India. This did not compensate 2015 658 was driven by the success of ACURON™, for the impact of reduced sales in Latin 2014 827 which achieved its target of $100 million America, due to dry weather and low sales in its launch year. This more than 2013 842 insect pressure in Argentina and to high offset the impact of dry weather conditions channel inventories in Brazil. However, in Canada. In Europe, strong price gains Sunflower sales increased significantly ACTARA® performed strongly in Brazil in Crops were recorded in the CIS to compensate in Europe, the most important region, the fourth quarter with an improvement in focus for currency depreciation. Sales in Latin reflecting substantial price increases in the sugar cane market. America were higher as a result of the in the CIS which fully offset the impact change in sales terms in Brazil. of currency depreciation. These price Seedcare increases had some impact on volume, as Sales1 $m Non-selective herbicides high-value hybrids faced competition from Sales1 $m 2015 994 local seeds. Sugar beet sales were lower, 2014 1,115 as oversupply on the sugar market led to 2015 913 significant acreage shifts in Europe. The Good 2013 1,228 2014 1,445 2013 1,545 Vegetables Growth Plan Growth in Europe reflected a solid performance of Seedcare solutions for Sales $m The sales decline is largely a result of the cereals market in the CIS and Central 2015 616 the decision to reduce volumes of solo Europe. In Asia Pacific, sales were boosted 2014 663 glyphosate in order to improve the by increased focus on key accounts in profitability of the business. TOUCHDOWN® 2013 708 China and by broad-based growth in prices were also lower, reflecting a decline Australasia. In North America, sales were in the active ingredient purchasing costs. Growth was broad-based across Operational affected by high channel inventories in the GRAMOXONE® sales in China have been the four regions. Price increases were Canadian cereals market and lower cotton phased out following a regulatory change robust, owing to a focus on capturing performance acres in southern US states. affecting paraquat liquid formulations. value for high-quality hybrids across the portfolio and in particular to the strong Fungicides Seeds return on investments being achieved Sales1 $m by growers in South Asia. Sweet corn sales in the USA were affected by high 2015 3,357 Corn and soybean processor inventories. 2014 3,518 Sales $m 2013 3,035 2015 1,564 Performance data 2014 1,665 Broad-based growth was achieved across 2013 1,654 the portfolio despite dry conditions in parts of Europe and Asia Pacific. ELATUS™ Corn sales were up in all regions, with performed well in its second year in Brazil, a significant progression in the Americas with total sales exceeding $ 400 million. owing to the licensing agreement with Volume growth was solid across Europe KWS and Limagrain, for which revenue with a strong performance by the cereals Corporate was recorded in the fourth quarter. This fungicides ALTO®, MODDUS® and was partially offset by lower US branded information SEGURIS®. In January 2016, Syngenta sales due to the acreage shift from corn announced that SOLATENOL™, the active to soybean. Corn volumes were down in ingredient used in ELATUS™, has been Europe as a consequence of reduced approved by the EU authorities, with first acreage, but the impact was offset by sales in France expected for the significant price increases in the CIS. 1 Includes sales of Crop Protection products to Seeds 2016/2017 season. and excludes non-product line sales 48 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Financial information A summary of Syngenta’s consolidated financial statements and other financial information is provided on pages 48 to 54. For full details and analysis of the Group’s audited financial results, prepared in accordance with IFRS, please refer to our comprehensive Financial Report 2015, which is available on request or on our website www.ar2015.syngenta.com References to EBITDA in the following financial information excludes the impact of restructuring, impairment and discontinued operations.1 Summarized financial information 2015 and 2014 Excluding restructuring Restructuring As reported and impairment 1 and impairment under IFRS Year ended December 31 ($ m, except per share amounts) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sales 13,411 15,134 – – 13,411 15,134 Gross profit 6,369 6,955 – (13) 6,369 6,942 Marketing and distribution (2,210) (2,497) (2,210) (2,497) Research and development (1,362) (1,430) (1,362) (1,430) General and administrative (568) (717) (388) (193) (956) (910) Operating income 2,229 2,311 (388) (206) 1,841 2,105 Income before taxes 1,980 2,101 (388) (206) 1,592 1,895 Income tax expense (336) (311) 88 38 (248) (273) Net income 1,644 1,790 (300) (168) 1,344 1,622 Attributable to non-controlling interests (5) (3) – – (5) (3) Attributable to Syngenta AG shareholders: 1,639 1,787 (300) (168) 1,339 1,619 Earnings/(loss) per share ($ )2 Basic 17.83 19.49 (3.26) (1.83) 14.57 17.66 Diluted 17.78 19.42 (3.26) (1.82) 14.52 17.60 2015 2015 2014 CER3 Gross profit margin excluding restructuring and impairment 47.5% 46.0% 49.1% EBITDA4 2,777 2,926 EBITDA margin 20.7% 19.3% Tax rate on results excluding restructuring and impairment 17% 15% Free cash flow 5 795 1,083 Trade working capital to sales6 38% 34% Debt/Equity gearing 7 31% 25% Net debt 7 2,586 2,248 Cash flow return on investment 8 11% 11% 1 For further discussion of restructuring and impairment charges, see page 54. Net income and earnings per share excluding restructuring and impairment are provided as additional information and not as an alternative to net income and earnings per share determined in accordance with IFRS 2 The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to calculate the earnings per share were as follows: For 2015 basic EPS 91,908,128 and diluted 92,206,535; for 2014 basic EPS 91,674,127 and diluted 92,007,089 3 For a description of CER, see page 54 4 EBITDA is defined on page 54 5 For a description of free cash flow, see page 54 6 Period end trade working capital as a percentage of 12-month sales 7 For a description of net debt and the calculation of debt/equity gearing, see page 54 8 For a description of the cash flow return on investment calculation, see page 54 Performance data Financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 49 Full year sales Strategic overview 2015 2014 Actual CER Year ended December 31 ($ m) ($ m) % % Group sales Europe, Africa and Middle East 3,884 4,547 -15 +10 North America 3,410 3,582 -5 -4 Latin America 3,632 4,279 -15 -5 Asia Pacific 1,837 2,033 -10 -3 Total integrated sales 12,763 14,441 -12 – Research and Lawn and Garden 648 693 -7 +3 Group sales 13,411 15,134 -11 +1 Development Crop Protection by region Europe, Africa and Middle East 2,892 3,312 -13 +10 North America 2,326 2,578 -10 -8 Latin America 3,249 3,769 -14 -4 Asia Pacific 1,538 1,722 -11 -4 Total 10,005 11,381 -12 -1 Crops in focus Seeds by region Europe, Africa and Middle East 1,017 1,274 -20 +9 North America 1,116 1,044 +7 +8 Latin America 400 522 -23 -6 Asia Pacific 305 315 -3 +2 Total 2,838 3,155 -10 +5 The Good Sales by business Crop Protection 10,005 11,381 -12 -1 Seeds 2,838 3,155 -10 +5 Growth Plan Elimination of Crop Protection sales to Seeds (80) (95) n/a n/a Total integrated sales 12,763 14,441 -12 – Lawn and Garden 648 693 -7 +3 Group sales 13,411 15,134 -11 +1 Full year product line sales Operational performance 2015 2014 Actual CER Year ended December 31 ($ m) ($ m) % % Selective herbicides 2,894 3,083 -6 +6 Non-selective herbicides 913 1,445 -37 -31 Fungicides 3,357 3,518 -5 +9 Insecticides 1,705 2,066 -17 -8 Seedcare 994 1,115 -11 – Other crop protection 142 154 -8 -1 Total Crop Protection 10,005 11,381 -12 -1 Performance data Corn and soybean 1,564 1,665 -6 +4 Diverse field crops 658 827 -20 +8 Vegetables 616 663 -7 +5 Total Seeds 2,838 3,155 -10 +5 Elimination of Crop Protection sales to Seeds (80) (95) n/a n/a Lawn and Garden 648 693 -7 +3 Group sales 13,411 15,134 -11 +1 Corporate information 50 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Condensed consolidated income statement Year ended December 31 ($m, except share and per share amounts) 2015 2014 Sales 13,411 15,134 Cost of goods sold (7,042) (8,192) Gross profit 6,369 6,942 Marketing and distribution (2,210) (2,497) Research and development (1,362) (1,430) General and administrative: Restructuring (388) (193) Other general and administrative (568) (717) Operating income 1,841 2,105 Income from associates and joint ventures 7 7 Financial expense, net (256) (217) Income before taxes 1,592 1,895 Income tax expense (248) (273) Net income 1,344 1,622 Attributable to: Syngenta AG shareholders 1,339 1,619 Non-controlling interests 5 3 Net income 1,344 1,622 Earnings per share ($ ): Basic 14.57 17.66 Diluted 14.52 17.60 Weighted average number of shares: Basic 91,908,128 91,674,127 Diluted 92,206,535 92,007,089 All activities were in respect of continuing operations. Restructuring and impairment before taxes Year ended December 31 ($m) 2015 2014 Accelerating operational leverage programs: Cash costs 228 49 Non-cash impairment costs 33 14 Pension curtailment gain (21) – Integrated crop strategy programs: Cash costs 27 61 Operational efficiency programs: Cash costs – 18 Acquisition, divestment and related costs: Cash costs 91 27 Non-cash items Reversal of inventory step-ups – 13 Fixed asset impairment 1 – Other non-cash restructuring: Non-current asset impairment 29 24 Total restructuring and impairment before taxes1 388 206 1 $ nil (2014: $13 million) is included within Cost of goods sold Performance data Financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 51 Condensed consolidated balance sheet Strategic overview At December 31 ($m) 2015 2014 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1,141 1,638 Trade receivables 4,128 3,698 Other accounts receivable 845 747 Inventories 4,345 4,861 Derivative and other financial assets 401 377 Other current assets 338 244 Research and Total current assets 11,198 11,565 Non-current assets: Development Property, plant and equipment 3,383 3,562 Intangible assets 3,040 3,186 Deferred tax assets 783 1,008 Financial and other non-current assets 396 420 Associates and joint ventures 177 188 Total non-current assets 7,779 8,364 Crops Total assets 18,977 19,929 in focus Liabilities and equity Current liabilities: Trade accounts payable (3,311) (3,472) Current financial debt and other financial liabilities (730) (1,329) Income taxes payable (444) (706) Other current liabilities (983) (984) The Good Provisions (193) (216) Total current liabilities (5,661) (6,707) Growth Plan Non-current liabilities: Financial debt and other non-current liabilities (3,501) (2,976) Deferred tax liabilities (668) (665) Provisions (727) (676) Total non-current liabilities (4,896) (4,317) Total liabilities (10,557) (11,024) Equity: Shareholders’ equity (8,401) (8,889) Operational Non-controlling interests (19) (16) Total equity (8,420) (8,905) performance Total liabilities and equity (18,977) (19,929) Performance data Corporate information 52 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Condensed consolidated cash flow statement Year ended December 31 ($m) 2015 2014 Income before taxes 1,592 1,895 Reversal of non-cash items 1,203 808 Cash (paid)/received in respect of: Interest and other financial receipts 472 277 Interest and other financial payments (623) (483) Income taxes (482) (330) Restructuring costs (125) (26) Contributions to pension plans, excluding restructuring costs (156) (184) Other provisions (80) (70) Cash flow before change in net working capital 1,801 1,887 Change in net working capital: Change in inventories 32 326 Change in trade and other working capital assets (868) (332) Change in trade and other working capital liabilities 225 50 Cash flow from operating activities 1,190 1,931 Additions to property, plant and equipment (453) (600) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 74 39 Purchases of intangible assets (90) (82) Purchases of investments in associates and other financial assets (29) (38) Proceeds from disposals of intangible and financial assets 46 39 Acquisitions and divestments, net (10) (87) Cash flow used for investing activities (462) (729) Increases in third party interest-bearing debt 1,098 2,272 Repayments of third party interest-bearing debt (1,174) (1,556) (Purchases)/sales of treasury shares and options over own shares, net (34) (104) Distributions paid to shareholders (1,078) (1,032) Cash flow used for financing activities (1,188) (420) Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents (37) (46) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (497) 736 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,638 902 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,141 1,638 Free cash flow Year ended December 31 ($m) 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities 1,190 1,931 Cash flow used for investing activities (462) (729) Cash flow used for/(from) marketable securities – (1) Cash flow used for/(from) foreign exchange movements and settlement of hedges of inter-company loans 67 (118) Free cash flow 795 1,083 Performance data Financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 53 Full year segmental results excluding restructuring and impairment Strategic overview Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and 2015 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific regional integrated Garden Group Sales 3,884 3,410 3,632 1,837 – 12,763 648 13,411 Cost of goods sold (1,889) (1,779) (2,118) (1,012) 54 (6,744) (298) (7,042) Gross profit 1,995 1,631 1,514 825 54 6,019 350 6,369 Marketing and distribution (586) (537) (557) (286) (83) (2,049) (161) (2,210) Research and development – – – – (1,310) (1,310) (52) (1,362) General and administrative (126) (84) (39) (35) (274) (558) (10) (568) Research and Operating income/(loss) 1,283 1,010 918 504 (1,613) 2,102 127 2,229 Development Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and 2014 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific regional integrated Garden Group Sales 4,547 3,582 4,279 2,033 – 14,441 693 15,134 Cost of goods sold (2,167) (2,003) (2,492) (1,107) (92) (7,861) (318) (8,179) Gross profit 2,380 1,579 1,787 926 (92) 6,580 375 6,955 Marketing and distribution (720) (564) (615) (314) (110) (2,323) (174) (2,497) Research and development – – – – (1,376) (1,376) (54) (1,430) Crops General and administrative (161) (92) (77) (48) (307) (685) (32) (717) in focus Operating income/(loss) 1,499 923 1,095 564 (1,885) 2,196 115 2,311 Segmental operating income reconciled to segmental results excluding restructuring and impairment Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and The Good 2015 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific regional integrated Garden Group Operating income/(loss) 1,155 973 890 484 (1,781) 1,721 120 1,841 Restructuring and impairment: Growth Plan Expenses 128 37 28 20 168 381 7 388 Operating income excluding restructuring and impairment 1,283 1,010 918 504 (1,613) 2,102 127 2,229 Operating margin (%) 33.1 29.6 25.3 27.5 n/a 16.5 19.6 16.6 Europe, Africa, North Latin Asia NonTotal Lawn and Operational 2014 ($m) Middle East America America Pacific regional integrated Garden Group performance Operating income/(loss) 1,456 901 1,069 560 (1,981) 2,005 100 2,105 Restructuring and impairment: Cost of goods sold 1 13 – – – – 13 – 13 Expenses 30 22 26 4 96 178 15 193 Operating income excluding restructuring and impairment 1,499 923 1,095 564 (1,885) 2,196 115 2,311 Operating margin (%) 33.0 25.8 25.6 27.8 n/a 15.2 16.6 15.3 1 Reversal of inventory step-up Performance data Corporate information 54 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Constant exchange rates (CER) Restructuring includes the incremental Net debt reconciliation Results in this report from one period to costs of closing, restructuring or relocating Net debt comprises total debt net of cash another period are, where appropriate, existing operations, and gains or losses and cash equivalents and marketable compared using constant exchange rates from related asset disposals. Restructuring securities. During 2015, Syngenta (CER). To present that information, current also includes the effects of analyzing and redefined net debt to exclude fair values period results for entities reporting in preparing for potential industry consolidation of financing-related derivatives, as these currencies other than US dollars are transactions as well as completing and are now offset by the financial assets and converted into US dollars at the prior integrating significant business combinations liabilities arising from collateral paid and period’s exchange rates, rather than at and divestments, including related received under Credit Support Annex the exchange rates for the current year. transaction costs, gains and losses. contracts (CSAs). Net debt is not a CER margin percentages for gross profit Recurring costs of normal business measure of financial position under and EBITDA are calculated by the ratio operations and routine asset disposal generally accepted accounting principles of these measures to sales after restating gains and losses are excluded. and the net debt measure used by the measures and sales at prior period Syngenta may not be comparable to the exchange rates. The CER presentation Impairment includes impairment losses similarly titled measure of other companies. indicates the underlying business associated with major restructuring as Net debt has been included as it is used by performance before taking into account well as impairment losses and reversals many investors as a useful measure of currency exchange fluctuations. of impairment losses resulting from major financial position and risk. The following changes in the markets in which table presents the derivation of the debt/ a reported segment operates. equity gearing ratio: EBITDA EBITDA is defined as earnings before The incidence of these business changes ($m) 2015 20141 interest, tax, non-controlling interests, may be periodic and the effect on reported Net debt 2,586 2,248 depreciation, amortization, restructuring performance of initiating them will vary from Shareholders’ equity 8,401 8,889 and impairment. Information concerning period to period. As each such business Debt/Equity gearing ratio 31% 25% EBITDA has been included as it is used change is different in nature and scope, 1 Under the definition of net debt used in 2014, by management and by investors as there will be little continuity in the detailed debt/equity gearing ratio was 27% a supplementary measure of operating composition and size of the reported performance. Management excludes amounts which affect performance in Cash flow return on investment restructuring from EBITDA in order to successive periods. Separate disclosure Cash flow return on investment is a focus on results excluding items affecting of these amounts facilitates the measure used by Syngenta to compare comparability from one period to the next. understanding of performance including cash returns to average invested capital. EBITDA is not a measure of cash liquidity and excluding items affecting Gross cash flow used in the calculation or financial performance under generally comparability. Syngenta’s definition of comprises cash flow before change in net accepted accounting principles and the restructuring and impairment may not be working capital, excluding interest and EBITDA measures used by Syngenta may comparable to similarly titled line items in other financial receipts and payments. not be comparable to other similarly titled financial statements of other companies. Invested capital comprises: total current measures of other companies. EBITDA assets, excluding cash and derivative and should not be construed as an alternative Free cash flow other financial assets; total non-current to operating income or cash flow as Free cash flow comprises cash flow from assets, excluding non-current derivative determined in accordance with generally operating and investing activities: excluding and other financial assets and defined accepted accounting principles. investments in and proceeds from benefit pension assets, and adjusted to marketable securities, which are included reflect the gross book values of property, Restructuring and in investing activities; excluding cash flows plant and equipment and intangible impairment before taxes from and used for foreign exchange assets; total current liabilities, excluding Restructuring represents the effect on movements and settlement of related current financial debt and other financial reported performance of initiating and hedges on inter-company loans, which liabilities; and deferred tax liabilities. enabling business changes that are are included in operating activities; and considered major and that, in the opinion including cash flows from acquisitions of management, will have a material effect of non-controlling interests, which are on the nature and focus of Syngenta’s included in financing activities. operations, and therefore require separate disclosure to provide a more thorough Free cash flow is not a measure of financial understanding of business performance. performance under generally accepted accounting principles and the free cash flow measure used by Syngenta may not be identical to similarly titled measures of other companies. Free cash flow has been included as it is used by many investors as a useful supplementary measure of cash generation. Performance data Non-financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 55 Non-financial information Strategic overview At Syngenta, non-financial information refers to quantitative and qualitative information on strategies, policies or activities pursued towards our business, environmental and social goals. Our non-financial performance is reported Corporate Responsibility Our interaction with industry associations, Research and throughout this Annual Review and governance non-governmental organizations, quantified in the Non-financial performance governments and the investor community Our Board-level Corporate Responsibility Development summary on pages 57 to 62. enables us to gather feedback on our Committee, chaired by the Syngenta activities and monitor issues important Chairman, acts as custodian on all Corporate Responsibility to stakeholders. We conduct research CR matters. At senior executive level, Corporate Responsibility (CR) is integral to better understand consumers’ the Corporate Responsibility Panel to our business. Our ambition is to bring perceptions of topics associated with directs CR-related standards, strategy, greater food security to an increasingly agriculture and our industry; and we objectives and partnerships, and the populous world in an environmentally aim to be open and accessible – for Compliance and Risk Management sustainable way by creating a worldwide example, answering their frequently Crops Committee reviews and advises on nonstep change in farm productivity. asked questions under “Questions in focus financial reporting and the effectiveness The Good Growth Plan sets specific, about Syngenta” on our website. of implementation of internal policies. ambitious and measurable targets In 2015, we conducted an assessment to focused on boosting resource efficiency, Materiality and stakeholder identify our most material issues to help rejuvenating ecosystems and engagement drive our strategy, determine allocation strengthening rural communities. We are of effort and resources, and guide our We regularly assess stakeholder concerns also committed to developing our people, external communication and reporting. and expectations, as well as the issues reducing our environmental footprint, The most important issue to our The Good that we believe present the greatest risks enhancing our social engagement, raising stakeholders is our contribution to food and opportunities for our business. We supply chain sustainability and doing Growth Plan engage with and collect feedback from security. In particular, they want to know business responsibly. Syngenta is guided how our technologies and products will stakeholders in a variety of ways. We listen by the conviction that short-, mediumenable growers to deliver sustainably the to the grower community through and long‑term value creation depends quality and quantity of food needed by satisfaction surveys and farmers’ direct on successfully integrating business, a growing population. We contribute to contact with our sales teams on the social and environmental performance. addressing these issues through our ground. We also engage directly with our employees and locally with the Good Growth Plan. Operational communities close to our operations. performance Director Board of Performance Corporate data level Directors Responsibility Committee Corporate Senior Compliance and Corporate executive Risk Management Responsibility information level Committee Panel 56 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Approach to Our non-financial reporting is for the Syngenta’s internal controls over nonnon-financial reporting operations of Syngenta Group, including financial reporting were designed to material interactions with selected third provide assurance to Syngenta’s Board The Non-financial performance summary parties as reported in the Non-financial of Directors and management regarding on the following pages presents data on performance summary. Our non-financial the reliability of non-financial reporting our progress towards four goals: reporting is guided by the Global Reporting and the preparation and fair presentation Initiative principles and is externally assured, of the information published in the NonThe Good Growth Plan see page 63. The non-financial reporting financial performance summary. Help shape the future sustainability of period is October 1 to September 30. agriculture, and deliver solutions that All internal controls, no matter how well are better, more productive and more Syngenta is a signatory to the United designed, have inherent limitations and beneficial to rural economies Nations Global Compact. Syngenta’s therefore may not prevent or detect Annual Report serves as our misstatements. In designing internal People Communication on Progress (COP) controls over non-financial reporting, Attract and retain talent while creating made in implementing these principles. Syngenta used the criteria established in an environment that stimulates Internal Control – Integrated Framework innovation and personal performance Approval of Non-financial (2013) issued by the Committee of and development performance summary Sponsoring Organizations of the Sustainable operations The information in the Non-financial Treadway Commission (COSO). Manage our environmental footprint performance summary on pages 57 to PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Switzerland, and maintain the highest standards 62 of the Annual Review was approved an independent registered public in our operations by the Board of Directors on February 2, accounting firm, has issued an opinion 2016. Syngenta’s Board of Directors on Syngenta’s Non-financial performance Business integrity and management are responsible summary, which is included in the Annual Maintain the highest standards across for establishing and maintaining Review on page 63. our entire business and go beyond adequate internal controls over R  ead more on: regulatory compliance, while benefiting non-financial reporting. www.cr.syngenta.com www.questions.syngenta.com the communities and economies www.gri.syngenta.com in which we operate Materiality matrix Focus areas Monitored activities Positions We share our views, we We share our views, and We share our views on the Focus measure and evaluate we measure and evaluate issues that engage public Importance to stakeholders areas performance, and we have performance on these interest and have a bearing set or plan to set goals or issues to sustain the trust on our business. quantitative targets on the and confidence of our Biofuels Monitored most important issues, in stakeholders, and for us to Biotechnology activities particular our contribution be a responsible business. Climate change adaptation to food security. Animals in research Diminishing crop diversity Biodiversity Community relations and and monoculture practices Energy, hazardous waste stakeholder engagement Food availability, affordability and waste Positions and water use Corporate conduct Land grabbing Health, safety and wellbeing Corporate governance Importance to Syngenta Human rights and fair Economic value shared Local investment and sourcing labor practices Environmental compliance Marketing practices Land productivity and liabilities Organic agriculture We have three levels of disclosure Logistics optimization Greenhouse gas and other Pollinators and pesticide use based on the importance of the Product stewardship air emissions Product registration issues to our stakeholders and Science and intellectual Product responsibility Public policy and advocacy property compliance to Syngenta. Responsible practices for Smallholder empowerment Security practices product development Soil and water conservation Rural development Supply chain sustainability Tax transparency Talent attraction and retention Transparency Performance data Non-financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 57 Non-financial performance summary Strategic The Good Growth Plan overview 2015 2014 2013 Make crops more efficient 1 Total number of reference farms 1,062 860 – Total number of benchmark farms 2,586 2,738 – Annual average productivity increase on reference farms compared to baseline 2014 2% – – Performance of reference farm clusters Performance of benchmark farm clusters Research and compared to baseline 2014 3, 4 compared to baseline 2014 3, 4 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Total number of clusters 2 205 – Development 172 205 – 172 Land productivity index: ≤0% 148 205 – 149 205 – >0 – <5% 6 – – 6 – – 5 – <10% 5 – – 5 – – 10 – <15% 3 – – 3 – – 15 – <20% 4 – – 4 – – ≥20% 6 – – 5 – – Crops Nutrient efficiency index: in focus ≤0% 148 205 – 146 205 – >0 – <5% 2 – – 5 – – 5 – <10% 0 – – 2 – – 10 – <15% 5 – – 4 – – 15 – <20% 2 – – 2 – – ≥20% 15 – – 13 – – The Good Pesticide efficiency index: ≤0% 145 205 – 146 205 – Growth Plan >0 – <5% 4 – – 2 – – 5 – <10% 1 – – 2 – – 10 – <15% 3 – – 1 – – 15 – <20% 0 – – 1 – – ≥20% 19 – – 20 – – 1 2014 first year of reporting 2 Reduced number of clusters in 2015 due to cluster consolidation Operational 3 2014 value was restated to represent clusters with reference and/or benchmark farms 4 Number of clusters with reference and/or benchmark farms per range of percentage increase in land productivity, nutrient efficiency and pesticide efficiency since the 2014 baseline. US Department of Agriculture data are used for benchmark farms in clusters located in the USA performance The table above presents the number of reference farms, benchmark farms and clusters in the network. It also outlines the distribution of percentage increases in land productivity, nutrient efficiency and pesticide efficiency on a cluster basis. A cluster presents homogeneous agro-climatic conditions and contains reference and/ or benchmark farms with similar grower characteristics. Reference farms were selected Performance by Syngenta and are recommended to use Syngenta products and follow optimized protocols. Benchmark farms were randomly selected by a third-party research agency data and represent grower practice for each cluster. The reduction of clusters in 2015 versus 2014 was due to the consolidation of some clusters with similar conditions and characteristics. Performance of reference and benchmark farm clusters compared to baseline 2014 represents the distribution of percentage increases achieved in reference and benchmark farms compared to the baseline year on a cluster basis. The table is set up to show trends over time on reference and benchmark farms. As the baseline year is 2014, all clusters are reported as “≤0%” in 2014. Corporate  ead more about how we are measuring The Good Growth Plan R information on www.data.syngenta.com 58 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 The Good Growth Plan continued Cumulative since baseline 2014 2015 2014 2013 Rescue more farmland 1 Hectares of impacted farmland (m) 2.4 1.6 0.8 – Help biodiversity flourish 1 Hectares of impacted farmland (m) 1.6 0.9 0.7 – Empower smallholders 1 Smallholders reached through sales (m) 2 17.2 13.8 – Help people stay safe People trained on safe use (m) 10.4 5.7 4.7 2.8 Of which: smallholders 1 72% 71% 74% – Countries with established Syngenta product toxicovigilance programs 100 100 100 Crop Protection sales represented 93% 93% 93% Look after every worker Seed supply farms included in Syngenta Fair Labor Program 3, 4 27,091 28,361 22,895 Of which: farms in Fair Labor Association (FLA)’s audit scope 4 18,571 28,361 22,895 Total seed supply farms covered by Syngenta Fair Labor Program 3, 5 84% 53% – HSEQ assessments at chemical suppliers 84 72 86 HSEQ assessments at formulation, fill and packaging suppliers and seed toll manufacturing 6 34 74 38 HSEQ assessments at warehouse/logistics service providers 118 156 157 1 2014 first year of reporting 2 2014 value was restated due to clarification of definitions and scope 3 Until 2014, figure included only number of farms in Fair Labor Association (FLA)’s audit scope 4 Reduction in 2015 due to decrease in production volumes and reorganization of seed suppliers 5 2014 value was estimated and not assured 6 Seed toll manufacturing has been included since 2014  ead more about how we are measuring The Good Growth Plan R on www.data.syngenta.com People 2015 2014 2013 Employment Employees 1 28,704 29,340 28,149 Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 13,047 13,300 12,763 North America 4,335 4,636 4,654 Latin America 4,962 4,945 5,221 Asia Pacific 6,360 6,459 5,511 Part-time employees 984 948 976 Turnover rate 3 12.5% 9.9% 14.1% of which: <35 years 41% 43% 43% 35–50 years 43% 41% 35% >50 years 16% 16% 22% Attrition rate 4 6.1% 5.5% 5.5% Senior managers 332 359 366 Headquarters 44% 42% 47% Europe, Africa and Middle East 16% 18% 13% North America 18% 18% 18% Latin America 12% 12% 12% Asia Pacific 10% 10% 10% 1 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) 2 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 3 Including voluntary leavers, retirees and restructuring 4 Includes only voluntary leavers Performance data Non-financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 59 People continued 2015 2014 2013 Strategic overview Diversity Nationalities in senior management 1 33 37 41 Female employees 30% 29% 30% Female employees in management roles 22% 21% 20% Female employees in senior management 14% 13% 13% Employee development 2 Training investment ($ m) 25.1 29.8 27.1 Average training investment per employee ($ ) 3 874 1,015 964 Research and Reward and recognition Development Employees eligible to participate in Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP) 4 20,088 20,666 18,790 of which: employees participating 4 44% 44% 47% Employees participating in long-term equity incentive plans 1,370 1,304 1,226 Health, safety and wellbeing Crops Recordable injury and illness rate (IIR) per 200,000 hours 5 0.38 0.37 0.41 Recordable injury rate per 200,000 hours 5 0.35 0.33 0.35 in focus Europe, Africa and Middle East 6 0.48 0.41 0.38 North America 0.69 0.54 0.64 Latin America 0.24 0.41 0.38 Asia Pacific 0.11 0.10 0.15 Recordable occupational illness rate per 200,000 hours 5 0.03 0.04 0.07 Europe, Africa and Middle East 6 0.04 0.03 0.07 The Good North America 0.04 0.02 0.14 Latin America 0.06 0.12 0.08 Asia Pacific 0.01 0.01 0.02 Growth Plan First aid cases 413 420 623 Recordable injuries 7 154 145 148 Bruise, strain, sprain and dislocation 39% 52% 44% Cut and abrasion 31% 19% 22% Bone fracture 13% 11% 15% Concussion and internal injury 3% 4% 1% Multiple injuries 1% 3% – Operational performance Other 13% 11% 18% Cases of recordable occupational illness 14 17 28 Cases of work-related stress 26 35 36 1 2014 value was restated due to a calculation error and revised definition 2 Includes only training delivered by external providers 3 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) 4 2014 value was restated due to late reporting from one country 5 According to US OSHA definition for injuries and illness Performance 6 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 7 New reporting system and injury categories introduced in 2014. 2013 percentages were restated in 2014 to align to new breakdown data Corporate information 60 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Sustainable operations 2015 2014 2013 Energy Energy intensity (MJ/$sales) 0.69 0.66 0.69 Energy (TJ) 9,222 9,930 10,202 Gas (TJ) 3,840 3,946 4,050 Electricity (TJ) 2,349 2,460 2,459 Steam (TJ) 1,547 1,633 1,578 Oil (TJ) 536 854 975 Other (TJ) 950 1,037 1,140 Greenhouse gases Total CO2e emissions intensity (g/$sales) 124 114 116 Total CO2e emissions (000s tonnes) 1,660 1,730 1,710 Within direct control: CO2e emissions from own operations (000s tonnes) 574 620 634 CO2 emissions from company vehicles (000s tonnes) 70 75 76 Within indirect control: CO2e emissions from purchased energy (000s tonnes) 400 419 417 CO2 emissions from business trips (000s tonnes) 36 43 40 CO2 emissions from distribution (000s tonnes) 580 573 543 Other air emissions Other air emissions intensity (g/$sales) 0.088 0.099 0.103 Other air emissions (tonnes) 1,176 1,500 1,514 NOx (tonnes) 462 523 440 Non-halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 384 435 427 Halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 26 32 21 Particulates (tonnes) 79 101 105 SO2 (tonnes) 210 386 494 NH3 (tonnes) 6 6 8 HCl (tonnes) 9 17 19 Water Water usage intensity (liters/$sales) 2.6 2.5 2.5 Water usage (million cubic meters) 35.0 37.8 36.8 Cooling (million cubic meters) 20.8 21.2 19.4 Irrigation (million cubic meters) 6.8 7.0 7.6 Processing and washing (million cubic meters) 5.3 7.3 7.4 Product ingredient (million cubic meters) 0.2 0.3 0.3 Sewage and sanitary (million cubic meters) 1.1 1.0 1.1 Other (million cubic meters) 0.8 1.0 1.0 Origin of water: Surface fresh water (million cubic meters) 24.4 26.7 25.6 Underground water (million cubic meters) 7.8 7.7 7.8 Drinking water from municipal network (million cubic meters) 2.7 2.9 3.0 Recovered rain water (million cubic meters) 0.1 0.1 0.1 Saline water (million cubic meters) 0.0 0.4 0.3 Performance data Non-financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 61 Sustainable operations continued 2015 2014 2013 Strategic overview Wastewater effluents Industrial wastewater discharge intensity (liters/$sales) 0.70 0.66 0.74 Industrial wastewater discharge (million cubic meters) 9.4 10.0 10.8 Total organic carbon (TOC) (tonnes) 649 687 879 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) (tonnes) 1,953 2,059 2,679 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) (tonnes) 189 197 225 Total suspended solids (tonnes) 294 370 345 Soluble salts discharged (000s tonnes) 125 137 143 Direct discharge of uncontaminated cooling water (million cubic meters) 20.5 21.0 19.1 Research and Waste Development Hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 14.4 15.6 16.0 Hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 193 236 235 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 95 114 72 Incinerated (000s tonnes) 83 106 148 Landfill (000s tonnes) 1 1 3 Crops Other (000s tonnes) 14 15 12 Hazardous waste by type: in focus Chemical 55% 59% 66% Solvents 36% 33% 27% Other 9% 8% 7% Non-hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 9.7 9.4 9.0 Non-hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 130 143 132 The Good Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 96 106 101 Incinerated (000s tonnes) 3 9 8 Landfill (000s tonnes) 21 20 17 Growth Plan Other (000s tonnes) 10 8 6 Non-hazardous waste by type: Plant and seed waste from seed sites 58% 65% 66% Inerts 8% 4% 3% Packaging materials 6% 6% 7% Household 4% 5% 5% Other 24% 20% 19% Operational Environmental compliance performance Significant unplanned releases 1 3 0 1 Security management Sites included in Syngenta Security 360 Program 2 117 105 70 Product Security cases 3 677 – – Performance Suspect counterfeit Crop Protection product seized by authorities (tonnes) 3 323 – – Suspect counterfeit Seed product seized by authorities (tonnes) 3 91 – – data 1 Releases that escaped beyond the site boundary and could cause either environmental impact and/or concern from neighbors and regulators. The three unplanned releases in 2015 were air emissions; no actual off-site incident occurred or was reported 2 Policy on security management reporting was revised in 2014: 2015 and 2014 include all evaluated sites. 2013 includes only sites in medium and high-risk countries 3 New KPI introduced in 2015 to capture counterfeiting of our products Corporate information 62 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Business integrity 2015 2014 2013 Corporate conduct Compliance cases reported 1 196 96 110 Animal testing compliance Management system audits performed in contract laboratories 13 17 13 Management system non-compliances found 0 0 0 Biotechnology and regulatory compliance Employees completing trial regulatory compliance training 1,627 1,711 1,228 Trial locations requiring a permit 2 155 411 420 Trial inspections performed by Syngenta 169 203 272 Economic value shared Economic value shared ($ m) 13,440 14,982 14,864 Payments to suppliers 3 8,453 9,613 9,792 Employee wages and benefits 4 2,725 2,888 2,828 Payments to governments (taxes) 5 432 366 405 Payments to providers of capital 6 1,223 1,285 1,139 Capital expenditure 7 583 805 679 Corporate community investment 8 24 25 21 1 Since 2015, the number of cases reported includes all cases managed by Group Compliance: cases reported through the compliance helpline, line management, directly to Group Compliance or other channels. In previous years, the value only included cases reported via the helpline 2 In 2015, an additional 220 North American trial locations not requiring a permit were handled as regulated and managed in accordance with the North American Regulatory Compliance Program 3 Decrease in Payments to suppliers mainly reflects lower production activity due to lower sales and efforts to reduce inventory 4 Employee benefits and wages increased due to termination costs from the AOL restructuring program, but show a decrease due to the impact of foreign exchange translation 5 Consists of income and other taxes paid, excluding VAT (included in Payments to suppliers) and employment-related taxes (included in Employee wages and benefits) 6 Consists of expenditures for dividends, share repurchases (excluding those for employee share plans) and interest on debt 7 Decrease in capital expenditure reflects lower investment in Property, Plant and Equipment during the period 8 The PwC Independent Assurance Report includes in its scope only the Corporate community investment figure used in the calculation of Economic value shared Performance data Non-financial information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 63 Independent Assurance Report on the Syngenta Non-financial Reporting Strategic To the Board of Directors, Syngenta AG, Responsibilities and Methodology Summary of work performed overview Basel (‘Syngenta’) The Board of Directors of Syngenta AG is Our assurance procedures included the We have been engaged to perform responsible for both the subject matter and following work but not limited to: assurance procedures to provide assurance the reporting criteria as well as for the entire –– Evaluation of the application of group on the Non-financial performance summary reporting process of the selected information guidelines; of Syngenta included in the Annual Review in accordance with the criteria. This responsibility includes the design, –– Visits of six different sites in Argentina and 2015 (‘Report’). Brazil selected based on quantitative and implementation and maintenance of related internal control relevant to this reporting qualitative criteria; Scope and Subject matter Research and process that is free from material –– Testing of the performance indicators on a Our assurance engagement and the related sample basis for evidence supporting the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. levels of assurance focused on the data and Development Non-financial performance summary information disclosed in the aggregated nonOur responsibility is to perform a limited relative to completeness, accuracy, financial reporting of Syngenta for the or reasonable assurance engagement to adequacy and consistency; financial year ended December 31, 2015: express an opinion on positions in the related Non-financial performance summary on –– Review of the documentation supporting Reasonable Assurance relevant data on a sample basis, including The following subject matter contained pages 57 to 62. We planned and conducted our engagement in accordance with management and reporting structures in the Report is within the scope of the and documentation; reasonable assurance: International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) (revised) –– Reviewing the management and reporting Crops –– The application of the Syngenta reporting processes. Assessing the consolidation ‘Assurance engagements other than audits guidelines published on The Good Growth process of data at the Group level. in focus or reviews of historical financial information’. Plan Progress Data website in the nonThat standard requires that we comply with financial reporting; and We have neither carried out any work in ethical requirements and plan and perform –– the internal reporting system and respect of projections and targets nor such our procedures to obtain reasonable or procedures to collect and aggregate the outside of the agreed scope. limited assurance whether the related non-financial data for the six Good Growth Non-financial performance summary We believe that the evidence we have obtained Plan commitments on page 56, excl. the were prepared, in all material aspects, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis materiality matrix; and in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. for our assurance conclusions. –– the data and information in the NonThe Good A limited assurance engagement under ISAE Reasonable assurance conclusion financial performance summary, in all 3000 (revised) is substantially less in scope material aspects, on pages 57 and 58 In our opinion, Growth Plan than a reasonable assurance engagement (excl. people indicators) of the Report. in relation to both the risk assessment –– The Good Growth Plan guidelines as Limited Assurance procedures, including an understanding published on The Good Growth Plan The related Non-financial performance of internal control, and the procedures Progress Data website are being applied, summary disclosed, in all material aspects, performed in response to the assessed risks. in all material aspects; and on pages 58 (limited to people indicators) Consequently, the nature, timing and extent –– The internal reporting systems to collect to 62 of the Report is within the scope of of procedures for gathering sufficient and aggregate The Good Growth Plan data the limited assurance. appropriate evidence are deliberately limited are functioning as designed and provide Operational relative to a reasonable assurance an appropriate basis for this reporting; and Our assurance procedures do not cover engagement and therefore less assurance the indicators on payments to suppliers, is obtained with a limited assurance –– The data and information disclosed in the performance employee wages and benefits, payments to engagement than for a reasonable Non-financial performance summary in the governments and providers of capital, and assurance engagement. Report on pages 57 and 58 (excl. people capital expenditure presented in the related indicators) give a fair picture of Syngenta’s Non-financial performance summary on The procedures selected depend on the non-financial performance. page 62 of the Report. assurance practitioner’s judgment. Limited assurance conclusion Criteria Our Independence and Quality Based on our work performed on the related The reporting criteria used by Syngenta Control Non-financial performance summary nothing Performance are described and disclosed on The Good We have complied with the independence has come to our attention causing us to Growth Plan Progress Data website and in and other ethical requirements of the Code believe that disclosed data and information data the internal non-financial reporting guidelines. of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued in the related Non-financial performance These define those procedures based on the by the International Ethics Standards Board summary in the Report on pages 58 (limited related sections of the ‘Standard Disclosure’ for Accountants, which is founded on to the people indicators) to 62 does not give of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, a fair picture of Syngenta’s non-financial published in 2013 by the Global Reporting professional competence and due care, performance, in all material aspects, in Initiative (GRI), by which the non-financial confidentiality and professional behavior. accordance with the reporting criteria. performance data are internally gathered, Our firm applies International Standard on collated and aggregated. Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains The accuracy and completeness of nona comprehensive system of quality control Corporate financial performance indicators are subject including documented policies and to inherent limitations given their nature and procedures regarding compliance with ethical information methods for determining, calculating and requirements, professional standards and PricewaterhouseCoopers AG estimating such data. Accordingly, our applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Zurich, February 16, 2016 assurance report should therefore be read Gerd Tritschler together with the related reporting criteria. Bettina Buomberger 64 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Board of Directors 1 Michel Demaré Chairman of the Board, non-executive Director. Chairman of the Chairman’s & Governance at December 31, 2015 Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Nomination Committee. Syngenta is led by a strong and experienced Board of Directors. He is also Chairman of the Syngenta Foundation The Board includes representatives with seven nationalities, drawn from for Sustainable Agriculture broad international business and scientific backgrounds. Its members Born: 1956 Nationality: Belgian bring diversity in expertise and perspective to the leadership of a complex, Initial appointment: 2012 highly-regulated, global business. 2 Jürg Witmer Vice Chairman, non-executive Director. 1 2 Chairman of the Compensation Committee, member of the Chairman’s & Governance Committee and the Nomination Committee Born: 1948 Nationality: Swiss Initial appointment: 2006 3 Vinita Bali Non-executive Director. Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Born: 1955 3 4 Nationality: Indian Initial appointment: 2012 4 Stefan Borgas Non-executive Director. Member of the Audit Committee Born: 1964 Nationality: German Initial appointment: 2009 5 Gunnar Brock Non-executive Director. Chairman of the 5 6 Audit Committee and member of the Nomination Committee Born: 1950 Nationality: Swedish Initial appointment: 2012 6 Eleni Gabre-Madhin Non-executive Director. Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Born: 1964 Nationality: Swiss Initial appointment: 2013 7 8 7 David Lawrence Non-executive Director. Member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Science and Technology Advisory Board Born: 1949 Nationality: British Initial appointment: 2009 8 Eveline Saupper Non-executive Director. Member of the Compensation Committee 9 Born: 1958 Nationality: Swiss Initial appointment: 2013 9 Jacques Vincent Non-executive Director. Member of the Compensation Committee Born: 1946 Nationality: French Initial appointment: 2005 Corporate information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 65 Executive Committee 1 John Ramsay Chief Executive Officer ad interim Strategic overview Chief Financial Officer at December 31, 2015 Born: 1957 Nationality: British Under the leadership of the Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Appointed: 2007 Committee is responsible for the active leadership and the operative 2 Caroline Luscombe management of the Company. Head Human Resources Born: 1960 Nationality: British Research and Appointed: 2012 1 2 3 Christoph Mäder Head Legal & Taxes and Company Secretary Development Born: 1959 Nationality: Swiss Appointed: 2000 4 Patricia Malarkey Head Research & Development Born: 1965 Crops Nationality: British/American in focus Appointed: 2014 3 4 5 Jonathan Parr Chief Operating Officer Born: 1961 Nationality: British Appointed: 2015 Mark Peacock The Good 6 Head Global Operations Growth Plan Born: 1961 Nationality: British Appointed: 2007 5 6 7 Davor Pisk Chief Operating Officer Born: 1958 Nationality: British Operational Appointed: 2008 8 Jonathan Seabrook Head Corporate Affairs performance Born: 1969 Nationality: British 7 8 Appointed: 2013 Performance data Corporate information R  ead the full biographies: Corporate Governance Report and Compensation Report on pages 06–08 and 13–14 66 Syngenta Annual Review 2015 Shareholder information Syngenta shares are listed on the Syngenta share price performance January 1, 2015 – December 31, 2015 SIX Swiss Exchange and on the (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2014) Dec 31, 2015 New York Stock Exchange, where % CHF392.30 the shares are traded as ADS 35 High: CHF430.80 * (American Depositary Shares).1 30 Low: CHF281.60 Trading symbols 25 New York 20 SIX Swiss Stock Exchange Exchange 15 Shares SYNN SYT 10 5 Shares in issue 0 At December 31, 2015 Number of shares Total shares in issue 92,945,649 -5 of which treasury shares 1,161,397 -10 -15 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Share price and market capitalization 2 Syngenta Eurotop 300 SMI * Closing high/low during the year At December 31, 2015 Share price (CHF) 392.30 Syngenta ADS price performance January 1, 2015 – December 31, 2015 Share price ($) (ADS) 78.73 (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2014) Dec 31, 2015 % $ 78.73 Market capitalization (CHF million) 36,007 50 High: $93.61 * Market capitalization ($ million) 36,283 45 Low: $61.92 40 35 Dividend history 30 CHF 25 2011 8.00 20 2012 9.50 15 10 2013 10.00 5 2014 11.00 0 2015 3 11.00 -5 -10 1 1 share = 5 ADS -15 2 For the purposes of calculating market capitalization Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec the number of shares stood at 91.8 million Syngenta ADS S&P 500 Dow Jones * Closing high/low during the year 3 To be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on April 26, 2016 Reporting dates First quarter trading statement April 20, 2016 Annual General Meeting April 26, 2016 Half-year results July 22, 2016 Third quarter trading statement October 25, 2016 A full form 20-F is accessible at: www.investors.syngenta.com Investors can subscribe to media releases by email or via RSS at: www.investors.syngenta.com The full year results press release can be viewed up to six months after the event at: www.fyr-2015.syngenta.com Corporate information Syngenta Annual Review 2015 67 Strategic overview Syngenta share price performance January 1, 2011 – December 31, 2015 Research and (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2010) Dec 31, 2015 % CHF392.30 CHF275.00 CHF366.60 CHF355.20 CHF320.00 Development 60 50 40 30 20 10 Crops 0 in focus -10 -20 -30 Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Syngenta Eurotop 300 SMI Syngenta ADS price performance January 1, 2011 – December 31, 2015 The Good Growth Plan (Indexed to zero at closing price on December 31, 2010) Dec 31, 2015 % $58.94 $80.80 $79.94 $64.24 $78.73 75 60 45 30 Operational 15 performance 0 -15 Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Performance Syngenta ADS S&P 500 Dow Jones Total shareholder return 1 January 1, 2006 – December 31, 2015 data Syngenta ADS FTSE EU Chemicals Syngenta share S&P US Chemicals NASDAQ Corporate information S&P 500 Eurotop 300 SMI 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350% 1 Share price appreciation plus reinvested dividends, calculated on a monthly basis, indexed to closing price on December 31, 2005 Switzerland For the business year 2015, Syngenta has Syngenta supports the Investor Relations published three books: the Annual Review 2015 10 principles of the United T +41 61 323 5883 (including information about our non-financial Nations Global Compact F +41 61 323 5880 performance), the Financial Report 2015, through an established E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com and the Corporate Governance Report and commitment to Corporate Compensation Report 2015. Responsibility and ongoing Media Relations implementation of T +41 61 323 2323 All documents were originally published policies on human rights, F +41 61 323 9044 in English. The Annual Review 2015 and fair labor, environmental E media.relations@syngenta.com the Corporate Governance Report and protection and anti-corruption. Compensation Report 2015 are also Share Register available in German. T +41 41 798 4833 F +41 41 798 4849 These publications are also available E syngenta@devigus.com on the Internet: www.syngenta.com Shareholder Services © 2016 Syngenta AG, Basel, Switzerland. T +41 61 323 2121 All rights reserved. F +41 61 323 5461 Editorial completion: February 2016 E shareholder.services@syngenta.com Copywriting: KainesLang, Corporate Responsibility Berwick-upon-Tweed, UK E csr@syngenta.com Design and production: Radley Yeldar, Syngenta switchboard London, UK T +41 61 323 1111 F +41 61 323 1212 Printing: Stämpfli Ltd., Bern, Switzerland E global.webmaster@syngenta.com Printed on Hello Silk, made with wood fiber USA from managed forests and manufactured at Investor Relations a mill that has achieved the ISO14001 and T +1 202 737 6520 EMAS environmental management standards. T +1 202 737 6521 E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com ® Registered trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company Media Relations T +1 202 737 8913 ™ Trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company E media.relations_us@syngenta.com The SYNGENTA Wordmark and BRINGING Contacts for ADS holders PLANT POTENTIAL TO LIFE are registered T +1 888 269 2377 – from within the USA trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company. T +1 201 680 6825 – from outside the USA Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking E shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com statements: This document contains forwardSyngenta AG looking statements, which can be identified by Corporate Affairs terminology such as “expect”, “would”, “will”, Schwarzwaldallee 215 “potential”, “plans”, “prospects”, “estimated”, P.O. Box “aiming”, “on track” and similar expressions. CH-4002 Basel Such statements may be subject to risks and Switzerland uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these statements. www.syngenta.com We refer you to Syngenta’s publicly available filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for information about these and other risks and uncertainties. Syngenta assumes no obligation to update forwardlooking statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions or other factors. This document does not constitute, or form part of, any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer, to purchase or subscribe for any ordinary shares in Syngenta AG, or Syngenta ADSs, nor shall it form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract therefor. Article number SYN01002.EN
