Key figures for the Evonik Group T01 Key figures C02 Sustainability management at Evonik in € million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Executive Board Sales 14,540 13,365 12,708 12,917 13,507 Overall responsibility for sustainability Adjusted EBITDA a 2,768 2,467 1,995 1,882 2,465 Responsible Executive Board member: Chief Human Resources Officer Adjusted EBITDA margin in % 19.0 18.5 15.7 14.6 18.2 Segments Corporate Divisions Regions Adjusted EBIT b 2,099 1,887 1,404 1,256 1,752 ROCE c in % 18.7 20.4 15.1 12.5 16.6 Sustainability strategy and networks Net income 1,011 1,165 2,054 568 991 Adjusted net income 1,256 1,076 806 782 1,128 Specialist regional project-based steering committees and management teams Earnings per share in € 2.17 2.50 4.41 1.22 2.13 Adjusted earnings per share in € 2.70 2.31 1.73 1.68 2.42 Total assets as of December 31 16,944 17,166 15,883 15,685 17,005 Equity ratio as of December 31 in % 35.8 31.9 43.0 41.6 44.6 Cash flow from operating activities 1,309 1,420 1,055 1,066 1,971 C03 Evonik’s stakeholder groups Capital expenditures d 830 960 1,140 1,123 877 Depreciation and amortization d 647 580 585 606 700 Interest groups, e.g. local inhabitants, Scientific community non-governmental organizations (NGOs) Net financial debt/assets as of December 31 – 843 – 1,163 571 400 1,098 No. of employees as of December 31 33,556 33,298 33,650 33,412 33,576 Media Business associates/customers Figures for 2012 and 2013 contain the former Real Estate segment as a discontinued operation. Evonik 2014 figures restated. Politicians/political Employees a Earnings before financial result, taxes, depreciation and amortization, after adjustments. decision-makers b Earnings before financial result and taxes, after adjustments. c Return on capital employed. d Intangible assets, property, plant, equipment and investment property. Equity and debt holders Suppliers Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. C01 Corporate structure C04 18 sustainability aspects identified are bundled in six areas of action Evonik Strategy & growth Governance/compliance Safety Sustainability strategy and management Compliance Plant safety Segments Nutrition & Care Resource Efficiency Performance Materials Services as part of corporate strategy Responsible management/ Occupational safety/health protection Innovations/technologies corporate governance and promotion Customer satisfaction Morals & ethics (in business)/ Transportation safety and logistics sustainability management Particular challenges and business options Product stewardship in the supply chain (standards) (population growth, health, growth markets) Sustainable products and solutions Environment Employer excellence More sustainable products/ Climate change and emissions into the air Appeal as an employer products and solutions Water management Qualification/training, advanced training Efficient use of scarce resources/materials Waste management CONTENTS 2 Foreword 4 Perspective change 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 25 Sustainability management 38 The business 52 Employees 62 The environment 75 Safety 84 Society 88 ANNEX 89 Our objectives 92 About this report 94 Market positions 96 Major sites 97 Major shareholdings 98 Awards and accolades 2015 99 Membership of networks and initiatives 100 G4 content index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) 112 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 114 Glossary 117 List of tables and charts 119 Credits 2 KLAUS ENGEL THOMAS WESSEL Chairman of the Executive Board Chief Human Resources Officer DEAR READERS, Sustainability is a major factor of success at Evonik between economic, environmental, and social Industries. We are convinced that profitable considerations. We take all of these considerations growth and future business success are based in into account in our sustainability strategy. As we large measure on foresighted and responsible beimplement this strategy, we focus on worldwide havior. This is the kind of behavior we expect and megatrends in the areas of health, nutrition, receive from every one of our 33,000 employees resource efficiency, and globalization. In addition all over the world. The ability to look at things from to the creation of economic value, we always keep a variety of perspectives is one of the requirements social, environmental, and climate policy aspects for progress in every area: the continuous improvein mind. ment of our production processes, the planning and commissioning of new facilities, and the introducEnvironmental performance assessments help us to tion of market-ready products. In our operations, make the effects of our products transparent. This we aim to provide innovations that make people’s strengthens our credibility as a reliable provider of lives healthier and more rewarding; to enable our solutions for our customers and helps us to contincustomers to reduce their own environmental uously improve the sustainability of our business footprint; and to ensure that the principles of good operations. One example of that is the amino acids corporate governance, as well as environmental we produce for animal feed. The addition of the and social responsibility, are firmly integrated into amino acid DL-methionine to animal feed makes our daily activities at Evonik. an important contribution to all three dimensions of sustainability—environmental, economic, and In many of our business operations, we have social. Independent studies confirm that the found that sustainability is a growth driver and a addition of DL-methionine to feed significantly key criterion in customers’ purchasing decisions. decreases greenhouse gas emissions as well as Our customers want to have products and solutions reducing the amounts of water and land that are that are the result of finding the right balance required for animal nutrition. 3 The safety of our facilities, and thus the protection we will continue to deepen the sustainability analyof our employees and our neighbors, are more imsis of our business operations. portant to us than sales and profits. We have firmly established our high standards at all of our locations Evonik is in continuous contact with a broad range through a safety culture that is uniform throughout of interest groups. These groups include our the Group and in binding principles of conduct. employees, the people living near our production Last year more than 90 percent of our production facilities, customers and suppliers, shareholders, employees throughout the world participated in the representatives of science and research, nongovassociated training programs. ernmental organizations, policymakers, and the media. In our dialogue with these stakeholders, Beyond the confines of our own plant gates, we we experience the change of perspective that is an are promoting transparency and sustainability important prerequisite for the continuous adaptaalong the entire supply chain. Part of this effort tion of our business activities in line with diverse involves expanding our relationships with strategic positions, requirements, wishes, and suggestions. suppliers and providing qualification programs for The result is a sustainability performance that is new suppliers. We expect our suppliers as well to publicly recognized. Evonik occupies an excellent comply with our high standards of safety, health, position in major rankings of sustainability. For exenvironmental protection, labor norms, and other ample, in 2016 we were honored for the first time core aspects of sustainability. Evonik is a founding with a Silver Class award as a Sustainability Leader member of the sector initiative Together for Susin the renowned sustainability yearbook published tainability (TfS), which aims to establish uniform by RobecoSAM. We were immediately placed standards of sustainable procurement for the entire in the Top Ten of the approximately 70 chemical sector. These standards include the evaluation and companies all over the world that were evaluated auditing of suppliers. As a TfS member, we regufor the yearbook. larly submit ourselves to this evaluation process. At the beginning of this year, Evonik received a Gold As a corporate group, Evonik is a part of society rating for sustainability for the third time in a row. and of public life. And as a good corporate citizen, This result puts us among the top two percent of all we want to be part of the response to the challengthe companies that were evaluated. es that affect our society as a whole and to take responsibility for the well-being of our fellow huAs part of our long-term strategy, we continued man beings. A special challenge that we face today to analyze the sustainability of our business operais the large number of refugees—in Germany, the tions in 2015 and expanded this analysis to all rest of Europe, and many other parts of the world. 22 business lines in the three chemical segments. We believe it is our duty to alleviate the emergency As a result, about 94 percent of the Group’s sales in through humanitarian aid and to help open up new 2015 were covered by this evaluation. The evaluopportunities for the newly arrived refugees in ation process revealed that our chemical segments Germany. We extend our thanks to the many​ already generate half of their sales with products Evonik employees who are setting an example as whose use makes a demonstrable contribution to they engage in this effort. improved resource efficiency. In the current year KLAUS ENGEL THOMAS WESSEL Chairman of the Executive Board Chief Human Resources Officer 4 THE FATHER’S THINKING: THE BOY’S THINKING: That vintage car is fascinating, but That looks like my classit wouldn’t be safe or fuel-efficient mate Felix. That’s funny. enough to use as a family car. Where’s he going? 5 OUR ENGINEER’S THINKING: Helium balloons! If it only were that easy to make cars lightweight. 6 ENVIRONMENT MOBILITY MADE EASY Automakers are striving to make cars more efficient in emerging markets also dream of having a car. The and thus more environmentally friendly. Lightweight worldwide vehicle fleet already passed the one billion components made of fiber-reinforced plastics could mark in 2009, and it’s still growing. In order to limit these help, but they are expensive to produce. But now devehicles’ impact on the environment, lawmakers are invelopers from Evonik Industries have found solutions creasingly raising environmental and emissions standards. that bring us a big step closer to series-produced For example, the EU will reduce the CO2 emission limits lightweight components. for all new cars from 130 grams per kilometer today to 95 grams per kilometer in 2020. Mobility makes life easier. It gets us to work safe and Systematic lightweight construction is one way that dry, brings us home with full shopping bags, and takes automakers could partially fulfill these requirements. us to the doctor quickly in an emergency. Many people’s With every 100-kilogram reduction in weight, a car’s fuel mobility depends on their cars, and millions of people consumption decreases by up to 0.5 liters per 100 kilo“ Production processes account for about 70 percent of the overall costs of fiber-reinforced composite materials. That’s why at the project house we focused on processes and materials that reduce these costs considerably. DR. SANDRA REEMERS Head of the Composites Project House ” 7 meters. But whereas fiber-reinforced composites already as thermoplastics, yet are as mechanically strong as account for up to 50 percent of a modern airplane, for thermosetting plastics. In order to create these systems, cars that figure is only approximately one percent. One the developers used a trick. Thanks to specialty chemicals, important reason for this is that lightweight construction these polymer systems can be reshaped at temperatures requires lots of manual labor, as there are no automated over 170°C, but at normal utilization temperatures they production processes for it. In addition, the processing of are dimensionally stable and mechanically very robust. As composite materials takes much longer than the puncha result, components made of this hybrid polymer system ing, bending, and welding of metal parts. This increases can be produced much faster and are also recyclable. costs and decreases the number of units produced. The project house also entered uncharted territory A team of Evonik developers has now brought a soluwhen it developed unidirectional tapes—plastic tapes tion within reach. At the Composites Project House, in which fibers are embedded lengthwise. When such it cooperated closely for three years with the Evonik tapes are layered on top of one another at various angles business lines, universities, and partners along the entire and then melted together, they become extremely stable value chain to develop new materials and processes components. To produce these tapes, the project house that make lightweight construction with fiber-reinforced developed a new process that saves costs, time, and composites more cost-efficient. Their work was based energy. The tapes have been produced for over a year on Evonik’s extensive know-how regarding of almost all in a pilot facility that is suitable for series production. composite material components. After the development phase in the project house, A completely new material concept developed at the Evonik’s business lines are now forging ahead with project house, called hybrid polymer systems, is well the market launch. The reactions of potential customers suited for series production. These systems combine the who have received samples for testing already show characteristics of two types of plastics that used to be that these developments from Evonik have struck a nerve. regarded as incompatible. They can be processed as easily Oil and gas extraction could also benefit from fiber-reinforced composite materials. When oil and gas are extracted from very deep waters, the pipes have to withstand tremendous pressures. They are stiffened with metallic mesh, but that makes them heavier. The unidirectional tapes from Evonik offer an alternative, because they’re extremely strong and very light, and they don’t corrode. 8 THE DAUGHTER’S THINKING: THE CLASSICS FAN’S THINKING: When mom is at her This music is delightful. rehearsal, I can finally listen to You feel as though you’re in hip-hop music at full volume. a different world. 9 OUR HR EMPLOYEE’S THINKING: It’s great to see how talented young people and experienced pros can harmonize. You only need to find the right pace for sharing ideas. 10 EMPLOYEES CONNECTING DIFFERENT GENERATIONS Evonik Industries offers a holistic and long-term their careers to directly benefit from their predecessors’ human resources planning approach that brings experience in the tasks that they themselves will have to together people who are just starting their careers perform later on. As a result, Evonik can now promise with employees who are about to retire. This all new trainees who join the company in 2016 that they “GenerationenPakt” agreement pays off for young will be hired once they have successfully completed their and old alike as well as for the company itself. training. The new approach not only lets the company more precisely plan and control the demand for trainee positions, it also ensures there is enough time for training How can the company maintain its wealth of knowledge? and for giving trainees custom-tailored qualifications How can one provide young people with appealing over an extended period. The employees who will soon prospects? And how does one enable older employees retire consider this phase an especially satisfying one of to decide for themselves how and when they will retire? their careers. It ensures that the knowledge that they Evonik provides answers to all three of these questions have accumulated over many years is not lost, but instead with its “GenerationenPakt” agreement. Signed in 2015, preserved for the company. this agreement was first offered to non-exempt employees born between 1959 and 1961 who still had five years “This model meets the desire of many older employees left to go before they could begin early retirement on to gradually leave their jobs over a period of several years their preferred date. Evonik takes advantage of these five instead of retiring abruptly,” says Thomas Wessel, Chief years to specifically train people for the upcoming job Human Resources Officer of Evonik Industries. “We have vacancy. Ideally, the more experienced employees will also responded to this wish and linked it with the hiring of work together with their prospective successors during young trainees. This way, we want to make our personnel this time. This enables people who are starting out on planning more reliable and provide young people with Evonik promotes the long-term development of highly skilled personnel as early as preschool. One of the many initiatives that Evonik has launched for this purpose is Young Spirit, which has been getting small children interested in the STEM subjects for over ten years now. By this means, preschoolers and elementary school children are playfully instructed in subjects that will later spark their interest in pursuing a career in mathematics, computer science, the natural sciences or engineering. 11 clear prospects for the time after their training is finished,” he adds. The agreement is jointly supported by the company, the works council, and the IG BCE trade union. This model is also made possible by the fact that the participating non-exempt employees have long-term accounts in which they save up money, vacation days, pre-retirement days off and/or excess working time. An employee’s savings in this account are converted into the number of days that he or she can retire early. Evonik also provides additional funding for such accounts. If an employee retires at the earliest possible date with deductions, Evonik lessens the reductions of his or her company retirement benefits. The company even continues to provide vacation pay, and the employee’s long-term account is not affected during the person’s actual vacation time. Instead, Evonik pays for the vacation days. The model’s popularity is borne out by the high participation rate. In fact, more than three fourths of the employees who are eligible to take part actually do so. “ The GenerationenPakt is a pioneering approach that once again demonstrates that the German model of the social market economy continues to produce up-to-date solutions in the 21st century. MICHAEL VASSILIADIS Executive Secretary of the Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE) ” 12 THE GROOM-TO-BE’S THINKING: THE FLOWER GIRL’S THINKING: Isn’t it unlucky to see You look so pretty in that the wedding gown before gown. When I get married, the big moment? I want one just like it! 13 OUR DEVELOPER’S THINKING: It’s simply brilliant. But it took 60 years to get the zipper from the concept stage to the finished product. Nobody has that much time today. 14 BUSINESS MAKING IDEAS FLOURISH Through its Venture Capital unit, Evonik Industries phase behind them and are ready to bring their inventions invests in startups and their disruptive innovations. to market. In the medium term, € 100 million will flow It’s not only about making money, but also about partnot only via specialized funds, but primarily in the form nerships and new markets. of direct investments. Finding promising candidates is the mission of the eight-person Evonik Venture Capital team, which includes management experts, physicists, chemists, A brilliant idea, a garage, and lots of enthusiasm—that’s and engineers. What all of them have in common is the creation myth of legendary startups. But in fact long experience in the chemical business, a critical view there’s a lot more to it than that. And that’s exactly why towards purported innovations, and good connections most startups fail—because an idea alone is not yet a with the operating units of the Group. That’s because in product, and a product alone is not yet a business model. spite of all the risks involved their investments must be That path is a long one and leads through the Valley of very sound, and they must be compatible with Evonik’s Death. That’s what people in the know call the phase in strategy and markets. which high-tech startups have to build up production facilities and a workforce before they can generate income. The experts scrutinize more than 500 young companies In particular, startups that are not creating digital services every year. Well over 80 percent of them are filtered out but tangible products and technologies have to have in the very first round. At the end of the vetting process, deep pockets. The best way to survive in the Valley of between three and five startups are left as candidates for Death is to have a healthy initial supply of capital and investment because their innovations could change at least other people’s trust in you. one of Evonik’s markets, or because they could open up new markets for Evonik technologies. Evonik Industries knows this, and it specializes in supporting and financing exactly this kind of enterprise. VenThe range of direct investments Evonik has made so far ture Capital is the unit that, since 2012, has been investillustrates just how diverse these disruptive technologies ing in promising startups that have left their laboratory are. It ranges from nanolenses for digital gesture recog15 “ We’re not looking for hypes or for the Facebook of tomorrow. We’re investing in technologies that could change our own markets in a fundamental way. MARK REDSHAW Investment Director, Evonik Venture Capital ” nition to high-performance lubricants made from renewhas developed a unique composite technology for the able raw materials and customized shoe insoles produced production of flexible pipes for the offshore extraction of with a 3D printer. So far there are eight companies in the oil and gas. These pipes are lightweight, yet extremely portfolio, and the plan is to increase that number to as robust. many as 20. Four of these companies were new in 2015. Thanks to Evonik’s investment, these technologies too are The Canadian startup Wiivv Wearables produces custommoving a step closer to commercial success. For Evonik, ized shoe insoles with the help of 3D printers. The Finnthe aim is not only to receive a return on its investment ish medical equipment company Synoste has developed but also to form partnerships to which the Group conan innovative implant that makes it possible to carry out tributes its infrastructure and the combined market and orthopedically essential leg lengthening for patients in a application expertise of its almost 33,000 employees. much less invasive manner. That’s an incalculable advantage for the young companies during this sensitive phase. In return, Evonik gains access JeNaCell, a spinoff from the University of Jena, has to bright minds outside the Group and promotes fresh devel­oped a biotechnological process for producing new ideas that could move markets—and perhaps our nanocellulose that can for example, be used to treat burns world—in a new direction. more effectively. The Dutch company Airborne Oil & Gas In Marl and at its branches in the USA and China, Evonik Industries is operating its own “incubators” for disruptive technologies. At Creavis, Evonik’s strategic innovation unit, interdisciplinary teams consisting of researchers and developers from inside and outside the Group work together on innovations that have great potential but also require a lot of patience. 16 THE FATHER’S THINKING: THE PROFESSIONAL’S THINKING: Straight into the starting The kids’ playing is line-up. That’s my boy! so carefree. This kind of Just don’t get hurt. soccer is really fun! 17 OUR LOCAL MANAGER’S THINKING: In sports it’s all about skill and spirit, not your origins. That goes for skilled trainees too. 18 SOCIETY EFFECTIVE HELP FOR PEOPLE IN NEED The Evonik Foundation and Evonik Industries jointly run long-term projects for refugees in the places where support refugee projects in the towns where the Evonik operates and the surrounding regions. Just over Group operates. Here they provide unbureaucratic 90 projects will reach more than 10,000 people. assistance and offer long-term opportunities. But providing the refugees with basic necessities and initial services is far from enough. The Evonik Foundation Day after day, thousands of refugees from crisis regions considers it important to provide more extensive help, are leaving behind them everything they have and seeking support integration, and create opportunities that reach a better future in countries such as Germany. According further into the future. It therefore supports projects that to the UN Refugee Aid Organization, more refugees are facilitate the integration of the refugees into their new on the move today than at any time after World War II. surroundings—projects focusing on language instrucBy the summer of 2015, it was clear that Germany’s cities tion, schooling, and professional training. That’s because and municipalities will be taking in and integrating hunmany of the refugees want to stay in Germany and dreds of thousands of refugees. At about the same time, will stay there, building a new life in peace and security. Evonik decided to actively support these efforts with donations in kind, funding, and personal commitment. At the adult education center in Wesseling, a secondary school in Haltern, the job center in Krefeld, the “lanIn a multitude of emergency shelters the local authoriguage Cafe” in Dossenheim, and in many other places, ties, supported by many volunteers and donations from the Evonik Foundation is therefore financing large and the public, are providing refugees with the basic necessmall projects so that children, teenagers, and adults can sities: a roof over their heads, showers, clothing, and learn German as quickly as possible. In Herne, a special hot meals. Evonik, as a major employer and an important educational concept is helping refugee children learn factor in local economies, is supporting many of these the language faster. In Worms, the Evonik Foundation is measures. In September 2015, Evonik made €1 million helping to finance an independent-learning center that available to the Evonik Foundation to be used as emeraims to reach all of the refugees that can’t be accommogency funding for refugees. The money is mainly being dated in the existing classes and courses. And the Evonik used to offer training, jobs, and language courses and to Foundation is cooperating with Ruhr University Bochum “Starting Your Career” is a joint initiative of the employers and employees of the chemical industry that helps unemployed young people gain the qualifications for a traineeship. Evonik is a longtime partner in this initiative. In 2015, with financial support from the Evonik Foundation, it increased the number of people it funds so that young refugees can also be prepared for traineeships in German industry. The first participants started courses in Marl in November 2015. 19 “ The refugees who are now coming to Germany and have good prospects for becoming residents constitute a tremendous opportunity for our society, our economy, and the labor market. In order to take advantage of this potential, we first need to make investments in language classes and qualification and training courses. KLAUS ENGEL Chairman of the Executive Board, Evonik Industries AG ” (RUB) to establish 11 scholarships specially created for refugees. The program is designed for young men and women who started to study engineering, science, and economics in their homelands and enables them to continue their studies at RUB. It also supports young people who want to start studying these subjects at RUB. For the refugees, integration also means regaining some of the elements of normal life. The Evonik Foundation, together with Evonik, is helping children and teenagers in this area especially—for example, by enabling its employees to organize trips and equip playgrounds and relaxation rooms. In addition, the foundation is helping to equip bicycle workshops in Worms, Marl, and Rheinfelden where refugees can put used bicycles into working order for themselves and their families. For many refugees, the first few months in Germany consist mainly of endless waiting. In these workshops, they can do useful work and talk to other refugees and their German helpers. They are also gaining a small piece of valuable independence for their and their families’ future lives in their new homeland. 20 THE OFFICE WORKER’S THINKING: It’s high time for a THE LITTLE GIRL’S THINKING: diving trip! My last one I wonder if they’ll see was much too long ago. any seahorses. 21 OUR SAFETY EXPERT’S THINKING: Safety is more than just good equipment. We also need to have uniform standards and be able to rely on one another 100%. 22 SAFETY SAFETY FIRST Evonik Industries consolidates its process and plant general public, and local and national authorities expect safety know-how in order to ensure uniform safety us to minimize these hazards and thus prevent accidents, standards at a high level worldwide. This is expected especially accidents that could cause major damage. by the Group’s neighbors and by the capital market. In order to provide these safety measures, the GPSC’s mission is to provide expert support for the plant managers worldwide as they carry out their safety-related The list of Evonik’s new, expanded, and planned producresponsibilities. tion facilities is a long one. It includes plants for methionine in Singapore, C4 chemistry in Marl and Antwerp SYSTEMATIC, INTERDISCIPLINARY, (Belgium), and silica in Americana (Brazil) and Chester AND INTERNATIONAL (Pennsylvania, USA). The Group’s declared course of In order to prevent safety-relevant disruptions of processworldwide growth includes the increase of its production es and facilities, the safety experts at the GPSC regularly and sales volumes all over the world. However, in all and comprehensively analyze possible hazards and design of these facilities the top priority is safety. The global safety concepts for our plants. In this process, the experts initiative “Safety at Evonik” reflects the Group’s sense of take into account the behavior of the facility’s workforce responsibility regarding this issue. The initiative’s main and the functional safety of the technical equipment. In guiding principles is “We build and operate plants with order to take all of the available knowledge and experience the intention of causing no harm to the people who into account, the GPSC experts closely cooperate with the work there, our neighbors and the environment.” facility’s workforce as well as engineers and chemists. In order to implement this principle and ensure that the The GPSC operates at locations in Germany, China, highest safety standards are complied with at each and the USA. From these locations, the team provides of its facilities worldwide, Evonik established the Global intensive support for major investment projects all over Process Safety Competence Center, or GPSC. The GPSC the world, from the initial planning steps to the producteam consists of experts from Evonik with outstanding tion start-up of the facilities. They also regularly rechek skills in the field of process and plant safety. These and revise the safety concepts of existing facilities. experts have gathered many years of experience with diverse chemical processes and facilities all over the world, These special efforts and resources that are devoted to and they are combining their know-how at the GPSC. process and plant safety are vital. That’s the opinion of Evonik’s employees and neighbors, as well as of many Their clearly defined goal is “Zero accidents at Evonik.” others. More and more analysts, investors, and insurers That also applies to safety-relevant disruptions of proare including process and plant safety in their evaluations cesses and facilities that could arise, for example, as a of companies. Through its activities, the GPSC is also result of leaks at a plant or situations where products or assuring valuable goodwill—a currency that is internaraw materials could catch fire. Not only our employees tionally recognized everywhere, from Marl to Singapore. and the neighbors of our production facilities, but also the At Evonik, safeguarding health and ensuring safe behavior in the workplace also receive top priority. That’s the core of our guiding principles for safety, “Safety at Evonik.” The guidelines present more than 100 binding operation principles for all of the Group’s employees in the four topic areas Standards, Communication, Risk Management, and Involvement. It explains which of these principles are binding on individual behavior and which activities must be explicitly avoided. 23 “ Safety is always our top priority—and it is explicitly a higher priority than sales and profits. Our employees, as well as our neighbors all over the world, depend on that! THOMAS WESSEL Chief Human Resources Officer, Evonik Industries AG ” 24 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Corporate responsibility Sustainability management 25 The environment 62 Evonik’s strategic focus 25 Environmental targets 63 What we stand for 32 Environmental protection investment Corporate governance 33 and operating costs 64 House of Compliance 34 Production inputs and output 64 Fighting corruption 37 Emissions into the air 65 Water data and emissions into water 70 The business 38 Waste72 An excellent performance in 2015 38 Biodiversity and ecosystem services 73 Segment performance 41 Supply chain management 44 Safety75 Research & development 47 Occupational safety 76 Health protection 77 Employees52 Plant safety 78 Exemplary leadership Transportation safety and logistics 79 is the heart of our HR strategy 53 Product stewardship 81 Employees worldwide 54 Our activities in the areas of action Society84 defined for HR strategy 55 Donations and sponsorship Trustful collaboration 59 of public projects in 2015 84 Work/life balance 60 Social assistance projects 85 Advocacy87 The Sustainability management, The business, Employees, The environment and Safety sections were subject to a limited assurance review by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC) (indicated by ) • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 25 Sustainability management Evonik’s strategic focus Sustainability management Annex Evonik’s strategic focus have a wide range of activities geared to gaining and developing talented and qualified employees and positioning Business model Evonik as a preferred employer in order to retain them. Strong market positions, a clear culture of innovation, We are convinced that sustainable business activities and sustainability management responsible conduct by our management and staff at all levels Evonik is one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals comare vital for Evonik’s future. Our sustainability strategy takes panies. We concentrate on high-growth megatrends, especially up the megatrends identified in our corporate strategy and health, nutrition, resource efficiency and globalization. We supplements them with ecological and societal challenges. use rising demand from our customers for energy-efficient solutions that spare resources to develop new competencies A decentralized corporate structure and gain access to innovative growth areas. Our strengths To further improve our scope for profitable growth, we reorinclude the balanced spectrum of our business activities, ganized our management and portfolio structure effective end-markets and regions. Around 80 percent of sales come January 1, 2015. The Executive Board concentrates on Evonik’s from market-leading positions 1, which we are systematically strategic development within a management holding strucexpanding. Our strong competitive position is based on inteture. The three chemical manufacturing segments 2 are run grated technology platforms, innovative strength and workby newly established management companies. They use their ing closely with our customers. increased entrepreneurial independence to operate closer Our specialty chemical products make an indispensable to their markets and customers and improve efficiency still contribution to the success of our customers’ products on their further. markets. Close cooperation with our customers enables us to The Nutrition & Care segment produces specialty chemibuild up a deep knowledge of their business and markets, so cals, principally for use in consumer goods for everyday we can offer solutions tailored to a wide range of specificaapplications, animal nutrition and healthcare products. tions, and extensive technical service. Our technology centers The Resource Efficiency segment supplies high-performance and customer competence centers play an important role in materials for environment-friendly and energy-efficient system this around the world. For us, focusing on solutions also means solutions for the automotive, paints, coatings, adhesives and considering our customers’ customers. construction industries and many other sectors. Market-oriented research and development is a key driver The heart of the Performance Materials segment is the of profitable growth. This is based on our strong innovation production of polymer materials and intermediates, mainly culture, which is rooted in our innovation management and for the rubber, plastics and agriculture industries. management development. The Services segment offers services for the chemical Our highly trained employees are another key success facsegments and external customers at our sites and supports tor. They drive forward the company on a daily basis through the chemicals businesses and the management holding comtheir hard work and loyalty to our company. We therefore pany by providing standardized Group-wide business services. C01 Corporate structure Evonik Segments Nutrition & Care Resource Efficiency Performance Materials Services ­ 1 We define these as ranking 1st, 2nd or 3rd in the relevant markets. 2 Two segments were renamed and some activities were assigned to different segments. The prior-year figures have been restated accordingly. 26 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries The Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency segments The procedure comprises a broad spectrum of methods, operate principally in markets with high margins, growth rates including life cycle assessments (LCA), which comprise either and entry barriers. They both offer customers customized, a “cradle-to-gate” analysis, covering all stages from product innovation-driven solutions and the aim is for them to achieve development through raw material and energy inputs to proabove-average, profitable growth through innovations, investduction, or a “cradle-to-grave” analysis covering the entire ments and acquisitions. lifecycle including subsequent use and disposal. Another tool The Performance Materials segment is characterized by is the lifecycle-based calculation of the carbon footprint of our processes that make intensive use of energy and raw mate­ products. In addition, we use cross-referencing approaches, rials. It therefore concentrates on integrated, cost-optimized where existing findings, for example from LCAs, are used to technology platforms, efficient workflows, and economies of evaluate similar products. scale. Our strategic goal for this segment is to contribute earnings to finance the growth of the Evonik Group. In the future, investments and, where appropriate, alliances will C05 Percentage of sales generated by our concentrate on securing and extending our good market chemicals segments covered by lifecycle analyses positions. LCA Driving forward the sustainability analysis Not yet analyzed a (cradle to gate) 29 % 33 % of our business By developing new products and business models, Evonik can make a substantial contribution to sustainable development. At the same time, we want to strengthen and expand our Lifecycle-based leading market positions. crossreferencing 2 % To support the long-term focus of our strategy, we con­ LCA crossLCA tinued the sustainability analysis of our business in 2015 in colreferencing 8 % (cradle to grave) 22 % laboration with the operational units. The aim is to evaluate Lifecycle-based the sustainability-related challenges and opportunities of our analyses 6 % business operations. In this, we focus especially on market G4-27 trends and future market developments. On the one hand, that meets the requirements of a rapidly rising number of a Lifecycle analyses planned in some cases. customers who want an assurance that sustainability aspects are anchored along the entire value chain, while on the other, it further extends the toolbox available to us as a company that Resource-saving solutions operates in accordance with the principles of sustainability. Evonik products offer customers resource-saving and energyThe analysis is based on a list of criteria relating to the efficient solutions for a wide range of applications. In this value chains of our businesses and takes account of sustainway, we help meet the rising sustainability requirements in ability aspects from the supply chain through production to the marketplace and at the same time, continue to develop subsequent use. our business opportunities in these markets. Examples are In 2015 we extended the corresponding process to a total amino acids for animal nutrition, silica-silane technology of 22 business lines in our three chemical segments. Our susfor “green tires”, additives for hydraulic fluids, products for tainability analysis therefore covered around 94 percent of the construction of modern wind turbines, additives for Group sales in 2015. environment-friendly water-based coatings, functional silanes to protect building facades, catalysts for the production of Lifecycle analyses biodiesel, and ingredients based on renewable raw materials Lifecycle analyses are a central focus of the sustainability for the cosmetics industry. analysis of our business. The high expertise and strong operOur sustainability analysis includes an extensive analysis ational involvement of the Life Cycle Management group of the contribution made by our products to improving plays a key role in ensuring that Evonik has a wide-ranging resource efficiency in their respective applications. This covers knowledge of the environmental impact of its operations. energy savings and the reduction in greenhouse gas emisSo far, the ecological impact of around 70 percent of the sions, water consumption and the use of raw materials. The external sales generated by our chemical segments has been results show that around 50 percent of the sales generated by examined and the aim is to extend this to around 80 percent our chemical segments already come from products that of their external sales. make a measurable contribution to improving the resource efficiency of their applications. This is confirmed by our • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 27 Sustainability management Evonik’s strategic focus C02 Sustainability management at Evonik Executive Board Overall responsibility for sustainability Annex Responsible Executive Board member: Chief Human Resources Officer Segments Corporate Divisions Regions Sustainability strategy and networks Specialist regional project-based steering committees and management teams intensive collaboration with customers, the extensive results of representatives of the segments and regions. It prepares of application technology and product development, and the decisions to be taken by the CR Panel. CR Expert Circles evaluation of comparative findings of scientific investigations. examine specific topics and report their findings to the Global We will be extending the sustainability analysis of CR Committee. our business operations further in 2016 and also intend to seek external validation of this method. That is an important step in bringing together our sustainability strategy and our C06 Structure of Corporate Responsibility corporate strategy. steering bodies Sustainability management reorganized Executive Committee HR In view of the significance of sustainable development for Evonik’s business, the Executive Board bears overall responCorporate Responsibility Panel sibility for sustainability and direct responsibility is assigned to the Chief Human Resources Officer, who is also respon­ Global Corporate Responsibility Committee sible for all climate-related aspects at Evonik. The Corporate Responsibility division bundles the strategic framework, in CR Expert Circles close collaboration with other central functions and the operational segments, and coordinates the Group-wide implementation of sustainability activities. The introduction of the new Group structure has given our operational segments far greater entrepreneurial independence to allow targeted management of their businesses. Obligations and commitments The interaction of the segments and the sustainability bodies We are convinced that reliable and responsible management at Group level was initiated in 2015, for example at a joint of the company is the basis for Evonik’s long-term business workshop with representatives of the operational units. success and acceptance by society. The framework for this In addition, the consistency of the new structure of the suscomprises our Code of Conduct, our Global Social Policy tainability organization with the action of other corporate (GSP) and our Environment, Safety and Health (ESH) Values. divisions assigned to the Chief Human Resources Officer was In its Global Social Policy, Evonik defines principles of assured. The new sustainability bodies will take up their social responsibility to its employees. These include an obliwork in the course of 2016. gation to comply with internationally recognized standards of The HR Executive Committee chaired by the Chief Human conduct such as the International Labor Standards of the Resources Officer is the top CR decision-making body. It International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Guidelines initiates Group-wide CR projects and receives continuous for Multinational Enterprises issued by the Organisation for progress updates. Preliminary agreement and consultation on Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Evonik such projects and the establishment of a consensus on CR does not tolerate any conduct that violates the OECD Guidetopics and their operational structure is undertaken by the CR lines for Multinational Enterprises. The governments of the Panel, chaired by the head of the Corporate Responsibility OECD member states and other countries have signed these division. The permanent members of the CR Panel are repreguidelines to document their obligation to ensure responsible sentatives of the segments and employee representatives. corporate conduct. Our Global Social Policy states that our The panel also receives specialist support from the Global CR success and reputation are based fundamentally on the proCommittee, which has an operational focus and is composed fessionalism and commitment of all employees. 28 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries By joining the United Nations’ Global Compact (UN Global Climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time. Compact), Evonik gave an undertaking that, within its sphere As a responsible company, we have undertaken to report regof influence, it would respect and promote labor rights and ularly to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the world’s human rights, avoid discrimination, protect people and the largest investor initiative. The CDP evaluates the extent to environment, and fight against corruption. In fall 2015 the which companies respond effectively to the opportunities and United Nations published 17 global sustainable development risks of climate change and how transparently they report on goals, to be achieved by 2030. As a member of the Global them. As a public company, Evonik took part in the Investor Compact, we consider that we have an obligation to work CDP category for the second time in 2015. towards achieving these goals. Our sustainability activities In addition, Evonik is an organizational stakeholder in the support these in many areas. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) network. The content of our As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible Care sustainability reports is based on the internationally recogGlobal Charter, we also have an obligation to continuously nized GRI Guidelines. This sustainability report is based for improve our performance in health protection, environmental the first time on the specifications of the GRI G4 Guideline in protection, product stewardship and safety. accordance with the “core” option. Along with other German companies, Evonik has signed the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business. The signatories Updating our materiality analysis recognize that acceptance by people is a basic prerequisite To evaluate the global challenges and analyze the requireG4-18 for economic activity and give a commitment to measurable ments of stakeholders of relevance for Evonik, in 2015 we G4-22 standards for responsible corporate conduct. These include deepened our qualitative and quantitative materiality analysis fair competition, social partnership and sustainability. compared with previous years. The results played a key role in We also expect our suppliers to share our principles and defining the scope and content of reporting and the selection to act correctly in all respects, which means accepting the of sustainability indicators. In the future, we intend to conresponsibility towards their employees, business partners, tinue to align our sustainability reporting to the topics we society and the environment. Evonik’s requirements in this have identified as being material. respect are set out in its Supplier Code of Conduct. For our materiality analysis in fall 2015, we compiled We are involved in many competency networks on susinformation on sustainability issues of potential relevance tainability, both nationally and internationally. These include for Evonik. That involved evaluating many public and private econsense, an association of leading German companies that sources. Building on previous materiality analyses, these operate in the global arena, and Chemie 3, the sustainability included completed and ongoing legislative processes of initiative of the German chemical industry. In addition, Evonik national and international relevance for sustainability, publiis a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable cations issued by companies, associations and consultancies, Development (WBCSD) and is committed to its Vision 2050: conferences, books and journals, and personal discussions “9 billion people living well, within the limits of the planet.” with internal and external stakeholders. We are also committed to the Low Carbon Technology PartRepresentatives of all stakeholder groups of relevance for nerships Initiative, the WBCSD’s climate initiative. As part Evonik were surveyed. Alongside our employees, these of this, in November 2015 the CEO’s of AkzoNobel, DSM, included customers, suppliers, local residents, representatives Evonik, Mitsubishi Chemicals and Solvay issued a joint declaof universities and research institutes, analysts and investors, ration at the start of the Climate Conference in Paris. This representatives of industry associations, political parties, centers on the chemical industry’s potential to leverage addinon-governmental organizations and the media. The staketional CO2 savings by making broader use of available prodholders were selected by Evonik experts, who have close uct benefits and through pioneering new technologies. and regular contact to specific stakeholder groups.1 Evonik G4-26 employees could take part in the survey in the intranet. In a G4-25 second step, we included selected sustainability experts from the Evonik Group, representatives of relevant corporate functions and representatives of the workforce. G4-18 1 Target groups from which usable results were received are taken into account. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 29 Sustainability management Evonik’s strategic focus The sustainability issues and aspects identified were assessed for their relevance for Evonik. On the basis of this assessment, we defined 18 sustainability topics. Annex G4-18 C07 Materiality analysis 2015 G4-19 G4-27 Stakeholder Relevance: very high 1 2 3 4 6 7 5 18 19 8 9 20 11 10 12 Relevance: high 15 13 16 21 14 22/25 26 27 17 28 23 30 31 29 Relevance: average 24 Evonik Relevance: average Relevance: high Relevance: very high Relevance Areas of action Relevance Areas of action 1 Plant safety Very high ▯ 16 Products and solutions/ lifecycle considerations High ▯ 2 Occupational safety Very high ▯ 17 Growth markets High ▯ 3 Compliance Very high ▯ 18 Water management Average ▯ 4 Customer satisfaction Very high ▯ 5 Product stewardship Very high ▯ 19 Emissions into the air Average ▯ 6 Transportation safety and logistics High ▯ 20 Health protection and promotion Average ▯ 7 Responsible management/ 21 Climate change Average ▯ corporate governance High ▯ 22 Sustainability management Average ▯ 8 Innovations/technologies High ▯ 23 Health Average ▯ 9 Sustainability strategy and management 24 Population growth Average ▯ as part of corporate strategy High ▯ 25 Dialogue and cooperation 10 Waste management High ▯ with stakeholders Average – 11 Morals and ethics (in business) High ▯ 26 Regional commitment at the sites Average – 12 Appeal as an employer High ▯ 27 Equal opportunity Average – 13 Efficient use of 28 Employability (demographic change) Average – scarce resources/materials High ▯ 29 Work/life balance Average – 14 Qualification/training, advanced training High ▯ 30 Focus on the population in cities Average – 15 More sustainable products High ▯ 31 Diversity Average – 30 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries C04 18 sustainability aspects identified are bundled in six areas of action Strategy & growth Governance/compliance Safety 9 Sustainability strategy and manage3 Compliance 1 Plant safety ment as part of corporate strategy 7 Responsible management/ 2 Occupational safety/ 8 Innovations/technologies corporate governance 20 health protection and promotion 4 Customer satisfaction 11 Morals & ethics (in business)/ 6 Transportation safety and logistics 22 sustainability management 24 Particular challenges and business 5 Product stewardship in the supply chain (standards) 23 options (population growth, health, 17 growth markets) Sustainable products and solutions Environment Employer excellence 15 More sustainable products/ 21 Climate change and 12 Appeal as an employer 16 products and solutions 19 emissions into the air 14 Qualification/training, 13 Efficient use of scarce 18 Water management advanced training resources/materials 10 Waste management G4-18 The eighteen sustainability aspects identified were then The results of the materiality analysis were presented to the G4-18 G4-19 grouped in six areas of action: strategy and growth, sustainrelevant decision-making bodies and to Evonik’s Executive able products and solutions, governance/compliance, Board. employer excellence, safety and environment. In the mid term, we aim to sharpen our sustainability We also analyzed the areas of the value chain where these strategy further, anchor it even more firmly in the company, material areas of action are of particular importance. and enhance the transparency of our sustainability performance. G4-20 C08 Value chain G4-21 Upstream Gate to gate Downstream Evonik products/ Customer and endValue chain Raw materials/supply chain system solutions customer applications Strategy & growth ▯ ▯ Sustainable products and solutions ▯ ▯ ▯ Governance/compliance ▯ ▯ ▯ Environment ▯ Safety ▯ ▯ Employer excellence ▯ • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 31 Sustainability management Evonik’s strategic focus G4-24 C03 Evonik’s stakeholder groups Interest groups, e.g. local inhabitants, Scientific community Annex non-governmental organizations (NGOs) Media Business associates/customers Evonik Politicians/political Employees decision-makers Equity and debt holders Suppliers Close dialogue with stakeholders TfS aims for global harmonization in the evaluation and G4-25 Constructive dialogue with our stakeholders goes beyond the auditing of suppliers. As a member of TfS Evonik is subject to requirements of the materiality analysis and helps ensure regular assessment. We meet the gold standard, which positimely identification of trends and future challenges and tions us among the best performers in the chemical sector. minimizes potential risks. That improves our understanding The commitment and identification of our well-trained of how our entrepreneurial action is perceived from various employees are a key factor in Evonik’s success. Gaining and perspectives along the value chain and in society. This diaretaining employees and personnel development are central logue takes place both at operational level—for example, elements of our human resources strategy. We maintain with customers and suppliers—and at Group level through a constant dialogue with our employees. Tools include regular G4-25 associations and interest groups. The format for our stakeappraisal reviews and our Group-wide employee survey. Our G4-26 holder dialogue varies depending on the topic and target most recent employee survey was held in November 2015 G4-27 group. The chart above shows the stakeholder groups of and the participation rate was over 80 percent. relevance for Evonik. We provide timely information for our employees on We maintain constant contact to our business partners upcoming operational changes. Alongside personal dialogue, and customers—mainly industrial companies that process our the Chairman of the Executive Board regularly writes to the products. Close collaboration between customers and Evonik workforce on the most important events in the company, via is one of our strengths. High customer satisfaction and custhe intranet or our employee magazine Folio. In these media, tomer retention are important elements in main­taining and our employees can find up-to-date articles with background expanding our business. To support this, the Marketing & information, FAQs, and offers of direct communication with G4-25 Sales Excellence (MSE) unit bundles Group-wide customer the management. We also organize debates on specific issues G4-26 surveys and provides an efficient toolbox for conducting such as safety for various employee groups. Round tables G4-27 them. and networks are further platforms for discussion within the Reliable supply, gaining access to new procurement marGroup. In view of the reorganization of the Group structure kets, and ongoing optimization of material costs are key tasks and Corporate Sustainability, development of training modfor our procurement function. We are working intensively to ules on sustainability issues was postponed in 2015. extend our strategic relationships with suppliers and to validate Our owners and lenders, institutional investors, analysts G4-25 new suppliers. In addition, we are involved in purchasing alliand rating agencies expect timely and extensive information. G4-26 ances with other companies. The aim is to find further ways The Investor Relations division has steadily stepped up dialogue G4-27 of reducing risks and costs. Safety, health, environmental prowith analysts and investors since Evonik shares were listed tection, quality and other core aspects of sustainability are for trading in April 2013. The Chairman of the Executive firm elements in our procurement strategy. Further, our stakeBoard and the Chief Financial Officer also take part. Evonik’s G4-25 holders expect steadily rising transparency in the supply chain. growth strategy, portfolio of specialty chemicals and the latG4-26 Evonik is therefore a founding member of the Together for est business trends are presented in many one-on-one sesG4-27 Sustainability (TfS) initiative set up by chemical companies. sions, roadshows and field trips. The focus is on the financial 32 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries centers of London, Frankfurt, New York and Paris. A highof disciplines and institutions. Fostering education and science light of our Investor Relations activities in 2015 was a field trip is a core focus of the Evonik Foundation. Regular meetings for analysts and investors to our site in Antwerp (Belgium), with these scholarship students and scientific colloquia give which focused on the Animal Nutrition business line. them an early insight into the day-to-day work of a leading We also get important feedback about our sustainability specialty chemicals company. performance from our talks with sustainability analysts and The conditions in which we operate are shaped to a large investors. Alongside financial criteria, more and more invesextent by politics and political decision-makers. Here we tors include ecological, social and governance factors in their maintain a constant dialogue with the authorities and minisG4-25 investment decisions. Evonik had a presence for the first time tries and take part in opinion-forming and decision-making G4-26 at sustainability investment conferences in London and Paris processes at regional, national and international level. Our G4-27 in 2015 and in Frankfurt in 2016. offices in Berlin and Brussels are important for fostering Evonik is included in the sustainability-oriented index contact. They support the Corporate Affairs division. As a G4-25 families FTSE4Good Global, STOXX Global ESG Leaders stakeholder, the media builds on trustful cooperation and G4-26 and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120. Important sustainability takes up our offers of dialogue. We encourage this as a basis G4-27 rating agencies such as Oekom Research, Sustainalytics and for open communication and to drive our credibility. imug/EIRIS also rank the company among the leaders in the In 2016 we aim to step up our dialogue with significant chemical sector. stakeholder groups. In 2015 we took part in the assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), which is performed by RobecoSAM. As a result, Evonik was included in the What we stand for RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook as a Sustainability Leader with the distinction “Silver Class”. This was the first Our corporate values—”courage to innovate”, “responsible time we took part and we gained a place straight away action”, and “sparing no effort”—provide guidance and orien­ among the top ten of the approximately 70 chemical com­ tation for our employees’ conduct in their day-to-day work panies rated worldwide. and form the basis for our business practice, our role in society G4-25 Local residents around our sites play an especially importand collaboration with our colleagues. That is particularly G4-26 ant part in our dialogue with stakeholders. We produce important because as an innovative company our success is G4-27 where our markets and customers are. Consequently, we dependent on the competence of our employees. Creativity, have production facilities in 24 countries on five continents. specialization, reliability and continuous self-renewal play a Local residents at all our sites have an elementary interest special part in this. Our internal regulations are supported in experiencing Evonik as a reliable partner and want to be and supplemented by external codes of practice that we are informed about the latest developments. We maintain concommitted to. tact with them, for example, through written communication, invitations to visit our sites and personal discussions. External principles and guidelines G4-25 Our active engagement comprises work on industry assoGood corporate governance, in other words, responsible G4-26 ciations and organizations, and contact with other interest management and supervision, forms an integral part of G4-27 groups such as non-governmental organizations. Evonik’s business processes. It strengthens the trust of Dialogue and collaboration with the scientific community all stakeholder groups through transparency and reliable is of especial significance for Evonik. Innovations strengthen processes. Acceptance of the German Corporate Governance our leading market and technology positions and open up Code and compliance with the applicable legal requirements new high-growth business opportunities. We cooperate with are the basis for responsible management of our company G4-25 research institutes, universities and other industrial companies with a focus on long-term value creation. Evonik has signed G4-26 so that the latest findings in chemistry, biology and physics the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business, which sets G4-27 can rapidly be transported into our company. Through stratemeasurable standards that have to be firmly anchored in gic partnerships we are linked to leading universities in the participating companies. These include fair competition, social USA, China, and Saudi Arabia, and to Singapore’s state-run partnership, the merit principle and sustainability. Evonik is research agency (A*STAR). In addition, we regularly organize a member of the UN Global Compact and accepts its prin­ the Evonik Meets Science forum in Germany, China, Japan ciples, which include respecting workers’ rights and human and the USA to strengthen collaboration with leading interrights, preventing discrimination, protecting people and the national research scientists. This is a platform for discussion environment and fighting corruption. We also respect the between our experts and leading scientists from a wide range • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 33 Sustainability management Corporate governance Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises issued by the Organi­ Corporate governance sation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the International Labor Standards of the International Labour Corporate governance comprises all principles for the manOrganisation (ILO) and the obligations of the international agement and supervision of a company. As an expression of Annex Responsible Care initiative. We confirmed our commitment good and responsible corporate management, it is a key to continuously improving our performance in the areas of element in Evonik’s management philosophy. The principles health, safety, the environment and product stewardship by of corporate governance relate mainly to collaboration within signing the Responsible Care Global Charter of the Inter­ the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and between national Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). these two boards. It also governs collaboration between these boards and Evonik’s shareholders on the one hand, and Code of Conduct the relationship between Evonik companies and all people Evonik’s binding Group-wide Code of Conduct contains the and organizations with which they have business dealings. most important corporate values and principles and governs Evonik’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board are the conduct of Evonik, its legal representatives and its explicitly committed to responsible corporate governance and employees both internally, in the treatment of one another, identify with the goals of the German Corporate Governance and externally in the treatment of the company’s shareholdCode. As provided for by the foreword, this includes scope ers and business partners, representatives of authorities and to deviate from its recommendations if this is necessary government bodies, and the general public. It requires all to reflect enterprise-specific requirements. Evonik’s latest employees to comply with the applicable laws, regulations declaration of conformity with the requirements of the Gerand other obligations and to observe ethical standards. All man Corporate Governance Code has been published on employees receive training in this and systematic action is the company’s website.1 According to the declaration of contaken to deal with any infringements of the regulations. formity as of December 2015, there are only two deviations Evonik’s Code of Conduct fosters a culture that ensures clear from the Corporate Governance Code. These relate to transresponsibility, mutual respect, and a working atmosphere mission of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting via modern characterized by trust, dependability and lawfulness. We plan communication media and the availability of voting proxies to update the Code of Conduct by 2017. In addition, Evonik during the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, mainly for organihas a Supplier Code of Conduct that sets out binding requirezational reasons. ments for its suppliers. The company expects strict obserThe Executive Board of Evonik Industries AG is respon­ vance of these principles by its suppliers and takes them into sible for running the company in the company’s interests account in the entire process from the tender to assessment with a view to sustained value creation, taking into account of suppliers. the interests of the shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. It works together trustfully with the other corporate Global Social Policy bodies for the good of the company. Our Global Social Policy (GSP) contains an undertaking to The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Execuobserve values based on international standards and princitive Board. It appoints the members of the Executive Board ples of conduct. Evonik is committed to protecting children’s and names one member as the Chairman of the Executive rights, freedom of employment, equality of opportunity, Board. It also decides on the remuneration of the members of diversity, banning discrimination, and occupational health the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board examines the and safety. All employees worldwide are required to observe company’s annual financial statements, the Executive Board’s the principles of the Global Social Policy and actively counter proposal for the distribution of the profit, the consolidated violations. The Global Social Policy is available in many lanfinancial statements for the Group and the combined manguages. agement report. The Executive Board is required to obtain the approval of the Supervisory Board on decisions of fun­ damental importance, which are defined in a separate list. 1 www.evonik.com/responsibility 34 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries The Supervisory Board has the following committees: an Performance-oriented remuneration Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Finance and of senior management Investment Committee, a Nomination Committee and a The Supervisory Board is responsible for the contracts of Mediation Committee in accordance with the German Codeemployment with the members of the Executive Board. It sets termination Act of 1976. In accordance with the statutory the total remuneration package for each member of the provisions, the Supervisory Board comprises twenty memExecutive Board, comprising a base salary, variable shortand bers, ten representatives of the shareholders and ten reprelong-term components, pension benefits, reimbursement sentatives of the workforce. The Supervisory Board regularly of expenses, insurance and various fringe benefits. The conreviews the efficiency of its work and reports on this in tracts with members of the Executive Board and all executives the Report of the Supervisory Board, which is contained in include remuneration elements based on personal perforEvonik’s annual report. mance and the overall performance of the Group. The German law on equal participation of women and men in management positions in the private and public sectors came into force on May 1, 2015. Since Evonik Industries AG House of Compliance is a publicly listed company and is therefore also subject to German codetermination legislation, its Supervisory Board is Evonik understands compliance as all activities to ensure that required to meet a fixed gender ratio, which is applicable for the conduct of the company, its governance bodies and its new appointments from January 1, 2016. The regulation employees respect all applicable mandatory standards such as specifies that the Supervisory Board should comprise at legal provisions, statutory requirements and prohibitions, least 30 percent women and at least 30 percent men. As of in-house directives and voluntary undertakings. The basis for December 31, 2015, four members of the Supervisory Board this understanding and for compliance with these binding of Evonik Industries AG were women, two representing the standards is set out in Evonik’s Code of Conduct. The comshareholders and two representing the workforce. Thus, on pliance culture created by the Code of Conduct, in particular, the reporting date 20 percent of Supervisory Board members forms the basis for the “House of Compliance.” were women. This includes the traditional compliance issues: antitrust Further, the above law prescribes that targets must be set law, foreign trade law, fighting corruption, data protection, for the proportion of female members of the Executive Board and—as a publicly listed company—capital market compliand at the two management levels below the Executive ance. Environment, safety, health and quality are bundled in Board, together with deadlines for achieving them. a separate corporate division. The Supervisory Board has set a target of at least 20 perA uniform compliance management system has been cent female members of the Executive Board to be achieved defined for the topics covered by the House of Compliance by June 30, 2017. That would maintain the present status quo and has to be detailed and implemented by each compliance as no new appointments are expected to be made before then. area. The process of forming a consensus, sharing experience Further, Evonik’s Executive Board has a target of 8.0 perand coordinating joint activities takes place in the Compliance cent female managers at the first management level below Committee, which is composed of the heads of the respective the Executive Board and 18.8 percent women at the second units, who have independent responsibility for their areas, management level. Both targets are to be met by Decemand the Head of Corporate Audit. The Compliance Commitber 31, 2016. In each case, the targets correspond to the tee is chaired by the Head of Compliance and Antitrust Law. present status quo and take account of succession planning The compliance management system to be implemented for these two management levels in the period up to the by each area of compliance on the basis of the defined values, deadline. strategy and specific targets has to implement the tools Further information on corporate governance at Evonik shown in the next chart. The necessary measures are in place can be found in the company’s corporate governance report, to avoid compliance risks and systematic misconduct, identify which is available on the company’s website 1 and is also part infringement of the rules, apply appropriate sanctions, and of Evonik’s annual report. correct faulty processes. 1 www.evonik.com/responsibility • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 35 Sustainability management House of Compliance C09 House of Compliance Annex Supervisory Board Executive Board Compliance Committee Fighting Corruption Capital Market Law Foreign Trade Antitrust Law Data Protection Corporate Audit and Code of Conduct and Customs Law Compliance Management System Antitrust law Foreign trade law Compliance with antitrust regulations is a central corporate Every employee is required to observe the applicable foreign objective and is included in Evonik’s Code of Conduct. trade and customs regulations. Through our corporate policy Group-wide face-to-face and online training, guidelines on House of Compliance and Compliance Management System conduct, and specific legal advice on all issues of relevance (HoC policy) and the corporate directives Compliance with to cartel law are the primary elements of our compliance Global Trade Regulations (Part 1 Organization and Part 2 activities in relation to antitrust law. Conduct) we ensure compliance with the applicable trade regulations. Our trade compliance organization comprises a special department with Group-wide responsibility, a special IT system and a Group-wide network of around 70 people including the trade compliance officers responsible for the operating units. C10 Compliance Management System (CMS) Responsibility of Management Values and Objectives Prevention Detection Response Continuous Improvement • Risk analysis • Investigations • Corrective measures • Policies & standards • Whistleblower system • Sanctions • Processes • Monitoring & audits • Lessons learnt • Training • Reporting • Awareness raising/communication • Advice & support Compliance Organization 36 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Fighting corruption and the Code of Conduct Other compliance-related areas comprise: Evonik strictly rejects all forms of corruption. Our Code of Conduct therefore defines a zero-tolerance principle. Even ESHQ management the impression of corruption or corruptibility should be sysOur Environment, Safety, Health and Quality (ESHQ) Values tematically avoided. The Master Gifts and Hospitality Policy, set a global framework for action to ensure extensive pro­ together with regional implementation regulations, and the tection of employees, the environment and local residents. Policy for the Use of External Intermediaries for the Sale of Major EHSQ issues affecting the entire Group are defined in Evonik Products and Merchandise, which was completely global policies and standard operating procedures. The operrevised in 2014, form the basis for this. For practical impleational units and regions are responsible for implementing mentation of the policies, every employee can access correthese regulations. Regular audits are carried out in consul­ sponding checklists on the compliance site in the Group tation with the companies, service units, regions and the intranet. These summarize the main content of each policy. Environment, Safety, Health and Quality division at the CorThe compliance organization comprises a corporate team, porate Center to monitor implementation at our sites around which is mainly responsible for management issues, and comthe world. Alongside compliance with internationally recogpliance officers who operate at the level of the operational nized DIN and ISO standards (9001, 14001), we examine units and regions. observance of our voluntary obligations under Responsible Care, the UN Global Compact and ILO standards and the Capital market compliance requirements set out in company regulations. Based on the There are Group-wide rules of procedure on capital markets findings and analyses of internal and external monitoring compliance by Evonik employees. These also contain inforactivities and site inspections, we hold talks on potential mation on the legal consequences of violating prohibitions for improvement and take suitable action. The Executive imposed by capital market law. Through this policy and the Board is informed annually of the outcome of the audits accompanying organizational instructions, Evonik has taken through a management review. extensive steps to meet the corresponding organizational obligations. Corporate security We accept responsibility for the safety of our employees, our Management of data protection sites and transportation, and for information that requires The organization of data protection and rules on reliable special protection. We want to protect our employees from processing of personal data are set out, among other things, criminal acts and avoid security risks in our international busiin the compliance policy and a separate data protection reguness. This objective is of central significance and contributes lation. The Corporate Data Protection Officer monitors to Evonik’s business success. observance of these rules and assists the organizational units The Corporate Security division has defined binding rules in implementation. In particular, his role is to monitor correct for the entire Group and has introduced a safety management usage of information processing programs that handle persystem to assure uniformly high security standards at Evonik sonal data. Increasing global data sharing requires additional worldwide. Ongoing risk analyses, training, careful selection technical and organizational security measures. These are of business partners and investigation of incidents ensure monitored continuously. Web-based training programs are that corporate security is firmly established in our corporate mandatory for all employees. Information on the relevant culture. requirements and responsibilities is available to employees on Our presence in growth markets means that we have the Evonik intranet. projects and activities in countries and regions where there are heightened security risks for our business. These include risks involved in the establishment of joint ventures, the construction of facilities, and transportation, and risks to our personnel, business travelers, expats and know-how. Therefore we have established processes to ensure timely identification and evaluation of potential risks and implementation of suitable security concepts. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 37 Sustainability management Fighting corruption IT compliance Fighting corruption Binding Group-wide policies and regulations outline the safe use of information systems. The IT Compliance Strategy As a global corporation, we do business in regions that are unit monitors and drives forward implementation of the comclassified as a corruption risk in the Corruption Perceptions Annex pliance requirements imposed on managers and employees Index (CPI) issued by Transparency International. We exercise by legislation and the Group. The internal control system was particular care in dealings with officials and in the selection extended further in the year under review and compliance of external intermediaries. processes were automated. The IT compliance index, which Our employees can contact the Chief Compliance Officer, measures compliance with the relevant rules, remained at a Head of Compliance or the compliance officer responsible good level in 2014, despite higher requirements. The access for their entity to report compliance violations confidentially authorization system for accounting-related SAP systems was at any time, anonymously if they wish. There is also a com­ rolled out further as part of the migration of SAP systems. pliance hotline. All allegations of violation of the relevant Its basic principles are “need-to-know” and “separation of regulations are investigated by a team which includes reprefunctions”. sentatives of different specialist areas as necessary. To conState-of-the-art information security and data protection clude the process, sanctions or other measures are defined in technologies are used throughout the Group to avoid such consultation with the responsible management. risks. Operational safety, especially of critical IT systems, was A Group-wide risk analysis covering all areas of Evonik and is being improved by optimized systems management, has been conducted by our in-house team responsible for especially in view of the Group’s digitalization strategy and fighting corruption and the Code of Conduct. In addition, in the challenges of global networking, which includes produccollaboration with the regional compliance organization it tion systems. In view of the considerable and continuously examined the extent to which the compliance management rising threats, we regularly review our security measures, system needs to be developed or adapted in the regions. implement risk-based counter-measures as required, and In the year under review, 27 internal investigations were adapt them wherever necessary. Through training, which is conducted into potential infringements of the applicable compulsory in some cases, and a constant flow of information, anti-corruption laws and violation of the general rules of the for example, in the corporate intranet and internal social netCode of Conduct. A total of 19 allegations were received via working platforms we ensure that employees are always internal reporting channels (email, phone, etc), while eight aware of the need for IT compliance. were received via external channels (email, letter, etc.). On the basis of the internal investigations, three employees were Compliance training dismissed, four employees received a warning or reprimand To raise employees’ awareness of compliance issues at reguand ten service-providers and intermediaries were struck off. lar intervals, we organize online and face-to-face training. The training concept introduced in 2014 was refined and A binding training concept has been defined for the issues extended. The revised e-learning programs on the Code of combined in the House of Compliance. Employees have to be Conduct and fighting corruption were initially rolled out in trained routinely, based on function and hierarchical level. German. Training frequency is defined on the basis of risk and is every Training is presented alternately online and in face-to-face two or three years. sessions. The target groups are employees whose functions mean they are potentially exposed to a higher risk of corruption. Of these employees, the following received training in corruption prevention in the reporting period: • 85.3 percent of managers • 65.1 percent of non-managerial employees. 38 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries The business An excellent performance in 2015 € 2,465 million. Higher earnings contributions mainly came from the growth segments, and earnings in the Performance Strategically, our new Group structure has further improved Materials segment were only down slightly year-on-year. our basis for profitable growth in the future. The selective Thanks to our very successful business performance, expansion of our market positions was also successful: The earnings were high. The adjusted EBITDA margin improved new production capacities that have come on stream made a substantially to 18.2 percent, which is also excellent by sector clear contribution to our very good business performance. standards. The ROCE of 16.6 percent represents a very We are still implementing our growth investments in a disciattractive return. plined manner. Net income improved 74 percent to € 991 million, while Operationally, our business developed extremely well. In adjusted net income advanced 44 percent to € 1,128 million. particular, our two growth segments, Nutrition & Care and To enable our shareholders to participate in this very pleasing Resource Efficiency, were able to raise volume sales further business trend, at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting the thanks to buoyant demand and increased production capacity. Executive Board and Supervisory Board will be proposing a The positive price trend for some important products that dividend payment of € 1.15 per share. started in the second half of 2014 continued uninterrupted Our financial profile remains good. At year-end 2015 we until summer 2015 and prices then remained stable in the again had a net asset position. The cash flow from operating second half of the year. By contrast, selling prices fell considactivities, continuing operations was a strong € 1,968 million. erably in the Performance Materials segment due to the After deduction of outflows for capital expenditures, the free sharp drop in the oil price. Overall, selling prices were on a cash flow was very high at € 1,052 million. Evonik still has a level with the prior year. sound investment grade rating (Moody’s: Baa2, Standard & Sales increased by 5 percent to € 13,507 million in 2015. Poor’s: BBB+). Adjusted EBITDA rose even faster, growing 31 percent to T01 Key figures in € million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sales 14,540 13,365 12,708 12,917 13,507 Adjusted EBITDA a 2,768 2,467 1,995 1,882 2,465 Adjusted EBITDA margin in % 19.0 18.5 15.7 14.6 18.2 Adjusted EBIT b 2,099 1,887 1,404 1,256 1,752 ROCE c in % 18.7 20.4 15.1 12.5 16.6 Net income 1,011 1,165 2,054 568 991 Adjusted net income 1,256 1,076 806 782 1,128 Earnings per share in € 2.17 2.50 4.41 1.22 2.13 Adjusted earnings per share in € 2.70 2.31 1.73 1.68 2.42 Total assets as of December 31 16,944 17,166 15,883 15,685 17,005 Equity ratio as of December 31 in % 35.8 31.9 43.0 41.6 44.6 Cash flow from operating activities 1,309 1,420 1,055 1,066 1,971 Capital expenditures d 830 960 1,140 1,123 877 Depreciation and amortization d 647 580 585 606 700 Net financial debt/assets as of December 31 – 843 – 1,163 571 400 1,098 No. of employees as of December 31 33,556 33,298 33,650 33,412 33,576 Figures for 2012 and 2013 contain the former Real Estate segment as a discontinued operation. 2014 figures restated. a Earnings before financial result, taxes, depreciation and amortization, after adjustments. b Earnings before financial result and taxes, after adjustments. c Return on capital employed. d Intangible assets, property, plant, equipment and investment property. Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 39 The business An excellent performance in 2015 Major events A global presence At the end of June 2015, Evonik Industries AG divested its In 2015, 82 percent of our sales were generated outside remaining 10.3 percent stake in the residential real estate Germany. A rise in sales was registered in particular in North company Vivawest GmbH to RAG Aktiengesellschaft for America and the Asia-Pacific region, while sales in Europe Annex € 428 million. Through this transaction, Evonik Industries AG declined, for currency-related reasons. As part of our growth has now completely withdrawn from its real estate activities strategy, we are expanding our presence in emerging marin order to focus on specialty chemicals. The divestment gain kets. We define these as selected countries in Asia, South is recognized in other operating income. America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. At its meeting on June 25, 2015, the Supervisory Board of Evonik Industries AG adopted a resolution on ending the C11 Sales by region a term of office of Patrik Wohlhauser as a member of the Executive Board and Chief Operating Officer (COO) by mutual agreement effective June 30, 2015. At the same time, Other 3 % Germany 18 % Dr. Ralph Sven Kaufmann was appointed to the Executive Asia-Pacific 21 % Board of Evonik Industries AG as the company’s new COO with effect from July 1, 2015. A successful business trend Central and South America 7 % Despite the challenging business conditions, we achieved a significant year-on-year improvement in adjusted EBITDA Other European Countries 31 % in all four quarters. Although global growth was below North America 20 % expectations, high demand enabled our two growth segments, Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency, to report good volume trends, aided by new production capacity. Selling prices rose considerably in the Nutrition & Care segment but a By location of customer. decreased in the Performance Materials segment, principally due to the lower oil price. Overall, selling prices were on the previous year’s level. Very good adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA was € 2,465 million, 31 percent above the Organic sales growth prior-year figure. Alongside positive currency effects, conEvonik posted organic sales growth of 1 percent as volumes tributory factors were sustained good demand, the positive were higher and prices were unchanged overall. Sales grew price trend and lower raw material costs. The adjusted 5 percent to € 13,507 million, driven by positive currency EBITDA margin increased from 14.6 percent to a very good effects (5 percentage points), principally as a consequence level of 18.2 percent. of the depreciation of the euro versus the US dollar and the Chinese renminbi yuan. The other effects (– 1 percentage T03 Adjusted EBITDA by segment point) include changes in the scope of consolidation. Change in € million 2015 2014 in % T02 Change in sales 2015 versus 2014 Nutrition & Care 1,435 847 69 in % Resource Efficiency 896 836 7 Volumes 1 Performance Materials 309 325 –5 Prices 0 Services 163 151 8 Organic sales growth 1 Corporate, other operations, Exchange rates 5 consolidation – 338 – 277 – 22 Other effects –1 Evonik 2,465 1,882 31 Total 5 Prior-year figures restated. 40 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries The Nutrition & Care segment benefited from higher volumes Far higher value added and, above all, higher selling prices accompanied by lower Value added is calculated from sales and other revenues less raw material prices. Its earnings were therefore considerably the cost of materials, depreciation and amortization and other higher than in the prior year. The Resource Efficiency segment expenses. In 2015, value added increased by 23 percent to improved earnings thanks to higher volumes, high capacity € 4,838 million. The largest share of value added—65 percent utilization and lower raw material costs. By contrast, the (2014: 70 percent)—went to our employees. 10 percent Performance Materials segment was hampered considerably (2014: 8 percent) was paid to the state in income and other by the reduction in selling prices, whereas lower raw material taxes. A further 5 percent (2014: 7 percent) went on interest costs alleviated the situation. Overall, its earnings contribution payments. Shareholders of Evonik Industries AG received was slightly lower than in the previous year. Earnings in the 20 percent of value-added, compared with 14 percent in the Services segment were higher than in the previous year. The previous year. adjusted EBITDA reported by Corporate, other operations, including consolidation, was – € 338 million. This includes, T05 Breakdown of value added among others, expenses for the Corporate Center and stratein € million 2015 2014 gic research. Total value added 4,838 3,926 Very good return on capital employed Split Within our value-oriented management approach, our success Employees 3,121 2,749 is measured principally by ROCE, which was 16.6 percent in State 470 307 2015 and therefore well above our cost of capital, which was Creditors 245 289 confirmed as 10.5 percent before taxes in our regular review Non-controlling interests 11 13 for the fiscal year. The average capital employed increased by Net income 991 568 € 0.5 billion to € 10.5 billion in 2015. Capital employed was increased by the rise in property, plant and equipment and higher trade accounts receivable, which resulted from further Target for On Track 2.0 achieved— implementation of our growth investments. The divestment Administration Excellence well on schedule of the stake in Vivawest and impairment losses on property, At the start of 2012 we set up the On Track 2.0 efficiency plant and equipment had a counter-effect. enhancement program to achieve a continuous improvement The considerable improvement in ROCE was attributable in process efficiency, especially in the production function. to higher operating earnings, while the increase in capital The goal was to reduce production costs by € 500 million employed had a counter-effect. In the three chemical segfollowing realization of this program in the period up to 2016. ments, ROCE is well above the cost of capital. The return That has now been achieved. By the end of 2015, measures on capital employed in the Nutrition & Care and Resource with the potential to cut costs by well over € 550 million had Efficiency segments is well above average. The ROCE for the been identified and adopted for implementation. Group was considerably lower because capital employed also Following the successful stock exchange listing and includes identified hidden reserves from former business Evonik’s strategic focus on the specialty chemicals business, in combinations. September 2013 we launched the Administration Excellence program to further strengthen our competitive position and T04 ROCE by segment optimize the quality of our administrative processes. This aims to implement measures with cost-improvement potential of in % 2015 2014 around € 230 million by the end of 2016. By year-end 2015 Nutrition & Care 41.5 27.1 measures with cost-saving potential of around € 100 million Resource Efficiency 24.8 25.9 had already been implemented. In addition, more than Performance Materials 11.9 14.6 90 percent of the measures defined had been passed on to the responsible units for implementation. Specific human Services 9.4 9.7 resources measures have now been defined to achieve the Evonik (including Corporate, other operations) 16.6 12.5 headcount reductions associated with the savings and will be implemented in consultation with representatives of the workPrior-year figures restated. force to avoid undue hardship. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 41 The business Segment performance Systematic optimization of the value chain and implementation Segment performance of the efficiency enhancement programs support Evonik’s strategy of profitable growth. Nutrition & Care segment Annex Significant growth projects completed successfully T07 Key data for the Nutrition & Care segment In the specialty chemicals sector Evonik is expanding in busiChange ness areas and markets where it already has—or intends to in € million 2015 2014 in % build—a strong competitive position. Investment projects are External sales 4,924 4,075 21 aimed at utilizing potential for sustained profitable growth Adjusted EBITDA 1,435 847 69 and value creation. Every project undergoes detailed strategic and economic analyses. In addition, there is a minimum Adjusted EBIT 1,214 685 77 return requirement for every project based on Evonik’s cost Capital expenditures 250 458 – 45 of capital. We take a flexible and disciplined approach to No. of employees extending our leading market positions. All projects are regas of December 31 7,165 6,943 3 ularly reviewed for changes in the market situation. Examples Prior-year figures restated. of projects completed successfully in 2015 are a new lysine facility in Castro (Brazil), expansion of the production facilities for specialty silicas in Ako (Japan), and expansion of producConsiderable sales growth tion capacity for butadiene in Antwerp (Belgium), isononanol The Nutrition & Care segment posted an extremely successin Marl (Germany) and the anti-knock agent MTBE in Marl ful business performance in 2015 and grew sales 21 percent and Antwerp. to € 4,924 million. Alongside slightly higher volumes, the Capital expenditures amounted to € 877 million in 2015, main drivers were considerably higher selling prices and posbelow the previous year’s high figure of € 1,123 million. itive currency effects. The highest proportion of capital expenditures went to the In particular, there was a substantial increase in sales of Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency segments (29 peressential amino acids for animal nutrition. The strong trend to cent and 27 percent respectively). A further 21 percent was modern and sustainable animal nutrition continues to have a allocated to the Specialty Materials segment, and 20 percent positive impact on this business. Thanks to the new production was invested in the Services segment. The regional focus facility that came on stream in Singapore at the end of 2014, of capital expenditures was Germany, which accounted for we were able to satisfy the significant rise in demand for our 49 percent of the total, followed by North America (24 permethionine products and raise volumes further. Having risen cent) and the Asia-Pacific region and other European counsince fall 2014, prices have been stabilized at a very attractive tries, which each received 10 percent. level since summer 2015. T06 Major projects completed or virtually completed in 2015 Segment Location Project Nutrition & Care Castro (Brazil) Construction of a new lysine plant Essen (Germany) Expansion of the silicone platform Mobile (Alabama, USA) Construction of a new production facility for Mepron Resource Efficiency Ako (Japan) Expansion of capacity for specialty silicas Singapore Expansion of a facility for oil additives Performance Materials Marl (Germany) and Expansion of capacity for butadiene in Antwerp, the plasticizer alcohol Antwerp (Belgium) isononanol in Marl, and the anti-knock agent MTBE in Marl and Antwerp For further information on current capital expenditure projects, please see the section on Segment performance. 42 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Substantial increase in adjusted EBITDA For example, it greatly reduces the consumption of fishmeal The Nutrition & Care segment’s adjusted EBITDA grew in aquaculture of shrimp. In addition, AQUAVI Met-Met 69 percent to € 1,435 million, driven mainly by higher selling lowers the cost of feed, reduces the strain on fishing grounds prices and positive currency effects. The adjusted EBITDA worldwide and contributes to an improvement in water margin improved significantly from 20.8 percent in 2014 to purity because an optimal supply of methionine reduces 29.1 percent. excretion by the shrimp and nitrogen output into the environment. The shrimp remain healthier as a result of optimal Investment projects to drive growth nutrition and there is less pollution of the environment. Capital expenditures in the Nutrition & Care segment In view of the strong growth in the market for methionine, amounted to € 250 million. Evonik is planning to build a further world-scale production That was well below the prior-year figure of € 458 milcomplex alongside the facility on Jurong Island (Singapore) lion, which was boosted by high growth-driven investments. that came into service in November 2014. In this new, fully Nevertheless, capital expenditures were well above depre­ backwardly integrated production complex as well, we will ciation, which was € 212 million. produce all key strategic precursors ourselves. Adding Since demand for amino acids for modern animal nutrition DL-methionine to animal feed meets ecological, economic is growing fast, selective capacity increases in this field are a and social sustainability criteria by greatly reducing the major focus of investment in the Nutrition & Care segment. release of ammonia, nitrate and greenhouse gases. A new facility for biotechnological production of around Evonik has a global investment initiative to strengthen 100,000 metric tons p.a. of Biolys (L-lysine), an amino acid its integrated technology platform for specialty silicones in for animal feed, was completed in Castro (Brazil). This site Germany and China. Total planned investment for this is has excellent access to corn, which is used as a raw material, triple-digit millions of euros. The first capacity expansion in very good logistics connections, and is close to our customers Essen (Germany) came into operation in 2015. Over the next in the growing Latin American market. Biolys, which Evonik few years, the plants there will be extended further and a produces from renewable resources by a biotechnological new silicone platform will be constructed in Shanghai (China). method, is regarded worldwide as a highly efficient source of The silicone platforms are the backbone of significant business L-lysine for animal feed, which substantially reduces the costs activities in the Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency of both feed production and livestock farming. In a lifecycle segments. assessment certified by the German standardization body TÜV Rheinland, Nutrition & Care has proven that the provision of protein in animal feed with the addition of Biolys is a Resource Efficiency segment particularly environment-friendly method of providing healthy animal nutrition in line with needs. T08 Key data for the Resource Efficiency segment In addition, the segment invested in new production Change facilities for methionine formulations tailored specifically to in € million 2015 2014 in % the nutritional requirements of species other than poultry. A External sales 4,279 4,040 6 facility to produce Mepron for dairy cattle has been erected Adjusted EBITDA 896 836 7 in Mobile (Alabama, USA). Investment in this plant is in the low double-digit million euro range. The use of Mepron in Adjusted EBIT 675 642 5 rations for dairy cattle enables the amount of raw protein in Capital expenditures 241 273 – 12 the feed to be reduced, without any reduction in performance. No. of employees This reduces feed costs, enhances the metabolism of the as of December 31 8,662 7,835 11 animals and reduces the excretion of nitrogen. In this way, Prior-year figures restated. Evonik contributes to more sustainable milk production. Nutrition & Care has also developed AQUAVI Met-Met, a dipeptide with two methionine molecules, for aquaculture Higher sales of shrimp and other crustaceans. The first production facility Sales in the Resource Efficiency segment grew 6 percent to for this product is currently under construction in Antwerp € 4,279 million. Alongside positive currency effects, this was (Belgium), and is scheduled to come on stream in April 2016. attributable to organic sales growth resulting from higher This investment is also in the low double-digit million euro volumes and stable selling prices. range. The use of AQUAVI Met-Met has many advantages. There was strong growth in sales of crosslinkers, which benefited above all from attractive end-markets such as • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 43 The business Segment performance construction and wind energy. Oil additives, which enhance Performance Materials segment the performance of engines and gears in the automotive, construction and transportation industries, were again very T09 Key data for the Performance Materials segment successful. Change Annex in € million 2015 2014 in % Improvement in earnings External sales 3,435 3,827 – 10 Adjusted EBITDA in the Resource Efficiency segment Adjusted EBITDA 309 325 –5 advanced 7 percent to € 896 million, mainly as a result of higher volumes, better capacity utilization, positive currency Adjusted EBIT 174 204 – 15 effects, and lower raw material costs. The adjusted EBITDA Capital expenditures 183 218 – 16 margin increased slightly to 20.9 percent. No. of employees as of December 31 4,380 4,353 1 Investment projects to expand market positions Prior-year figures restated. Capital expenditures in the Resource Efficiency segment remained high at € 241 million, but were 12 percent lower than in the previous year. Nevertheless, they were slightly Lower sales above depreciation, which amounted to € 222 million. The Sales declined 10 percent to € 3,435 million in the PerforResource Efficiency segment has almost doubled the capacity mance Materials segment. Since volume sales were almost of its production facility for oil additives on Jurong Island stable, the decline was principally due to the oil-driven (Singapore). This facility, which was inaugurated in May reduction in selling prices. By contrast, exchange rates had 2015, is now Evonik’s biggest production plant for oil addia positive effect. tives. The additional capacity enables this segment to meet Performance Intermediates, in particular, reported signifirising demand from customers for more efficient lubricants. cantly lower sales that in the previous year. This was caused Rising mobility in Asia, the increased importance of resource by a sharp decline in selling prices for products from the efficiency and fuel savings and more stringent emissions integrated C4 platform in the wake of the reduction in the oil thresholds are increasing demand for high-performance price. The downward trend gained momentum in the second lubricants. As a leading supplier of oil additives, the Resource half of the year. Efficiency segment is developing technologies that improve the performance of engines and gears and the efficiency of Adjusted EBITDA down year-on-year hydraulic fluids and thus contribute to the efficiency of fuel Adjusted EBITDA slipped 5 percent year-on-year to € 309 and energy sources. million. This was caused by lower selling prices, while the By raising global capacity for precipitated silicas, the decline was checked by the reduction in the cost of oil-based segment is supporting the growth of its global customers in raw materials. The adjusted EBITDA margin improved from the tire, construction, animal feed and nutrition industries. 8.5 percent to 9.0 percent. A new production facility is currently under construction near São Paulo (Brazil) and is scheduled to start operating in 2016. Global projects to expand capacity This will be the first production facility for highly disper­ To secure its leading market positions, raise efficiency and sible silica (HD silica) for the South American tire industry. broaden its technology base, the Performance Materials This high-growth silica is mainly used for high-quality tires segment invested € 183 million in property, plant and equipthat reduce rolling resistance. Pre-engineering for a new proment in 2015. Capital expenditures therefore exceeded duction plant for precipitated silicas in North America has depreciation, which amounted to € 132 million. As part of the started. This plant should be completed in early 2018. The Europe-wide expansion of capacity for C4-based products, entire project is still contingent upon approval by the relevant new plants came on stream in Marl (Germany) and Antwerp authorities. (Belgium). These have successfully raised capacity for the As binders for paints, specialty copolyesters are used in coil plasticizer alcohol isononanol, for butadiene and for MTBE, coatings and, increasingly, in food can coatings. To meet rising an anti-knock additive for fuel. Thanks to a unique new prodemand, the segment is investing in a new plant at Witten site cess, special product streams from refineries can be utilized in Germany. This will have annual capacity of several thoufor C4 chemistry for the first time. Total investment was in the sand metric tons and is scheduled for completion in 2018. triple-digit million euro range. 44 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries To ensure sustainable and reliable long-term supply of potasSupply chain management sium derivatives to customers, Evonik has established a production joint venture with AkzoNobel to build and operate Health, quality, safety, social and environmental sustainability a membrane electrolysis plant for chlorine and potassium principles play a central role in our procurement strategy hydride solution in Ibbenbüren (Germany). Production is alongside economic aspects. The principles of the UN Global scheduled to start in the fourth quarter of 2017. Compact are applied, and we also take account of fair business In Mobile (Alabama, USA) the Performance Materials practices and the status of humanitarian development. segment has embarked on a substantial capacity increase for Procurement at Evonik is organized globally and comprises ACA (acrolein cyanohydrin-o-acetate). This drives forward direct procurement (raw materials, logistics and packaging) the very successful exclusive partnership with a global leader and indirect procurement (general and technical goods and in broadband herbicides. The new production plant, which services). These are further subdivided into strategic and involves total investment in the triple-digit million euro range, operational procurement activities. Global procurement is should start operating in early 2017. managed from Germany, with the support of regional units in In the second half of 2016, Performance Materials will Asia and North and South America. have access to new capacity for sodium cyanide from a joint Through our procurement volume, we have a not inconventure with the Mexican group IDESA. This will greatly siderable influence on society and the environment. We are strengthen its position in the growing Mexican market. aware of the associated responsibility within the value chain. Our suppliers also play a significant part in this, so the selection and correct assessment of suppliers are important factors Services segment in ensuring reliability of supply, ongoing optimization of material costs, and access to new procurement markets. We T10 Key data for the Services segment are therefore consistently working to extend our relationship with strategic suppliers and to validate new suppliers. Change in € million 2015 2014 in % Procurement in 2015 External sales 828 906 –9 In 2015 Evonik sourced raw materials and supplies, technical Adjusted EBITDA 163 151 8 goods, services, energy and other operating supplies totaling Adjusted EBIT 53 49 8 € 8.3 billion (2014: around € 9.1 billion) from more than Capital expenditures 177 153 16 30,000 suppliers worldwide. On average, 75 percent was No. of employees sourced locally. Petrochemical feedstocks accounted for as of December 31 12,668 13,173 –4 about 25 percent of the total (2014: around 27 percent). Prior-year figures restated. Overall, raw materials and supplies made up around 59 percent of procurement volume. Using renewable resources is of great importance to The Services segment generates sales both internally, with Evonik. In 2015, around 8 percent (2014: around 7 percent) of the specialty chemicals segments and Corporate Center raw materials procured were based on renewable resources. (2015: € 1,886 million), and with external customers. External The main applications for these raw materials are amino acids sales contracted by 9 percent to € 828 million in 2015. This and precursors for the cosmetics industry. was mainly due to the reduction in the price of energy, which The Dodd-Frank Act requires companies listed on the the segment charges to external customers at our sites. AdUS stock market to disclose whether their products contain justed EBITDA increased 8 percent to € 163 million, mainly potential conflict minerals. These are mineral raw materials because of changes to the internal cross-charging system. from the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighboring Capital expenditures in this segment increased 16 percent countries. Evonik is not listed on US stock exchanges and to € 177 million. That was above depreciation, which therefore has no legal obligation to comply with the reporting amounted to € 107 million. Numerous infrastructure projects requirements of the US stock market regulator. At the same were completed at German sites in 2015. time, as a responsible company, Evonik meets its duty of care • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 45 The business Supply chain management with regard to conflict minerals in the supply chain. Suppliers Sustainability in the selection of suppliers questioned in our basic assessment have confirmed that the Procurement at Evonik is systematically aligned to the raw materials sourced do not contain conflict materials. At the Group’s sustainability strategy. Building on our corporate beginning of 2016 we altered the pre-qualification of our policies, we published our Code of Conduct for Suppliers in Annex suppliers to include the corresponding information. 2014. This supplements our general purchasing conditions Based on our supplier structure, there was no significant and outlines what we expect of existing and potential new change in our value chain in 2015. contractual partners. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers comprises the requirements we place in their conduct in the Global supply chains business environment, conduct to and treatment of one As in the previous year, the challenges of structuring sustainanother, the environment, safety, health and quality, and in able supply chains in the chemical industry were the central the implementation of standards and requirements. In 2015, focus of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) conference, we conducted a standard review of around 400 new suppliers which was held in São Paulo (Brazil). The conference centered of raw materials, technical goods and services with a view to on the combined objective of the TfS member companies— quality, environmental protection, safety, health and energy applying a global standard in the chemical industry, based on management. About a third of them were subject to an addiuniform assessments and audits. In addition, audit topics and tional review in the areas of anti-corruption, labor and social training concepts for suppliers were presented to the roughly standards and human rights. The examination of the sustain300 attendees, comprising suppliers, representatives of the TfS ability status of new suppliers is currently being extended. member companies and local and international associations The assessment and audit process for established suppliers is and non-governmental organizations. undertaken in collaboration with the TfS sector initiative. TfS was set up in 2011 by six multinational chemical comWe have annual targets to measure our own contribution panies, including Evonik, to reduce the complexity of global to improving sustainability in the supply chain. These range supply chain management, harmonize and standardize profrom checking potential (risk) suppliers through sustainability cesses, and improve dialogue between the parties involved. audits of suppliers and follow-up activities to training our At the end of 2015 the TfS initiative had 16 members and own procurement staff. In 2016, for example, that includes a operated as a non-profit organization in collaboration with renewed review of suppliers that were assessed in 2012 and the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), which is 2013.1 These targets help us reflect on our own processes and based in Brussels (Belgium). Other members are already at identify a need for improvement at an early stage. the acceptance stage. The member companies have already The aim of TfS is to achieve a further improvement in initiated more than 8,000 audits and assessments worldwide sustainability in the supply chain through a common approach.2 and published their findings on a joint platform. For this purpose, supplier self-assessments and/or audits are performed by neutral third parties. With the agreement of the supplier the results can be made available to other TfS T11 TfS activities in 2015 a members, without them being able to draw any conclusions about the procuring company. Sharing information in this way reduces the workload on suppliers resulting from similar Total no. of assessments performed by TfS 2,580 assessments and audits by other procuring companies. The Total no. of audits performed by TfS 179 selection of suppliers for TfS reviews is made by our pro­ a  curement staff on the basis of strategic/economic and riskIncluding additional follow-up audits with specific suppliers to verify implementation of measures. related factors. These include, for example, country risks. T12 Suppliers at an advanced stage of examination The activities of the TfS are highly relevant for Evonik because Fiscal 2015 No. they help to increase the transparency of our sustainability performance within our supplier portfolio and significantly Suppliers identified by Evonik as requiring an on-site audit 59 reduce the associated internal workload. Supplier audits completed 39 1 See Our objectives, p. 89. 2 www.tfs-initiative.com and Sustainability Report 2013, p. 7 ff and p. 63. 46 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries In the year under review, site audits were carried out on 39 Child labor and forced labor were not found in any on-site suppliers of raw materials, technical goods and services, and audits, nor were any cases of restricted freedom of association sustainability self-assessments of 373 suppliers were initiated or discrimination. via the external CR rating provider EcoVadis. Where particularly serious shortcomings are identified By the deadline, about 58 percent of the suppliers had and we do not see any improvement, we reserve the right to submitted data that could be evaluated. Based on the detailed terminate collaboration with the supplier. However, there was analysis of the questionnaires completed and evaluated no case in which this was necessary in 2015. through the Together for Sustainability initiative, the picture is as follows: Evonik as part of the supply chain Like all other TfS members, Evonik is regularly assessed by T13 Results of the evaluation of the EcoVadis. At the start of 2016, Evonik was once again sustainability profile of suppliers in 2015 awarded the gold standard, showing that it is still one of the best performers in the chemical sector. The assessments Result in percent TfS evaluation of sustainability profiles (approximate data) include questions about employee training. Assisted by the “train-the-trainer” concept, in the reporting period around Advanced 1 79 percent of relevant procurement staff were trained. The Secured 36 target of 60 percent was therefore clearly exceeded. The Not fully developed 48 specially trained procurement staff, who are also familiar Unsatisfactory 15 with the processes required as a TfS member, are direct lines of contact for our suppliers. Procurement-specific validation under ISO 9001 and Appropriate measures are worked out for suppliers whose 14001 was successfully renewed. In addition, internal audits sustainability profile is unsatisfactory or not fully developed based on corporate policies were conducted at five regional in talks between the procuring company and the supplier. procurement units on two continents. The goal is to eliminate or improve the shortcomings in The Shaping Procurement and Developing Excellence between one and three years, depending on their relevance. (SPADE) training program was also continued in 2015. This Suppliers whose sustainability profile was secured or program aims to improve employees’ procurement-specific advanced in the previous year are re-evaluated in accordance and general competencies. At the same time, it fosters interwith a defined time schedule. national, interdisciplinary sharing of experience. The various Through the supplier audits conducted by TfS audits in training modules are additive and are supplemented by pro2015, we identified shortcomings in the areas of working curement units to meet specific requirements. For example, hours and payment of the minimum wage set by local legisSPADE Operational was developed and introduced specifilation. In addition, scope to improve contingency plans was cally for employees in the operational procurement units. identified at some suppliers. In these cases, we requested our This module supplements SPADE Advanced for strategic suppliers to take action to improve the situation. procurement employees. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 47 The business Research & development Research & development innovative strength, we organize regular internal conferences under the motto Leading Innovation, which are attended by Innovation strategy firmly anchored members of our top management. Every year, we present an in corporate strategy internal Innovation Award in various categories to honor Annex Evonik—one of the world’s most innovative companies. That outstanding research achievements. At the same time, we is the vision that guides our research & development (R&D). consistently terminate R&D projects if there are no prospects As a major driver of profitable growth and value creation, our of success and take a constructive attitude to such cases. market-oriented R&D is firmly anchored in our corporate We have a well-stocked innovation pipeline with a balstrategy. Innovations strengthen our leading market and anced mixture of more than 500 short-, midand long-term technology positions and open up new high-growth business projects. These are managed using Idea-to-Profit, a multi-step opportunities. The careful selection of our areas of inno­ innovation process developed by Evonik. In 2015, we received vation is guided by the megatrends of relevance for Evonik: total funding of around € 3.4 million from the European health, nutrition, resource efficiency and globalization. Union and the Federal Republic of Germany to support some of our projects. Our R&D is aligned to three core strategic objectives: Ingredients for the cosmetics industry, membranes, spewe aim to cialty materials for medical technology, feed and food addi­ • produce custom-tailored products and solutions in close tives, and composites have been identified as promising collaboration with our customers and partners, to drive areas of innovation for Evonik. In addition, we aim to steadily their success in international competition extend our expertise in catalysis and biotechnology. To raise • continuously improve our processes, and the pace of innovation, we want to align our R&D project • make a substantial contribution to profitable growth and portfolio even more closely to these fields, step up external to the future of Evonik. knowledge sharing, and drive forward the internationalization of our R&D. Our open, learning innovation culture based on a business Evonik has an extensive patent strategy to protect new mindset is the key to achieving these goals. It ensures timely products and processes. The value and quality of our patent identification of good ideas which we can drive forward and portfolio have increased steadily in recent years. turn into additional sales and earnings. To reinforce Evonik’s C12 Our claim: First-class in innovation Evonik is one of the most innovative Explore new horizons companies in the world Inno Push radical innovation on vat isi io Cross-unit collaboration Ou n rv gy ate str First-class in innovation Increase the value of the innovation pipeline e Enhance risk-taking In no ltu r New products, applications, and processes must va cu Trust, openness and transparency make a substantial contribution to sales and profit ti o n Improve knowledge sharing ti o n ta r ge t va s Inno 48 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries T14  Innovative strength and patent protection at Evonik High commitment to R&D in 2015 R&D expenses amounted to € 434 million in 2015, an increase 2015 of 5 percent compared with the previous year (€ 413 million). No. of new patent applications filed approx. 260 The ratio of R&D expenses to sales was 3.2 percent (2014: Patents held and applications filed more than 25,000 3.2 percent). Registered/pending trademarks more than 7,000 No. of projects in the R&D pipeline more than 500 C14 Breakdown of R&D expenses In view of the strategic importance of R&D, we have raised Creavis R&D expenses by an average of 6 percent a year since 2010. Given our growth strategy and our vision of being one of the Performance Materials Nutrition & Care world’s most innovative companies, we want to maintain this ambitious level and intend to spend more than € 4 billion on R&D in the next ten years. Resource Efficiency Decentralized organization of R&D Evonik’s global R&D network comprises 35 locations with approximately 2,700 R&D employees. Around 90 percent of our R&D is performed by our segments. That includes, first and foremost, research geared specifically to their core technologies and markets and the development of new business. Moreover, in the past four years Evonik has spent € 170 million In addition, in close collaboration with our segments, our on building laboratory capacity and pilot plants. The focus of strategic innovation unit Creavis is involved in research in this investment in R&D facilities was on new and extended new high-tech areas outside the Group’s present portfolio. innovation centers in Essen (Germany), Shanghai (China), Creavis focuses on midto long-term innovation projects Richmond (Virginia, USA) and Birmingham (Alabama, USA). that support Evonik’s growth and sustainability strategy. For Examples of Evonik’s most recent research successes example, the Composites Project House has developed a new include an innovative microencapsulation process for extended composite that combines the benefits of thermoplastics and release of medication, and composites for lightweight structhermosets. For this innovation Evonik received the 2015 tures. In addition, work has commenced on a new generation Innovation Award presented by CFK Valley, a leading com­ of lubricant additives. petency network for fiber composites. Creavis is currently developing a new high-performance surfactant using a biotechnological process. C13 R&D expenses in € million 2011 365 2012 393 2013 394 2014 413 2015 434 0 100 200 300 400 500 • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 49 The business Research & development T15 Main products introduced in 2015 Product Description Application Sector VISCOBASE 11-524/526 High-viscosity synthetic base fluid Favorable alternative formulation Automotive, industrial gears with dispersing properties for modern gear lubricants for cars, Annex trucks and industrial gears VISCOPLEX 0-192 Easy-to-handle viscosity index Used in gear lubricant formulations Automotive improver based on comb polymers to minimize energy losses in the drivetrain; reduces fuel consumption SILIKOPHEN AC 950 Heat-resistant, low-toxic High-temperature coating of Machinery and plant engineering, (aromatic-free) silicone resin that industrial plant; corrosion protection consumer durables and capital goods, cures at ambient temperature of high-volume components automotive SEPURAN Noble Membrane technology for gas Recovery and treatment of helium Hydrogen: refineries, production separation; several thousand hollow and hydrogen of ammonia and methanol. fibers made from a high-performance Helium: medical institutes, MRT polymer (polyimide) are used as technology, welding and metalmembranes working, electronics industry, oil and gas production BREAK-THRU SP 131 and Based on renewable raw materials, Crop protection Agriculture BREAK-THRU SP 133 biodegradable, very good ecotoxico­ logical profile; adjuvant to increase the efficacy of crop protection products SITREN AirVoid 360 Defoamer for cementand gypsumDry mortar Construction based construction applications Methacrylic acid Market entry with improved product Synthesis Specialty chemicals anhydride (MAAH) quality from a new plant Innovation drivers at Evonik Sustainable products recently launched by Evonik include, Interdisciplinary collaboration across organizational units and for example, a new ingredient based on renewable resources regions is regarded as very important at Evonik because it is for shampoos and conditioners, an innovative silica-based a key source of innovative ideas. In addition, we are steadily insulating material, and a biological fungicide for agricultural becoming more open to external partners. We cooperate applications. with research institutes, universities and other industrial comTogether with the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environpanies so that the latest findings in chemistry, biology and ment and Energy and the in-house Life Cycle Management physics can rapidly be transported into our company. and Innovation Excellence Consulting groups, Creavis has Our corporate venture capital activities are a special way of developed the I2P3 (idea to people, planet, profit) innovation networking and a strategic complement to our understanding management process, which allows an extensive sustaina­ of open innovation. We invest in specialized technology bility assessment of new products and processes at an early funds and promising start-ups of strategic relevance to Evonik. stage in their development. We selectively extended our corporate venture capital portfolio through two investments in 2015. Fostering education and science Fostering education and science is a core focus of the Evonik Focus on sustainability Foundation. In 2015 the Foundation supported 18 particularly Our innovative products, systems and solutions make a congifted and committed science students at 17 universities in tribution to sustainable development and we are continuously Germany and in collaboration with foreign universities. Reguextending our work in this field. Our market-oriented R&D lar meetings with these scholarship students, scientific colloplays an important role in this. We are aligning our innovation quia and a mentoring program give them an early insight into pipeline increasingly to sustainable projects and solutions the day-to-day work of a leading specialty chemicals comin response to rising interest from our customers. In this pany. Evonik is also one of the most committed sponsors of way, we enable them to improve their ecological footprint the German government’s “Deutschlandstipendium” program, and successfully differentiate themselves from competitors. with 200 scholarships provided by the Evonik Foundation. 50 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries T16 Evonik Venture Capital: New investments in 2015 Strategic focus on the following Name Headquarters Technology/business model Evonik competencies JeNaCell GmbH Jena Specialist in nanocellulose generated by An excellent strategic fit with Evonik’s expertise (Germany) bio­technological methods, which is used, for in biotechnology and delivery systems for active example, as a wound dressing to improve the medical ingredients. treatment of burns. It can also be loaded with medical active ingredients for controlled release to the skin over time. Wiivv Wearables Inc. Vancouver Wiivv is one of the first companies in the world to Evonik is a leading supplier of polyamide 12 for (Canada) use 3D printing for individualized mass production 3D printing, a highly innovative growth market of biomechanically optimized insoles. with diverse applications. Airborne Oil & Gas IJmuiden Airborne Oil & Gas has a unique production The oil and gas industry is an attractive growth (Netherlands) technology for thermoplastic composite pipes for market for Evonik and an important area of a whole range of applications in offshore oil and innovation. In addition, the company is the market gas production. leader in polyamide 12, which is marketed as VESTAMID and used in pipelines for the production and transportation of oil and gas. Synoste Oy Espoo Synoste is a young medical technology company As a technology leader in high-performance (Finland) that has developed a novel implant to “lengthen” polymers, Evonik supplies polyetherether ketone the legs of patients suffering from limb length (PEEK) for medical applications. Our VESTAKEEP discrepancy. Unlike conventional methods, after PEEK grades for implants, dental and medical implantation the implant is activated by an applications set new standards in medical applicaexternal magnetic field and can correct differences tions thanks to their outstanding biocompatibility of up to 7 cm. and biostability. GRC SinoGreen Fund III Beijing GRC is a Chinese venture capital fund which focuses By investing in the GRC SinoGreen Fund III, (China) on investing in non-listed green-tech companies in Evonik has extended its venture capital activities to Greater China (China, Taiwan and Hong Kong) that Asia. The company now has a presence in the most have unique technological competencies and high important venture capital markets: North America, growth potential. The target sectors include energy Europe and Asia. Investments in venture capital and resource efficiency, environment-friendly funds are a fundamental element of the innovation mobility, sustainability and climate protection. strategy of Evonik Venture Capital because they offer excellent opportunities to speed up the development of new business and gain access to new growth areas. Market-oriented research & development aim to meet the rising global demand for omega-3 fatty acids In 2015 our segments once again developed major innovative more resource-efficiently using biotechnological production products and processes up to market maturity or market processes based on marine algae. The anticipated high-quality launch. In addition, they drove forward key future-oriented products are intended principally for applications in aqua­ projects such as new materials and production processes culture and the nutrition of pets. for lightweight construction. Special attention was paid to This segment has introduced two new environmentsustainability and efficient use of resources. friendly adjuvants under the brand name BREAKTHRU to Since summer 2015 our Nutrition & Care segment has improve the performance of crop protection products. These been working with DSM Nutritional Products Ltd. on the biodegradable adjuvants are based on renewable raw matedevelopment of algae-based omega-3 fatty acid products for rials, and have an exceptionally good ecotoxicological profile. animal nutrition. Both humans and animals need to absorb a Both products improve the retention of agrochemicals on plants certain amount of these essential long-chain polyunsaturated and their diffusion into the leaves. The result is a considerable fatty acids through their diet to ensure healthy growth. reduction in the amount of crop protection products required. At present, most of the omega-3 fatty acids required for Both new developments therefore make a multiple contribuaquaculture come from fish oil. The development partners tion to more effective and environmentally friendly agriculture. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 51 The business Research & development The Resource Efficiency segment has now entered the marOlefins, which are used to produce the plasticizer alcohol ket for nitrogen (N2) with its SEPURAN membrane technolisononanol and the anti-knock agent MTBE, are an important ogy, building on its success in the treatment of biogas. The precursor for our integrated C4 production in Marl (Germany). new SEPURAN N2 hollow fiber membranes nitrogen allow Olefins mainly come from C4 product streams from steam Annex particularly energyand cost-saving recovery of nitrogen crackers as by-products of ethylene production. Thanks to a from air. Investment costs and energy consumption are lower unique new process, our Performance Materials segment than for both the conventional method—separation of air at can now use product streams from fluid catalytic cracking low temperatures—and previous membrane processes. As an (FCC) processes as a source of olefins. These product streams inert gas, nitrogen prevents fires and explosions, extends the occur in refineries and are not dependent on the production shelf-life of food and can also be used as a protective gas for of ethylene. Since FCC product streams contain unwanted processing chemicals and plastics. The nitrogen market is by-products, in the past they were of limited use to the worth more than US$10 billion, making it the world’s second chemical industry. The Performance Materials segment has biggest gas market after oxygen. Although SEPURAN has been using a new process to remove unwanted substances at only been on the market for four years, it is already making a its new C4 plant in Marl (Germany) since summer 2015. This positive contribution to earnings. innovative process has strengthened the segment’s position This segment is currently introducing iXsenic, a new techas a technology leader. nology for ultra-high resolution displays developed by the CAPLUS, a new amine for scrubbing industrial gas streams, Creavis strategic innovation unit. iXsenic is an inorganic metal has been brought onto the market by Performance Materials. oxide semiconductor, which is applied as a solution in normal Unwanted acid gases such as carbon dioxide and/or hydrogen ambient conditions like a coating. The thin-layer transistors sulfide have to be removed from natural gas, synthetic gas, produced in this way allow higher resolution than the estabbiogas and flue gas for various reasons. CAPLUS scrubs lished semiconductor amorphous silicon. In addition, iXsenic these gases far more effectively than conventional amines can be processed without a vacuum, leading to a simpler proand also increases the performance and working life of cess with high yields and clear cost benefits. The Resource plants. Following success in the treatment of biogas and flue Efficiency segment has entered into a strategic partnership gas, the segment has now entered the important natural gas with a market-leading plant engineering company to ensure scrubbing market. The first commercial natural gas scrubber that the material, equipment and process are aligned for the was converted in Southeast Asia. Performance Materials is production of displays. A manufacturer of displays is planning currently introducing CAPLUS to other well-known natural to use iXsenic in a new production facility for flat screens gas products in the attractive growth regions of Southeast in China. Asia, the Middle East/North Africa and South America. The International Energy Agency estimates that gas consumption will increase by 50 percent by 2035.1 1 Reference base: 2010. 52 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Employees By focusing on specialty chemicals, Evonik is following a clear zational structures, the structure of employee representation growth strategy. Employees are particularly important to was adjusted, Supervisory Boards were established in accoroperate successfully in the marketplace. Key questions include dance with the 1976 Codetermination Act, the new members how we gain and develop our employees and retain them of our companies were granted the necessary powers, and in the company. We have therefore developed a wide range agreements were concluded in respect of the multi-user sites of activities, which are crucial elements in the valueand where there will in future be several or additional Group performance-oriented management of the company. companies. In view of the demographic change and diversity megaThe Group is now divided into four independent segments. trends, analyzing the structure of our workforce is becoming This process was supported by a Group-wide change and increasingly important. Taking into account our future personcommunication team which was responsible for working out nel requirements, we develop measures to ensure, for examsegment-specific strategies and visions, within the overall ple, a balanced age structure. Alongside a dual training system framework of the Group. From a Group viewpoint, balancing geared to our needs and recruiting staff from the external identification with Evonik as a whole and with the individual labor market, that includes tools such as the Generation Pact, segments was a major challenge. which closely links the employment of job-starters at the To implement it, the change team made strong use of G4-26 end of their training with the retirement of experienced interactive dialogue formats such as roadshows with the top employees. Another aspect of central significance is feedback management, management dialogue and interviews, and from our employees through our employee survey, which was workshops with managers and employees at all sites. In parrepeated in the year under review. In an intensive follow-up allel with this, the workforce in Germany was prepared and process we analyze our employees’ suggestions and proposed supported in the transfer to the new operating companies improvements. A further rise in the participation rate in 2015 through internal communications and media activities. As a shows that our employees make an active contribution and “pulse check” on the success of this procedure, questions on therefore support the development of the Group. Other key “Change and leadership” were included in the worldwide figures such as fluctuation rates are used as early warning employee survey conducted in November 2015. Once the indicators. Their development is monitored regularly and results have been evaluated, they will be used for a follow-up changes are analyzed. In 2015 we initiated a project to analysis and further support for change with the active develop and establish a system of indicators that can be used involvement of employees. to manage and optimize global HR work. 1 Further optimization of the HR organization Active support for the reorganization of the Group The organization of the human resources departments has The strategic reorganization of the management and portfolio been adjusted and optimized to reflect the reorganization structure of the Evonik Group was supported from an early of the Group. The aim is to continue to provide uniform, stage by an agreement on key points that subsequently effective and efficient human resources services and provide formed the basis for the reconciliation of interests with repsustained support for the segments in the attainment of their resentatives of the workforce and provided security for both business targets. the structural changes and safeguarding employment. In all, As part of the reorganization of the Group, the structure around 19,000 employees were transferred to the new comof our HR bodies was also aligned to the new structures. panies. To secure the operational viability of the new organi1 See Our objectives, p. 90. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 53 Employees Exemplary leadership is the heart of our HR strategy The Executive Committee HR headed by the Chief Human Following on from the uniform global, system-supported Resources Officer is the top HR decision-making body. It sets recruiting process introduced in 2014, the process of setting the strategic focus of Evonik’s HR strategy. The Global HR objectives was rolled out to the regions via the new IT platCommittee, which is chaired by the Head of the Human form in 2015. We also started to map systematic employee Annex Resources division, takes decisions on HR issues within the reviews as a key element in the dialogue process and to defined strategy. The permanent members of this committee harmonize them around the world. As an additional module are representatives of the HR departments in the segments, in 2016 we also want to transition learning management to regions and corporate and service units. HR Expert Circles this uniform IT platform to ensure an even more structured work on aspects of specific issues defined by the Global and transparent approach to the individual development of HR Committee and report their results to the committee. our employees. Employee representatives are consulted on the HR projects through a process of continuous dialogue. The structure of these bodies therefore fully reflects the new Group structures Exemplary leadership and role of HR. is the heart of our HR strategy 1 C15 Structure of Human Resources steering bodies Our employees are a key factor in the successful and sustainable implementation of our corporate strategy. As a worldleading specialty chemicals company, innovative strength and Executive Committee HR entrepreneurship play a central role as drivers that enable us Global HR Committee to meet our goals of growth and an increase in efficiency. Based on this, our Group-wide human resources strategy HR Expert Circles is geared to a healthy performance culture, together with dialogue based on partnership and excellence in human resources processes. The strategic focus of our human resources work is aligned to the strategic principles “Attract”, “Develop”, “Perform”, “Retain”, “Lead” and “HR Excellence”. Special attention is paid to exemplary leadership because this As a consequence of Evonik’s historic roots in a large number is the key to success in the other areas of action. of separate companies, the HR systems landscape has so In our annual strategy review we defined these key areas far been very diverse. The HR IT strategy now aims to in consultation with the operational business entities and resystem­atically harmonize our systems landscape. Alongside gional organizations, taking into account relevant political and efficient and effective processes, this should ensure greater societal developments. These were implemented through transparency and measurability of the success of human projects. resources work. C16 HR strategy Corporate strategy HR strategy Attract Perform Lead Develop Retain HR Excellence 1 For further information on our HR strategy see p. 55. 54 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Employees worldwide C18 Employees by region, continuing operations Growth-driven increase in headcount Other 1% At year-end 2015, the Evonik Group had 33,576 employees. Asia-Pacific 14% The headcount in our continuing operations was 335 higher Central and than at year-end 2014, principally as a result of acquisitions and South America 2% investment in growth projects in the Resource Efficiency and North Nutrition & Care segments. Implementation of the AdminisAmerica 11% tration Excellence program, some small optimization programs in the chemical segments, and divestment of the remaining Other European Germany 64% carbon black activities had a counter-effect. At year-end Countries 8% 2014, the discontinued operations still contained Evonik Litarion GmbH, which was divested in April 2015. T17 Employees by segment Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Nearly two-thirds of our workforce is employed in Germany 2015 2014 (64 percent), followed by the Asia-Pacific region (14 percent) Nutrition & Care 7,165 6,943 and North America (11 percent). Resource Efficiency 8,662 7,835 Around 24 percent of employees are female (2014: around Performance Materials 4,380 4,353 24 percent). The age structure is still biased towards the 46 + Services 12,668 13,173 age group, which accounts for 44 percent of employees (2014: Other operations 701 937 44 percent). The average age of our employees was 41.7 years Continuing operations 33,576 33,241 in 2015 (2014: 41.6 years). To prevent child labor, we ask the age of employees as part of the recruitment process. Our Discontinued operations – 171 youngest employees are 16. Evonik 33,576 33,412 Prior-year figures restated. C17 Age structure in the Evonik Group, continuing operations in % Under 21 years 4 21 – 25 years 8 26 – 30 years 10 31 – 35 years 11 36 – 40 years 11 41 – 45 years 12 46 – 50 years 15 51 – 55 years 15 56 – 60 years 12 Over 60 years 2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 55 Employees Our activities in the areas of action defined for HR strategy T18 Employees by contractual status Attract The focus here is on positioning Evonik globally as a strong Dec. 31, of which employer brand. Alongside conventional and modern recruit2015 female in % ing methods, activities include measures to ensure that new Annex Employees 33,576 24.0 employees and executives get off to a good start in the of which employees company. on permanent contracts 29,371 23.1 of which employees on limited-term contracts 2,389 32.7 T19 Recruitment of employees of which apprentices/trainees 1,816 a 27.9 from the labor market in 2015 a a Including a proportion of apprentices abroad and apprentices with an No. of Evonik contract who are being trained for third parties. employees in % By region We work with staffing agencies in Germany to cover shortGermany 501 2.3 term or temporary bottlenecks. All agencies must provide Other European countries 149 5.6 evidence of a valid operating permit. If agency staff have North America 405 10.7 been used for a job for more than six months, we examine Central and South America 82 12.3 whether it is a permanent job for which a permanent employee can be hired. Alongside appropriate remuneration, Asia-Pacific 429 9.0 we make sure that agency staff are covered by the high social Middle East, Africa 45 28.0 and safety standards applicable for our own staff. Since the By gender chemical industry requires a large number of highly qualified Female 466 5.8 employees, fewer agency staff are used than in other sectors Male 1,145 4.5 of manufacturing industry. Evonik had around 680 agency By age staff as of December 31, 2015. That was around 3 percent of Under 30 672 10.0 our total workforce in Germany. 30 to 50 841 4.9 Over 50 98 1.0 Our activities in the areas of action 1,611 4.8 defined for HR strategy 1 a Referencebase: employees in continuing operations as of December 31, 2015, based on headcount. Lead In the area of leadership, Evonik builds on a uniform and conPersonnel planning as the basis crete Group-wide understanding of leadership, centered on a We successfully established a holistic approach to personnel trustful relationship between employees and managers. planning in 2015, as the basis for high-quality and foresighted To ensure that sincere and effective leadership is a dishuman resources work. This combines strategic and operatinctive quality at all Evonik sites, in 2015 we harmonized tional personnel planning and sets a uniform Group-wide global training to prepare staff for leadership roles. The aim is standard. Strategic personnel planning identifies the impact to establish high-quality leadership aligned to our corporate of planned strategic action in the business lines and funcculture as a hallmark of Evonik. tional areas on personnel planning over a five-year period Strong leaders are essential for value-oriented manageand compares it with the development of our headcount. On ment of the company. In 2015 nearly 70 corporate talents the basis of the gap analysis, specific measures are defined at therefore once again made a contribution to the housing a conference attended by representatives of the segments and construction project in Vietnam in collaboration with Habitat regions. In addition, strategic personnel planning is used to for Humanity. As well as direct experience of value-oriented determine the number of vocational training places required. action, they gained inspiration, which they conveyed back into In the operational personnel planning process, each manour company. In addition, in 2015 two pilot groups embarked ager plans personnel requirements for their unit in a structured on a program that explores ethical conduct, personal values process in collaboration with HR and defines specific steps and their relationship to the working environment. Nearly 30 for the following year. The results of our strategic personnel corporate talents took part in this program in 2015. planning are incorporated into this process. In Germany, 1 See Chart C16, p. 53. 56 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries dialogue with our managers is also used to identify specific Through the Evonik Perspectives program we remain in condemand for apprentices completing their training so we can tact with students whose performance in internships in the manage the hiring of ex-apprentices on long-term contracts Group is above average. Many participants join Evonik when in line with our needs. This process plays a substantial part in they finish their studies. reducing demographic risks. To gain sufficient specialists in China, for years we have been involved in training young people in cooperation with Employer branding—Positioning Evonik Shanghai Petrochemical Academy (SPA). The qualification as an attractive employer they receive is comparable to a German qualification. We also A strong and uniform global employer brand is an important provided scholarships for 64 students at several renowned success factor in the competition to attract the most talented universities, for example in China, in 2015. employees and executives. Our promise “Exploring opportuIn addition, Evonik supports the Ruhr Fellowship program nities. Growing together.” is an expression of our values as an in Germany, which is organized by Initiativkreis Ruhr. Under employer: wide-ranging global development opportunities this program, top students from leading universities on the east and team spirit. As part of our employer branding, we use and west coasts of the USA (Princeton, Harvard, University creative and unusual methods to fire passion for Evonik in of Pennsylvania, MIT and University of California, Berkeley) tomorrow’s specialists at an early stage. For example, in fall did internships at companies in the Ruhr region of Germany 2015 we challenged students at ten universities in Germany in 2015. One student from Harvard University and one from to Battle of Brains, a digital quiz that attracted around 1,000 Princeton University did a four-week internship in the proparticipants. High-quality prizes were awarded to the best cess engineering unit within Technology & Infrastructure at three from each university and the winning entrant from each Evonik’s site in Marl (Germany). university was invited to the Evonik Student Network Day. In In view of the high and growing significance of social addition, around 100,000 impressions of Battle of Brains media, we have stepped up our activities in this area and were registered in various media. further strengthened our presence on Facebook, LinkedIn, Since our employees play an important role in communiXing, YouTube, Twitter, Glassdoor and WeChat. We also use cating our employer brand, we also continuously extended social networks selectively for “active sourcing” as part of our our program of brand advocates. The focus in 2015 was the recruiting activities. Trainee programs are another important launch of our “Tell your story” internal testimonial campaign. element in talent and succession planning at Evonik. Further, Employees from various areas of the Group report on themour regions develop programs to attract university graduates selves and their work in their own words, demonstrating for employment in their region. how our brand promise “Exploring opportunities. Growing Our global talent recruitment initiative RISE is designed to together.” is put into practice in our day-to-day work. attract talented external candidates for key positions and manA variety of awards and surveys confirm that Evonik agement posts. The core element of RISE, apart from suitis already one of Germany’s most attractive employers. For ability for a specific position, is the potential to take on more example, in 2015 we ranked third in the chemical and pharmademanding assignments. ceutical sector in the employer ranking conducted by the German news magazine FOCUS. In China, Evonik was once Develop again included in the list of the most popular employers pubIn this area we concentrated on targeted development of lished by the Top Employer Institute in 2015. talented employees. Group-wide we are therefore stepping up structured development opportunities for all employees Modern recruiting tools extended aligned to requirements. This also lays the foundations for To build contact to relevant groups of potential employees at our sustained policy of filling key positions from within the an early stage, we engage in selective cooperation with unicompany. versities and higher education institutes around the world. These are selected in consultation with the relevant specialist departments. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 57 Employees Our activities in the areas of action defined for HR strategy Vocational and further training for present Evonik’s development landscape offers wide-ranging opporand future specialists tunities for continuing personal and professional developEvonik still recruits specialists from within its own ranks and is ment. Alongside classroom training, we use web-based comcommitted to supporting their vocational training and ongoing munication and training platforms both nationally and interAnnex development. This is also an element in meeting our corporate nationally, especially for short training courses. The various responsibility to society and our workforce. The number of development opportunities are personalized wherever possiapprentices and, above all, the number of apprentices hired ble so a standardized evaluation is not possible. We improved by us at the end of their training will be aligned even more reporting of training in 2015 and are now able to evaluate clearly to the personnel requirements of our organizational training data for about 85 percent of our employees worldunits in the future. wide. Employees receive an average of 13 hours training. The At year-end 2015, we had around 2,050 apprentices at 17 effective training time is considerably higher because the sites in Germany on more than 40 vocational training courses average is calculated from total training time over the entire and combined vocational training and study programs. workforce. Around 340 of them were being trained on behalf of other companies. We have around 30 places on the “Start in den Talent management for executives Beruf” pre-apprenticeship project for young people who are Evonik is committed to the established practice of filling not yet ready for an apprenticeship, plus about 20 additional executive and other key functions principally from within the places for refugees. About 590 new apprentices started their company. Our talent management identifies, develops and training at Evonik in 2015. Apprentices accounted for around fosters employees with potential across hierarchical levels 9 percent of our workforce in Germany, which is still well and functions. Regular planning conferences with the close above the national average. Overall, we invested some € 65 involvement of the Executive Board focus on development million in vocational training in 2015. and succession planning for corporate talents and executives. Evonik also runs an International Program for Apprentices To ensure continued business-oriented identification and as part of its all-round vocational training. This offers apprencareer development for talented employees, in 2015 we tices and students on combined vocational training and study aligned our processes and personnel conferences to the new programs an opportunity to get to know a different Evonik management holding structure. Operational and functional site elsewhere in the world. 38 apprentices participated in units and the Corporate Center discuss key potentials within this program in 2015. the Group with the Executive Board, along with the next Continuous professional development of our skilled persteps in their development and target functions. Alongside sonnel geared specifically to the needs of the company is our employee development reviews and various panels, we another core element of our HR activities. A large number of use clearly defined indicators, which are reviewed regularly training opportunities are offered through in-house courses and were revised in 2015. In 2015 we introduced a new proand in cooperation with external training partners, either gram for top-level development: members of Evonik’s top centrally or on a decentralized basis by the segments or indimanagement support personally selected executives in their vidual sites. Focal areas in 2015 were competency manageprofessional development and act as sparring partners for ment and leadership skills. In Germany we invested around their future career paths. € 500 per employee in continuous professional development in 2015.1 Perform We are also continuously improving the personal developHere the focus is on a healthy performance culture as the ment landscape for our employees and executives. Attention basis for the company’s success and the personal motivation is paid to high global quality standards in the content and of every individual employee. Globally, our activities in this objectives of such measures. Based on these standards, our area are based on appropriate human resources tools com­ learning and upskilling concepts are also adapted to regional plemented by a wide variety of performance incentives. Fair, requirements, which we respect and take into account in line performance-related remuneration plays a central role in this, with our international business focus and cultural diversity. In together with the annual performance and development some countries and regions such as Germany and Asia, we review. have successfully stepped up the use of specially trained employees as “internal” trainers. They are able to provide authentic content directly related to Evonik. 1 Including a small proportion of contractors’ employees and foreign attendees. 58 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries In 2015, personnel expenses, including social security contriBenefits form part of overall compensation butions and pension expense, rose 14 percent to € 3,121 milVoluntary social benefits are offered to employees in all lion (2014: € 2,771 million) as a result of the increase in our regions in which Evonik has a presence. These are offered to headcount and pay rises. Personnel expenses were therefore more than 97 percent of our employees. More than 99 percent 23.1 percent of sales (2014: 21.3 percent). of our employees have statutory or company pension insurance and health insurance. This also applies for part-time T00 Personnel expense employees, as long as they work the prescribed minimum number of hours in some regions. in € million 2015 2014 Evonik helps employees provide for security after retireWages and salaries 2,520 2,222 ment. Different arrangements are offered depending on Social security contributions 370 336 regional specifics and the conditions prevailing in individual Pension expenses 209 192 countries. Other personnel expense 22 21 In Germany, Evonik has established a system of company 3,121 2,771 pension plans that provide retirement, disability and surviving dependents’ pensions through a reinsured support fund. Mandatory contributions to this fund, supplemented by Remuneration—Uniform global evaluation criteria optional contributions through deferred compensation When shaping remuneration systems, Evonik believes it is arrangements, ensure that employees’ pension provision very important to offer specialists and executives marketextends beyond the level funded by their employer. Employer oriented and performance-related salaries based on uniform contributions to pension plans are also an important element global evaluation criteria. In the future, this overall remunerof total annual remuneration outside Germany, for example ation concept will be accompanied by a Group-wide policy in the USA and some European countries. on remuneration and benefits. We have set ourselves until the end of 2016 to achieve this.1 The remuneration of many Retain members of our workforce includes bonus payments that are In spite of the necessary change processes a high level of dependent on the company’s business performance or the employee retention is achieved through our corporate values personal performance of the employee. Remuneration is and common corporate culture, which foster identification therefore based on objective criteria such as responsibility, with Evonik. the required knowledge and skills, and performance; personal characteristics such as gender, age, etc. do not have any imT21 Employee fluctuation 2015 a pact. Collective agreements on remuneration cover 100 perNo. of cent of our employees in Germany and around 75 percent of Fluctuation employees our employees worldwide.2 Around 24 percent of our sites rate who left the in % company and regions have performanceor profit-oriented incentive systems. These systems cover around 98 percent of our By gender employees. They also apply for part-time employees, proFemale 5.2 416 vided in some regions that they meet the prescribed miniMale 4.5 1,133 mum working hours. By age In addition, two years ago we introduced the “Share” Under 30 4.4 295 employee share program for personnel in Germany, Belgium 30 to 50 3.1 537 and the USA. The high participation rate of around 36 percent highlights our employees’ confidence in Evonik’s business Over 50 7.7 717 development. In 2015 around 10,000 employees, including 4.7 1,549 apprentices, took part in the “Share” program. They purchased a Reference base: no. of employees in each category as of December 31, 2014. nearly 280,000 share and were allocated around 95,000 Previous reporting base altered in sustainability reports from 2015: bonus shares through the company’s subsidy program. instead of unplanned fluctuation, the figure now shows total fluctuation. 1 See Our objectives, p. 90. 2 Reference base restated. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 59 Employees Trustful collaboration Diversity is decisive ported in 2015. They were followed up and action was taken We place great emphasis on a good mix of employees to to eliminate discrimination. ensure diversity of nationality, gender, educational background We develop the sensitivity of our purchasers in their work and professional experience, as well as a wide-ranging age with potential suppliers through training. Our expectations Annex structure. We specifically support this through activities such that suppliers will comply with our standards are documented as gender networks at our major German sites and various in our procurement conditions and a Supplier Code of Conevents and formats that bring together people, enrich discusduct. sions and help build bridges between different cultures and backgrounds. The Evonik WoMentoring initiative entered its second round in 2015. In addition, we again included binding Trustful collaboration diversity targets in the objectives agreed with our corporate executives. Evonik’s success relies to a significant extent on trusting G4-26 Our diversity strategy also forms the strategic basis for our collaboration between representatives of the management resolutions on implementing the new legislation on gender and employees. This collaboration takes account of operating quotas 1, for which the German government set a deadline of conditions and the laws applicable in the various countries. September 30, 2015. These resolutions confirm that we will In Germany, the principal rights of our employees and their step up the measures already defined and established as part representatives to be consulted are anchored in statutory regof our diversity strategy to foster women in management ulations such as the Codetermination Act and the legislation positions. The proportion of women among our Group execon executive staff councils. There are elected bodies repreutives has increased from 6.9 percent to 10.4 percent in the senting our employees at all sites in Germany. Works Councils past three years. represent exempt and non-exempt employees, while executive Disabled employees account for 7.1 percent of the workstaff councils represent our executives. Timely discussion of force at Evonik in Germany. That is above the quota of 5 perall changes with these bodies is ensured. The time prior to cent set for the country. the implementation of such measures is several weeks or months, depending on the significance of the upcoming Respecting workers’ and human rights changes. Where necessary, during this period written agreeEvonik accepts the United Nations Declaration of Human ments are made on the upcoming measures and their impact Rights and is a member of the UN Global Compact. We have on employees. There are comparable rules on the type and given an undertaking to foster human and workers’ rights, scope of consultation and negotiation in many other regions avoid discrimination and corruption, and protect people and the where Evonik has employees. environment. These principles are integrated into our Code The information and consultation rights of employees on of Conduct and our Global Social Policy, which forbid any cross-border European issues are represented by the Evonik form of discrimination on the basis of origin, race, religion, Europa Forum, which is composed of employee and age, gender, sexual orientation and disability. Employees who employer representatives. feel they have been discriminated against have a right to At company level in Germany, employees interests are lodge a complaint. Information on the basic procedure is norrepresented by employee representatives on the Supervisory mally provided by internal media, and in personal discussions. Board. Contacts for reporting cases of discrimination are available Evonik does not restrict employees’ rights to freedom of G4-26 at all sites. Moreover, appropriate measures and activities assembly or the right to collective bargaining. These rights have been established in all regions to avoid discrimination. are also ensured in countries where freedom of association is These are accessible to all employees and reach over 92 pernot protected by the state. This is shown by the fact that, cent of our workforce. Six cases of discrimination were rebased on our sites worldwide, there are employee representatives for about 84 percent of our employees. 1 See Evonik Annual Report 2015, p. 52 f. (Declaration on corporate governance). 60 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Employee survey—entirely online for the first time Work/life balance In our first fully online employee survey run under the motto “I’m in online” at the end of 2015, around 33,000 Evonik Healthy and motivated employees are vital for Evonik’s employees worldwide were asked for their input to actively success and an integral part of our corporate responsibility. shape the future of the Group. The survey included questions Our well@work program covers all aspects that maintain and about the change process for the ongoing development of improve the employability and quality of life of our employees. Evonik’s organizational structure. As a new element, there Worldwide, more than 95 percent of our workforce can were also specific questions on occupational safety, which is seek social or employee counseling on workplace-related, a top priority for Evonik as a specialty chemicals company. health, personal or family problems. The participation rate was an excellent 83.9 percent (in 2012, For example, in the area of health management seminars when the survey was not completely online, it was 83.4 perare organized throughout Germany to provide information cent). In the follow-up process, the results of the survey will on a healthy diet, handling stress and appropriate physical be translated into specific improvement measures in 2016. exercise. Evonik also offers employees a wide range of exercise classes—from yoga to conventional gym sessions.1 Employee performance and development review Combining work and family life has had very high priority In 2015 we started to harmonize our systematic employee for Evonik for years and is part of our overall well@work performance and development review worldwide as an approach. In 2015 we embarked on a review of our benefits important dialogue process. This will ensure that in future in this area in order to uphold our validation by the Hertie every employee will have a feedback meeting with his or Foundation as a family-friendly company. Core elements of her line manager once a year. This will be supported by a our offering include support in child care and flexible workcontemporary IT tool, allowing managers and employees a time models. more clearly focused discussion of performance, objectives, More than 96 percent of our employees worldwide have potential and development on the basis of defined global access to local initiatives at their sites to help them combine topics. The expected increase in motivation and identification work with family life. Examples in Germany are the provision with corporate objectives will be good for the company’s of over one hundred childcare places, vacation programs for overall performance. more than 800 children, and extensive support on issues The most recent employee survey, conducted in 2015, related to caring for elderly and sick relatives. showed that worldwide 88 percent of employees use this important development instrument (2012 employee survey: 85 percent). T22 Percentage of part-time employees by gender and region Part-time employees 2014 Part-time employees 2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total in % in % in % in % in % in % Regions/Countries 17.7 1.9 5.7 18.0 2.0 5.8 Germany 26.4 2.2 7.9 27.1 2.3 8.2 Other European countries 17.6 5.3 7.4 16.2 5.6 7.3 North America 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 Asia-Pacific 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 1 See Health protection, p. 77. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 61 Employees Work/life balance At the end of 2015 we also started to revise our regional and Some employees ask about the possibility of taking paid or country-specific approach to work-life balance. The aim is to unpaid leave for an extended period, for example, to ensure identify the needs of Evonik’s employees more specifically the compatibility of private and professional phases in and achieve our goal of a “healthy performance culture”. their lives. However, interest in the options offered is very Annex In view of the global, regional and personal factors that low: On average it is in the low single-digit range (based on influence the perceived needs of our employees, a specified total headcount). lifecycle management approach will ensure that the activities related to the specific areas of action are identified and T23 Extended periods of leave realized. We expect this to bring a clear improvement in Percentage of employees identification with our corporate objectives, based on Evonik’s who have the option of candid acknowledgment of employees’ increasing expectataking an extended period of paid or unpaid leave tions that they can decide autonomously on the combinability in % (more than 3 months). of private and work lifecycles. Germany 100 The regular, contractually defined working hours for approx­imately 77 percent of our employees are based on Other European countries 49 collective agreements. We are not aware of any fines imposed North America 96 on the company in 2015 for exceeding statutory working Central and South America 82 hours. We limit employees’ working hours to 48 hours a Asia-Pacific 74 week, unless shorter working hours are applicable. This also Middle East, Africa 0 applies to the integration of new entities, such as Monarch Catalyst Pvt. Ltd. (now Evonik Catalysts Pvt. Ltd.) in India which was acquired in 2015. At year-end, about one quarter In Germany, there were 619 employees on parental leave in of employees there had not yet been transitioned to this 2015. Nearly one third of them were already on parental leave aspect of our Global Social Policy. The transition process will at the turn of 2014/2015. 39 percent of them were male. In be completed in the course of 2016. 2015 they took an average of 1.6 months parental leave, while More than 83 percent of our employees benefit from female employees took an average of 6.7 months. With only annual vacation rules that exceed the statutory provisions in a few exceptions, the employees who returned from parental their country. Since there is no statutory ruling in the USA, leave in 2014 were still working for us a year later. the situation there is based on regional custom. 62 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries The environment 1 Protecting our environment and the climate are major global the reduction in our specific greenhouse gas emissions and challenges of our age. Maintaining the natural basis of life specific water intake, per metric ton of output in each case. for future generations is part of our corporate responsibility. We aim to achieve 80 percent of these targets by 2018. In That includes steadily reducing emissions, continuous imaddition, internally Evonik is endeavoring to achieve a further provements in the efficient use of materials and resources, reduction in hazardous production waste by setting a qualitaand developing products that help us forge a link between tive target for this. economic success and ecological progress. To address these Specialist knowledge of relevant issues is bundled in key areas for Evonik, we have defined targets for greenhouse Expert Circles, which are convened as required. They are gas emissions, water intake and waste. responsible for anchoring strategic ESHQ requirements in the Evonik is committed to the chemical industry’s Respon­ operational units. The Global ESHQ Committee is comprised sible Care initiative. As a signatory to the Responsible Care of representatives of the segments and the regional heads. Global Charter, the company has given an undertaking that it It ensures regular dialogue on ESHQ issues and prepares will continuously improve its performance in the areas of related decisions. occupational health, safety, product stewardship and environDecisions on ESHQ issues are taken by the ESHQ Panel, mental protection. which is composed of representatives of the segments, regions, We have defined Group-wide Environment, Safety and the Technical Committee and employee representatives. It is Health Values. On the basis of these Values, which address chaired by the head of the Corporate ESHQ division. our environmental responsibility, we strive to continuously The operational segments and site services define the develop and improve the environmental compatibility of our business-specific implementation of the decisions taken. The products, processes and systems. Corporate ESHQ division ensures cross-segment rules on the The Corporate Environment, Safety, Health and Quality relevant processes. (ESHQ) division bundles all Group-wide strategic manageThe Corporate ESHQ division uses a central audit system ment and coordination tasks in the areas of environmental to ensure regular monitoring of implementation of the bindprotection, occupational, plant and transportation safety, ing Group-wide strategy and compliance with the relevant health protection, climate policy, ecosystems and product statutory requirements. Based on the findings and on analyses stewardship through binding Group-wide policies and pro­ of internal and external monitoring activities, site inspections cedures. As well as conducting regular internal audits of and reviews, talks are held on possible improvements and individual operating units, sites and regions, the division how they can be realized. The Executive Board is informed monitors Group-wide implementation. It is also responsible annually of the outcome of these audits. Alongside many for environmental reporting for the Group. The head of internal audits conducted by the operating units themselves, the division reports directly to the Chief Human Resources 17 of the planned 18 corporate audits were performed in 2015. Officer. The planned audit of the site in Qingdao (China) was not Continuous improvement of ESH performance and comperformed as the site was sold. Worldwide, over 95 percent pliance is driven forward with the aid of an integrated of our production volume has been validated as conforming management system and Group-wide audit system. The inteto ISO 14001, the internationally recognized environmental grated management system, which comprises instructions on management standard. corporate strategy, policies and standard operating proceOur management parameters are monitored regularly via dures for key central management functions, is based on the a central reporting system (Sustainability Reporting/SuRe) structure of the Evonik Group. which contains a wide range of data on water use, emissions Evonik has set environmental targets for the period 2013 – into the air and the recovery and recycling of waste. More 2020. The central quantitative performance indicators are than 50 different productionand plant-related sustainability 1 All data presented in this section refer to both continuing and discontinued operations. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 63 The environment Environmental targets C19 Structure of Corporate ESHQ steering bodies • Responsible for defining the global ESHQ strategy and the Executive Committee HR Annex architecture of the Group-wide ESHQ organization • Decision-making body for selected ESHQ issues; ESHQ Panel strategic, coordinating and initiatory role • Platform for regular exchange on ESHQ topics; Global ESHQ Committee prepares decisions on ESHQ issues • Pool expert knowledge on relevant ESHQ issues; ESHQ Expert Circles anchor ESHQ requirements in the operating units; report to the Global ESHQ Committee indicators are compiled. These are captured locally on a plantThe reference base for reporting is 2012. In sustainable waste specific basis and can be evaluated centrally via the reporting management, we are continuing our efforts to minimize the system on the basis of management and legal structures or use of resources. We regard specific CO2 emissions as a parby region. The data capture and processing methods are ticularly important environmental indicator and plan to use it explained regularly at training sessions and are subject to as a key non-financial performance indicator in the future. regular internal and external audits. One precondition for this is replacing our reporting routines by a more advanced technical system. Work on this continued last year. Environmental targets The substantial decline of 3 percentage points in specific greenhouse gas emissions was mainly due to implementation Evonik’s strategic development focuses on a sustained of specific measures to raise energy efficiency, an altered increase in the company’s value. To achieve that, we set amenergy mix in Marl (Germany) as a result of lower availability bitious targets for finance, safety and the environment. Our of the coal-fired power plants due to maintenance shutenvironmental targets are valuable guidance for a continuous downs, and the divestment of the remaining carbon black improvement in our performance in protecting the climate activities in China. and the environment. We aim to achieve our targets by 2020. Specific water intake declined by three percentage points They apply for the period 2013 to 2020. Any deviations from in 2015 compared with 2014, mainly as a result of targeted these targets are specifically indicated. savings measures, start-up of additional closed-circuit cooling • Reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions 1 by 12 percent water systems, and site-specific one-off factors in the intake • Reduce specific water intake by 10 percent. of surface water. T24 Status of our environmental targets Target for Change in % compared with 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Specific greenhouse gas emissions a 100 93 b 92 89 88 Specific water intake 100 95 b 103 c 100 90 a Time series recalculated using the market-based method. b Temporary effects in the energy supply area as a result of production shutdowns and portfolio adjustment effects. c Site-specific effects in the intake of surface water. 1 Energyand process-related in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol/Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method. 64 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries T25 Environmental protection investment and operating costs in € million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Investment in environmental protection 48 39 29 107 43 Operating costs for environmental protection 251 251 250 259 283 Environmental protection investment Procurement of renewable raw materials accounted for around and operating costs 8 percent of total procurement of raw materials in 2015. Raw material inputs decreased slightly from 8.75 to In 2015, we invested € 43 million in measures to achieve a 8.66 million metric tons. That was a reduction of around further improvement in environmental protection. This com1 percent. prised capital expenditures for investment projects underBased on the inputs of basic chemicals for production, taken in 2015 such as the expansion of capacity for specialty renewable raw materials again accounted for almost 9 percent silicas in Ako (Japan), a large number of individual investments in 2015. The majority were dextrose and saccharose, which in effective end-of-pipe technologies, and environmental are used as substrates in the fermentative production of amino protection measures integrated into plants and processes. acids. Natural fats and oils and their derivatives are used The high prior-year figure of € 107 million was dominated by to produce precursors for the cosmetics, detergents and the start-up of major strategic investment projects in the Asian cleaning agents industry and in technical processing aids. We region. These included, in particular, the new methionine are still endeavoring to raise the proportion of renewable raw complex in Singapore and the new production facilities for materials wherever this makes sense from a technical, ecoisophorone and isophorone diamine in Shanghai (China). nomic, ecological and social perspective. Operating costs for environmental protection facilities Production output was 10.36 million metric tons in 2015, rose considerably to € 283 million in 2015 (2014: € 259 milalmost unchanged from the previous year. lion), principally due to the start-up of methionine production and the use of the environmental protection facilities at Energy inputs the site in Singapore. We regard responsible use of energy as equally important on ecological and economic grounds. Therefore we strive for a steady improvement in the provision and use of energy. The Production inputs and output main drivers here are production and our integrated energy and energy management systems. Here too, output is an Our concept of integrated production sites is particularly important indicator of our efficiency. We use a broad specimportant for efficient management of energy and materials. trum of technical and organizational measures to raise energy By-products from one plant are often used as production efficiency, including co-generation plants and expansion of inputs in another plant. That makes a key contribution to effiintegrated structures linking chemical production and energy cient use of raw materials. generation. Third-party production facilities are included in In 2015 Evonik spent around € 8.3 billion on raw materials these measures. We also consider using renewable energies. and supplies, technical goods, services, energy and other Important criteria for assessing whether we can include them operating supplies. Petrochemical feedstocks accounted for in our energy mix are reliability of supply, and cost-efficiency. about 25 percent of the total. Overall, raw materials and supMany of our energy management systems meet the high stanplies make up around 59 percent of procurement volume. dards of ISO 50001. T26 Production inputs and output in million metric tons 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Raw material inputs 9.51 8.16 8.23 8.75 8.66 of which renewable raw materials 0.69 0.73 0.79 0.77 0.74 Production 10.35 9.71 10.06 10.35 10.36 • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 65 The environment Emissions into the air T27 Energy inputs in petajoules 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Gaseous fossil fuels 35.63 32.72 31.74 32.93 35.48 Annex Solid fossil fuels 22.45 23.93 22.38 23.69 19.86 Liquid fossil fuels 0.40 0.27 0.20 0.18 0.23 Substitute fuels 7.16 7.42 7.96 7.62 7.75 a Power, external input 19.89 18.98 18.59 18.45 19.38 Power, external output 11.91 11.77 12.50 12.31 12.41 Steam, external input 7.09 6.18 5.15 6.34 6.59 Steam, external output 13.46 10.51 8.26 8.00 7.92 Energy input, gross 92.62 89.48 86.03 89.23 89.29 Energy input, net (after subtraction of output) 67.25 67.20 65.27 68.92 68.95 Production in million metric tons – 9.71 10.06 10.35 10.36 Specific energy input, net – 6.92 6.49 6.66 6.66 Totals may vary due to rounding differences. a Including captive hydroelectric and solar power. Thanks to our long-standing endeavors we have already Oil only plays a subordinate role in Evonik’s energy mix. The achieved a high level of efficiency, which we are constantly increase in 2015 was due to increased use of oil for auxiliary optimizing. We involve our employees in the improvement firing. The use of substitute fuels and external output of process through our company suggestion plan and special power and steam were on the same level as in previous years. task forces. In the search for further potential to raise producSpecific gross energy inputs remained unchanged. tivity and energy efficiency, our operational activities are supported by experts from our Operational Excellence (OPEX) unit. In our reporting, we distinguish between priEmissions into the air mary energy inputs, normally fossil fuels used to generate electricity and steam, and secondary inputs, i.e. purchased Greenhouse gas emissions electricity and steam and the use of heat from production Emitting greenhouse gases into the air is a side-effect of processes. We also use secondary fuels such as thermal proall production processes. Use of efficient technologies and cessing of by-products from production, waste and treatment production processes will help us achieve our goal of reducsludge. Substitute fuels accounted for around 9 percent of ing specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 percent by 2020 total energy inputs in 2015, the same proportion as in 2014. (reference base 2012 = 100). Energy inputs were basically unchanged in 2015 compared The standard used to report our greenhouse gas emissions with the previous year. A variety of factors influenced the is the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This includes direct CO2 development of the various energy inputs. The decline in emissions (Scope 1 emissions) from energy generation and solid fossil fuels and the increase in gaseous fossil fuels were production, and indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2 emissions) primarily attributable to a change in the energy mix at Marl from purchased energy. Together with other greenhouse Chemical Park as a result of lengthy maintenance-related gases, the total is expressed as CO2 equivalents (CO2e). shutdowns at the largest coal-fired power plant. Consumption The Scope 2 emissions were calculated in the past using of natural gas was also increased by the start-up of methionine the location-based method, which includes regional emission production in Singapore. The maintenance-related shutdowns factors. For the majority of our sites around the world, from in Marl and the new methionine complex were also the main 2015 this method is supplemented by the market-based reasons for the increase in external power inputs in 2015. method, which takes account of the specific emissions of 66 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries T28 Greenhouse gas emissions in thousand metric tons CO2 equivalents a 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 7,430 5,879 5,725 5,846 5,525 Methane (CH4) 15 14 14 14 14 Dinitrogen oxide (N2O) 129 63 130 66 50 Fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFC) 7.7 7.0 6.3 8.1 3.6 Total 7,581.7 5,964.0 5,875.3 5,933.7 5,593.2 Scope 2 b CO2 gross (location-based) 3,252 3,126 2,925 3,003 3,156 CO2 gross (market-based) n. a. 4,220 3,996 3,967 4,189 Scope 1 + 2, total, gross (location-based) 10,833.7 9,090.0 8,800.3 8,937.0 8,749.3 Scope 1 + 2, total, gross (market-based) n. a. 10,184.3 9,871.1 9,900.8 9,782.0 Output in million metric tons 10.35 9.71 10.06 10.35 10.36 Specific greenhouse gas emissions, gross (location-based) in metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton output 1.05 0.94 0.87 0.86 0.84 Specific greenhouse gas emissions, gross (market-based) in metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton output n. a. 1.05 0.98 0.96 0.95 Total Scope 2 c CO2 net (location-based) 907 973 859 966 1058 CO2 net (market-based) n. a. 1,025 882 909 1,011 Scope 1 + 2, total net (location-based) 8,488.7 6,937.0 6,734.3 6,900.2 6,650.6 Scope 1 + 2, total net (market-based) n. a. 6,988.0 6,757.3 6,843.1 6,603.6 Differences between data and totals are due to rounding differences. a GWP factors: CO2: 1, N2O: 310, CH4: 21, HFC: 140 – 11,700. b Recalculated from 2012 using the market-based method of calculating Scope 2 emissions to ensure comparability. c Total Scope 2 = Power and steam sourced externally less power and steam supplied to third parties. The table shows the CO2 emissions associated with the purchase of electricity and steam as both gross and net values. The net figure shows the position after subtracting electricity and steam output for third parties from total inputs. That enables us to eliminate the proportion of energy-related CO2 emissions attributable to third parties at our large multi-user sites and generate company-specific indicators. individual suppliers and market participants. That enhances was roughly the same. The decline in these emissions was accuracy and also enables us to meet the new requirements mainly due to implementation of specific measures to raise of the GHG protocol. To ensure comparability, for 2015 the energy efficiency, an altered energy mix in Marl (Germany) CO2 contribution to Scope 2 emissions has been calculated as a result of lower availability of the coal-fired power plants and reported using both methods. Further, to ensure the due to maintenance shut-downs, and the divestment of the comparability of progress towards our CO2 target, our Scope 2 remaining carbon black activities in China. emissions have been calculated retroactively from 2012. The Responsible use of energy is a priority at all of our sites for new method covers over 95 percent of our power-related ecological and economic reasons. We therefore constantly Scope 2 emissions in 2015 and around 77 percent of external strive to make the provision of energy more efficient, improve steam inputs. energy generation still further, and optimize the structure of Greenhouse gases are clearly dominated by CO2 emissions. our integrated energy and management systems. Our commitIn line with Evonik’s energy mix, most Scope 1 CO2 emissions ment in this area is shown by the fact that many of our sites (approx. 72 percent) are due to the combustion of coal and have obtained or are preparing to obtain validation under ISO natural gas. Over 90 percent of CO2 emissions from coal are 50001, the internationally valid standard for energy managefrom the power plants at our largest site in Marl (Germany). ment systems. As well as reducing pressure on resources by Compared with the previous year, (market-based) greenusing co-generation plants at several of our large sites, we house gas emissions show a slight decline of 0.12 million have established many integrated structures linking chemical metric tons to 9.78 million metric tons in 2015, although output production and energy generation. For example, large amounts • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 67 The environment Emissions into the air of steam generated in exothermic processes at various proThe key parameter is the carbon footprint (CO2e footprint). duction facilities are supplied to other plants via steam netThis shows the volume of greenhouse gases emitted by a works. This reduces steam production in our power plants, company, a process or an individual product (expressed in which in turn reduces consumption of fossil fuels. Another CO2 equivalents, in other words, CO2 and the other greenAnnex example is the use of liquid and gaseous by-products from house gases defined in the GHG protocol, i.e. CH4, N2O, SF6, production as substitute fuels for energy generation. These HFCs, PFCs and NF3). The table below shows the developinclude hydrogen and propene from the production of prussic ment of greenhouse gas emissions for Evonik’s products, acid, acrolein and acrylic acid. We also generate steam from based on the confirmed data for 2014, excluding the usage the exhaust heat from various incineration plants for waste, phase. The data cover Evonik’s energy and process emissions treatment sludge, exhaust gases and wastewater. (Scope 1), emissions from purchased electricity and heat CO2 emissions from oil only account for a small proportion (Scope 2) and categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12 from of Evonik’s fuel mix. The proportion declined further in 2015 Scope 3. These include emissions from the production of because additional crackers for recycling sulfuric acid were purchased raw materials, packaging materials, capital goods, fired by natural gas rather than oil. energy-related emissions outside Scope 1 and 2, emissions Apart from CO2 emissions from fuels, only N2O emissions from inbound transportation of raw materials, from the (expressed in greenhouse gas equivalents) are of significance disposal of production waste, business trips, commuting by at Evonik. Although they account for less than 1 percent of employees, Evonik’s fleet of vehicles, air-conditioning of total GHG emissions, fluctuations in these emissions are not offices and emissions from the disposal and recycling of insignificant for the overall development of our greenhouse products sold. These data exclude, among other things, the gas emissions. N2O is emitted by a few production processes. usage phase of Evonik’s products. Scope to improve these processes has already been identified The increase in greenhouse gas emissions shown by the and measures to reduce emissions are in preparation. Evonik Carbon Footprint from 23.4 to 25.7 million metric tons The 30 production facilities operated by Evonik that fall CO2e between 2013 and 2014 is due to two factors, firstly in within the scope of the European Union’s Emissions Trading the inclusion of the additional reporting category 2 “capital System (EU ETS) emitted 4.0 million metric tons of CO2 in goods” and the extension of category 1 to include indirect 2015. The reduction of 0.2 million metric tons compared with goods and packaging materials. At the same time, higher 2014 was mainly due to temporary reductions in coal-based sales volumes and the associated increase in the volume of energy generation and lower utilization of the hydrogen chemical raw materials contributed to an increase in greenplant in Marl (Germany). house gas emissions. The method used is closely based on the Greenhouse Gas Evonik Carbon Footprint (ECF) Protocol Corporate Standard of the World Resources Institute By paying special attention to the distribution of emissions (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Develamong the various sources along the value chain we are opment (WBCSD). able to provide an extensive overview of greenhouse gas emissions—from the extraction of raw materials through production to disposal of products. These data have been reported since 2008. T29 Change in greenhouse gas emissions along Evonik’s value chain a in million metric tons 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CO2e emissions 23.5 22.9 22.2 23.4 25.7 a Core specialty chemical business (excluding the usage phase and the carbon black activities, which were divested in 2011). 68 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries The distribution of the variuos categories along Evonik’s value chain is shown in the next table. T30 Greenhouse gas emissions along Evonik’s value chain a in million metric tons CO2e 2014 Scope 1 Evonik production facilities 5.9 Scope 2 Purchased energy (net, total purchased power and steam – sale of power and steam to third parties) 1.0 Scope 3 Category 1: Purchase of chemical raw materials, packaging materials and indirect goods 9.5 Category 2: Capital goods 0.6 Category 3: Energy-related activities (outside Scope 1 and 2) 0.7 Category 4: Inbound shipments of chemical raw materials 0.3 Category 5: Disposal and recycling of waste 0.5 Category 6: Business trips by employees 0.03 Category 7: Commuting by employees 0.1 Category 8: Leasing of goods, upstream (company cars, power and heating requirements for offices) 0.02 Category 9: Outbound shipments of products 0.5 Category 12: Disposal and recycling of products 6.6 Total 25.7 a Excluding the usage phase and the carbon black activities, which were divested in 2011. CO2e avoided by using Evonik products acids in animal nutrition. The underlying lifecycle analysis Evonik markets many products whose use makes a positive was updated in 2014. In the recalculation process, production contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions compared data for amino acids and the production of representative with conventional alternatives. The avoidance of greenhouse feed formulations were adjusted. In addition, an increase in gases shown here results from applications for the following sales volumes of other products increased avoided greenfive products: “green tire” technology, amino acids for animal house gas emissions in 2014. nutrition, foam stabilizers for insulating materials, specialty Evonik’s in-house Life Cycle Management (LCM) group is oxides for energy-saving light bulbs, and oil additives for responsible for compiling the data on greenhouse emissions hydraulic fluids. The amounts stated are avoided over the along the value chain. The LCM group uses a range of tools usage lifecycle of the products, based on volume sales of the such as lifecycle assessments to quantify sustainability and products manufactured by Evonik in the year given. The support our business and decision-making processes. The LCM method used to compile the data is the WBCSD Avoided group is assigned to the Process Technology and Engineering Emissions Guidance published in October 2013. Unit/Creavis, our strategic innovation unit. An assurance The increase in avoided emissions between 2009 and review of the Evonik Carbon Footprint and the greenhouse 2013 was mainly due to an increase in sales volumes. The gas savings has been conducted by an independent firm of significant increase in avoided greenhouse gas emissions in auditors and the findings have been reported, among other 2014 was essentially due to a modified data basis for amino things, to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). T31 Greenhouse gas avoidance during the application lifecylce in million metric tons 2010 a 2011 a 2012 a 2013 2014 b CO2e avoided 55.0 57.3 60.4 61.2 92.5 a The data for 2010 to 2012 have been recalculated and adjusted retroactively on the basis of the modified method defined by the WBCSD Avoided Emissions Guidance. b Basis: selected Evonik products in the year under review. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 69 The environment Emissions into the air Carbon Disclosure Project— result of 91/B in 2014. With a score of 98/B, Evonik is one of Climate reporting at a high level the best-performing MDAX companies. For information: the Corporate growth potential arises from the systematic alignaverage ranking for the MDAX companies is 72/C. ment of products and services to global megatrends. That Annex includes the challenge of global climate change. Many innoOther emissions into the air vative products from Evonik help improve energy efficiency Alongside emissions of greenhouse gases as reported above, at subsequent stages in the value chain, reduce the use of energy generation and industrial production result in further resources, and minimize emissions. Our lubricant additives are emissions into the air. Our goal is a further reduction and a good example. Hydraulic fluid containing our DYNAVIS greater control of emissions. To achieve this, we use a range additives can increase the productivity of excavators by up to of technical and organizational measures. Our environmental 30 percent and at the same time cut fuel consumption by up management systems set the framework for us to achieve the to 30 percent. Companies that are interested can calculate the statutory thresholds. Relevant sources of emissions are conexact savings for themselves with a special calculator on the stantly monitored in accordance with statutory requirements. DYNAVIS website. Our production and exhaust gas treatment facilities are fitted In addition, we constantly strive to improve our reporting with emissions monitoring devices. Action includes returning on key environmental indicators and are engaged in intensive exhaust gases to production processes and thermal processexchange with rating agencies such as the Carbon Disclosure ing of residual gases with a high calorific value as a substitute Project. The CDP compiles detailed data on the greenhouse for natural gas. We also take the emissions profile into account gas emissions and energy consumption of companies worldthrough state-of-the art technical design and planning of new wide. It also evaluates the opportunities and risks of climate facilities. change for their business activities and how the management There was a considerable reduction in emissions of CO, takes them into account in its strategy. The CDP currently SOX, NOX and particulates in 2015. This was mainly due to meets the information needs of more than 800 institutional the divestment of the remaining carbon black activities in investors with assets under management of over US$95 trilChina and prolonged maintenance shutdowns at the largest lion. The investors use the data to derive a climate risk profile coal-fired power plant at Marl Chemical Park in Germany. for the companies, which they then use in their investment Site-specific one-off factors were the main reason for the decisions. In 2015 we improved further on the very good reduction in NMVOC and heavy metal emissions. T32 Other emissions into the air in metric tons 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Carbon monoxide (CO) 4,936 1,017 1,066 1,053 889 Sulfur oxides (SOX/SO2) 19,463 3,652 3,215 3,052 2,424 Nitrogen oxides (NOX/NO2) 9,074 4,963 4,734 4,739 4,478 Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) 1,172 1,019 951 835 661 Particulates 872 441 363 366 257 Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 1.16 1.38 1.41 1.58 0.15 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances a in metric tons CFC-11 equivalents 0.05 0.05 0.07 0.09 0.16 a Ozone depletion potential (ODP) is a relative parameter indicating how dangerous substances are for the ozone layer compared with the reference substance, fluorinated hydrocarbon R11 (trichlorofluoromethane). 70 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Water data and emissions into water evaporates from cooling circuits is often replaced by condensate or recycled drinking water. In accordance with ISO 14046, We are committed to responsible use of water and want to the intake of sea water for cooling purposes at our methisave water wherever possible in order to achieve a further onine facility in Singapore is not taken into account in our reduction in our emissions into water. A good water supply is overview of our water footprint; however, it is reported one of the most important preconditions for smooth pro­ separately. duction because water is one of the main process auxiliaries Total water intake increased considerably from 325.1 milused in the chemical industry. Our goal is to reduce specific lion m3 in 2014 to 357.9 million m3 in 2015. The increase was water intake, i.e. intake per metric ton of output, by 10 percent mainly caused by site-specific and seasonal effects in the use by 2020 (reference base 2012 = 100). We take into account of surface water for through-flow cooling. 41.9 million m3 of surface water, groundwater and drinking water, in order to this comprised salt water for cooling purposes at the new take account of the special significance of freshwater. The methionine facility in Singapore. Consumption of freshwater background is the significant difference in the availability of decreased by 3 percent year-on-year to 316.0 million m3 in salt water and freshwater. Most of the water available on 2015, mainly due to specific savings measures, start-up of our planet is salt water. Freshwater only accounts for about further closed circuit cooling systems and site-specific one3.5 percent of the total and much of it is still bonded in ice off factors in the intake of surface water. and in the soil. As a result, the effective proportion of surface Surface water accounts for the majority of our water water available for use by people is about 0.3 percent of total consumption. About 59 percent of the water used in 2015 freshwater. was surface water, mainly from rivers. Around 96 percent of Evonik mainly uses water for cooling and for process water consumption is for cooling. Water used in closed coolpurposes in production facilities, to generate steam in power ing circuits is included when calculating the proportion of plants, and for sanitary requirements. To reduce the use of total water that is used for cooling. In 2015, nearly 82 percent fresh water, we have established integrated supply systems of cooling of production facilities used closed-circuit systems with graduated water qualities. For example, we use water with recooling facilities. The remainder were cooled using that is no longer suitable for cooling purposes to rinse filters through-flow systems. or in industrial cleaning processes. In addition, the water that T33 Water intake by source in million m3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 a Drinking water 17.3 16.4 17.3 19.8 17.7 Groundwater 84.2 83.0 76.0 79.7 78.1 Surface water 200.2 190.0 194.1 220.2 212.8 Other b 8.4 7.8 5.4 5.4 7.4 Total freshwater 310.0 297.1 292.9 325.1 316.0 Salt water (seawater) 41.9 Total 310.0 297.1 292.9 325.1 357.9 Totals may vary due to rounding differences. a Water from municipal or other utilities. b Rainwater and various other sources. T34 Water consumption in million m3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 a Cooling, without cooling circuits 241 230 233 265 298 Cooling circuits 1,124 1,101 1,141 1,250 1,293 Water for production b 69 67.4 60.2 60 60 in % Cooling water 95 95 96 96 96 Water for production 5 5 4 4 4 a Including salt water. b Including drinking water and water for sanitary requirements. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 71 The environment Water data and emissions into water T35 Water discharge in million m3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 a Through-flow cooling water (uncontaminated) 217.7 213.6 218.2 245.0 283.0 Annex Process water 72.7 62.8 61.2 61.6 62.1 Drinking water and water from sanitary installations 1.3 1.6 1.9 1.2 1.0 Other water 6.3 13.0 9.2 15.1 14.7 Total 298.0 291.0 290.4 322.9 360.8 Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. a Including salt water. The difference between water intake and water discharge sequently be fed gradually to the treatment plants. We also is due, among other things, to the fact that some water is incinerate some treatment sludge in our own facilities, and released as steam or used in products. use the heat from the resulting incineration gases to generate steam. Wastewater discharged from our sites is carefully Emissions into water monitored by regular sampling and continuous measuring Our sites aim to make a contribution to protecting natural equipment. In addition to in-house monitoring, we are subject water resources. The basic principles of the management of to supervision by the authorities in the form of unannounced our industrial wastewater are the same as for waste managecontrol visits to verify compliance with discharge limits. ment: “avoid over process over eliminate.” When planning Chemical oxygen demand (COD) accounts for the highest new production plants, we therefore consider the use of proproportion of wastewater loads. This is the concentration of cesses that generate little or no wastewater. That takes all substances in the wastewater that can be oxidized under pressure off the environment and reduces the cost of water certain conditions. The considerable increase in COD is mainly treatment. We continue these efforts in the operational phase. due to the start-up of methionine production in Singapore We also have high technology standards and infrastructure and first-time consolidation of the production facility for for the disposal of wastewater at our sites. Production effluent alcoholates for biodiesel production in Puerto General San undergoes multi-step chemical and physical treatment in our Martino (Argentina). The total nitrogen and total phosphorus wastewater treatment facilities. Separate drainage systems loads (phosphates stated as phosphorus) declined in 2015 due prevent production effluent and cooling water becoming to local production fluctuations. The reduction in adsorbable mixed. This means that cooling water can be discharged into organic halogens (AOX load) is generally within the analytical rivers with rainwater without treatment because it has not distribution for the measuring method because in many cases come into contact with pollutants. We have also built the values obtained are only slightly above the detection high-performance collector systems as part of our water threshold. The increase in emissions of heavy metals is mainly protection measures. These are used for intermediate storage attributable to an increase in the zinc load in wastewater. of peak wastewater loads which could overburden the wasteZinc compounds are used as corrosion inhibitors in cooling water treatment facilities. In this way, wastewater can sub­ towers. T36 Wastewater loads a in metric tons 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 4,890 4,787 4,767 4,302 4,808 Total nitrogen (N) 484 447 469 441 434 Total phosphorus (P) 114 96 97 95 84 Adsorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX) 1.6 1.8 1.7 1.9 1.7 Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 4.5 5.5 5.1 5.1 5.6 a The data on wastewater loads comprise all direct discharges into receiving water and proportionate indirect discharges. 72 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Waste allocated to reprocessing or disposal. For example, we use catalysts to increase yields and reduce secondary reactions. In line with sustainable development, we are constantly Integrated material flows also play a part. We also use the endeavoring to step up networking of waste and material benefits of integrated production sites and systems, for flow management. The following priorities have been set for example, in Marl (Germany), which is our largest site. Here, waste management at Evonik: hydrocarbon residues are used as a substitute for heating oil in the gas synthesis plant and waste sulfuric acid in the • T  he first priority is to avoid waste through continuous sulfuric acid plant is reprocessed. Treatment sludge can also process improvements and the development of integrated be reused within the integrated production structure. After production systems. dewatering, it is incinerated in a separate incineration plant • If this is not possible, waste should be recycled or used to with integrated flue gas treatment. Some of the exhaust generate energy. gases from the production plants are used as substitute fuels • As a last resort, it should be disposed of safely. in this process. The incineration gases are then used to generate 20 bar steam. To reduce pressure on resources, at many Systematic waste management helps us minimize and further of our sites we use alternative fuels such as liquid residues reduce the use of materials and amounts of waste. Avoiding from production processes. and minimizing waste is important to us for economic as well The total amount of waste declined considerably (– 8 peras ecological reasons. The steady improvement in process cent) from 497,000 metric tons to 455,000 metric tons in yields reduces production waste and avoids disposal costs. 2015, but the development differed by category. Hazardous Unavoidable production waste is recycled or disposed of production waste was steady at the prior-year level. Noncorrectly. It is important to record the origin of waste, its hazardous production waste was 2 percent lower in 2015, components and their properties. The waste can then be mainly due to a reduction in treatment sludge. Building and classified and a decision taken on whether to recycle or demolition rubble can fluctuate considerably between years dispose of it. Our waste is classified as hazardous or nonbecause it depends on specific projects. There was a considhazardous production waste or building rubble, and then erable reduction of 38,000 metric tons in 2015. T37 Waste in thousand metric tons 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Hazardous production waste 250 227 218 212 213 of which reprocessed 157 138 137 131 132 of which disposed of 93 89 81 81 81 Non-hazardous production waste 164 160 152 156 153 of which reprocessed 107 104 104 110 93 of which disposed of 57 56 48 46 60 Hazardous building and demolition rubble 13 32 23 19 8 of which reprocessed 2 4 3 6 2 of which disposed of 11 28 20 14 6 Non-hazardous building and demolition rubble 125 96 97 109 82 of which reprocessed 72 65 64 87 62 of which disposed of 53 31 33 22 20 Total 551 515 489 497 455 Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 73 The environment Biodiversity and ecosystem services T38 Waste management in thousand metric tons 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Incineration with recycling of heat energy 70 68 66 63 64 Annex Disposal by incineration 95 84 84 90 82 Recycling (including composting) 218 181 185 224 176 Landfill 48 58 51 31 46 Chemical/physical/biological treatment 20 24 18 19 7 Other disposal methods 51 37 30 23 21 Other reprocessing methods 50 63 56 47 61 Total 551 515 489 497 455 Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. The percentage of waste reprocessed decreased slightly, diversity. As the basis for life, from sources of food to the by 1 percentage point, to 66 percent in 2015. Alongside ecoproduction of energy, they are all of major economic signifinomic and ecological criteria, there are stringent statutory cance. In the wake of the progressive industrialization in the specifications for the reprocessing of waste. The reprocessing past two centuries, the reproducibility of our ecosphere ratio comprises recycled substances, incineration with recycling seems to be reaching its natural limits. Worldwide, biodiverof heat energy, and other disposal methods. We develop sity is decreasing. In 2012, we carried out biodiversity checks methods of recycling waste in accordance with the statutory in two of our business lines. The Biodiversity Check develframework. One established example of recycling at Evonik oped by the European Business & Biodiversity Campaign is the reprocessing of PLEXIGLAS, which can be almost (EBBC), a consortium led by the Global Nature Fund, provides completely recycled by breaking it down into its precursors an overview of how a company or individual areas of busifor direct reprocessing. We also recycle or re-use precious ness impact biodiversity. The check is based on the objectives metal catalysts and industrial packaging. of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and examines, among other things, the company’s premises, procurement, product development and production, Biodiversity and ecosystem services logistics and transportation, and products. We monitor the production conditions of renewable raw Ecosystem services are found all around us: in the air we need materials, including palm oil and its derivatives. Since 2010 to breathe, open spaces for recreation, and the groundwater Evonik has been a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable and surface water used for cooling in industry and in leisure Palm Oil (RSPO) and publishes it targets for palm oil in the activities. We use all of these assets, which are provided by RSPO’s annual progress report. The aim of the RSPO is to nature in many different forms, in our daily lives. However, place global production of palm oil on a sustainable basis in even though there is no direct price tag on them, we need to the long term. Evonik supports this process. As a key basis for be aware they will only be available in the long term if we this, in 2015 our Personal Care business had eight production use them carefully. For instance, excessive use of ground­ sites around the world certified by external auditors as having water can reduce the groundwater level, which can adversely organizational structures that meet the RSPO requirements. affect flora, fauna and biodiversity. Biodiversity refers to the This is the main precondition for the continuous switch to natural diversity that has evolved on our planet over millions of certified production inputs. In addition, 23 products were years. It includes the variety of habitats (ecosystems), species switched to RSPO-certified palm oil derivatives. RSPO certiof plants, animals, fungi and microorganisms, and genetic fication of three further Evonik sites is planned for 2016. 74 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries T39 Evonik sites adjacent to conservation areas Evonik site Country Area in km2 Use Status of conservation area (adjacent) Gramatneusiedl Austria 0.050730 Production 92/43/EEC area Hanau Germany 0.776949 Production 92/43/EEC area Lülsdorf Germany 1.035502 Production 92/43/EEC area Marl Germany 8.029755 Production 92/43/EEC area Wesseling Germany 0.328367 Production 92/43/EEC area Americana Brazil 0.300699 Production national Etzen-Gesäß Germany 0.039277 Production national Lenzing Austria 0.003585 Production national Mobile USA 6.772000 Production national Morrisburg Canada 1.318957 Production national Portland USA 0.012060 Production national In principle, the industrial premises used by Evonik do not of our activities on the conservation area. Regular review and include any natural habitats (either protected or restored). updating of environmental data is important to ensure that However, some of our national and international sites are timely action can be taken in the event of any negative adjacent to conservation areas. To better identify localeimpact. The latest review was in 2013/2014. Six further sites specific aspects of biodiversity and any impact of our operaare adjacent to conservation areas that are regulated by tions on biodiversity in these areas, we conduct an annual country-specific legislation. Our site in Mobile (Alabama, USA) status review of these sites, which are in constant contact is close to the Fowl River. The US environmental agency with local interest groups. EPA is currently altering the status of this watershed area In 2015, five sites were adjacent to conservation areas around this river (approx. 21,360 hectares) to a water conserthat are protected by the European Union’s Directive on the vation area. Evonik supports this plan and is a member of the Conservation of Natural Habitats and of Wild Fauna and Fowl River Forever steering committee that is working on a Flora (Council Directive 92/43/EEC). For example, as part of management plan to protect and improve the water quality. a project for which authorization was required, a study was This should ensure that nature and animals are protected, conducted in accordance with Directive 92/43/EEC on the the local community can use the area around the river for Marl Chemical Park to evaluate the potential adverse impact recreation, and the watershed is protected in the long term. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 75 Safety Safety Annex Safety-related aspects such as occupational safety, plant mance in the reporting period. We have already introduced safety, transportation safety, health protection and promotion counter-measures to address the situation. and product stewardship have a place at the top of our Further, our crisis and incident management ensures that agenda. We give these principles top priority—even before in the event of accidents and incidents everything is done to the pursuit of sales and profits. In dialogue with our stakeprevent and limit damage to Evonik and the general public. holders we see that they attach equally high significance to We play an active part in all relevant national and international these issues. The health and employability of our employees, associations. However, living a management approach geared preventing accidents and incidents at work, in the operation to continuous development demands more than this. of our production facilities, during transportation and on the In the area of plant safety, in 2015 we drove forward G4-26 way to and from work are of central importance and contribefforts to anchor the Group-wide Safety at Evonik initiative ute to Evonik’s business performance. We take an all-round adopted in 2013 throughout the Group. This initiative has approach, which covers employees, working conditions, become firmly established as an ongoing process to develop products and the general working environment. our safety culture and a fundamental management approach The Evonik Group’s key central management functions, to all aspects of occupational and traffic safety. Our guiding which are subject to the globally valid provisions of our corprinciples for safety and our safety culture provide a structure porate strategy, policies and standard operating procedures, and guidance for our corporate objectives and activities. are part of an integrated management system. Observance is The binding principles developed in 2014 provide clear and monitored regularly via a central audit system. The segments measurable guidance for the personal conduct and leadership define business-specific technical standards for their operaof all groups of employees, from local personnel to our mantional realization. Group bodies ensure that mission-critical agement. All employees in production and technology units processes are implemented across the segments.1 receive instruction in applying this management approach Incidents are analyzed and lessons learned from them. and the associated principles of action with the support of These are communicated via our monthly newsletter “Learnmore than 500 “multipliers” around the world. We achieved ing from one another”, which is distributed worldwide. Our the target we set ourselves of training more than 90 percent Group objectives and key performance indicators are used to of production employees worldwide. We also familiarized check implementation of the requirements and for timely employees in administrative units with the principles of action. identification of the need for action or adjustment. Relevant Four themes are applicable for all employees worldwide parameters for plant safety and, analogously, transportation and are implemented through binding principles of action safety are accident frequency and incident frequency. As a that define the required behaviors. result, we detected a deterioration in our plant safety perforC20 Framework of the safety culture The behaviors are linked – supporting each other through four common themes across the three groups of employees. Theme Everyone Supervisors Managers Standards Follow rules Ensure compliance Set high standards Communication Speak up Encourage the team Communicate openly Risk management Be mindful Promote risk awareness Confront risk Involvement Get involved Involve the team Involve the workforce 1 For details of the structure of these bodies see p. 63. 76 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries The level of awareness and acceptance of our safety culture There were no fatal accidents at work involving our employees is an important test for the functioning of our management or contractors at our sites in 2015, nor were there any fatal system. In our general employee survey at the end of 2015, traffic accidents involving employees on the way to or from we therefore included a special set of safety-related questions work or on business trips. to ask our employees for their opinion. Following evaluation Measured by accident frequency (number of accidents at of the feedback, in spring 2016 we will initiate the follow-up work involving company employees and contractors’ employprocess, which will be supported by a Group-wide target. ees under Evonik’s direct supervision resulting in absence We want to drive forward the ongoing development of meafrom work per 1 million hours worked), there was a further sures locally and in our management team. improvement in our occupational safety performance to 1.0, compared with 1.2 in the previous year. Accident frequency has therefore been stable for several years at our long-term Occupational safety target of 1.0. The accident frequency rate was well within the target of a maximum of 1.3 defined for 2015. The average We strive for a continuous improvement in the safety our number of working hours lost as the result of accidents was employees, both at work and while they are commuting. 144 worldwide, which was below the average for previous That also includes the safety of contractors working for us at year (2014: 171). Our experience shows that this is a good our sites. This integrative approach is vital to meet the goals average level for our sector. The delayed introduction of our we set ourselves in the Safety at Evonik initiative. new reporting system, which will record accidents involving injuries but which do not result in absence from work at Group level in the future, is now scheduled for 2016. C21 Accident frequency indicator (Evonik employees) Number of accidents resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours 2008 1.7 2009 1.2 2010 1.3 2011 1.5 2012 1.4 2013 0.9 2014 1.2 2015 1.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 C22 Accident frequency indicator (contractors’ employees) Number of accidents resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours 2013 3.2 2014 3.6 2015 2.9 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 77 Safety Health protection The accident frequency indicator for contractors (number of tional medicine specialists. They meet at least four times a work-related accidents involving non-Evonik employees year to discuss issues relating to occupational safety and the resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours) protection of health. They cover more than 99 percent of our declined further to 2.9 in our continuing operations, compared employees in Germany. There are also comparable bodies at Annex with 3.6 in 2014. We attribute this positive result to the steps sites outside Germany. taken to improve contractor management in 2014. The proFulfillment of these requirements is checked regularly by cesses to improve the oversight and evaluation of contractors corporate audits and regional environment, safety and health were implemented at all major German sites in 2015 and (ESH) audits, and through an extensive occupational health are having an effect. A standard has been drawn up for our reporting system. Action is taken if this indicates potential for international sites and will be implemented in 2016. As well improvement or deviations from the applicable regulations. as supervising and evaluating contractors, we want to reward Where necessary, measures for improvement are suggested them for a positive performance. We therefore present the or required. In addition, in 2013 we introduced an occupational Partner Award to contractors with a good safety performance health performance index as an overriding indicator. This is and integrate them into the Safety at Evonik program. composed of significant aspects of occupational healthcare, health management and emergency medical management and includes the quality and scope of the measures taken. Health protection It shows the extent to which internal regulations and goals are achieved. In future it will measure progress in occupational Global management of health protection and health promohealth as part of the continuous improvement process. For 2015 tion at Evonik aims to maintain and foster the health and we set ourselves the goal of extending data capture for employability of our employees in the long term. We take the performance index to further sites. We achieved this by an all-round approach that covers employees, their working including our two production sites in Singapore. We also situation, our products and the general working environment, intend to improve the index score at Group level. In 2015, and includes high-quality medical care where necessary, the performance index was 5.2 (2014: 5.4; 2012 base line: applying ergonomic and health-related measures to structure 5.3, maximum possible value 6). For Germany, we also calcuworking conditions, and a functioning emergency management late a health ratio, which was 95.4 percent in 2015 (2104: system at plant level. In addition, we offer a selective range 95.91 percent). This is the ratio of target working hours less of health promotion measures. These are part of the Groupsickness-related hours lost to target working hours. wide well@work initiative, which aims to help employees adopt a healthy lifestyle. Emergency medical management The key objectives and aspects of our occupational health The Group-wide standard on Medical Incident and Emerstrategy are described in the Evonik Guidelines for Health gency Management defines binding basic requirements for Protection and Promotion. The corporate policy “Occupational emergency medical management at Evonik’s sites. The exact Health and Health Promotion” sets binding worldwide stanequipment and human resources required at each site depend dards for assessing health hazards, occupational medicine, on production-related risks and the quality of the local infraemergency medical response, preventive check-ups, workplace structure (e.g. emergency services and hospitals). ergonomics, rehabilitation and reintegration, health promotion Specific treatment instructions have been defined for acciin the workplace and dealing with alcohol and drug abuse. dents where employees come into contact with chemicals. There are Works Agreements on health topics at many of Emergency medical management also includes pandemic our sites, especially in Germany. In line with statutory plans and regular training exercises. An extensive preventive requirements, at our German sites we have Occupational program is in place for employees on business trips and forSafety Committees composed of employer and employee eign assignments, including a global emergency management representatives, safety specialists, safety officers and occupasystem for medical problems and risks to personal safety. 1 Figure restated due to correction of reference base. 78 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Workplace-related preventive healthcare These basic programs are supplemented by campaigns, which The results of our hazard assessment help us take suitable concentrate on different topics each year, and general medical preventive measures to avoid work-related illnesses and health check-ups to screen for treatable risk factors and diseases. problems. Where this shows an elevated risk for specific The combined focus of the campaigns at our German sites in employees, technical and organizational measures have priority the reporting period was on intestinal cancer and preventive over the use of personal protective equipment. Information measures, circulatory disorders of the legs (PAOD), and anxand training of employees in risks and preventive measures iety disorder. In North America, health promotion activities in play an important part in avoiding health impairments. At 2015 centered on avoiding heart attacks. preventive medical check-ups, employees receive advice on At most of our German sites there are interdisciplinary their individual health risks and, where necessary, appropriate health task forces that concentrate on local implementation of precautions. health management as part of the Group-wide well@work Evonik regularly reports on occupational illnesses. The initiative. indicator used for this is the Occupational Disease Rate (ODR), which is defined as the number of recognized occupational illnesses per 1 million working hours. The calculation includes Plant safety all new cases of recognized occupational illnesses in the reporting period, including latent illnesses (i.e. those where Process safety at our production installations is analyzed in the causes lie well in the past). The ODR was 0.3 in 2015 detail at regular intervals. The aim is timely identification of (2014: 0.4). risks so we can develop appropriate measures that reliably prevent these risks. Process safety is a key element in our The well@work company health management approach, which is based on Safety at Evonik. management program For constant monitoring and evaluation of plant safety we use In the area of health promotion, Evonik supports long-term a process safety performance indicator based on the stanprograms on exercise, diet, stress and work-life balance, subdards set by the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic). stance abuse and avoiding infections. The aim is to encourage This indicator covers incidents involving the release of subemployees to adopt a healthy lifestyle. We also offer our stances, fire or explosion, even if there is little or no damage. employees fit-for-life seminars. These run over several days It is calculated from the number of incidents per 1 million and focus on a healthy lifestyle and maintaining long-term working hours in the segments’ production facilities. A decline well-being and employability. in this indicator shows a positive trend. We compare this In the intermediate term, we aim to establish programs indicator with 2008, the year in which it was calculated for in these five basic areas at all sites. There are already health the first time (reference base: 100 points). This indicator promotion offerings and measures of various types at almost deteriorated slightly to 55 points in 2015 (2014: 53), which all sites around the world. meant we once again failed to meet our defined target of a maximum of 48. C23 Incident frequency indicator Number of incidents per 1 million hours worked, taking 2008 as the reference base 2008 100 2009 75 2010 76 2011 60 2012 46 2013 50 2014 53 2015 55 0 20 40 60 80 100 • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 79 Safety Transportation safety and logistics As in the previous year, there was a cluster of incidents in Transportation safety and logistics one operational unit. In fact, in 2015 they were confined to a single site in the USA. Long-term technical measures to Safe transportation of goods has top priority for us. We use automate plant and monitor mechanical integrity were a uniform process to select the logistics service providers for Annex adopted there in 2015 and are currently being implemented. transportation. We also regularly review their performance. We expect these measures to be fully effective in 2016, In keeping with our understanding of sustainability, that leading to an improvement in this indicator. includes evaluating the Responsible Care performance of all Compared with other companies where the plant safety transportation providers. Our aim is to minimize risk during indicator is applied to all employees in the Group, Evonik the entire process, from loading through transportation to achieves a very good score of 1.3 (number of incidents per unloading. 1 million working hours). Although there are national and international regulations To ensure that our safety concepts to prevent the release on the transportation of dangerous goods, we set even higher of substances, fire and explosion meet uniformly high safety standards. standards throughout the world, they are produced with To support safe transportation by logistics partners, in the involvement of selected and experienced safety experts, 2015 we completely revised our requirements profile for who are assigned to our Global Process Safety Competence logistics service providers and the minimum requirements for Center (GPSC) and form the Global Safety Expert Network collection by customers. In addition, in April and November led by the GPSC. The GPSC’s ability to issue instructions is Evonik held a truck inspection day at all major German sites. set out in a binding Group policy and was reiterated by the The inspection in the fall was not pre-announced. The aim Executive Board in 2014. The new Technical Standard: Process was to continuously reduce safety shortcomings. The checks Safety Concepts, which is binding for all segments, specifies by Evonik managers and staff were not confined to shipments how this is to be implemented throughout the Group. That of dangerous goods: all inbound and outbound shipments includes, for example, the frequency of revision of safety were checked at the gate. The checks covered, for example, concepts and the selection of the necessary experts and technical condition, protective equipment, securing of the methods. Various stakeholders such as our property insurers, load, labeling and drivers. The Chemical Industry Association who have a special interest in the technical safety performance in the federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia awarded this of our plants, receive reports from our organization on process campaign third place in its Responsible Care competition safety and progress in the implementation of the technical “We have good ideas on transportation safety and sustainable standard. logistics”. We are planning similar campaigns for our inter­ Evonik has been a member of the European Process national sites. Safety Centre (EPSC) for years. The EPSC brings together In order to be registered by our logistics procurement process safety experts from all leading European companies unit for transportation, all logistics service providers have to which use chemical substances in production processes. By recognize and actively acknowledge our requirements. These sharing experience and best practices, we support other specify that, as well as ensuring safety, the transportation of companies in the ongoing development of process safety. goods must be ecologically sustainable, and that the provider must meet its social responsibility and comply with all statutory provisions. For customers who collect goods themselves or use their own logistics service providers, we revised our minimum requirements on the basis of our requirements profile to ensure that no compromises are made in transportation safety. 80 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Safety and care also have top priority at interfaces between In the reporting period we also introduced a rule that only production (storage tanks) and transportation (tankers and Evonik employees may take samples from tankers when containers). To avoid product spillages during filling and accepting deliveries of raw materials; sampling may not be emptying in our plants, which could result in accidents, enviundertaken by the driver of the vehicle. This also applies for ronmental damage or production incidents, our occupational samples of outgoing shipments. This implements the Cefic/ and logistics safety experts organized a week-long campaign ECTA/Fecc Best Practice Guideline for Safe Loading and on safe filling and emptying of tanks. In partnership with Unloading of Road Freight Vehicles. an external rail tanker rental company, training tankers and dummy valves were used to supplement the theoretical conT40 Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods tent by many practical exercises on the use of transportation in thousand metric tons 2014 2015 equipment. More than 200 people attended the training at our German sites. The campaign will be repeated regularly Air 0.9 0.3 at various Evonik sites in the future in addition to our regular Ocean 379 384 safety instruction and training sessions. Inland waterway 1,168 1,081 Evonik maintains close and constant dialogue with other Rail 871 749 chemical companies and with logistics service providers to Pipeline 1,806 1,814 draw joint lessons from incidents and recommend precauRoad 1,625 1,502 tionary measures. We both give and receive support through Total 5,849 5,531 the European Council of Chemical Associations (Cefic). One outcome of this cooperation is the Cefic/ECTA Guidelines on Transport Incident Investigation and Root Cause Analysis, T41 Outgoing shipments of other goods which we were involved in developing. We use these guidelines as the basis for analyzing the causes of serious in thousand metric tons 2014 2015 logistics-related incidents in order to learn from them. Air 4 3 Risk assessment is also an important tool for us in the Ocean 981 898 management of transportation risks. Inland waterway 16 22 Where there is an elevated risk potential associated with specific products, our experts conduct transportation risk Rail 182 173 analyses using a systematic method developed by an inter­ Pipeline 18 16 national insurer. Safety and environmental risks relating to Road 2,331 2,326 transportation processes are evaluated, risks are identified Total 3,531 3,438 and measures are taken to minimize them. Here, we use the Cefic Guidance on Transport Risk Assessment for Chemical Transport Operations. In 2015, shipment of goods decreased by about 4.4 percent to Regular training of employees to raise awareness of hazard8.9 million metric tons. The proportion of hazardous goods ous goods and help them meet statutory requirements in the declined by 5.4 percent. transportation of such goods is essential. Evonik publishes a We use uniform Responsible Care criteria to evaluate monthly Group-wide newsletter that highlights topical issues transportation incidents. In 2015, as in the past, there were no in the area of hazardous goods. This has a firm place in the reportable incidents in transportation operations for which Safety at Evonik initiative. Evonik was responsible. In selected pilot projects we are using tracking and tracing systems, which allow complete monitoring of all stages in the transportation of hazardous goods. These systems can also monitor pressure and product temperature, and respond to leaks. Safety-related data allow preventive action to be taken quickly to avoid transportation accidents. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 81 Safety Product stewardship Should accidents nevertheless occur, the German Chemical Product stewardship 1 Industry Association (VCI) can provide rapid assistance through the TUIS information and assistance system. Around 130 site Evonik is working continuously to make a measurable contrifire services and many specialists throughout Germany are bution to avoiding and improving environmental impact and Annex able to offer competent assistance ranging from initial advice thus to enhancing the quality of life. That includes timely by phone to the provision of trained personnel with special identification and evaluation of potential health and environequipment. Our experienced site fire services participate in mental risks associated with our products. In this context, this system and the site fire service in Marl is one of ten we include the entire value-added chain and take an allnationwide emergency call centers. round view of each product—from cradle to grave. By that To ensure continuous improvement, our operational we mean the process from the procurement of raw materials logistics and logistics procurement teams regularly examine to delivery to industrial customers, who receive all relevant whether utilization of road transportation capacities can be information on the handling and disposal of our products. optimized and scope to combine shipments for transportation As well as complying with statutory requirements such as by rail, inland waterway and ocean. The aim is for logistics to REACH, the European Chemicals Regulation, and worldwide contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. A successful model is implementation of the Globally Harmonized System of Clasthe collaboration with the transshipment terminal Umschlags­ sification, Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), product stewardship terminal Marl GmbH. This actively drives forward the shift at Evonik includes substantial voluntary commitments. For from road to rail transportation. example, we have been committed for years to the chemical In recent years, we have constantly optimized the process industry’s international Responsible Care initiative. The Interfor returning rigid used industrial packaging. Instead of being national Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) included disposed of as waste, such packaging is collected by recognized its understanding of sustainability in the revised Responsible reconditioning firms. This has a positive impact on our CO2 Care Charter 2014, which adds aspects such as security profile. Switching to this returns process alone avoids around and the Global Product Strategy (GPS). Our long-standing 2,500 metric tons of CO2 emissions a year. commitment to this was renewed in 2014 by the signature of Statistically, transportation of hazardous goods via pipelines the Chairman of the Executive Board. We are also committed is safest. However, since this method of transportation entails to the ICCA guideline on the Global Product Strategy. At relatively high investment costs and construction of a pipeline Group level, corporate values on the environment, safety, is only economically viable for large throughput volumes, health and quality have been defined. A regulation defines pipelines are not available everywhere. Where we use them, how product stewardship is to be put into practice at Evonik, the highest standards of transport safety are applied. Evonik’s including control mechanisms to check its implementation.2 pipelines are monitored centrally round the clock. They have In addition, we play an active part in many national and interseveral simultaneous devices to detect leaks. Continuous national associations and initiatives that are driving forward plausibility checks are performed on the volumes fed into scientifically based risk assessment. the pipelines and removed from them, and the temperature and pressure in them. Visual pipeline inspections are conducted Responsible handling of chemicals regularly by specialist personnel, including inspection from We have set up an extensive information system to help us helicopters as well as road vehicles and on foot. This is supplemeet our responsibility in this field. This includes, for example, mented by a range of technical safety checks and inspection information portals, safety data sheets in more than 30 lanby independent experts at least every two years. An operaguages, technical data sheets, Product Safety Summaries, tional manager is in charge of each pipeline and has special 24/7 emergency phone numbers with an interpreting service, responsibility for its safety. Further checks are performed email addresses, and extensive information on our website.3 on the pipelines at longer intervals, for example intelligent Where necessary, we give customers training in how to handle pigging (inspections) and special water pressure checks. our products. The safety of our products has top priority for us. 1 ESHQ Values available under “Responsiblity” at www.evonik.com, www.responsible-care.de, www.icca-chem.org 2 See Structure of Corporate ESHQ steering bodies, p. 63. 3 For further information see ESHQ/Product Stewardship at www.evonik.com/responsibility 82 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries How we live up to our responsibility Chemicals Management SystemPLUS The lifecycle of a product starts with research and developThe Chemicals Management SystemPLUS is an extension of the ment and ends with recycling or safe disposal. Our specialist CMS described above for substances of very high concern. departments provide advice for customers at all stages in These are subject to a more detailed examination. We want the product lifecycle, from selection of the raw materials to bring about a further reduction in the negative impact on through possible toxicological, ecotoxicological and physical people and the environment. Our global target is therefore chemistry properties and the resulting exposure-based risks, to conduct a more detailed examination of all substances planned application and statutory regulations right up to transcontaining > 0.1 percent of substances of very high concern portation and disposal. in line with the defined criteria by 2020 at the latest.1 The Chemicals Management System REACH—the EU Chemicals Regulation We have used the proprietary Evonik Chemicals Management Under the EU Chemicals Regulation REACH (Registration, System (CMS) to evaluate our substances since 2001. This Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), all system supports us in global product evaluation, analogously substances produced, imported or placed on the market in to a lifecyle analysis. In view of global trade in chemicals quantities of more than 1 metric ton p.a. have to be regisand chemical products, it is important to encourage broad tered. Evonik systematically applies this Regulation and supcommunication on their safe handling and use. We evaluate ports its aim of protecting health and the environment in the all substances placed on the market (> 1 metric ton p.a.). handling of chemicals. Based on the measures defined for the Particularly dangerous substances are included from lower period up to 2018, as far as we are aware we have currently tonnages. That allows a soundly based assessment of the undertaken about two-thirds of the necessary registrations. risks. In individual cases, certain usage patterns are restricted Significant human resources and organizational measures are or, in the extreme case, a complete ban on the use of our required to implement the complex requirements of the products is issued. REACH Regulation. These require well-trained personnel, We are committed to the aim of the International Council appropriate IT systems, high financial expenditures and the of Chemical Associations (ICCA) of establishing global staninvolvement and active collaboration of our customers and dards for product stewardship. In 2006 the ICCA set up the industry associations. Global Product Strategy (GPS). Here, Evonik compares the Alongside registration, greater priority is being given to content with its own CMS. Our global aim is to conduct evaluating dossiers and substances, and to restriction and a risk assessment of 99 percent of substances marketed in authorization. We constantly compare the substance lists quantities exceeding 1 metric ton p.a. by 2020 at the latest.1 published by the authorities with our own portfolio to ensure Information in accordance with the GPS is available in Safety timely identification of any of our substances that are Summaries for more than 150 substances on Evonik’s website affected. In such cases, we examine the action to be taken. and the ICCA portal. They are written in understandable We also collaborate closely with our customers to work out English. Some are also available in Japanese, Korean and the next steps. In addition, we examine the raw materials we Chinese. procure. If they are categorized as being of very high concern or are on the list of potential candidates, we discuss the steps to be taken with our suppliers or look for alternatives. We have set up an email address 2 for all REACH-related inquiries from customers and suppliers to ensure they receive timely and full replies. 1 See Our objectives, p. 91. 2 reach@evonik.com • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 83 Safety Product stewardship Globally Harmonized System of Classification The results of our research are communicated openly and and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) transparently to our stakeholders. Representatives of Evonik The Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeltake part in the German government’s NanoDialog, where ing of Chemicals initiated by the United Nations classifies experts from industry, science, authorities and industry assoAnnex dangerous goods and substances for labeling on packaging ciations discuss the opportunities and potential risks of nanoand in safety data sheets. Evonik has ensured timely impletechnology, and ways of avoiding the possible risks. mentation of the European version of GHS, “Classification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures” (CLP) Biotechnology for both substances (end of 2010) and mixtures (mid-2015). Evonik utilizes the opportunities offered by biotechnology to The GHS is still not applied uniformly around the world. develop efficient and environmentally compatible production Evonik has therefore set up an in-house database to gather processes for innovative products and thus create the basis information on progress, changes and national requirements for profitable growth. We use micro-organisms for biocatalysis for internal communication. processes and fermentative production processes. We use biotechnology to produce essential amino acids, nutritional Nanotechnology supplements, and pharmaceutical cosmetic ingredients that Nanotechnology is a generic term for a wide range of develare difficult or impossible to access through conventional opments and innovations. Their common feature is the inveschemical synthesis. Such products have to be registered tigation, production and use of minute structures measuring before they can be produced and placed on the market. The around 1 to 100 nanometers (nm). Evonik has decades of products, together with the production process and microexperience of producing nanostructured materials. We handle organisms used, are explained in detail. We minimize potential nano materials responsibly and utilize the possibilities they risks because safe and responsible handling of this technology offer. They make a substantial contribution to environmental is a matter of course for us. This is also set out in our guideand climate protection through new products and efficient lines. We respect the desire of our customers and the general system solutions for our customers. For example, we see conpublic for transparent action and communication, and stringent siderable opportunities in non-scratch coatings and electronic action to prevent risks. applications. In these applications, nanomaterials are enclosed in a fixed matrix or contained in a fluid. Animal protection In our measures to protect employees, customers and conWe need toxicological and ecotoxicological data to assess the sumers when handling nanomaterials, we are guided by the safety of our products. Although we examine all alternatives latest scientific research findings on hazards and risk evaluain detail (QSAR, read-across, literature, non-animal testing), tion and by epidemiological and toxicological studies. We also from a scientific and legal perspective in many cases tests support the establishment of new methods of investigation on animals are the only way to meet the necessary data aligned to the specific effects of nanomaterials, which refine requirements. For such tests on animals, Evonik only uses test the evaluation of risks. For example, we are involved in institutes that are validated in accordance with the applicable the OECD Working Party on Manufactured Nanomaterials national and international legal provisions. Test institutes with (WPMN). For that, we work closely with leading research a good reputation are selected and are required by master institutes. We are also involved in various research projects contracts to observe the highest quality and animal protection which are examining, for example, the impact of the release of standards. They are monitored regularly by Evonik’s animal nanomaterials from such matrices. That includes membership protection officer. As a responsible company, we have also of the ECETOC 1 Nano Task Force. The potential hazards and drawn up our own animal protection guidelines. safe handling of these materials are also being investigated. 1 European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals. 84 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Society As a world leader in specialty chemicals, Evonik has a presDonations and sponsorship ence in more than 100 countries and operates production of public projects in 2015 facilities in 24 countries around the world. We accept responsibility worldwide—for our business, our employees, the In 2015 the Evonik Group provided a total of € 12.8 million for environment and society. That responsibility is firmly anchored donations and sponsorship projects. This budget was used in our understanding of our values. principally to fund social and church-related projects, the arts, science, sport, education and other projects and activities. Our social responsibility is demonstrated by our wide-ranging commitment to education, science, the arts and sport, and C24 Donations and sponsorship our support for charitable undertakings. Fostering good of public projects in 2015 a social development at our sites and in the area around them is especially important to us. We therefore support many projects aligned to specific regions. Other a 4 % We make a distinction between donations and sponsorEducation 9 % Social & church-related 31 % ship. Sponsorship is part of Evonik’s marketing strategy and Sport b 11 % is always designed to position the core Evonik brand in an emotionally appealing manner. By contrast, donations are made without expecting anything specific in return. All of these activities are divided between the company Science 20 % itself and the Evonik Foundation. In September 2015, the The arts 25 % statutes of the Evonik Foundation were amended to broaden its remit. Alongside not-for-profit activities, it is now also able to support charitable and church-related undertakings. a Includes donations of € 230,000 to political parties in Germany: € 100,000 to This allows it to play an active role, for example, in providing the CDU/CSU, € 90,000 to the SPD, € 20,000 to the FDP, and € 20,000 to assistance for refugees. Bündnis 90/Die Grünen (total amounts in each case). b Excludes sponsorship of the Borussia Dortmund soccer club. The Executive Board defines the aims and conditions for the Group’s donations and sponsorship. It has delegated coordination and monitoring to the Board Office/CommuniEvonik Foundation cations division on the basis of specific policies and guidelines. An important element in the assumption of our social responFor example, individual donations of supra-regional signifisibility is the work of the Evonik Foundation, which is based cance and sponsorship from a threshold of € 100,000 require in Essen (Germany). The foundation was established in 2009 the approval of the Executive Board. The segments and as the successor to the former Degussa Foundation. In the regions can decide on regional and site-specific activities future, Evonik’s entire social engagement will be bundled within an annual budget approved by the Executive Board. At under the auspices of the foundation. Extending the purpose the Evonik Foundation, the managing director is responsible of the Evonik Foundation has enabled it to become actively for coordinating and monitoring donations, while the Board involved in providing aid for refugees. In 2015, Evonik made decides on the focal areas of its work. € 1 million available to the foundation as immediate aid for refugees. These funds are being used principally for activities in the areas of training, employment and language tuition, and for sustainable projects for refugees at Evonik’s sites and the surrounding area. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 85 Society Social assistance projects The roots of the Evonik Foundation are fostering scientific Examples of this engagement include the establishment of education for young people. Under the motto “People open meeting places to foster dialogue between refugees and local up future potential. We open up people potential.”, for many inhabitants, and cafés to encourage them to learn the lanyears the Evonik Foundation has awarded scholarships for guage. For example, in Haltern am See the Evonik Foundation Annex scientific research, especially doctoral theses. In the reporting is supporting the setting up of a multi-functional meeting and period, the Evonik Foundation supported 18 young scientists. communication room, which can be used for German courses, Its commitment goes beyond financial assistance: Regular childcare, and sports and leisure activities. meetings with the scholarship students, scientific colloquia Another example of its support comprises German courses and a mentoring program give them valuable insights into the at almost all Evonik sites in Germany, and funding of an day-to-day work of a large specialty chemicals company. additional 15 places on the “Start in den Beruf” program, Thanks to the close links between scientific theory and pracwhich are reserved for refugees. This pre-training program tice, the scholarships offered by the Evonik Foundation have prepares young people who find it difficult to secure a place an excellent reputation in academic circles. on a vocational training course for regular apprenticeships. Enthusiasm and enjoyment of science can be awakened in The program runs at our sites in Marl, Hanau, Darmstadt, children at elementary school. Some years ago, the Evonik Lülsdorf and Wesseling. Those who complete it have a good Foundation therefore launched Professor Proto’s Fantastic chance of further training: around 70 percent are taken on as Institute in collaboration with scholarship students. This apprentices at the end of the program. web-based learning platform is constantly being developed. As a company that trains a large number of young people, Through exciting experiments, videos and an interactive we believe that is very important for our apprentices to learn journey through the history of chemistry, Professor Proto to recognize and engage in social responsibility. Under the opens up the fantastic world of science to children, parents motto “Do a good deed every month”, our apprentices in Marl and teachers. (Germany) take part in regional projects, such as assembling Another element of our support for upcoming scientists is lighting for the route to an elementary school. For many years, the “Deutschlandstipendium” program. Evonik has taken part our apprentices in Krefeld (Germany) have spent their fall in this scholarship program initiated by the German Ministry vacation helping a local organization that distributes food to for Education and Research since 2011. The basic idea is to needy families. In addition, in the pre-Christmas season in recognize outstanding achievement by committed students 2015 they collected donations for a local children’s home. and make a contribution to the development of tomorrow’s Internationally too, Evonik showed clear social commitspecialists. The concept of performance underlying this proment in 2015. In Southeast Asia, Australia and New Zealand gram specifically includes social engagement and overcoming (SEAANZ region)—especially Malaysia—the company supobstacles in the educational background of scholarship stuported educational projects, mainly in the area of science. dents. In 2015, 200 scholarship students throughout Germany The aim was to instill an enthusiasm for chemistry in children received support from the Evonik Foundation. and young people from difficult backgrounds. Many charity collections are held at our US sites. One example is our site in Parsippany (New Jersey), where donations are made to Social assistance projects local schools to provide school materials for children from disadvantaged families and provide financial security for their The massive influx of refugees was a big challenge for society education. At our site in Americana (Brazil), Evonik finances in 2015. Evonik believes it is important to make a contribution, training for inhabitants of poor communities to improve their both by providing short-term humanitarian assistance and by chances of employment. We are also actively involved in opening up promising future prospects for migrants. The improving the quality of life for people in Castro (Brazil). Evonik Foundation uses the funds donated by Evonik for this Efforts here include optimizing the infrastructure at a local purpose to support a large number of relief and integration retirement home and a children’s home. projects for refugees in Germany. The focus is on the areas around our sites. 86 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Fostering education and science Since 2013 Evonik has supported the Rebikoff-Niggeler notFostering the education of children and young people is for-profit foundation in deep-sea research. This foundation important to Evonik. We focus on scientific and technical operates the Lula 1000 manned research submarine, which projects because our aim is to interest children in science and has a 1.40 meter PLEXIGLAS dome. In cooperation with foster their talent in this area. As well as demonstrating institutions such as the German Oceanographic Museum in our social responsibility, our commitment in this area is an Stralsund and the University of Cologne, the aim of this investment in our own future. A long-term horizon is a key research project is to film a giant squid in its natural environdriving force. As an innovation-driven company, we need ment to find out more about this largely unresearched species. well-trained young people. One success story is our Young Spirit initiative, which Sponsorship of the arts has been running since 2003. Through this initiative Evonik Our modern knowledge-based society is driven by ideas and employees regularly visit preschools and schools to present innovations. Creativity is a key component, which we foster the world of chemistry to children through exciting hands-on through our sponsorship of the arts. We are convinced that experiments. In this way, around 150 volunteers, who receive encounters with culture and the arts contribute to the ongoing regular training to prepare them for their educational role, give development of society and to open and tolerant coexistence. children an entertaining introduction to scientific processes. As well as being a key aspect in identification, a shared cultural This initiative has now been extended to other regions where life and experience is a source of diversity and tolerance in Evonik has a presence. Volunteers are already taking part in society. Asia and Young Spirit is scheduled to start in North America We are therefore the main sponsor of one of Europe’s shortly. largest and most traditional theater festivals, the Ruhr Festival, Evonik’s commitment to education is rounded out by which is dedicated to a greater extent than most other festivals initiatives such as the “Kid’s University” in collaboration with to presenting culture as a broad social experience. In 2015, the Rheinische Post media group, and science camps for around 80,000 people attended the festival’s wide-ranging employees’ children. These initiatives also draw on the comproductions and events, which centered on French culture, mitment and extensive knowledge of our employees. In literature and drama. Japan, for example, employees took part in a wide range of Evonik also supports the “intonations” chamber music initiatives in the reporting period to encourage the developfestival at the Jewish Museum in Berlin. This is an extension ment of young people in the fields of science and technology. of the Jerusalem International Chamber Music Festival, one The heart of this is the Chemical Experiment Show, where of the most important cultural events in Israel. It comprises employees demonstrate chemical reactions at schools close to a series of concerts under the direction of Elena Bashikirova, our sites. As well interesting the children in science, this bringing together leading international musicians from various show strengthens dialogue with the local community. nations and religions. It is therefore a symbol of inter-cultural A similar program has been introduced at our site in tolerance and understanding. Shanghai (China), where employees take the Dr. E Science Another project where we are the main sponsor is the Tour to preschools and elementary schools. Küppersmühle modern art museum (MKM) in Duisburg The Evonik Cyber Classroom has been used successfully (Germany). At MKM Evonik has sponsored the Young People at various partner schools in Germany and Brazil for a number Interpret Art competition since 2014. In this project, school of years to make complex scientific content clearer and more students from all over Germany have an opportunity to deunderstandable with the aid of 3D technology. We therefore monstrate their creativity and organizational talent. The aim rolled out this project globally in 2015. The 3D technology is to confront students with modern and contemporary art is now available to all Evonik partner schools worldwide via and encourage an understanding of aesthetic processes. the internet in nine languages. The Cyber Classroom at the We also support the TUP in Schools initiative by the Essen Technopolis Science Center in Mechelen (Belgium) was popTheater and Philharmonie (TUP), which provides an enthrallular for school outings in 2015. We intend to broaden the ing gateway to the arts for elementary school kids. range of topics covered by the Evonik Cyber Classroom 3D learning tool in 2016. • perspective change •Corporate responsibility • Annex 87 Society Advocacy In 2015, Evonik was also a partner for the CHINA 8 inter­ developments and projects of significance for the site. Antwerp national art project. Museums in eight cities in the Ruhr is a good example. Here, Evonik meets with local residents region of Germany organized a combined exhibition to bring and politicians, the media and representatives of other local contemporary Chinese art to a broad public. Around 500 companies once a quarter to discuss issues such as safety and Annex works—paintings, photography, calligraphy, ink drawings, health protection, the environment, human resources policy sculptures, installations, and videos—were exhibited for the and future investment projects. first time in Germany. Sports sponsorship Advocacy As the main sponsor of the professional soccer club Borussia Dortmund (BVB), Evonik has a strong commitment to fostering Evonik plays an active part in many societal debates and is a children and young people. The Evonik BVB Soccer School partner in opinion-forming processes at national and inter­ runs a wide range of soccer courses for boys and girls aged national level. Our offices in Berlin and Brussels are importbetween seven and thirteen. Around 6,500 children received ant interfaces for dialogue with representatives of politics and instruction through this soccer school in 2015. Overall, the public life. Our employees there network closely with politischool ran more than 125 courses in Dortmund and 90 other cians, trade associations and the general public, support them courses elsewhere in Germany and in the Netherlands, in shaping political conditions and take up issues in Poland, Austria and Japan. In Tokyo it runs year-round the areas of energy and climate protection, the environment, courses for children aged six to 15 under the instruction of a sustainability and trade policy. BVB trainer who is permanently based in Japan. Key aspects of our advocacy work in Berlin in 2015 Evonik uses its role as main sponsor of the BVB to teach were the amendment of chemicals legislation in light of the students that team spirit is a key success factor in working life Seveso III Directive, shaping the future of the electricity as well as on the soccer pitch. The first Evonik Student Netmarket and implementing the shift in energy policy through work Day, which was held at the BVB soccer stadium, was the amendment of the German Renewable Energies Act attended by 60 selected students from all over Germany, (EEG) and the German Cogeneration Act. Evonik took part in who examined team spirit from a variety of perspectives. consultations, hearings and debates. We also monitored legislation in areas of employment and social policy, for Dialogue with our neighbors example, on the minimum wage, temporary staffing and the A trustful relationship with the communities close to our sites workplace regulations. Evonik’s support for refugees, the is particularly important to us. To strengthen trust in Evonik, bioeconomy, the use of renewable raw materials in the we give local residents and employees’ families a variety of chemical industry and environmentally compatible livestock opportunities to take a look behind the scenes at our sites. farming were other important topics. At European level, the That is in keeping with our claim to be an open and trans­ focus was on the fundamental reform of trading in emission parent company. allowances and the European Commission’s proposals on In 2015, many people used the opportunity to take site recycling. In addition, the political debate in Brussels was tours in Hanau and Marl, and a tour organized as part of the dominated by the negotiations on the transatlantic trade “Industrial Heritage Route”. Similarly, open evenings are held agreement (TTIP). Evonik renewed and refined its entry in the regularly at our sites in Essen and Krefeld to foster dialogue joint list of lobbyists maintained by the European Commission with our neighbors. Employees provide information on topical and European Parliament. issues and take visitors on site tours. Our site in Darmstadt Evonik is involved in a large number of associations and organized a first “We + Evonik” community festival in 2015 to organizations such as the German Chemical Industry Asso­ give local residents a chance to put forward suggestions and ciation (VCI), the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), voice issues related to the site. the Federation of German Industries (BDI), the World Business Visitors days are not the only way people can contact us. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and specialist We have set up environmental and neighborhood hotlines forums and associations, such as the German Council on at many sites and acceptance is high. In addition, we hold Foreign Relations (DGAP), Atlantik-Brücke, and the Forum regular meetings to inform local residents about the latest for Future Energy. 88 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Annex Our objectives 89 About this report 92 Market positions 94 Major sites 96 Major shareholdings  97 Awards and accolades 2015 98 Membership of networks and initiatives 99 G4 content index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) 100 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report  112 Glossary114 List of tables and charts 117 Credits119 • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 89 Our objectives Annex T42 Our objectives a Target achieved Target partially achieved or process is still under way Target not achieved Section Target for 2015 Status/target attainment Dec. 31, 2015 Targets 2016 ff. Planned deadline Sustainability management Sustainability Continue to develop Sustainability analysis of Further structuring of 2016 analysis of the method used for sustainEvonik’s business extended: the sustainability analysis the business ability analysis of Evonik’s partial validation of the of Evonik’s business; business and integrate it into outcome through the plus plans for external key strategic processes limited assurance review validation of the method See page 26 See page 27 Dialogue with Step up the systematic Stakeholder dialogue Step up dialogue with 2016 stakeholders stakeholder dialogue and conducted at local, national key stakeholder groups exchange of experience and international level; on sustainability stakeholder groups See page 31 surveyed as part of the materiality analysis What we stand New target Update the Code of Conduct 2017 for: Code for Evonik employees of Conduct See page 33 The business Supplier Continue to analyze suppliers 373 suppliers selected and Continue to analyze 2016 management defined as a risk by checking addressed in the review potential risk suppliers (annual) 90 percent of identified of potential (risk) suppliers; through the TfS initiative. potential risk suppliers using ongoing process: about self-assessments 58 percent had submitted usable data by the Update 2015: Continue reporting date the analysis of suppliers classified as a risk as See page 46 part of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, using the shared assessment principle: involve 200 suppliers, response ratio at least 60 percent Supplier New target Renewed review of suppliers 2016 management assessed in 2012 and 2013 Supplier Conduct at least 20 sustain39 suppliers audited Conduct at least 20 initial 2016 management ability audits of suppliers by Evonik through the supplier sustainability audits (annual) TfS initiative through the TfS initiative Update 2015: Conduct at least 20 initial supplier sustainability audits under the shared audit principle of the TfS initiative Supplier New target Continue follow-up of audits 2016 management performed in 2015 90 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Section Target for 2015 Status/target attainment Dec. 31, 2015 Targets 2016 ff. Planned deadline Supplier Update internal sustainability Initial or renewed training Continue internal 2016 management training for 50 percent of of around 79 percent sustain­ability training for (annual) procurement staff who deal of process-related procureat least 60 percent of with suppliers classified as ment staff procurement staff affected a potential risk and carry out by the TfS initiative at least four internal audits Update 2015: Update internal sustainability training for at least 60 percent of procurement staff affected by the TfS initiative Research & New target Total R&D expenses of 2025 development over € 4 billion See page 48 Employees Develop and introduce a HR indicators within the Develop and introduce a 2016 Group-wide HR KPI system Group transferred to a Group-wide HR KPI system to manage and optimize uniform global system and to manage and optimize global HR work supplemented by best global HR work practices from the market Ongoing development of Group-wide remuneration Ongoing development of 2016 Group-wide master policies concept developed in 2014; Group-wide master policies on remuneration and fringe existing master policies on remuneration and fringe benefits adapted to the new requirebenefits ments in 2015 Develop further training Development of training modules on sustainability modules on sustainability issues issues postponed See page 31 The environment Management Conduct at least 18 ESHQ 17 ESHQ audits conducted Conduct at least 2016 approach audits in the Evonik Group 60 ESHQ audits (annual) See page 62 in the Evonik Group b, c Environmental Reduce specific greenhouse Reduce specific greenhouse Reduce specific 2020; targets gas emissions by 12 percent gas emissions d by greenhouse gas emissions d 80 percent (reference base 2012) 11 percent to 89 percent by 12 percent target attain(reference base: 2012) ment by 2018 See pages 63 and 65 Environmental Reduce specific water intake Specific water intake Reduce specific water intake 2020; targets by 10 percent unchanged at 100 percent by 10 percent 80 percent (reference base 2012) (reference base: 2012) target attainSee pages 63 and 70 ment by 2018 Biodiversity RSPO certification (palm oil) Palm oil: certification of RSPO certification of 2016 and ecosystem for a further five plants eight Evonik sites worldwide three further Evonik sites services in accordance with palm oil roadmap 23 products switched to RSPO-certified palm oil derivatives See page 73 • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 91 Section Target for 2015 Status/target attainment Dec. 31, 2015 Targets 2016 ff. Planned deadline Safety Guiding Establish the content and Guiding principles for safety Follow-up on Employee End-2017 principles behaviors set out in the anchored in the Group: Survey 2015: derive and as target for guiding principles for safety, instruction provided for implement safety-related 90 percent of with the aim of reaching 90 percent of employees in measures the measures 90 percent of employees the operating units defined in the operating units See page 75 Plant safety Plant safety indicator: Cefic Process Safety Improve the Cefic Process 2016 improve Cefic Process Safety Performance Indicator Safety Indicator for Evonik (annual) Performance Indicator for improved in units with (units with production Evonik (business units with production activities: activities) (Target: < = 48 production activities) (Target: target <= 48 points points compared with 2008 <= 48 points compared with compared with 2008 [reference base = 100]) 2008 [reference base = 100]) [reference base = 100]; indicator in 2015: 55 See page 79 See page 78f Occupational Occupational safety KPI: Occupational safety: accident Accident frequency 2016 safety accident frequency at Evonik frequency indicator 1.0 indicator should be < = 1.3 (annual) should be < = 1.3 See page 76 See page 76 Health Further increase in the Proportion of employees protection proportion of employees included in the occupational included in the occupational health performance index health performance index increased; performance and further improvement improved further in performance Product Conduct a risk assessment Information on more than Risk evaluation conducted 2020 stewardship for at least 99 percent of 150 substances provided for at least 99 percent of all substances marketed in in Safety Summaries all substances marketed in quantities exceeding quantities exceeding 1 metric ton p.a. See page 82 1 metric ton p.a. See page 82 Product New target Further evaluation of 2020 stewardship all products containing > 0.1 percent of chemicals of very high concern See page 82 a For attainment of the target for “Society” see page 86. b Organizationally, audits previously performed on a decentralized basis have now been bundled at Group level. c In the Sustainability Report 2014 this target was listed in the section on “Sustainability management”. d Scope 2 emissions pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, measured by the market-based method. 92 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries About this report Evonik’s Sustainability Report 2015 Initial consolidation or deconsolidation takes place as of the This is the eighth full Sustainability Report (CR Report) pubdate on which the company gains or loses its controlling inlished by Evonik Industries and continues the tradition of fluence. In fiscal 2015 the Evonik Group comprised 45 German G4-22 reporting introduced by the companies from which Evonik and 109 foreign companies. Reporting focuses on the conG4-18 was formed. The report covers the 2015 fiscal year (January 1 tinuing operations. Relevant data on personnel and social G4-23 to December 31, 2015) and is based on Evonik’s organizaindicators are based largely on the global SAP HR information tional structure in 2015. The aim is to give our customers, system. For supplementary information, we use the HR inforemployees, owners and the general public an insight into mation collector application (SAP notes management). The how we run our business and live our values. The Sustainfocus of our reporting and thus the boundaries of our report ability Report supplements the ecological and societal aspects are derived principally from the sustainability issues derived included in the annual report for 2015. The next report will from our materiality analysis and the associated six areas of be published in 2017. action, for example, safety, the environment and governance/compliance. Method The ecological data for our specialty chemicals business in G4-23 This report is based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting 2015 comprise emissions and consumption at 85 production Initiative (GRI) and the ten principles of the UN Global Comsites in 24 countries and thus cover around 95 percent of total pact (UNGC). For 2015, we apply the GRI G4 guidelines for output. Occupational safety data include other small producthe first time in accordance with the “core” option. Material tion and non-production sites (mainly administration), so the aspects of the content played a key role in the revision of the data here cover 132 locations in 41 countries. All data are guidelines. In this report, we therefore concentrate to a greater compiled using sustainability reporting software developed G4-22 extent than in the past on our material reporting issues. This specifically for this purpose (SuRe). The reporting segments report is also Evonik’s progress report for the UN Global reflect Group and segment interests in order to provide a Compact. detailed reflection of production activities. In some cases, data are reported at plant level to ensure this. Scope of reporting, boundaries and data capture All reporting segments are clearly coded to allocate them G4-22 Our data cover the relevant companies and organizational to organizational and business units and geographical region. G4-23 units worldwide that were included in the scope of consoliThis allows consolidation at management and legal entity dation for the annual financial statements of the Evonik Group level as well as a detailed regional analysis of the data. The for the period from January 1 through December 31, 2015. ecological data are updated annually without taking changes Evonik Industries AG prepares its consolidated financial statein the Group into account. The prior-year figures are not ments in accordance with the International Financial Reporting adjusted for changes in the portfolio of companies consoliStandards (IFRS), while the separate annual financial statedated. The figures for each company are included in full, ments for the company are prepared in accordance with the without adjustment to reflect Evonik’s stake in them. German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock The key data in this report are rounded in line with stanCorporation Act (AktG). Alongside Evonik Industries AG, the dard commercial practice. In some cases, this may mean that consolidated financial statements include all material German individual values do not add up exactly to the totals given and and foreign subsidiaries directly or indirectly controlled by percentages are not an exact reflection of the values stated. Evonik Industries AG. Joint operations are included on a pro This report is published in German and English. To ensure rata basis. Material associates and joint ventures are recognized it is up-to-date, we have included all relevant data available to at equity if Evonik is able to exert a significant influence. us as of the editorial deadline on February 29, 2016. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 93 Major acquisitions/divestments Singapore, production facilities for specialty silicas in Ako of relevance for ESH in 2015 (Japan), and a plant for C4-based products in Marl (Germany). G4-22 Under an agreement dated April 29, 2015, Evonik sold its These affect product streams and emissions and consumption G4-23 100 percent stake in Evonik Litarion GmbH, Kamenz (Gerdata. The main impacts are commented in the data section of many) to Electrovaya GmbH, Düsseldorf (Germany). The this Sustainability Report. 100 percent stake in Evonik Litarion GmbH, comprising the Acquisitions, capacity expansions and new facilities are remaining lithium-ion business, was classified as a discon­ recognized as soon as possible. However, if the facilities are tinued operation until the divestment was completed on only acquired at the end of a fiscal year or new plants have April 29, 2015. Under an agreement dated September 30, not yet come into service or are at an early stage of start-up, 2015, Evonik sold its 52 percent stake in Qingdao Evonik inclusion of environmental aspects in the Sustainability Chemical Co., Ltd., Jiaozhou (China) to Orion Engineered Report can normally only start in the following year. Carbons International GmbH, Frankfurt (Germany). The stake was deconsolidated on October 27, 2015 and was classified Updated data as held for sale until that date. Until completion of these Our ESH data are constantly checked by a large number of G4-22 transactions, the shares were included in the segment report internal and external audits. In addition, large amounts of in other operations. Evonik acquired all shares in Monarch data have to be reported to national authorities. In most Catalyst Pvt. Ltd. (Monarch), Dombivli (India) on June 5, 2015. cases, their submission and approval dates are later than the Monarch’s global activities in the field of oil and fat hydrogeinternal deadline for Evonik’s ESH data. To enhance efficiency, nation catalysts extend Evonik’s portfolio of catalysts. The we endeavor to use a single set of data for both internal and company has been renamed Evonik Catalysts India Pvt. Ltd. On external reporting. Since internal and external audit findings October 30, 2015 Evonik acquired all shares in PeroxyChem are examined for any possible change in ESH indicators, our Netherlands B.V., Amsterdam (Netherlands). The production databases are naturally subject to dynamic change. If such facilities in Delfzijl (Netherlands) complement Evonik’s Euroadjustments reveal discrepancies of more than 3 percent pean production network for hydrogen peroxide, comprising compared with published data for prior periods, (principle of three sites. The company has been renamed Evonik Peroxide materiality), the data are corrected and indicated accordingly. Netherlands B.V. Both acquisitions have been integrated into If the English version of this report differs from the German the Resource Efficiency segment. In 2015, Evonik’s organic version, the statements and phrasing of the original German growth was boosted by a large number of capacity increases in shall prevail. attractive markets and regions with high growth momentum. The various extensions and new plants included, for example, External review a new facility for biotechnological production of the amino The “Sustainability management”, “The business”, “EmployG4-23 acid Biolys (L-lysine) for animal feed in Castro (Brazil), a ees”, “The environment” and “Safety” sections were subject to plant to produce Mepron for nutrition of dairy cattle in the a limited assurance review by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG USA, production of specialty silicones in Essen (Germany), (PwC) (indicated by ). The corresponding indepenthe company’s largest production facility for oil additives in dent practitioner’s limited assurance report is printed on pages 112 – 113. 94 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Market positions T43 Market positions 2015 a Global Capacity in Product Application ranking a metric tons p.a. Nutrition & Care d Amphoteric surfactants Shampoos, shower gels 1 d Ceramides, phytosphingosines Cosmetics 1 d Fat chemistry, quaternary derivatives Fabric softeners 1 d Organically modified silicones Additives for polyurethane foams, cosmetics, radiation-cured separation coatings 1 – 2 Superabsorbents Diapers, feminine hygiene products, incontinence products, technical applications 1 – 2 570,000 Amino acids and d amino acid derivatives Pharmaceutical intermediates and infusion solutions 3 d Exclusive synthesis Intermediates and active substances for pharmaceuticals and specialty applications 3 Pharmaceutical polymers Drug delivery systems (e.g. tablet coatings) and medical products d (e.g. bioresorbable implants) 2 DL-methionine Animal nutrition 1 580,000 Resource Efficiency Hydrogen peroxide Bleaching of pulp and textiles, oxidation agent for the chemical industry, starting product for polyurethane 2 > 900,000 d Activated nickel catalysts Life sciences and fine chemicals, industrial chemicals 3 d Precious metal powder catalysts Life sciences and fine chemicals, industrial chemicals 1 d Oil and fat hydrogenation catalysts Life sciences and fine chemicals, industrial chemicals 3 d Amorphous polyalphaolefins Thermoplastic hot melt adhesives 1 d Polybutadienes Automotive manufacturing (adhesives and sealants) 2 d Polyester resins Canand coil coating, reactive hot melt adhesives 1 Thermoplastic and Binders for paints and coatings d reactive methacrylate resins 1 – 2 d Organically modified silicones Binders for paints and printing inks 2 Isophorone chemistry Environment-friendly coating systems, d high-performance composites (crosslinkers) 1 PEEK Special applications in the oil and gas, automotive and aviation industries, d electronics/semiconductors, specialty medical technology (e.g. implants) 3 Polyamide 12 High-performance specialty polymer applications d (e.g. automotive, medical, sport, gas and offshore oil pipelines) 1 d Oil additives Viscosity index improvers 1 Organosilanes, chlorosilanes Rubber, silicone rubber, paints and coatings, adhesives and sealants, building protection materials, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, optical fibers 1b d Fumed silicas, fumed metal oxides, Silicone rubber, paints and coatings, adhesives, sealants and plastics, precipitated silicas, matting agents pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, high-temperature insulation, electronics, reinforcement of rubber, consumer products, additives for the coatings and printing inks industry 1 600,000 • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 95 T43 Market positions 2015 a Global Capacity in Product Application ranking a metric tons p.a. Performance Materials Butene-1 Co-monomer for polyolefins 1c 235,000 DINP High-molecular plasticizers for use in flexible PVC 2 220,000 Isononanol Intermediate for high-molecular plasticizers 2 400,000 Cyanuric chloride Industrial applications and specialties (e.g. crosslinkers and optical brighteners), crop protection (especially Chinese producers) 3 31,000 Alcoholates Catalysts for biodiesel, pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and other applications 1 > 200,000 d Methacrylate monomers Dispersions, coatings, plastics, additives, adhesives, optical lenses 1–2 Methacrylate polymers Construction materials for the automotive and electrical/electronics industries, (PMMA molding compounds and specialty medical technology, architecture, design and communication applications PMMA semi-finished products) 1–2 400,000 a Evonik’s assessment based on various individual market reports/information and in-house market research. b Chlorosilanes: freely traded volumes. Overall assessment—market position differs depending on application. c Freely traded volumes. d No data available. 96 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Major sites T44 Major sites a Employees 2013 2014 2015 Germany Marl 6,837 6,923 6,939 Hanau-Wolfgang 3,348 3,385 3,391 Essen 2,396 2,435 2,447 Darmstadt 1,648 1,691 1,736 Wesseling 1,318 1,334 1,358 Other European countries Antwerp (Belgium) 1,040 1,007 1,029 Slovenská L’upča (Slovakia) 243 251 247 Ham (France) 217 209 192 Gramatneusiedl (Austria) 167 165 157 Kaba (Hungary) 122 124 124 North America Mobile (Alabama, USA) 753 731 789 Lafayette (Indiana, USA) 556 544 570 Parsippany (New Jersey, USA) 421 409 415 Greensboro (North Carolina, USA) 281 205 188 Mapleton (Illinois, USA) 177 176 168 Central and South America São Paulo (Brazil) 194 197 206 Castro (Brazil) 25 99 107 Americana (Brazil) 37 70 85 Mexico D.F. (Mexico) 74 64 76 Barra do Riacho (Brazil) 46 44 46 Asia-Pacific Shanghai (China) 1,386 1,418 1,448 Singapore (Singapore) 430 523 496 Nanning (China) 394 357 369 Nanping (China) 389 370 353 Dombivli (India) 0 0 275 Middle East/Africa Midrand (South Africa) 35 28 44 Umbogintwini (South Africa) 32 30 32 Dubai (United Arab Emirates) 17 19 20 Teheran (Iran) 14 14 17 Elandsfontein (South Africa) 7 7 16 As of December 31 a The list covers about 70 percent of Evonik employees. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 97 Major shareholdings a T45 Major shareholdings Shareholding Name of company Registered office in % Consolidated subsidiaries Germany CyPlus GmbH Hanau 100.00 Evonik Degussa GmbH Essen 100.00 Evonik Goldschmidt Rewo GmbH Essen 100.00 b Evonik IP GmbH Eschborn 100.00 b Evonik Nutrition & Care GmbH Essen 100.00 Evonik Oil Additives GmbH Essen 100.00 b Evonik Performance Materials GmbH Essen 100.00 b Evonik Resource Efficiency GmbH Essen 100.00 Evonik Röhm GmbH Essen 100.00 b Evonik Technochemie GmbH Essen 100.00 b Evonik Technology & Infrastructure GmbH Essen 100.00 Other countries Evonik Canada Inc. Calgary (Canada) 100.00 Evonik Corporation Parsippany (New Jersey, USA) 100.00 Evonik Cyro LLC Wilmington (Delaware, USA) 100.00 Evonik Degussa Antwerpen N.V. Antwerp (Belgium) 100.00 Evonik Degussa Brasil Ltda. São Paulo (Brazil) 100.00 Evonik Degussa (China) Co., Ltd. Beijing (China) 100.00 Evonik Hong Kong Ltd. Hong Kong (Hong Kong) 100.00 Evonik Industries de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico City (Mexico) 100.00 Evonik Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo (Japan) 100.00 Evonik Methionine SEA Pte. Ltd. Singapore (Singapore) 100.00 Evonik Oil Additives Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore (Singapore) 100.00 Evonik Oil Additives USA, Inc. Horsham (Pennsylvania, USA) 100.00 Evonik Oxeno Antwerpen N.V. Antwerp (Belgium) 100.00 Evonik (SEA) Pte. Ltd. Singapore (Singapore) 100.00 Evonik Specialty Chemicals (Jilin) Co., Ltd. Jilin (China) 100.00 Evonik Specialty Chemicals (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai (China) 100.00 Evonik Thai Aerosil Co., Ltd. Bangkok (Thailand) 100.00 Nippon Aerosil Co., Ltd. Tokyo (Japan) 80.00 PT. Evonik Indonesia Cikarang Bekasi (Indonesia) 100.00 Silbond Corporation Weston (Michigan, USA) 100.00 Joint operations recognized on a pro rata basis Germany StoHaas Monomer GmbH & Co. KG Marl 50.00 Companies recognized at equity Other countries CyPlus Idesa, S.A.P.I. de C.V. Mexico City (Mexico) 50.00 Daicel-Evonik Ltd. Tokyo (Japan) 50.00 a A list of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements can be found in the Annual Report 2015 on page 160 ff. b Utilizes the exemptions permitted under Sections 264 Paragraph 3 and 264b of the German Commercial Code (HGB). 98 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Awards and accolades 2015 T46 Awards and accolades Category Awards and accolades Presented by Products and projects Creavis a for the Composites 2.0 project CFK Valley Innovation Award 2015 CFK-Valley e. V. and City of Stade Performance Materials segment, SPE Grand Award Society of Plastics Engineers, Inc. and Acrylic Polymers Business Line, the International Society for the CoverForm surface for Plastics Technology for the Mercedes touchpad Creavis a for the CAMISMA project (fiberJEC Americas Award 2015 JEC reinforced lightweight automotive components) Nutrition & Care segment, Innovation Zone Best Ingredient Silver Award, Soap Perfumery and Cosmetics journal Personal Care Business Line, Category: Functional Active Ingredients for VARISOFT EQ 100 (hair conditioners) Nutrition & Care segment, L.I.F.E. sustainability certificate Tag and Label Manufacturers Institute Interface & Performance Business Line, for TEGO RC silicones Resource Efficiency segment, Ringier Technology Innovation Award 2015 Ringier Trade Media Coating Additives Business Line, for SILIKOTOP E 900 and SILIKOTOP E 901 silicone resins Employees Evonik Technology & Infrastructure GmbH, Best Employer in Europe – European Federation of Technical Service Business Line European HR Award, Maintenance National Maintenance Societies Evonik Industries AG 3rd place in employer ranking “FOCUS” magazine in the chemical and pharmaceutical sector in the large companies category Awards from customers Nutrition & Care segment, Excellent Partner Award (2014) Lilly Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Health Care Business Line Resource Efficiency segment Honored as a partner supplier and Maxxis International GmbH member of the “Maxxis Family” Resource Efficiency segment, Performance and Social Responsibility Award Michelin Group Silicas Business Line Resource Efficiency segment, Preferred supplier Daramic Xiangyang Battery Separator Co., Silicas Business Line Ltd., China Nutrition & Care segment, Best raw material supplier Qlicar Natura Natura Personal Care Business Line Other Resource Efficiency segment, Best Suggestion Award Singapore Ministry of Trade & Industry Oil Additives Business Line a Evonik’s strategic innovation unit In addition, Evonik’s sustainability performance is regularly analyzed and evaluated by rating agencies. We publish the main findings in the internet. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 99 Membership of networks and initiatives Responsible Care Evonik is a signatory to the Responsible Care Global Charter of the Inter­ national Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Evonik is committed to this initiative. UN Global Compact Evonik joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. Evonik supports the principles of the Global Compact, which are geared to sustainable and ethical business management. World Business Council for Sustainable Development Evonik is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and supports its objectives. This international business leadership forum has around 200 member companies that are committed to sustainable development. Global Reporting Initiative Evonik supports the Global Reporting Initiative as an organizational stakeholder. GRI is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. Evonik has used it as a guideline since 2009. Together for Sustainability As a founding member of this initiative established by chemical companies, Evonik is driving forward transparency and sustainability in the supply chain. econsense Evonik is a founder member of econsense, an association of leading German companies and organizations that promotes corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. Chemie 3 Evonik plays a central role in the Chemie 3 sustainability initiative of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE) and the German Chemical Industry Employers’ Federation (BAVC). 100 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries G4 content index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) For 2015, we have applied the G4 guidelines of the Global The Sustainability Report 2015 was submitted to the GRI Reporting Initiative for the first time in accordance with the Materiality Disclosures Service. The GRI has verified that the “core” option. The index also refers to the corresponding materiality disclosures in accordance with G4 (G4 -17 – G4 -27) principles of the UN Global Compact. are correctly located. T47 GRI index and UN Global Compact AR = Annual report UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4 -1 Statement from the most senior Foreword 2–3 decision-maker G4 -2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Business model 25 Principles and objectives, 73 – 74 (AR) business management systems Opportunity and risk report 113 – 122 (AR) Sustainability management 27 – 28 Organizational profile G4 -3 Name of the organization Credits 119 G4 4 Primary brands, products and services Decentralized 25 – 26 corporate structure Market positions 94 – 95 G4 -5 Location of the Credits 119 organization’s headquarters G4 6 Countries where the organization Major shareholdings 97 has significant operations About this report 92 G4 -7 Nature of ownership and legal form Evonik on the capital markets 67 (AR) Credits 119 G4 -8 Markets served Evonik’s end-markets 72 (AR) G4 -9 Scale of the organization Key figures for the 38 Evonik Group About this report 92 Balance sheet 140 – 141 (AR) Production inputs and output 64 6 G4 -10 Employees by employment contract, Employees worldwide 54 – 55 region and gender 3 G4 -11 Percentage of employees covered Trustful collaboration 59 – 60 by collective bargaining agreements Perform 57 G4 -12 Description of the supply chain Supply chain management 44 – 46 • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 101 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments G4 -13 Significant changes during the About this report 93 reporting period Major events 77 (AR) Procurement in 2015 44 – 45 G4 -14 Precautionary approach or principle What we stand for 32 – 33 House of Compliance 34 – 37 Safety 75 – 79 G4 -15 Externally developed economic, Membership of networks 3, 27 – 28, environmental and social charters, and initiatives 32 – 33, 81, 89 principles, or other initiatives which the organization endorses G4 -16 Memberships of associations and Membership of networks 3, 73, 89 advocacy organizations and initiatives Close dialogue 31 – 32 with stakeholders Safety 80 – 82 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4 -17 List of consolidated entities Scope of consolidation 160 – 166 (AR) and list of shareholdings G4 -18 Process for defining the About this report 92 report content Materiality analysis 28 – 31 G4 -19 All material aspects Materiality analysis 29 – 30, GRI-Index G4 -20 Material aspects within Value chain 30 the organization G4 -21 Material aspects outside Value chain 30 the organization G4 -22 Effect of restatements of information Updating our 28 and reasons for restatement materiality analysis About this report 92 – 93 G4 -23 Significant changes in the scope About this report 92 – 93 and aspect boundaries of the report Stakeholder engagement G4 -24 Stakeholder groups engaged Evonik’s stakeholder groups 31 by the organization G4 -25 Identification and selection Close dialogue 31 – 32 of stakeholders with stakeholders G4 -26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Close dialogue 31 – 32 and frequency of engagement with stakeholders Materiality analysis 28 Employee survey 31, 52 Trustful collaboration 59 – 60 Safety 75 G4 -27 Key topics or concerns raised Materiality analysis 29 by stakeholders Close dialogue with 31 – 32 stakeholders Sustainability analysis of 26 the business 102 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Report profile G4 -28 Reporting period About this report 92 G4 -29 Date of most recent previous report About this report 92 G4 -30 Reporting cycle About this report 92 G4 -31 Contact point for questions Credits 119 G4 -32 “In accordance” option and GRI Index 100 – 111 GRI Content Index chosen About this report 92 G4 -33 Reference to external About this report 93 assurance report Independent Assurance Report 112 – 113 Governance G4 -34 Governance structure, Overview of the 5 (AR) including committees of the Executive Board highest governance body Report of the 48 – 49 (AR) Supervisory Board Sustainability management 27 at Evonik G4 -35 Delegation of authority for economic, Sustainability management 27 environmental and social topics at Evonik Shareholders and the 65 (AR) Shareholders’ Meeting Active support for the 106 (AR) reorganization of the Group The environment 62 G4 -36 Executive-level responsibility Overview of the 5 (AR) for economic, environmental and Executive Board social topics Sustainability 27 management chart G4 -37 Processes for consultation between Close dialogue with 31 – 32 stakeholders and the highest stakeholders governance body Sustainability 27 management chart Employee survey 31, 52 Employee performance 31, 60 and development review G4 -38 Composition of the highest Supervisory Board 48 – 49 (AR), governance body and its committees 214 – 215 (AR) G4 -39 Independence of the Chair Corporate Governance Report, 61 – 63 (AR) of the highest governance body Supervisory Board G4 40 Nomination and selection processes Corporate Governance Report, 61 – 63 (AR) for the highest governance body Supervisory Board G4 41 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report, 61 – 62 (AR) Supervisory Board G4 42 Highest governance body’s role Report of the 48 – 49 (AR) in strategies and goals Supervisory Board G4 43 Measures to develop and enhance Report of the 49 – 50 (AR) the highest governance body’s Supervisory Board collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4 44 Evaluation of the highest governance Report of the 50 (AR) body’s performance with respect Supervisory Board to governance of economic, Remuneration report 132 – 133 (AR) environmental and social topics G4 45 Highest governance body’s role Corporate Governance Report, 63 – 64 (AR) with regard to opportunities and Supervisory Board committees risks of relevance to sustainability • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 103 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments G4 46 Highest governance body’s role Corporate Governance Report, 63 – 64 (AR) in reviewing the effectiveness Supervisory Board committees of risk management G4 47 Frequency of the highest governance Corporate Governance Report 63 (AR) body’s review of sustainabilityrelated risks and opportunities Opportunity and risk report 113 (AR) G4 48 Highest committee that approves Foreword 2–3 the sustainability report G4 49 Process for communicating www.evonik.com/annualcritical concerns to the highest shareholders-meeting governance body Sustainability 27 management and bodies Employee survey 31, 52 G4 -50 Critical concerns that were www.evonik.com/annualcommunicated to the highest shareholders-meeting governance body Report of the 50 – 51 (AR) Supervisory Board G4 -51 Remuneration policies for the Remuneration report 132 – 133 (AR) highest governance body and Performance-related 34, senior executives remuneration 192 – 194 (AR) G4 -52 Process for determining remuneration Remuneration report 125 – 133 (AR) Performance-related 192 – 194 (AR) remuneration Perform 57 – 58 G4 -53 Stakeholders’ views regarding Corporate Governance Report 61, 63 (AR) remuneration www.evonik.com/annualshareholders-meeting G4 -54 Ratio of the annual total compensation Evonik believes it is very for the organization’s highest-paid important to offer specialists individual to the median annual total and executives marketcompensation for all employees oriented and performancerelated salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria. Remuneration is therefore based on objective criteria such as the required knowledge and skills, and performance. Personal characteristics do not have any impact. We do not consider this to be a relevant indicator to assess the appro­ priateness of our remuneration systems. It is not available. G4 -55 Ratio of percentage increase in Evonik believes it is very annual total compensation for the important to offer specialists organization’s highest-paid individual and executives marketin each country to the median oriented and performancepercentage increase in annual total related salaries based on unicompensation for all employees form global evaluation criteria. Remuneration is therefore based on objective criteria such as the required knowledge and skills, and performance. Personal characteristics do not have any impact. We do not consider this to be a relevant indicator to assess the appro­ priateness of our remuneration systems. It is not available. 104 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Ethics and integrity 10 G4 -56 Values, principles, standards and Obligations and commitments 27 – 28 norms of behavior What we stand for 32 – 33 10 G4 -57 Mechanisms for seeking advice Corporate governance 33 – 34 on ethical and lawful behavior House of Compliance 34 – 35 10 G4 -58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns Corporate governance 34 – 35 about unethical or unlawful behavior House of Compliance 34 – 37 Specific Standard Disclosures Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance 7 G4 -DMA Management approach An excellent performance 38 in 2015 G4 -EC1 Economic value generated Total value added 40 and distributed 7 G4 -EC2 Risks and opportunities posed Carbon Disclosure Project 69 by climate change and Opportunity and risk report 117 (AR), their financial implications 119 (AR) Perspective change 12 – 13 (AR), 20 – 21 (AR), 44 – 45 (AR) G4 -EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations Defined benefit obligations 180 – 184 (AR) G4 -EC4 Financial assistance received from Research & development 47 Evonik is involved in research government activities that receive government assistance Aspect: Market presence 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees 52 – 53 6 G4 -EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Remuneration—Uniform global 58 This indicator is not relevant gender compared to local minimum evaluation criteria for our sector. Evonik wage at significant locations of operabelieves it is very important tion to offer specialists and executives market-oriented and performance-related salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria. Remuneration is therefore based on objective criteria such as the required knowledge and skills, and performance. Personal characteristics do not have any impact. 6 G4 -EC6 Proportion of senior management Attract 55 – 56 hired locally • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 105 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: Indirect economic impacts G4 -DMA Management approach Business model, sustainability 25, 27 – 28, 31 management, dialogue with stakeholders G4 -EC7 Development and impact of Total value added 40 infrastructure investments and Research & development 47 – 48 services supported Vocational training 57 Society/Donations 84 – 87 and sponsorship G4 -EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Total value added 40 including extent of impacts Regional development 88 – 89 (AR) Biodiversity and 73 – 74 ecosystem services Aspect: Procurement practices G4 -DMA Management approach Supply chain management 29 – 30, 44 G4 -EC9 Proportion of spending Procurement in 2015 44 on local suppliers Category: Environmental Aspect: Materials 7, 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 29 – 30, 62 – 64 7, 8 G4 -EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Production inputs and output 64 Aspect: Energy 7, 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 29 – 30, 62 – 64 7, 8 G4 -EN3 Energy consumption Energy inputs 64 – 65 within the organization Aspect: Water 7, 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 29 – 30, 62 – 64 7, 8 G4 -EN8 Total water withdrawals by source Water data and 70 – 71 emissions into water 8 G4 -EN10 Water recycled and re-used Water data and 70 – 71 emissions into water Aspect: Biodiversity 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 62 – 64 8 G4 -EN11 Operational sites owned/leased Biodiversity and 73 – 74 in or adjacent to protected areas ecosystem services and areas of high biodiversity outside protected areas Aspect: Emissions G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 29 – 30, 62 – 64 7, 8 G4 -EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Emissions into the air 66 7, 8 G4 -EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions Emissions into the air 66 (Scope 2) 7, 8 G4 -EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions Emissions into the air 66 (Scope 3) Evonik Carbon Footprint 67 – 69 8 G4 -EN18 GHG emissions intensity Emissions into the air 66 8, 9 G4 -EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions into the air 66 – 67 7, 8 G4 -EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting Other emissions into the air 69 substances 7, 8 G4 -EN21 NOX, SOX and other Other emissions into the air 69 significant air emissions 106 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: Effluents and waste 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 29 – 30, 62 – 64 8 G4 -EN22 Total water discharge by Water data and 70 – 71 quality and destination emissions into water 8 G4 -EN23 Total weight of waste by Waste 72 type and disposal method Aspect: Products and services 7, 8, 9 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment, safety 29 – 30, 62 – 64 7, 8, 9 G4 -EN27 Extent of impact mitigation Product stewardship 81 – 83 of environmental impacts of products and services Aspect: Compliance 8 G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance 29 – 30, 34 – 35 8 G4 -EN29 Sanctions for non-compliance with 120 (AR), Risks relating to legal disputes environmental laws and regulations 185 (AR) and legal proceedings are disclosed in the annual report. Aspect: Transport 8 G4 -DMA Management approach Safety 29 – 30, 75 – 76, 79 – 80 8 G4 -EN30 Significant environmental impacts Transportation safety 79 – 81 of transporting products and logistics Aspect: Overall 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 29 – 30, 62 – 64 8 G4 -EN31 Total environmental protection Environmental protection 64 expenditures and investments by type investment and operating costs Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment 8 G4 -DMA Management approach Supply chain management 29 – 30, 44 – 45 8 G4 -EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Sustainability in the 45, 46 screened using environmental criteria selection of suppliers Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms 8 G4 -DMA Management approach The environment 29 – 30, 34, 36 8 G4 -EN34 Formal grievance mechanisms House of Compliance We do not report the number for environmental impacts of grievances about environmental impacts. We report within the compliance and ESHQ management system. A meaningful statistical eval­ uation of the questions and complaints submitted to our sites by local residents via telephone hotlines is not possible as they cannot be assigned clearly to Evonik. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 107 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Category: Social Sub-category: Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees 29 – 30, 52, 54 6 G4 -LA1 New hires and employee turnover Attract 55 Retain 58 G4 -LA2 Benefits provided to full-time Perform 57 – 58 employees that are not provided to Work/life balance 60 temporary or part-time employees 6 G4 -LA3 Return to work after parental leave Work/life balance 61 Aspect: Labor/management relations 3 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees 29 – 30, 52 – 53 6 G4 -LA4 Minimum notice periods Trustful collaboration 59 regarding operational changes Aspect: Occupational health and safety 1, 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Safety 29 – 30, 75 – 76 G4 -LA5 Percentage of total workforce Trustful collaboration 59 – 60 represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help Health protection 77 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4 -LA6 Injury, occupational diseases, Occupational safety 76 – 77 Reporting injuries by gender days lost and fatalities is not material to us and is not permitted in some regions. Our focus is on general prevention, analyzing incidents and the lessons that can be learned. Health protection 77 G4 -LA7 Workers with high incidence Workplace-related preventive 78 or high risk of diseases related to healthcare their occupation Product stewardship 81 – 82 G4 -LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Safety 75 – 76, 78 formal agreements with trade unions Aspect: Training and education 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Employees 29 – 30, 52, 54 6 G4 -LA9 Average hours of training Vocational and further training 57 Our data on advanced training currently cover around 85 percent of our employees. Drawing a distinction by gender or employee category is not significant for us. The data on average hours of training do not include the hours of vocational training provided to our around 1,800 in-house apprentices. G4 -LA10 Programs to support the continued Vocational and further training, 57 employability of employees talent management 108 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments 6 G4 -LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Employee performance 60 The systematic performance regular performance and career and development review and development reviews development reviews introduced by Evonik are not restricted by gender or employee category. Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity 6 G4 -LA12 Composition of governance bodies Employees worldwide 54 – 55 Differentiation by minority and breakdown of employees by groups is not relevant for our indicators of diversity management practices. Diversity 59 Corporate Governance Report 60 – 65 (AR) Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men 6 G4 -LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Remuneration—Uniform global 58 Evonik believes it is very of women to men evaluation criteria important to offer specialists and executives marketoriented and performancerelated salaries based on uniform global evaluation criteria. Remuneration is therefore based on objective criteria such as the required knowledge and skills, and performance. Personal characteristics do not have any impact. Aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices G4 -DMA Management approach Supply chain management 29 – 30, 44 – 45 G4 -LA14 Percentage of new suppliers Sustainability in the 45 – 46 that were screened using labor selection of suppliers practices criteria G4 -LA15 Significant negative impacts Sustainability in the 45 – 46 We do not report in detail for labor practices in the selection of suppliers on negative impacts on labor supply chain and actions taken practices identified in the assessment of our suppliers. We report on the findings as part of the evaluation process. Aspect: Labor practices grievance mechanisms G4 -DMA Management approach Code of Conduct and 27 – 28 , Global Social Policy 29 – 30, 33 G4 -LA16 Formal grievances relating House of Compliance 34 – 35 to labor practices Respecting workers’ 59 and human rights Sub-category: Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination 6 G4 -DMA Management approach Global Social Policy, employees 27 – 28, 29 – 30 6 G4 -HR3 Respecting workers’ 59 and human rights Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2, 3 G4 -HR4 Operations and suppliers identified What we stand for 32 – 33 In the reporting period, in which the right to exercise we did not become aware freedom of association and collective of any restrictions on freedom bargaining may be violated or at of association or collective significant risk and measures taken bargaining. Trustful collaboration 59 – 60 Respecting workers’ 59 and human rights Sustainability in the 45 selection of suppliers • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 109 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: Child labor 2, 5 G4 -HR5 Operations and suppliers identified What we stand for 32 – 33 as having significant risk for incidents Employees worldwide 48 of child labor and measures taken Respecting workers’ 59 and human rights Sustainability in the 45 – 46 selection of suppliers Aspect: Forced or compulsory labor 2, 4 G4 -HR6 Operations and suppliers identified Respecting workers’ 59 as having significant risk for incidents and human rights of forced or compulsory labor and measures taken Aspect: Security practices 1 G4 -HR7 Percentage of security personnel Corporate security 36 trained in human rights policies Workplace-related preventive 78 or procedures healthcare Respecting workers’ 59 and human rights Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment 2 G4 -DMA Management approach Supply chain management 29 – 30, 43 – 44 2 G4 -HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Sustainability in the 45 – 46 We do not report on the screened using human rights criteria selection of suppliers percentage of suppliers that were specifically screened using human rights criteria. We report on the screening procedure. 2 G4 -HR11 Significant negative human rights Sustainability in the 45 – 46 We do not report in detail impacts in the supply chain and selection of suppliers on negative impacts on any actions taken violation of human rights criteria identified in the assessment of our suppliers. We report on the findings as part of the evaluation process. Aspect: Human rights grievance mechanisms 1 G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance, 29 – 30, Code of Conduct, 33 – 35 Global Social Policy 1 G4 -HR12 Formal grievance on Code of Conduct and 33 We do not report on the numhuman rights violations Global Social Policy ber of complaints on human rights violations received through formal grievance mechanisms. We take up the reason for the grievance in internal procedures and take appropriate action in line with our corporate policies. Sub-category: Society Aspect: Local communities 1 G4 -SO1 Percentage of operations with Close dialogue with 31 – 32 Given heterogeneous size implemented local community stakeholders of our sites, percentage data engagement, impact assessments would not be meaningful. and development programs Therefore, we do not calculate a percentage. Dialogue with our neighbors 87 Corporate security 36 110 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments 1 G4 -SO2 Operations with possible negative Plant safety 78 impacts on local communities Transportation safety 79 and logistics Emissions into the air 65 Emissions into water 71 Biodiversity and 73 – 74 ecosystem services Aspect: Anti-corruption 10 G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance 29 – 30, 34 – 35 10 G4 -SO3 Number and percentage of Fighting corruption 37 Given the heterogeneous operations assessed for risks related size of our sites, data on the to corruption and the risks identified number or percentage of operations would not be meaningful. The procedure is described in the uniform Group-wide compliance management system. 10 G4 -SO4 Communication and training on antiFighting corruption and 36 corruption policies and procedures the Code of Conduct Compliance training 37 Fighting corruption 37 10 G4 -SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption Fighting corruption and 36 and actions taken the Code of Conduct Fighting corruption 37 Aspect: Public policy 10 G4 -SO6 Total value of political contributions Donations 84 by country and recipient/beneficiary Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance 29 – 30, 34 – 35 G4 -SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive 120 (AR), Risks relating to legal disputes behavior, anti-trust and monopoly 185 (AR) and legal proceedings are practices disclosed in the annual report. Aspect: Compliance 2, 3 G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance 29 – 30, 34 – 35 G4 -SO8 Fines and sanctions for non120 (AR), Risks relating to legal disputes compliance with laws and regulations 185 (AR) and legal proceedings are disclosed in the annual report. Aspect: Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4 -DMA Management approach Supply chain management 29 – 30, 43 – 44 G4 -SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Sustainability in the 45 – 46 We do not report on the were screened using criteria for selection of suppliers percentage of suppliers that impacts on society were specifically screened for impacts on society. We report on the screening procedure. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 111 UNGC G4 Standard principle Disclosures Reference Page Comments Aspect: Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4 -DMA Management approach Sustainability management, 27, 29 – 30, House of Compliance 34 – 35 2, 3 G4 -SO11 Grievances on social impacts received Dialogue with stakeholders 31 – 32 We do not report on the through formal mechanisms number of complaints on impacts on society received through formal grievance mechanisms. We take up the reason for the grievance in internal procedures and take appropriate action in line with our corporate policies. Sub-category: Product responsibility Aspect: Customer health and safety G4 -DMA Management approach Safety 29 – 30, 75 – 76, 81 – 82 G4 -PR1 Percentage of significant products Product stewardship 81 – 83 Our assessments focus on and services for which health products not services. and safety impacts are assessed G4 -PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with 120 – 121 (AR) We do not report on the regulations and voluntary codes number of incidents of concerning the health and safety non-compliance with regu­ impacts of products lations and voluntary codes of conduct relating to the health and safety impact of products and services. Any incidents and proceedings are reported in the section on legal risks in the annual report. Aspect: Product and service labeling 7 G4 -DMA Management approach Safety 29 – 30, 75 – 76, 81 – 82 7 G4 -PR3 Type of product and service Product stewardship 81 – 83 infor­mation required by the organi­ zation’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4 -PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and Risks relating to legal disputes voluntary codes concerning product and legal proceedings are and service information and labeling disclosed in the annual report. Aspect: Compliance G4 -DMA Management approach House of Compliance 29 – 30, 34 – 35 G4 -PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance Risks relating to legal disputes with laws and regulations concerning and legal proceedings are the provision and use of products disclosed in the annual report. and services 112 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report 1 To Evonik Industries AG, Essen Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements for quality We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance control for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der engagement on the sections marked with in the SustainWPK und des IDW: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssiche­ ability Report of Evonik Industries AG (hereafter “Sustainrung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: “VO 1/2006”) – and ability Report”), Essen, (hereafter the “Company”) for the accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality period from 1 January to 31 December 2015.2 control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Management’s Responsibility standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance Practitioner’s Responsibility with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sections Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter marked with in the Sustainability Report based on our the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to work performed. be assessed. Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform This responsibility includes the selection and application an audit on external sources of information or expert opinof appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability Report ions, referred to in the Sustainability Report. as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual We conducted our work in accordance with the Inter­ sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumnational Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 stances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or implementing and maintaining systems and processes releReviews of Historical Financial Information” published by vant for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, which is IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the free of material misstatements due to intentional or unintenassurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether tional errors. any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the sections marked with in the Sustainability Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in We have complied with the German professional provisions accordance with the GRI-Criteria. In a limited assurance regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchdepend on the practitioner’s judgement. This includes the prüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the joint opinion of the assessment of the risks of material mis­statements in the SusWirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of German Public Auditainability Report with regard to the GRI-Criteria. tors; WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Sustainability Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German― the German text is authoritative. 2 Our engagement refers to the German version of the Sustainability Report. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 113 Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations the following procedures: Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of • Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainthe Company’s sustainability management and sustainability ability organization and of the stakeholder engagement; reporting: • Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Report regarding the preparation process, the underlying • Further development of a systematic approach and integrainternal control system and the Sustainability Report sections tion of material business and stakeholder issues, in particular marked with ; with regards to the further development of the sustainability • Analytical procedures on selected information of the Susstrategy in a global business context; tainability Report; • Further development of management approach and report• Comparison of selected sustainability information with ing for the material sustainability issues, e.g. by increased corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements emphasis on Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and by and in the group management report ; consistently connecting those KPIs with (ideally quantified) • Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability targets; information in the Report regarding the sustainability per• Further standardization and formalization of the reporting formance; process and the underlying internal control system for sus• Performance of site visits or web conferences as part of the tainability information. inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating selected data at the corporate headquarters in Essen, Restriction on Use and Distribution as well as at selected sites or group companies in Essen/ We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed Goldschmidtstraße and Lülsdorf (Germany), Antwerp (Belwith Evonik Industries AG. The review has been performed gium) as well as Tokyo (Japan); for purposes of the Company and is solely intended to inform • Gaining further evidence for selected data of the Sustainthe Company about the results of the review. The report ability Report due to inspection of internal documents, is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) contracts and invoices/reports from external service prodecision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility viders. towards third parties. Conclusion Munich, April 4, 2016 Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability PricewaterhouseCoopers information marked with in the Sustainability Report of Aktiengesellschaft the Company for the period from 1 January to 31 December Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft 2015 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. Hendrik Fink ppa. Dr. Patrick Albrecht Wirtschaftsprüfer 114 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries Glossary Accident frequency Compliance Number of accidents in the workplace involving Evonik Compliance refers to all activities to ensure that the conduct of employees and contractors’ employees under Evonik’s direct a company, members of its governance bodies and its employees supervision per 1 million working hours. respects all applicable mandatory standards such as legal provisions, statutory requirements and prohibitions, in-house Adsorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX) policies and voluntary undertakings. Total organic halogen compounds in water that can be adsorbed by activated carbon using a standardized process. X stands for Conflict minerals the halogens fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. Adsorption Conflict minerals are minerals extracted in infringement of is the accumulation of a substance on the surface of a solid as a human rights and that are sold to finance armed conflict. Under result of molecular forces. the Dodd-Frank Act, they currently comprise tungsten, tantalum, tin, gold and their derivatives from the east of the Democratic Audit Republic of Congo. An audit is an investigation used to check that specific products, sites and/or processes meet certain specified criteria. Audits may Corporate governance be performed by internal specialists or external auditors, espeCorporate governance comprises all principles on the management cially if validation in compliance with official standards is required. and supervision of a company. As an expression of good and responsible management, it is therefore a central element in a Carbon dioxide (CO2) company’s management philosophy. The principles relate mainly Gaseous combustion product of all carbon-containing compounds to collaboration within the Executive Board and Supervisory Board (e.g. coal, natural gas and oil). and between these two boards and the shareholders, especially at Shareholders’ Meetings. They also relate to the company’s Carbon Disclosure Project relationship with other people and organizations with which it The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is currently the world’s has business dealings. largest and most important initiative by the financial sector on climate change. Investors use the data to derive a climate risk Corporate Responsibility (CR) profile for companies, which they then use in their investment See sustainability. decisions. Cross referencing Carbon footprint A sensitivity analysis of ecological impact, based on the results This shows the aggregate impact of all relevant carbon dioxide of existing lifecycle assessments (LCAs). Cross referencing is emissions of the entity under consideration (e.g. an organization, a comparative evaluation that covers the ecological impact product or person). of products and product groups that are not directly included in the underlying LCA. Certain preconditions have to be met. Carbon monoxide (CO) For example, the production of identical products or products Odorless, toxic gas produced by incomplete combustion of with a very similar chemical structure at a different site and with carbon-containing fuels with insufficient oxygen; converted into a different energy mix. CO2 in the atmosphere. Dinitrogen oxide (N2O) Chemical oxygen demand (COD) Colorless gas, also known as laughing gas. Its greenhouse gas Metric showing the sum of all organic substances in water. COD impact is about 300 times greater than that of CO2. shows how much oxygen is required to oxidize these substances. Diversity CO2 equivalents Evonik defines diversity as a balanced employee structure, not Parameter used to compare the global warming potential of just in terms of gender, but also in relation to specialist areas, various different greenhouse gases. The reference basis is carbon experience of different organizational units and functional areas, dioxide and the abbreviation is CO2e. The global warming a broad age range and various nationalities, in other words, potential (GWP) provides information on the impact of the diversity across the board. various gases compared with CO2. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 115 Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502 Materiality The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A materiality analysis is used to identify significant areas of Act (known as the Dodd-Frank Act for short) was adopted action for sustainability policy. The aim is to evaluate the relein 2010. Its prime aim is regulation of the US financial market. vance of issues from the viewpoint of stakeholders and the Section 1502 has a humanitarian purpose and aims to protect company. A materiality matrix is derived from the expectations people in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo from of both groups. the violation of human rights and to counter financing of armed conflict in the region. Megatrends Megatrends are long-term, global societal developments which Fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFC) companies can help to solve through their business activities. These compounds do not occur naturally. They have an extremely They are large, wide-ranging and durable trends of strategic damaging effect on the climate, even compared with methane significance. and dinitrogen oxide. They are sometimes used as refrigerants. Methane (CH4) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Colorless, odorless combustible gas; main component in oil. This organization publishes the world’s most commonly used Methane is one of the most important natural greenhouse gases guidelines on sustainability reporting. The aim is to ensure and is utilized in synthesis reactions in the chemical industry. comparable presentation of the economic, ecological, social and societal performance and impacts of the reporting company. Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Evonik’s Sustainability Report 2015 has been prepared for the Compounds comprising nitrogen and oxygen; mainly generated first time on the basis of the GRI G4 Guidelines, in accordance by combustion in production plants and engines. with the “core” level. Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) Collective designation for organic substances that are volatile The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is regarded as the most widespread or present as gases at low temperatures—excluding methane gas. voluntary international standard for calculating and compiling data on greenhouse gas emissions from industry. It was developed Plant safety by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development See incident frequency. (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI). REACH Incident frequency (plant safety indicator) REACH is an EU Regulation. It stands for Registration, Process safety performance indicator based on the standards set Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. The by the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic). Analogously REACH Regulation aims to improve protection of health and to the accident indicator for occupational safety, this indicator the environment from the risks that can arise from chemicals. covers incidents involving the release of substances, fire or exploIn addition, it encourages the development of alternative sion, even if there is little or no damage. It is calculated from methods of determining the damaging effects of substances the number of incidents per 1 million working hours in the in order to reduce animal experiments. operational units’ production facilities. Responsible Care International Labor Standards Responsible Care is a global initiative of the chemical industry, The International Labor Standards are set out in a Declaration which aims to bring about a continuous improvement in environof the International Labour Organisation. This United Nations mental protection, health and safety. As well as complying with agency sets global employment and social standards to improve legislation, it encourages the industry to engage in voluntary people’s living and working conditions. initiatives in cooperation with government agencies and other stakeholders. The original principles were extended in the Lifecycle assessment Responsible Care Global Charter to include a greater focus on A lifecycle assessment comprises compiling and assessing modern demands with regard to transparency and communi­ the inputs and outputs and potential environmental impact of cation. Responsible Care also dovetails with the principles set a product system during its lifecycle, based on a standardized out in the UN Global Compact. The International Council of international method (DIN EN ISO 14040/44). Alongside lifeChemical Associations (ICCA) monitors the implementation cycle assessments, Evonik performs lifecycle-based analyses with and integrity of Responsible Care. reduced scope to obtain information on specific environmental impacts (e.g. carbon footprints). 116 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries RSPO Sustainable Development Goals The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is a multiIn fall 2015 the United Nations published 17 global sustainable stakeholder initiative that aims to place global production on a development goals, to be achieved by 2030. They replace the sustainable basis in the long term. The RSPO has set rules for eight Millennium Development Goals, which expired in 2015. sustainable production of palm oil and monitors their observance. Further, the RSPO encourages sustainable production and use Together for Sustainability (TfS) of palm oil through cooperation between palm oil plantations Together for Sustainability (TfS) is an initiative set up by a and the subsequent supply chain. Evonik has been an RSPO number of multinational chemical companies. It aims to develop member since 2010. and implement a global program for responsible procurement of goods and services and use standardized audits to improve Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions suppliers’ ecological and social standards. A uniform questionTo harmonize reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the naire is used worldwide for all suppliers and TfS members. TfS corporate sector, emissions are allocated to three categories has selected EcoVadis, a rating agency based in Paris (France) (scopes): emissions from a company’s own plants (Scope 1), as its partner for sustainable procurement management. emissions from purchased energy (Scope 2), and indirect emissions (Scope 3). Total nitrogen load (N), total phosphorous load (P) The total nitrogen and phosphorous loads are sum parameters Stakeholders indicating the amount of organic and inorganic nitrogen and Stakeholders are individuals or groups that have a legitimate phosphorous compounds in water. interest in the activities and decisions of a company or organization. They may be, for example, the company’s shareUN Global Compact holders, suppliers, customers, politicians, non-governmental The United Nations’ Global Compact is a strategic initiative for organizations, the media and people who live and work close companies that undertake to respect ten universally recognized to its production facilities. They are often directly or indirectly principles relating to human rights, workers’ rights, environaffected by the company’s business activities. mental protection and fighting corruption in their business operations and strategy. As a major driving force behind globalSulfur oxides (SOX) ization, industry should ensure that all regions and societies Sum parameter for various sulfur oxides. The main source is benefit from the development of markets and trade relations, sulfur contained in fuels such as hard coal, lignite and oil, which technologies and the finance sector. Companies that join the is oxidized during combustion and released as sulfur dioxide. Global Compact give an undertaking that they will report annually on their progress (COP—Communication on Progress). Sustainability Sustainability is based on the need to balance the economic, Vision 2050 ecological and social dimensions. Sustainable development The Vision 2050 of the World Business Council for Sustainable is a commitment to the perspectives for the lives of future Development (WBCSD) describes the pathway to achieving a generations, as expressed in the Vision 2050 published by the sustainable world with around 9 billion people living well within World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) the limits of the planet by 2050. Companies play a key role in this. and the United Nations’ 17 goals for sustainable development. At the same time, sustainable development is an opportunity to establish a successful long-term corporate strategy that combines business success with social and societal responsibility and protection of the environment. • perspective change • Corporate responsibility •Annex 117 List of tables and charts Tables No. Title Page No. Title Page T01 Key figures FC3, 38 T40 Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods 80 T02 Change in sales 2015 versus 2014 39 T41 Outgoing shipments of other goods 80 T03 Adjusted EBITDA by segment 39 T42 Our objectives 89 T04 ROCE by segment 40 T43 Market positions 2015 94 T05 Breakdown of value added 40 T44 Major sites a 96 T06 Major projects completed T45 Major shareholdings 97 or virtually completed in 2015 41 T46 Awards and accolades 98 T07 Key data for the Nutrition & Care segment 41 T47 GRI index and UN Global Compact 100 T08 Key data for the Resource Efficiency segment 42 T09 Key data for the Performance Materials segment 43 T10 Key data for the Services segment 44 T11 TfS activities in 2015 45 T12 Suppliers at an advanced stage of examination 45 T13 Results of the evaluation of the sustainability profile of suppliers in 2015 46 Charts T14 Innovative strength and No. Title Page patent protection at Evonik 48 T15 Main products introduced in 2015 49 C01 Corporate structure FC3, 25 T16 Evonik Venture Capital: C02 Sustainability management at Evonik FC4, 27 New investments in 2015 50 C03 Evonik’s stakeholder groups FC4, 31 T17 Employees by segment 54 C04 18 sustainability aspects identified T18 Employees by contractual status 55 are bundled in six areas of action FC4, 30 T19 Recruitment of employees C05 Percentage of sales generated from the labor market in 2015 55 by our chemicals segments T00 Personnel expense  58 covered by lifecycle analyses 26 T21 Employee fluctuation 2015 58 C06 Structure of Corporate Responsibility T22 Percentage of part-time employees steering bodies 27 by gender and region 60 C07 Materiality analysis 2015 29 T23 Extended periods of leave  61 C08 Value chain 30 T24 Status of our environmental targets 63 C09 House of Compliance 35 T25 Environmental protection investment C10 Compliance Management System (CMS) 35 and operating costs 64 C11 Sales by region a 39 T26 Production inputs and output 64 C12 Our claim: First-class in innovation 47 T27 Energy inputs  65 C13 R&D expenses 48 T28 Greenhouse gas emissions  66 C14 Breakdown of R&D expenses 48 T29 Change in greenhouse gas emissions C15 Structure of Human Resources steering bodies 53 along Evonik’s value chain 67 C16 HR strategy 53 T30 Greenhouse gas emissions C17 Age structure in the Evonik Group, along Evonik’s value chain 68 continuing operations 54 T31 Greenhouse gas avoidance C18 Employees by region, continuing operations 54 during the application lifecylce 68 C19 Structure of Corporate ESHQ steering bodies 63 T32 Other emissions into the air  69 C20 Framework of the safety culture 75 T33 Water intake by source  70 C21 Accident frequency indicator T34 Water consumption  70 (Evonik employees) 76 T35 Water discharge  71 C22 Accident frequency indicator T36 Wastewater loads 71 (contractors’ employees) 76 T37 Waste 72 C23 Incident frequency indicator 78 T38 Waste management  73 C24 Donations and sponsorship T39 Evonik sites adjacent to conservation areas 74 of public projects in 2015 84 118 sustainability Report 2015 Evonik Industries This report contains forward-looking statements based on the present expectations, assumptions and forecasts made by the Executive Board and the information available to it. These forward-looking statements do not constitute a guarantee of future developments and earnings expectations. Future performance and developments depend on a wide variety of factors which contain a number of risks and unforeseeable factors and are based on assumptions that may prove incorrect.
