Editorial Policy The Aeon Group has been publishing the Aeon Environmental Report every year since 1996 (Aeon Environmental and Social Report since 2003) to cultivate understanding in all of our stakeholders about our beliefs and activities for the CSR (corporate social responsibility) we should fulfill to realize a sustainable society. In regards to our selection of items to report, we are covering and reporting initiatives of Group companies from both environmental Aeon Basic Principles and social perspectives with focus on Aeon, which is a pure holding company, in addition to General Merchandise Store Business and Supermarket & Discount Store Business according to items society Pursuing peace, respecting humanity has high interest and efforts Aeon is particularly focused. The 2016 report includes two special feature sections. and contributing to local communities, The first special feature presents information on our Dialogue with always with the customer’s point of Stakeholders carried out in June 2016 with two stakeholders who possess particular expertise. The dialogues were an opportunity to view as its core. present initiatives in our Big Challenge 2020, aimed at integrating Peace CSR activities with corporate management. They also presented assessments of these initiatives, brought forth expert opinions, and offered advice on what we should do and how we should proceed toward mediumand long-term growth. The second special feature is titled The Challenge of Aeon -Together with Communities, and presents illustrative cases showing Aeon's understanding of issues and showing initiatives that stem from that understanding. We are reporting initiatives in FY 2015 that include our full management approach to each priority issue in addition to the progress status of KPI, environmental conservation and social Customers contribution activities undertaken with our customers, and initiatives through our products and stores. Information is also provided on our ongoing support to those in need following the Great East Japan Earthquake. People Community ●Report Period FY 2015 (March 1, 2015 – February 29, 2016)* The word aeon (ÆON) has its origins in a Latin root *For operating companies with different fiscal years and a portion of meaning “eternity.” businesses, the relevant time periods are indicated on each report section. The customers’ beliefs and desires comprise the central core of our philosophy. At Aeon, our eternal ●Scope of Report This report covers the pure holding company AEON CO., LTD. and its mission as a corporate group is to benefit our consolidated subsidiaries 295 companies, 33 companies equity customers, and our operations are thus customermethod affiliates (as of the end of February 2016). focused to the highest degree. When a section applies to only certain operating companies, it is indicated as such. Peace: The AEON 1% Club Foundation, whose activities are funded by Aeon is a corporate group whose operations are donations made by major Aeon Group companies totaling 1% of dedicated to the pursuit of peace through prosperity. their pre-tax profits, and the AEON Environmental Foundation, which takes part in activities to protect the Earth’s environment, also appear People: in this report. Aeon is a corporate group that respects human dignity and values personal relationships. ●Target Audience Our customers, shareholders, students, local residents who live in the Community: neighborhood of the stores of the Aeon Group, business partners, Aeon is a corporate group rooted in local community NPOs, NGOs, government, investors and Aeon people (Aeon employees) life and dedicated to making a continuing contribution to the community. ●Reference Guidelines • Reference Guidelines Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) On the basis of the Aeon Basic Principles, • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version), Ministry of the Aeon practices its “Customer-First” Environment of Japan • Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment philosophy with its ever-lasting innovative spirit. of Japan • ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility Disclaimer This report contains plans and strategies for the future of Aeon Group, as well as predictions and prospects regarding our performance. Such information is based on our determinations and convictions made based in accordance with the facts and information currently available to us. 1 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Message from the CEO Aeon is promoting sustainable management with the aim of both developing a sustainable society and growing the Group. generation, Digital Shift for accelerating initiatives in omnichannel to grasp growth opportunities in the e-commerce markets, Urban Shift to develop stores and businesses tailored to the lifestyle needs of people in the urban area, and Asian Shift to provide safe and reliable products and services to people in the China and ASEAN markets. We will respond to the diverse need of our customers in Japan and at a globally through these shifts. We will respond to the expectations of the stakeholders and request from the society while steadily but surely growing as a Group. Motoya Okada We are also continuing to enhance our CSR foundations Group CEO, globally. Aeon was the first retailer in Japan to become a President of AEON CO., LTD. signatory to the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and Since it was first founded, Aeon has continuously since then we have consistently supported and practiced the worked to fulfill its mission as a retailer grounded in a basic principles set out therein and continue to strive in our initiatives. philosophy of peace, people, and the community. This includes Once achievement of these efforts has been establishing a continually contributing to a better life for our customers by framework for shared growth by requesting all suppliers in and supporting their daily needs and continually contributing to outside Japan for Aeon’s generic brand TOPVALU products to the development of society with local people through our comply with the Aeon Supply CoC (Code of Conduct). businesses. Aeon has maintained this stance over the years In April 2016, we announced the start of local ecosystem through partnerships with like-minded companies in terms building. This is a framework which various stakeholders of the commercialization, modernization and industrialization the region to work together to create added value when living of the retail business, constantly responding to change in the in that region. This is aim to be a new way of community process. Today, we employ a workforce of 520,000 and posts development that is able to respond to the new values in a more than 8 trillion JPY in operating profit. We have to further digital age through fully utilizing newest technologies. We promote sustainable management in order to realize both the have started in Chiba City as the first area to implement this development of society and the growth of the Group based on approach. We are planning to expand this effort all over Japan the basic principles as our scale of business expand and role through building local ecosystems and creating new local become greater. industry together with the stakeholders. Aeon is implementing 4 Shifts in the Medium-Term Aeon will continue, through dialogue and cooperation Management Plan (FY 2014 FY 2016). The 4 Shifts are Senior with our diverse stakeholders, to further evolve sustainable Shift for promoting development of new fields of business management and to grow over the Mediumand long-term to by each Group businesses to respond of needs of senior become Asia’s pre-eminent retailer. CONTENTS CONTENTS Message from the CEO 2 Key Issue 1 Aeon Group Message fromOverview the CEO 23 Realization Issue 1 of a Low-carbon Society Key 37 Aeon Group Group Overview CSR Reducing CO2 in Stores, Reducing CO2 in Products and Logistics, Generating Electricity at Stores Aeon 37 Realization of a Low-carbon Society 37 Key Issue 2 Reducing CO2 in Stores, Reducing CO2 in Products and Logistics, Generating Electricity at Stores Feature Aeon Group1 Dialogue CSR with Stakeholders 7 11 Conservation of Biodiversity 45 Key Issue 2 Feature 12 Dialogue Challengewith Stakeholders of Aeon 11 17 Sustainable Resource Usage, Sustainable Forest Conservation, Initiatives through our Stores, Conservation of Biodiversity 45 Initiatives through our Products Sustainable Procurement, Feature 2 Challenge of Aeon Aeon Forest Circulation 17 Sustainable Resource Usage, Sustainable Forest Conservation, Initiatives through our Stores, Key Issue 3 our Products Initiatives through Program, Zero Waste Initiatives Better Sustainable Together Procurement, with Communities Aeon Forest Circulation 21 Key IssueUse 3 of Resources 55 Program, Zero Waste Initiatives Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products, Together with Customers, Local Ecosystems Better Strengthening Usetheof Resources Management System 55 Together with for New Relationships Between Communities 21 Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products, Together with Customers, Communities andfor Lifestyles Key Issue 4the Management System Strengthening Local Ecosystems New Relationships Between Addressing Key Issue 4 Social Issues 63 StrengtheningCommunities Our CSRand Platform Lifestyles 23 Community Involvement, Fair Business Practices, Consumer Issues, Human Addressing Rights/Labor Practices Social Issues 63 Corporate Governance Strengthening Our CSR Platform 23 Community Involvement, Fair Business Practices, Consumer Issues, Human Risk Management Corporate Governance Report Rights/Labor PracticesAfter the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquakes Support 95 Compliance Risk and Corporate Ethics Management UpdateSupport Report Report After Activities the 2016thatKumamoto Widen theEarthquakes Circle of 95 Environmental Compliance andManagement Corporate Ethics TohokuReport Update Creation Activities that Widen the Circle of 97 Environmental Management Tohoku Awards List Creation from the outside (FY 2015) 97 100 FY 2015 Activities 36 Primary environmental Awards List from the conservation and social contribution activities outside (FY 2015) 100 100 FYCSR 2015 Promotion Framework Activities 36 GRI Guidelines Primary Indicators environmental conservation and social contribution activities 101 100 CSR Promotion Framework GRI Guidelines Indicators 101 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 2 Aeon Group Overview Business Expansion With approximately 520,000 Aeon employees in around 300 Aeon Group companies in Japan, China and ASEAN, Aeon is developing its business in sales, services, and nine total segments supporting people's daily lives in 13 countries. Aeon is mainly a GMS (General Merchandise Store) General Merchandise Store Business enterprise, but is expanding to large mall-type regional The segment engages in operating commercial area shopping centers (SC) as well as a variety general merchandise stores for of local commercial area specialty shops that supply life’s enriching everyday lives of customers daily necessities and offer specialized services to the local with specialized product lineups and services. community. In addition, in support of our customers’ AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON Hokkaido healthy and comfortable lives, we are developing a variety of Corporation, SUNDAY CO., LTD., AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., businesses such as small supermarkets, convenience stores, Ltd., AEONBIKE CO., LTD., AEON Bakery Co., Ltd., AEON LIQUOR CO., LTD., AEON drug stores, and general financial services. 520,000 Aeon RYUKYU CO., LTD., TOPVALU COLLECTION CO., LTD., Bon Belta Co., Ltd. employees, in around 300 Aeon Group companies in Japan, China and ASEAN, are striving to contribute to the convenient Supermarket & Discount Store Business and comfortable living of our customers and to achieve global We are expanding community-rooted ‘customer satisfaction.’ supermarkets and discount stores. We are enhancing our line-up of everyday ■ Operating Revenue (unit: billion JPY) necessities focused on foodstuff. United Super Markets Holdings Inc., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., FY 2011 5,223.3 Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., ◎Inageya Co., Ltd., ◎Belc CO., LTD., A·Colle Co., LTD., FY 2012 5,685.3 AEON BIG CO., LTD., AEON MARKET CO., LTD., KASUMI CO., LTD., KOHYO CO., LTD., SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD., The Daiei, Inc., BIG-A CO., LTD., BIG-A KANSAI JAPAN FY 2013 6,395.1 CO.,LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., The Maruetsu, Inc., marunaka CO., LTD., Red Cabbage Co., Ltd. FY 2014 7,078.5 FY 2015 8,176.7 Small Size Store Business ■ Operating revenue (%) by Segment* The segment engages in developing and operating small-sized supermarkets Financial Services GMS Business and specialty stores offering packed Business deli food mainly in urban areas in Japan, Shopping Center SM・DS Business in addition to the convenience store Development Operating business in Japan and Asian countries. Small Size Business Revenue Store Business Service･Specialty by Segment MINISTOP CO., LTD., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., My Basket CO., LTD. Store Business Drugstore & International Business Pharmacy Business Drugstore & Pharmacy Business Other Retail Stores The segment engages in operating *Based on simple combined figures before consolidated adjustment drugstores and dispensing pharmacies to help local residents maintain their own health. In addition to widening ■ Ordinary Income (unit: billion JPY) product line-ups from medical products, daily necessities to health FY 2011 212.2 foods, it is working to expand its services including dispensing for home care patients. FY 2012 212.5 WELCIA HOLDINGS CO., LTD., ◎Medical Ikkou Co., Ltd., ◇TSURUHA HOLDINGS FY 2013 176.8 Inc., ◇KUSURI NO AOKI CO., LTD., WELCIA YAKKYOKU Co., Ltd., SHIMIZU YAKUHIN CO., LTD., CFS Corporation, ◎Welpark Co., Ltd., ◎ZAG ZAG Co., Ltd. ＊The above companies constitute Hapycom, an alliance of drugstores and FY 2014 152.5 dispensing pharmacies. FY 2015 179.6 3 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Financial Services Business Digital Business The segment engages in offering The segment engages in driving further integrated financial services that growth of e-commerce including combine credit, banking, insurance Net Super, while promoting Aeon’s services, and e-money WAON cards. In unique strategy of omni-channel that Asian countries, it mainly operates the integrates experiences, products and credit card business. the Internet. AEON Financial Service Co., Ltd., AEON CREDIT SERVICE (ASIA) CO., LTD., AEON Aeon Link Co., Ltd. THANA SINSAP (THAILAND) PLC., AEON CREDIT SERVICE (M) BERHAD,◎AEON *The corporate name changed to AEON.com Co., Ltd. on April 1, 2016 REIT Investment Corporation, AEON BANK, LTD., AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON HOUSING LOAN SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON Product Finance Co., Ltd., AEON INSURANCE SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON Reit Management Co., Ltd., FeliCa Pocket International Business Marketing Inc. The segment engages in operating general merchandise stores, Shopping Center Development Business supermarkets, discount stores and The segment engages in developing other businesses in China and ASEAN and operating community-friendly countries. The stores, products and shopping malls in Japan and Asian services are tailored to the life style of countries. In cooperation with other the respective countries. segments, it is working to enhance its [China] AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD., AEON Stores (Hong Kong) Co., Limited, AEON EAST CHINA services and facilities in accordance (SUZHOU) CO., LTD., AEON (HUBEI) CO., LTD., AEON South China Co., Limited, with the changing trends in society. BEIJING AEON CO., LTD., GUANGDONG AEON TEEM CO., LTD., QINGDAO AEON AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON TOWN Co., Ltd. DONGTAI CO., LTD. [ASEAN] AEON ASIA SDN. BHD., AEON CO. (M) BHD., AEON BIG (M) SDN. BHD., AEON INDEX LIVING SDN. BHD., AEON VIETNAM Co., LTD., AEON (CAMBODIA) Co., Ltd., AEON Service·Specialty Store Business (Thailand) CO., LTD., DONG HUNG INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANCY The segment engages in providing JOINT STOCK COMPANY LIMITED, PT. AEON INDONESIA, ◎FIRST VIETNAM services that make everyday life more INVESTMENT JOINT STOCK COMPANY convenient and comfortable, as well as Shared Function Companies: ◎YAMAYA CORPORATION, AEON Integrated operating an array of specialty stores Business Service Co., Ltd., AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd., AEON GLOBAL SCM tailored to diversifying customer needs. CO., LTD., AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD., AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., Ltd., AEON [Service Business] MARKETING CO., LTD., Cordon Vert CO., LTD., Research Institute For Quality AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD., AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd., ZWEI CO., LTD., AEON Eaheart Co., Living Co., Ltd., Tasmania Feedlot Pty. Ltd., ◎AEON Demonstration Service Inc. LTD., AEON ENTERTAINMENT CO., LTD., AEON CULTURE CO., LTD., AEON COMPASS * Only major companies in each business segment are shown. CO., LTD., AEON LIFE CO., LTD., KAJITAKU Co., Ltd., Reform Studio Co., Ltd. ◎Equity-method Affiliates, ◇Affiliated Companies [Specialty Store Business] (As of February 29, 2016) GFOOT CO., LTD., COX CO., LTD., ◎Taka:Q Co., Ltd., Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd., AEON FOREST CO., LTD., AEON PET CO., LTD., AEON BODY Co., Ltd., Claire's Nippon Co., Ltd., Cosmeme CO., LTD., Talbots Japan Co., Ltd., Branshes Co. Ltd., MIRAIYA SHOTEN CO., LTD., Mega Sports Co., Ltd., MEGA PETRO Co., Ltd., LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD., AT Japan Co., Ltd., R.O.U CO., LTD. Aeon is contributing environmentally and socially through business operations, and also through promoting initiatives of the AEON 1% Club Foundation and the AEON Environmental Foundation. AEON 1% Club Foundation AEON Environmental Foundation The AEON 1% Club Foundation was established in 1989 with The AEON Environmental Foundation was founded in 1990 to the philosophy that Aeon is a company that makes proper use provide support to like-minded groups actively developing projects of the benefits received from customers for the future and for to protect the global environment. The Foundation has planted trees the community. Our activities are centered around the sound around the world and promoted a variety of joint environmental upbringing of children who will lead the next generation, protection initiatives, such as the development of human resources the promotion of international friendship and goodwill, and in the fields of the environment and conservation of biodiversity. sustainable development of the local community. Major companies in the Aeon Group contribute 1% of pre-tax profits. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 4 Aeon Group Overview イオングループの概要 グローバル展開 Global Expansion Continuing to grow Aeon's business in countries across Asia to contribute to abundant lives and sustainable development in the region. Since its founding, Aeon has pursued business under that we have developed in Japan, and through interacting with the principle that the retail industry is rooted in the local the people in places where we do business, Aeon is striving to community, and continues to grow—as a local industry— contribute to sustainable development in local regions, address with the region.” Currently, we have developed a diverse and the unique needs of those regions, and provide solutions to varied business that supports the daily lives of people in 13 the challenges facing society. countries, from Japan to China and ASEAN. The Aeon Group Medium term Management Plan (FY2014-2016) is currently in progress and sees expansion in Asian markets as a growth opportunity for Aeon. We are unifying together as a Group to promote the expansion of multi-formatted business in retail, finance, services, and more. Through the extensive expertise 3 headquarters structure Aeon Group’s Shared Social and Environmental Initiatives AEON CO., LTD. Tree Community Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Planting Contribution Aeon Hometown Forest Aeon Happy Yellow for Japan for China for ASEAN Program Receipt Campaign Next Generation Energy (AEON VIETNAM Co., LTD.) (Aeon Group companies in China) Location:Chiba city, Location: Beijing, China Location: Kuala Chiba Prefecture Lumpur, Malaysia Development Management Group employees(FY 2015) Employees: 515,488 (151,809 men, 363,679 women) Indefinite contracted employees: 97,809 (59,929 men, 37,880 women) Fixed-term contract employees: 417,679 (91,880 men, 325,799 women) * Domestic and overseas major 98 companies (as of the end of February 2016) Aeon Cheers Club Promotion of Energy Management (AEON CO. (M) BHD.) (Aeon Group companies in China) History of Aeon in China and the ASEAN region 1991 20022012 The first Aeon Hometown Forests Program store Tree planting activities carried AEON CO. (M) BHD. started the 2001 Malaysia Jusco Malacca out in ASEAN countries activities of the “Aeon Cheers Club” School Construction Support (currently Aeon Malacca SC) (currently AEON Environmental Project in Asia started 2014 Foundation) 2015 in Cambodia The First The First Store (currently AEON 1% Club Store in 2011 in Indonesia opened Foundation) Vietnam and Aeon’s Headquarters Cambodia for ASEAN established opened 2015 1985 Started the ‘Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign’ Aeon’s first overseas store, 2010 in Thailand and Cambodia opened in Malaysia 2014 2000 AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD. started the 1990 activities of the “Aeon Cheers Club” 1998 2012 1996 Initiated Tree planting AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD. started Opened first store in project to revitalize the forests at the the ‘Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign’ mainland China Great Wall of China (currently AEON 1987 The First Store in China Environmental Foundation) 2011 1980 (Hong Kong) was opened We formulated China Aeon CSR Policies 1985 when establishing the AEON (CHINA) headquarters Jusco Stores (Hong Kong) established in addition to launching the Environment and Risk Management Committee 5 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 The number of stores and offices, including consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates China ●GMS 49 ●Mall-type Shopping South Korea ●SM 20 Centers 21 ●CVS 2,224 ●CVS 61 ●Financial Services 41 ●Specialty Stores 44 ●Service Businesses 131 ●Other Retail Stores 36 ●Other Businesses 5 Japan ●GMS 541 Thailand Laos ●SM 1,966 The Philippines ●SM 76 ●Service ●Financial ●DS 506 ●CVS 519 ●Financial Businesses 52 Services 1 ●HC 120 ●Financial Services 1 Services 212 ●Other Businesses 1 ●CVS 2,221 ●Service Businesses 14 India ●Specialty Stores 4,287 ●Financial ●Drugstores 3,765 Vietnam Services 3 ●Other Retail Stores 755 ●GMS 3 ●Mall-type Shopping Centers 229 ●SM 53 Myanmar ●NCS 173 ●CVS 30 ●Financial Services 1 ●Financial Services 362 ●Mall-type Shopping Centers 3 ●Service Businesses 1,652 ●Financial Services 4 ●Service Businesses 6 ●Other Businesses 1 Indonesia Cambodia ●GMS 1 ●GMS 1 ●CVS 6 ●Mall-type Shopping ●Mall-type Shopping Centers 1 Malaysia Centers 1 ●Financial Services 7 ●GMS 30 ●Financial Services 8 ●Service Businesses 5 ●SM 6 ●Service Businesses 2 ●DS 24 ●Other Retail Stores 41 ●Mall-type Shopping Centers19 ●Financial Services 61 Australia ●Service Businesses 72 ●Other Businesses 1 ●Other Businesses 1 GMS (General Merchandise Stores) 625 SM (Supermarkets) 2,121 DS (Discount Store) 530 HC (Home Centers) 120 CVS (Convenience Stores) 5,061 Specialty Store 4,331 Drugstores 3,765*1 Other Retail Stores 832 Mall-type SC (Shopping Centers) 274*2 NSC (Neighborhood-type Shopping Center) 173*3 Financial Services 701 Service Business 1,934 Other Businesses 9 Total: 20,476 Stores/Locations *1 Including affiliated companies *2 Including SCs operated under the name of Aeon Mall as well as those with total leased area of over 20,000m2 (End of FY 2015) *3 NSCs operated under the name of Aeon Town Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 6 Aeon Group CSR History Basing Actions on our Company mission statement of “Supporting the Local Community through Commerce” The Origin of Aeon’s CSR Activities Engaging in “Responsible Initiatives” while 1989-2001 Expanding our Business Building a CSR Promotion Framework and Launching New Initiatives Aeon’s predecessor company, JUSCO, Inc., came into being in 1969, as the result of a merger between three companies—Okadaya, Inc., Futagi, Inc., and Shiro, Inc. Starting with Trees—Embarking on Many JUSCO expanded business with the mission statement Activities Leading to Today's CSR Initiatives at the time of ‘Supporting the Local Community through Commerce.’ Since that time, the Aeon Group has grown its business and partnered with companies that share its In order to carry out corporate activities befitting of a retailer aspirations for moving retail into more corporate, representing Japan as well as Asia, and to continue to be a retailer modern, and industrial forms. In the past 46 years, sales consistently delivering vital value in the form of “richness,” Aeon has have increased from 500 million JPY to 8 trillion JPY, the proceeded to build a framework since the latter 1980s for engaging number of stores has expanded from 70 to 20,476, and in CSR activities as an organization. the number of employees has increased from 4,000 to In 1989, the Aeon Group 1% Club (the present AEON 1% Club approximately 520,000. Foundation) was established (see p.4) and in 1990 the JUSCO While charting this course, Aeon has generated new Earth-Friendly Committee was formed, along with the Aeon Group strength for responding to changes in the times by Environment Foundation, the present AEON Environment Foundation bringing together a work force with a diverse array of (see p.4). skills. In order to continue providing safe and reassuring Building on this framework, the Aeon Hometown Forests Program products, we have constantly increased our emphasis on was started in 1991, followed by the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag and recognition of “responsible initiatives” along with Campaign and the Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores business expansion. In alliance with our business partners Campaign. In 2000, we received ISO 14001 certification for our and many stakeholders, we have remained aware of the environmental management system. In this way, Aeon has importance of increasing value, such as the quality of embarked on environmental conservation and many other products, and of the growing expectations from society activities leading up to today's CSR initiatives. for our role in providing employment and protecting the environment as the scale of our business increases. The Origin of Tree Planting Activities 1989 Established the Aeon Group 1% Club Foundation 1990 Established the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee Carrying the Source of Wealth forward into the Future Established the Aeon Group Environmental Foundation 1991 Initiated the Aeon Hometown Forests Program In the 1960s, Takuya Okada, then president of JUSCO Started Clean & Green activities (present day AEON) and currently Aeon Honorary Commenced the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” Campaign on a trial basis as well as Chairman and Advisor, noticed that the Nandina launched the experimental “Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores” Campaign. Heavenly Bamboo flowers in the garden of his home 2000 Acquired the international standard ISO14001 certification for environmental management 2001 Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign had stopped blooming. He assumed that was a result of the earth’s changing environment. He also felt a sense of crisis, realizing that the pollution accompanying economic growth would create social problems and that the loss of nature’s richness would be connected with a loss of sources of wealth. The result was contemplation on how a retailer could improve the situation, and establishment of The Aeon Hometown Forests Program. Based on our reflection, we started the tree planting activity in 1991. By planting trees with Operating revenue local customers, the Company was able to work side by Group side with local residents, deepen connections, and employees share a peaceful sense of joy while recognizing the importance of nature. Mr. Okada's idea was to Number of incorporate implementation of the Aeon Basic trees planted (unit:10,000) Principles in tree planting activities. 1991 1993 1995 1997 *Combined total for the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and AEON Environmental Foundation. 7 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 2002-2008 2008-2010 Expanding Activities from a Global Perspective Promoting More Group-wide and Planned Activities Launching Initiatives Incorporating the 10 Formulating Aeon Group Principles Concerning Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Biodiversity and the Prevention of Global Warming With a view to reinforcing its global perspective on CSR, Aeon In 2008, we announced the Aeon Manifesto on the in 2004 became Japan’s first retailer to sign the United Nations Prevention of Global Warming, the first Japanese retailer set Global Compact. Based on the 10 Principles outlined in the specific targets for CO2 emission reduction. Through initiatives United Nations Global Compact, Aeon formulated its “Aeon in our stores (developing Eco Stores, etc.), in our products Supplier Code of Conduct” (CoC) (see p.75), and acquired (conserving resources used in packaging materials and SA8000 certification (see p.79), an international standard changing transportation methods), and with our customers related to human rights and labor conditions. Building on (planting trees at Aeon stores), we were able to achieve the these activities, Aeon and three labor organizations, including FY 2012 reduction target of a 30% (1.85 million tons-CO2) the international labor body UNI Global Union, signed the cut, in comparison with FY 2006 levels, one year early in FY Global Framework Agreement on labor practices, human 2011. At present, we are moving forward not only with rights, and the environment in 2014. environmental conservation initiatives, but have also added Since 2008, Aeon has participated in the Supply Chain the Aeon Eco Project (see p.37), as part of our effort for Sub-Committee of the Global Compact Japan Network in stores to be emergency lifeline centers. order to promote CSR together with our supply chain Furthermore, we formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Principle in partners. Dialog with member companies is ongoing. 2010, the year that COP10 (the 10th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity) was held in Japan. Aeon continues to develop and sell biodiversity-responsive products with MSC (Marine Stewardship Council), ASC (Aquaculture Stewardship Council), and FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certifications, and creates stores conscious of protecting and rejuvenating ecosystems. 2003 Formulated the Aeon Supplier CoC (Code of Conduct) 2008 Formulated the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming 2004 Endorsed the United Nations Global Compact 2010 Formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Principle Acquired the international standard SA8000 certification for evaluating work environments 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2010 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 8 Aeon Group CSR Going Forward Stepping Up Key Issue Initiatives Based on the Aeon Sustainability Principle 2011-2013 Striving for Group Growth and Societal Development ‘4 Key Issues’ for Sustainable Priority Items for All Stakeholders ● ISO26000 Management ● GRI Guidelines ● United Nations Global Compact ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines, As the globalization of our business continues to make great Ministry of the Environment of Japan strides and our impact on the environment and society rise to ● Customer Feedback and Inquiries new levels, we are more actively promoting CSR initiatives Group-wide. In March 2011, we formulated and announced the Priority Items for Aeon Growth Aeon Sustainability Principle seeking to achieve sustainable ● Aeon Basic Principles management that satisfies both group growth and societal ● Medium Term Management Plan development. In March 2011, Aeon CO., LTD. formulated and announced the Aeon Sustainability Principle. In formulating the Principle, we took into account worldwide Dialogue with the Environment Advisory Board, Outside Directors, and others megatrends, the changing values of people, social issues 1 2 addressed in the UN Millennium Development Goals, initiatives and guidelines regarding social responsibility, such as ISO Realization Conservation of of a Low-carbon 26000, as well as the basic content of our new Medium-term Society Aeon Sustainability Principle Biodiversity Management Plan. Deliberations took place by stakeholders Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society with inside and outside the company, such as our Environmental stakeholders based on our basic principle of Advisory Board, outside Directors, and Aeon people involved “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and with CSR activities. Along with determining the 4 Key Issues for contributing to local communities, always with the the Aeon Group, we set Mediumand long-term key customer’s point of view at its core.” With “realization of a low-carbon society,” performance indicators (KPI) for each Key Issue, and publicize “conservation of biodiversity,” “better use of our progress every year in our Aeon Environmental and Social resources” and “addressing social issues” as core Report. principles, we will think globally and advance activities locally. 2011 2012 2014 Established Aeon Sustainability Principle Started Aeon Eco Project Formulated the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle 3 Better Use of Resources Dialogue with internal project teams 4 Addressing Social Issues Global Framework Agreements Joined forces with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to extend CSR programs in Malaysia 10 million trees 2013 9 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 2014-2020 Putting sustainability management into practice “Big Challenge” Launching “Big Challenge”— Fully integrated management Targeted level of CSR and business Our Targets for 2020 of achievement ≒ CSV (Creating Shared Value) Stage In order to further advance our sustainability management III while responding to the changes in the social environment Aeon's current level and the business environment, Aeon assessed the results of Risk reinforcement generating strength its current CSR activity level as “Stage II” in 2014. This refers to of achievement Stage Initiatives toward addressing a three-stage classification system where Stage I denotes II social issues (generating business opportunities) business management that controls risk in social, environmental, and economic terms; Stage II denotes CSR activities as functioning to solve social issues and providing the opportunity for Risk control Stage (Corporate ethics and compliance) I growth; and Stage III denotes CSR activities and business Individual activities based on activities being managed in a fully integrated fashion. Aeon philosophy announced its “Big Challenge” comprising 10 categories that need to be achieved for Stage III by 2020. In addition, we are periodically holding dialogues (see p.11) with our stakeholders (including external experts), discussing 10 categories “Big Challenge 2020” our progress on these activities and receiving advice on 1 how to proceed going forward. We are also reviewing Realization of a Low-carbon Society priority challenges in the future based on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations ● Promoting the Aeon Eco Project (★) in September 2015 and the new international framework ● Implementing the Aeon Natural Refrigerants Declaration related to climate change (Paris Agreement) adopted at ● Reducing CO2 in our products and services COP21 in December. Aeon will continue to promote dialogue with stakeholders inside and outside the Company. While not settling for the status quo, we will endeavor toward responsible corporate 2 Conservation of Biodiversity ● Formulation of Sustainable Procurement conduct befitting Asia’s pre-eminent retailer. Guidelines (★) ● Next 10 million trees (Circulation Program of Aeon Forest)(★) 3 Better Use of Resources ● Zero waste (★) 8.176 trillion JPY Approx. 520,000 employees 4 Addressing Social Issues ● Proposing ideas for healthy lifestyles ● Building a social brand ● Expanding employment of non-Japanese employees 11,179,065 trees ● Raising our female manager ratio Letting Forests Grow Plant, Nurture, Thrive ★ Items of Particular Focus in FY 2016 that Targets Stage III 2015 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 10 Feature 1 Dialogue with Stakeholders Aiming to be the Truly No. 1 Retailer in Asia Aeon is continually striving to overcome challenges and practice CSR activities with unified management throughout the Group based on its basic principles. This dialogue brings together experts to discuss how to respond to the changing society and what direction should be taken in this aim of CSR. Hidemi Tomita Senior Project Principal, Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited Societal Changes and Aeon CSR actions set in the Big Challenge 2020 targets with the aim of As a Company Expanding Businesses integrated CSR and business management. Throughout Asia Tomita: The various activities Aeon is conducting are fantastic. Kanamaru: However, the initiatives also seem extremely broad. We at Aeon are presently expanding our business with 2015 has been a year with great leaps forward in the roughly 300 group companies in 13 countries by holding field of sustainability with the adoption of Sustainable dear to our ‘pursuing peace, respecting humanity and Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations and contributing to local communities’ basic principle. We the Paris Agreement at the United Nations Framework formulated the Aeon Sustainability Principle in 2011 for Convention on Climate Change at the 21st Conference the purpose of realizing a sustainable society with our of the Parties (COP21). However, I think this has also been various stakeholders based on the much greater impact the first year for integration. Our generation has been we have on the environment and society as our businesses one focused on activities since 2003, which is known as expand globally. We have set four priority issues -realizing the first year of CSR, but management integrating both a low-carbon society, conserving biodiversity, effectively business and CSR will be of greater necessity in the future using resources, and addressing social issues -in order to as the phase of CSR changes. Therefore, simply conducting achieve both the development of local communities and a broad range of activities is not sufficient. First, social the growth of our business. We are also working with 10 issues and environmental challenges directly confronted in business need to be identified, and then the company needs to select and deepen its perspective of priority issues for the organization. This could be referred to as the common global direction. Kawaguchi: Aeon has a bottom-up style of business. The impression I have of Big Challenge 2020 is as voluntary initiatives gathered on-site rather than policies formulated at the top applied on-site. A culture of voluntary initiatives set on the ground is excellent, but this makes the strategy of the Group as a whole difficult to see from outside of the company unfortunately. Tomita: I agree with this image for the General Merchandise Store Business, but what about the other businesses? Aeon 11 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Mariko Kawaguchi Shinya Wako Haruko Kanamaru Chief Researcher, Research Division, CMA, Deputy President, Chief Corporate Strategy Officer, General CSR Division Manager, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Chief International Business Officer, Corporate Citizenship Department, AEON CO., LTD. AEON CO., LTD. does have a wide range of businesses. New challenges to Brexit (United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the EU), are bound to be confronted as the number of Group refugee issues, and terrorism. On the other hand, Aeon has companies increases. If we map topics for the environment, endorsed an Asian shift. Isn’t this a chance for Aeon to be a human rights, and society for each business, I think it would world leader in sustainability activities on the Asian stage? clarify the challenges and significance of initiatives Aeon Tomita: should undertake and be easier to communicate to the What if Aeon was able to bring out a model unique to stakeholders. Asia as an Asian company as CSR is a model that has Kanamaru: been cultivated in U.K. and other European countries? I agree. I believe the most important stakeholder as a retailer Aeon would like to expand its initiatives with an original is definitely the customer in terms of communication. The perception of Asia according to a principle of peace as the activities Aeon has strived for up until now will always have platform. I expect the enthusiasm would be at a level to the challenge of how to communicate those efforts to create a standard as the No. 1 retailer. everyone in an easy-to-understand manner. Wako: Kawaguchi: These are very valuable suggestions. In the same way as low Retails need to address Goal 12: Sustainable Consumption carbon shifted to decarbonization at COP21, we have to and Production that is outlined in the SDGs. I feel it would work to address issues quickly as the world changes rapidly. be easier to understand if initiatives were gathered for each We strive to comprehensively recognize the problems stage of the value chain from stores and distribution to that come up in each of our businesses, but I once again products in order to realize sustainable consumption and feel the necessity for an even clearer understanding. I also production. This would incorporate endeavors that include think Aeon needs to propose a model unique to Asia. wood material initiatives, fair-trade and organic products. The problems faced by each country in Asia that we are Tomita: expanding our businesses differ. The best way in which to Reviewing policies and strategies to match societal conduct efforts in a constructive manner in-line with the changes is a must. External environments change and so situation in each country for issues such as the environment, do the purchasing and business models of the business. resource recycling, additives, fair trade, and deforestation. For example, reviewing the direction of efforts once each year and the strategy of efforts once every five years is an important process. Kawaguchi: The 2015 Paris Agreement and SDGs are international frameworks to promote sustainability. U.K. and other European countries were the strongest promoters up until now, but the pace of European affairs may slow due Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 12 of these items have in common. This would increase the persuasive power for setting targets such as why Aeon is aiming to reduce the amount of energy in stores 50% by 2020. Quantification is also important. For example, 200 thousand kW, which is the target for generating renewable energy, is the capacity for equipment, but we are not sure how much of that renewable energy makes up the power actually used by Aeon. I would like this point visualized. The reduction of the amount of energy used is a basic initiative for climate change measures. However, another method would be to switch to even lower carbon energy. I would like to see the biomass power generation proposed by Mariko Kawaguchi to be considered rather than simply installing solar panels at stores. In this consideration, Aeon could turn to using the forests it has planted up until now. Trimmings generated in caring for the forests could be used as materials to bring new value to the tree planting activity. Kanamaru: Utilizing the potential of the forests. Aeon has been Core Fields of Big Challenge 2020 conducting tree-planting activities for over 20 years. We have succeeded in planting a total of 10 million trees as of Define Long-term Targets Through Ideas 2013. In the Next 10 Million Tree initiative to plant another Considering the Entire Supply Chain 10 million trees, we are expanding activities to growth and utilization as a company that has been engaged in planting initiatives for so many years. I hope we will work in Kanamaru: ways to use wood materials at stores and products that are We have been focusing on three items in our Big Challenge unique to a retailer. In addition, we must also respond to 2020 -Aeon Eco Project, Next 10 Million Trees, and Zero deforestation issues. Waste. Aeon Eco Project is an initiative formulated based Tomita: on our experience after the Great East Japan Earthquake in As a long-term target, Aeon could ultimately aim for energy policies toward 2020. This project aims to reduce complete recycling of wood. The paper industry is building the use of energy at stores 50% (compared to 2010 levels), a model to prevent new deforestation by planting an create 200 thousand kW of renewable energy, and install equivalent number of trees as the wood materials to use disaster prevention facilities at 100 stores around Japan. in their businesses. This is quite a difficult endeavor, but I Our renewable energy is currently generating 5.7 thousand think Aeon could also step up to this challenge. In this case, kW through the installation of solar panels at more than as quantification, Aeon needs to first measure the amount 1,000 stores, but we hope to enhance this measure to of wood materials necessary to construct a store. Then, achieve our targets for 2020. I also believe we need to set understand how much wood would be taken from planted targets for 2030 and 2050 based on the modern trend for forests. By understanding this numerically, Aeon would decarbonization. understand the ratio of wood Aeon uses to the forests that Kawaguchi: are planted. This would generate a new visual image that Solar power generation is realistic as an initiative in Japan for decarbonization. However, Aeon needs to think broadly about even purchasing rather than simply achieving independent power generation for all of the 200 thousand kW target of renewable energy. For example, local energy close to the local area is one active method, but linking to community power close to the local region is another. What about the use of biomass power generation as yet another? Biomass is difficult for reasons such as gathering the raw materials and the regions to expand to need to be chosen, but looking to diverse methods for power generation could be beneficial. Moreover, water is another issue as important as energy. Why not publicize the use of rainwater at stores even more? Tomita: A large objective for around 2050 is something all three 13 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Feature 1 Dialogue with Stakeholders would illustrate the impact these 10 million trees could can be done, Aeon could see how measures would be able have. to quantify and bring shape to the truly ideal form Aeon Kawaguchi: is aiming. Aeon is already engaged in great initiatives, so I I agree. I am sure there are some strategies that would would like to see those initiatives expanded from this point be difficult to illustrate numerically, but quantification is of view. necessary to a certain degree in integrating CSR with the Kawaguchi: primary business of the company. The impact whether To touch on the subject of zero emissions, Europe is large or small on the business for the 10 million trees would focusing on a circular economy. Japan also has something be communicated more easily by indicating the percentage similar to a circular economy, but the motivation is different. materials are incorporated into the primary business. The reduction of waste in Japan is for conserving resources This brings to mind the more than 100 Ministop stores and securing landfills even if costly through cooperation that I have heard use FSC®-certified materials from Japan. between the government and public. However, a circular Isn’t there some way to make this accomplishment more economy is seen to generate new business and profit. appealing? Laws are being enacted to restrict the import of While mining of underground resources is difficult with illegal wood materials. Pioneer examples for use of Japanese recarbonization and the depletion of resources, the idea materials should be more highly praised because the is to mine above ground and more effectively use the import of wood materials from overseas is going to become resources already above ground. more difficult in the future. In regards to deforestation, there are also problems related to palm oil used in a wide variety of food and everyday goods. Plantations after the consumer expansion of palm oil is related to the destruction of tropical rain forests. This has also garnered media attention in recent years. Awareness will possibly grow, eliminating complacency of deforestation between consumers. Kanamaru: Aeon has been participating in The Consumer Goods Forum, which is an international organization made up of retail and consumer goods manufacturer members. We agree with the targets to achieve zero net deforestation by 2020 laid out by this forum. We formulated the Sustainable Procurement Principle in 2014, and we are currently investigating specific initiatives in procurement policies for forest resources as well as products, materials, and architecture. Another point of focus is zero emissions, we believe communication with our customers is important as something which can be done by a retailer. I also think it is necessary to consider the ideal form of shopping in the future together with our customers. For example, efforts to reduce waste is possible when customers choose items with a relatively short consumer period if we clearly know what food to have for the next day. Even in this case, the way in which to use the food waste which was not sold needs to be thought about collaboratively with our various stakeholders. Tomita: Where is the most waste produced in the supply chain? The present initiatives are generally focused on innovations at the store level, but isn’t there a great deal of waste produced by consumers at their homes? It would be beneficial if Aeon could quantify the volume of waste produced by the consumer, even if only an estimate, as an approach to reducing waste. Consumers who feel they should always shop at Aeon because less garbage comes from goods bought at Aeon would be wonderful. In the generation of integration to come, ideas looking at the entire supply chain will be vital. Rather than doing what Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 14 Disaster Prevention and Local Ecosystems Located at Stores Retailer to an Industry of Peace, ——Active relief efforts have been expanded even after the Kumamoto Earthquakes, but an important keyword for the Aeon Eco Project is disaster prevention. of local governments, universities, hospitals, companies, Kawaguchi: transportation agencies, financial organizations, and many Aren’t the current disaster prevention initiatives seen from a other organizations. Stores are a physical facility for all of different perspective than a standpoint on climate change? us. If the capabilities of organizations and people active The Aeon Eco Project itself can be seen as mitigation and as pillars of the community can effectively combined, the adaption climate change measures. Reducing the amount community would be a safer and more secure place with of energy used at stores and generating renewable energy greater convenience. are mitigation measures while disaster prevention facilities Tomita: at 100 locations could fall under adaption measures. Disaster prevention cannot be done by Aeon alone and Conventional initiatives at Japanese companies are requires the cooperation of municipals and community founded on mitigation measures yet overseas companies involvement. I believe this is a core element to create a put their effort behind adaption measures. For example, local ecosystem. Aeon should probably further awareness these adaption measures measure how much fuel and light of its presence with the local community by moving this expenses will raise due to the effects of global warming to initiative forward. This direction is extremely important from use in store designs. Safeguards from procurement risks are the perspective of integrating business and CSR. What will also important aspects of adaption measures. For example, be brought about by further deepening this effort? We can how does a company respond to risks like drought caused expect further development. by climate change that affect the supply of products? Kawaguchi: Climate change is a business risk, but companies have a This would mean Aeon would quickly transition from chance if they adapt. a retailer. The company would stand as a type of local Tomita: community manager. The impression would be totally I think the 100 prevention facilities is an excellent activity. different from a store lined with products for sale. Aeon Is this part of the local ecosystem initiative? Large facilities would first be a place that brings people together. This such as Aeon malls will fulfill various functions where stores would give the opposite impression of a place with stores are part of the town in the future. One of these many selling daily necessities. Wouldn’t this give birth to a new functions is disaster prevention. Or that is how I understand business model not in existence today? it. Wako: Wako: The insight I take away from what Ms. Kawaguchi said is As Mr. Tomita said, disaster prevention is also one element changes to the word of retailer as an industry of peace, of the local ecosystem. However, disaster prevention is humanity and local communities which Aeon has stated in advancing as a priority in each region as disaster prevention. the principles for its business. Local ecosystems is an initiative that started in the spring of 2016. This initiative is not only an independent project of Aeon but is also moving forward with the cooperation Expectations for Aeon Building New Relationships with Customers ——Finally, I would like to ask for a comment about your expectations for Aeon in the future. Kawaguchi: Trees and fish are symbolic in the activities of Aeon. At the beginning of this discussion, I said retailers need both sustainable consumption and production, but there are a wide range of topics in this field of sustainable consumption and production. Trees and fish have been iconic among these topics and may need to be communicated both inside and outside of the company. Initiatives involving trees are expanding beyond tree planting activities to 15 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Feature 1 Dialogue with Stakeholders include using Japanese materials and FSC-certified products confronted by Aeon will most likely only get bigger with at stores. I have heard the number of items for MSC-certified the growth of the Group. Can Aeon realize both the growth products even for fish are most numerous at Japanese of the Group and development of society? I have come to retailers. ASC-certified products are said to be released first understand this as the most important question to ask in in Asia. In addition, Aeon is ahead of its competitors as a terms of CSR. Therefore, we have to identify the problems powerful leader in efforts such as selling fully cultured tuna directly confronted by Aeon and work to assign priorities to not present in the wild. The issue of sustainability in the these issues. fishing industry is deeply intertwined with the food culture Moreover, how does Aeon create a model for all of Asia? of Japan. I would like active publicity to develop initiatives This is one of the major goals. The people who can see the as they are not very widely known. objective as it approaches are limited, but large goals set for Kanamaru: the future can be seen by many. I know we must seriously I am worried about overfishing and the depletion of trees consider what major goals we should set for 2050. We will and fish. I am sincere in our efforts to protect resources and advance our initiatives using today’s dialog as a reference. provide a stable supply of these commodities. I look forward to your continued strict evaluation of Aeon. Kawaguchi: Thank you very much. Additionally, Aeon handles organic and fair trade products as a private brand. I was surprised I was already able to buy these products at a convenient store. I hope to promote expansion of these ethical products and examine the methods able to facilitate ethical consumption from purchase to disposal. I agree with Hidemi Tomita that we need to engage our customers in efforts to reduce waste. As one additional point, I expect human resource initiatives. Big Challenge 2020 addresses the expansion of employment of non-Japanese employees as a response to social issues. However, is there any potential to employ the roughly 1,500,000 NEETS and people withdrawn from society throughout Japan? This initiative would be significant to society if Aeon was able to provide a workplace with employment training. Tomita: As I have said before, I would like activities to be further deepened after organizing the initiatives conducted up until now as well as setting and quantifying long-term targets. Moreover, as a comment from the perspective of one consumer who visits Aeon stores, I feel a great chance missed for the lack of communication with the customers on these sales floors. At the markets today, an increased amount of revenue is not guaranteed by simply offering the MSC certification for fish. The program will not grow without the enthusiasm for Aeon to create a generation MSC-certified fish is sold. I would really like to see the appeal for this program at stores enhanced. Aeon has stores used every day by consumers. A relationship of simply a seller and a buyer misses a great opportunity. Aeon should step up to a challenge that aims to build a new relationship with customers to truly create shared value (CSV). Wako: Thank you very much for all of your feedback. The Aeon Group has approximately 520,000 employees including part-time employees. The beliefs in our principles to be an industry of peace, humanity, and community are rooted in both our Group businesses and our employees. The perspective for contributions to realize a sustainable society in both Japan and Asia also need to be strengthened based on the globalization of our businesses in the future according to these shared principles. The problems directly Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 16 Feature 2 Challenge of Aeon We are introducing three initiatives that place particular focus on FY2016 with the objective of reaching Stage 3 in the Big Challenge 2020 activity items set by Aeon. Aiming for Both Sustainability of Natural Resources and Business Growth Sustainable Procurement Products developed and sold by Aeon and construction materials used in our stores are a bounty provided by nature. Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle We are procuring these resources from producers all around 1. Eliminating natural resource transactions, gathering, and fishing conducted illegally. the world. Aeon began efforts toward procurement guideline 2. Establishing and managing Aeon standards from the perspective of formulation in 2011 to realize more sustainable procurement. biodiversity preservation and preventing the depletion of natural resources. 3. Minimizing use of non-renewable resources. We formulated the “Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle” in 4. Establishing traceability, including place of production and FY 2014 with the aim for compatibility between the continuous fishing methods, for produce and marine resources. growth of business and the sustainability of natural resources. 5. Preventing the destruction of forest with high conversation value. Conserving Fisheries Resources Aeon actively works to procure sustainable seafood products by formulating the Aeon Seafood Procurement Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy Principle ( P.47) in order to protect limited marine resources Carry out regular risk assessments from a resource depletion prevention and to hand down to future generations our traditional and biodiversity conservation perspective. Also, in order to mitigate risks, review feasible countermeasures and Japanese culture surrounding food sources from the water and strive to procure sustainable seafood. sea based on the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle. Sales and development of MSCand ASC-certified products Development and sales of full-cycle aquaculture fish Aeon started sales of MSC-certified products (natural seafood Following the introduction of fully cultivated TOPVALU caught in a sustainable fishing) under the Marine Eco-Label in 2016. Gurinai Amami Raw Tuna released in June of 2015, which is We also began sales of ASC-certified products for aquacultured fish tuna that does not naturally in the wild as a resource, we began in 2014, which was a first as an Asian retailer. ( P.47) sales of full-cycle aquacultured TOPVALU Miyagi Yellowtail We have been displaying certified products for each type of (cultured) on June 2016. We are also working to procure fish up until now. However, at the Aeon Itabashi Maenomachi sustainable aquacultured fish that does not rely on natural that opened in November 2015, we brought together and eggs or juvenile fish. expanded certified products in a permanent section called FishBaton. We have begun proposals to pass down a rich food MSC certification culture to the next generation. We plan to install this section in Started in 2006. Seafood caught 100 stores of AEON Retail Co., Ltd. by 2020. with sustainable fishing methods (natural seafood) TOPVALU Gurinai MSC-certified salt sockeye ASC certification Started in 2014. Seafood produced through responsible aquaculture (aquacultured fish) TOPVALU Gurinai ASC-certified raw Atlantic salmon Full-cycle aquaculture Aquaculture to grow adult fish from eggs spawned from aquacultured fish without resorting to natural eggs and juvenile fish (aquacultured fish). TOPVALU Gurinai Raw tuna from Amami 17 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Conservation of Forest Resources Following the Aeon Seafood Procurement Principle, the Aeon Forest Resources Procurement Principle was established in 2016 based on the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle. We aim to contribute to the balance of utilization and conservation of forest resources based on the principle. Aeon Forest Resources Procurement Principle (Paper/Pulp/Timber) We will continue to utilize store materials and product raw materials made of lumber and pulp produced from properly managed forests, and we strive to prevent forest destruction. Initiatives through our Products 3. Ensuring Traceability Measures Identify risks and opportunities, consider viable methods, and aim for For high-risk countries and regions, raw material traceability to sustainable procurement through continuous improvement. forests are handled on a priority basis. 4. Prevention of Illegal Deforestation 1. Handling of Sustainable Products We confirm legal timber based on clean Wood Law. Products that have acquired FSC® certification are handled assertively since 5. Preservation of Areas with High Conservation Value it authenticates the use of raw material from properly managed forests. We confirm if precautions were taken in order to maintain areas with 2. Effective use of domestic lumber in Japan high conservation value. Efforts for the effective use of domestic timber in order to have sustainable cycle of Japan's forests. Initiatives through our Products Initiatives through our Stores FSC® certifies wood products and paper manufactured with In addition, MINISTOP CO., LTD. opened a Ministop store that timber from properly managed sustainable forests. Aeon has used 100% FSC Japan certified wood materials in 2009, as the been selling notebooks and other FSC-certified paper products first FSC®-certified convenience store in Japan. As of the end of since FY2008. February 2016, 152 Ministop stores are using FSC® certified material. Going forward, we plan to actively increase the number of environmentallyTOPVALU Best Price tissue paper using friendly stores using FSC® certified paper FSC® Japan certified (FSC® C005942) wood materials. Voice Voice Aeon has always conducted a wide range of initiatives from the The reason Ministop uses FSC®-certified wood is to reduce the standpoint of sustainability in seafood resources. In 2001, we forlarge investment and environmental burden required to open a mulated the Gurinai Seafood Production Standards based on the store. As a result of pursing a better economy with a lower enviorganic EU standards. It began from the development of TOPVALU ronmental impact, we have come to use FSC®-certified kit mateGurinai Roasted Eel. rials from Yamanashi Prefecture. FSC® requires considerations for We are expanding the handling of seafoods that consider the envithe environment in forests and the lifestyles of people who are ronment including MSC-certified products, ASC-certified products, working in forestry. and full-cycled aquacultured tuna. We are encouraging people engaged in forestry to value the bounIn the future, Aeon anticipates changes of modern times and keep ty given to us by forests through the use of FSC®-certified wood. directly confronting challenges from the environment and biodiversity to human rights and labor issues in the product supply chain. Yasuyuki Yamamoto Yukiyo Okamura Group Merchandising Strategy Department Construction and Facility Department AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. MINISTOP CO., LTD. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 18 Next 10 Million Trees Tree Planting to Tree Growing Aeon Forest Circulation Program We have been planting trees with customers since 1991 as planted in FY2013, Aeon started the Aeon Forest Circulation an activity that embodies the “Aeon Basic Principles”. Program with the theme of “Plant”, “Nurture”, “Thrive” in order With the opportunity after surpassing 10 million trees to advance to a new stage. Planting the Next 10 Million Trees-for the regions and for the future There are tree planting activities through the AEON Environmental Plant Foundation that aim for the regeneration of forests around the world along with carrying out “AEON Hometown forest creation” Letting Forests Grow by planting trees on site with Plant, Nurture, Thrive customers when a new store opens, and tree planting activities in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake are also implemented. “AEON Hometown forest creation” AEON Mall Okinawa Rycom “Forest Transcend Project” to foster successor forestry started in 2014 Thrive Nurture Construction Materials and Products Made from the Timber of properlyGrowth with Forests managed Forests Enriches Lives “Mie Tree Plaza” Sales of FSC® certified products ( P.49) and in addition to Development and management of planted trees has expanding stores (MINISTOP) that use 100% FSC® certified been carried out. In addition, we aim to protect forests wood materials from Japan ( P.49), we are striving to and lifestyles through the sustainable use of forest promote the use of wood resources through various resources in Mie Prefecture through cooperation with methods. For example, in the “Aeon Mall Toin”, a permanent business and NPO Miyagawa Shinsengumi on forestry children's playground, the “Mie Tree Plaza” was installed succession planning. utilizing timber from Mie Prefecture. Aeon Hometown Forests Program Aeon, a shoppi ng center nurtured in a gree Since 1991, Aeon has planted trees with our customers when opening new stores. n environmen (AEON Mall t Urawa Misono ) 2006 (trees planted) 2009 2016 19 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 To Build a Recycling-oriented Society Zero Waste Initiatives The social demand for reductions in waste is increasing in is to zero), determines the ”Aeon “Waste Zero” Effort Concept” Japan and overseas. Goals related to the reduction of waste and is promoting these efforts. Even within these efforts, and food waste were included as United Nations sustainable there are important themes from the relevance of food waste development goals (SDGs) and adopted in 2015. In addition, to Aeon’s business, and efforts have been strengthened in Japan is also expected to strengthen related regulations such these 3 sections: “Through stores and products”, “Through as the Food Recycling Law and the Waste Disposal Law. communication with customers” and “Together with local In order to meet these demands, Aeon aims for “Zero areas”. waste by FY 2020 (=disposal/incineration/landfill of waste as AEON Zero Waste Initiative Concept We will continue to reduce Initiatives for Food Waste waste through disposal/ burning and landfills to zero through the 3R method o f “ R e d u c e ” , “ R eu s e” and “Recycle”. In collaboration with stakeholders and customers Through stores/products Through communication with customers Together with Communities through our efforts, we will Reducing food waste in the store and Reducing food waste along with Reduction of food waste through contribute to the construction product supply chain through customers through food education donations to food banks, etc. and visualization, ISO14001, disposal sales and campaigns at stores construction of a recycling loop in of a recycling-oriented society. change reduction, separation and cooperation with stakeholders in the recycling region Initiatives to Reduce Food Waste (1) Through stores/products Reduce food waste emissions (3) Together with Communities Build a food recycling loop Aeon strives to control emissions of food waste at our stores. AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd., which manages Aeon’s For example, we have set a goal for 3.5% lower waste-to-sales directly operated farms, and Daiei Kankyo Co., Ltd., engaged ratio at AEON RYUKYU in an effort to reduce the disposal loss. We in recycling business, concluded an Agreement on the are thoroughly managing inventory with methods that include Promotion of Food Recycling Loop in September 2014. We progress management at each store by setting the number of days produce compost from food residue such as vegetables and for stock turnover for both agricultural goods and delicatessen meat generated in stores at Daiei Kankyo composting facilities products. In addition, we are conducting order meetings at each to use at Aeon Miki-Satowaki farm. We are building an Aeon store to improve order accuracy. These efforts result in restricting the self-contained food recycling loop by harvesting vegetables volume of waste by clearly indicating set targets associating with net cultivated with this compost to sell at Aeon stores. ( P.58) revenue, gross margin percentage, or other sales figures. VOICE (2) Through communication with customers Food Loss Challenge Festival at Aeon Kasai Store The Aeon self-contained food recycling loop, which is close to We held the Food Loss Challenge Festival at Aeon Kasai Store over the lifestyles that support food and farming, is a new initiative three days starting February 19, 2016. As part of the food loss measures, to effectively use resources by directly linking to the safety and one of which is Tokyo’s “Model project to promote the sustainable peace of mind that is demanded by our generation. In the future, use of resources”, PR activities were conducted in shopping places we will take charge of a stable supply of safe and secure compost along with the Tokyo Metropolitan that clearly recognizes the deliciousness Government Bureau of Environment of vegetables for our tables while further and Food Loss Challenge Project, and expanding the volume we handle. awareness-raising and information Fumio Kaneko President and CEO dissemination about the food loss DAIEI KANKYO Holdings Co., Ltd. problem was carried out. ⓒFOOD-RESCUE Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 20 Feature 2 Together with Communities Aeon began efforts in April 2016 with the aim of building local ecosystems, which is a new framework of regional development that unites a wide-range of members from everyone in the community to governments and corporations. Endeavoring to Build a Model to Create New Value with the Community Local Ecosystems for New Relationships Between Communities and Lifestyles The Local ecosystem is a framework for new community Chiba City is the first area for the local ecosystem. We are development to bring new values to every community actively participating in a broad range of new initiatives toward member in the digital age based on the belief that the retail a proven future city lead by Chiba City. industry is rooted in the local community, which is one of the Aeon aims to contribute to the growth of the local society basic Aeon philosophies. by pursing new local industry that supports everyone in the A lifestyle platform for living up to the expectations of region by building a local ecosystem with initiatives which can the local region while eliminating losses is built through cobe expanded throughout Japan in the future. creation that surpasses barriers between government and corporations. Digitalization Mobility No stress through digitalization Evolution of transportation/travel in areas Create an omni-channel for all regions On-demand transit and round-trip buses Evolution of e-commerce Personal mobility Hands-free shopping at SC/within areas Pick-up and distribution networks Informational provision in multiple languages One-hour shipping and one-day shipping within areas Various payment methods etc. Pack & fly etc. Local ecosystems Health & Wellness Four pillars Value Build richer physical and emotional lifestyles Growth and return of local economies and value General health support services through IT Sixth industrialization, local goods consumption Mall walking and health points Tourism and inbound support Attendee and shopping support Various points unique to local communities 24-hour medical and pharmaceutical care Big data partnerships as well as in-house support Investments and donations to Support raising children etc. communities, people, and companies etc. Local Ecosystem Participating Members Citizen Aeon strives to build local Governments groups Companies Producers ecosystems by facilitating and cooperating with members who Local ecosystems Shopping Universities and other share a common desire to better educational institutes Shared desire to better communities districts the community through equality Hospitals and other Banks and other Transportation and open communication. medical facilities financial institutes 21 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 VOICE VOICE The local ecosystem initiative brings together a partnership with the The local ecosystem initiative builds a new lifestyle platform by linking hope of building a better community. The direction Chiba City is adthe use of IT and other technologies with municipals, local communivancing urbanization through this cooperation matches the objective ties, and corporations for the purpose of generating further growth of Aeon and I expect we will build a city as well as a bond which brings through co-creation in order to respond to the expectations of the together the ideals of many people. The aim is to create specific initialocal communities and eliminate losses. Aeon has devised four pillars tives for a model in other regions by starting with -digitalization, mobility, health & wellness, and the Makuhari and Inage districts as the first exvalue -to fulfill their commitment to realize the pansion areas to pioneer throughout Japan. The basic philosophy of Aeon to contribute to local city is also cooperating in many different forms. communities. Toshihito Kumagai Takehiko Saito Chiba Mayor Local Ecosystem Project Leader, Aeon CO., LTD. Chiba City Initiatives Better comfort, greater convenience, more fun Changes customers lifestyles Shopping Stress-free shopping experience Health and Richer physical and emotional anytime anywhere Wellness lifestyles ■ Examples ■ Examples Products and services not available at stores can be ordered Greater convenience to medications such as 24-hour and received anytime anywhere pharmacies and dispensing for home care patients Moreover, omni-channels throughout all regions allow direct orders to producers from We are improving the level of medical care in communities that use a group and fashion to lifestyle goods. member platform. Welcoming customer service is made possible by people in Guest needs and transport service cards as well as attendance addition to actually seeing and touching actual products at stores services have begun An e-commerce omni-channel store (lilimo store) opened in June 2016 at Aeon Mall Order or pick up products at your home or somewhere close to you or receive services to Makuhari New City. support your lifestyle. Valuable information is conveniently distributed each day for better living Health events and health point services such as mall walking have begun Event information is displayed in shopping applications on smartphones and digital signs People can walk in the comfort and safety of the all while accumulating points for the at shops and stores. number of steps they walk. Points can be saved used anywhere Cooperation with medical institutes such as hospitals and universities We started the WAON POINT service for the purpose of a common point service platform General health management and support services have begun in local communities. We are also furthering efforts toward realizing smart health to protect health in all regions. Omni-channel of Welcoming Personal Digital coupons WAON 24-hour pharmacy Dispensing for home Mall walking Collection of Smart health local/national E-commerce recommendations for shopping POINT care patients with the health logs consumption omni-store applications cooperation of medical institutes Transit/ Regional Local connections, revitalization, and Transfer Simple, easy to get to, and close development local contributions ■ Examples ■ Examples More convenient shopping at stores! This campaign contributes to local communities with shopping We will expand routes and times of shopping buses Local WAON cards donate a portion of proceeds to municipals and other organizations no We will also start benefit services for using bus routes. matter where the cards are used. Aeon Day on the 11th of every month is a day for Happy Yellow Receipts. You can select an E-commerce allows pick-up of a wide range of products organization of your choice and place your receipt in the dedicated box to donate goods We will start delivering products in as little as one hour (area coverage: Makuhari/Inage equivalent to 1% of the total amount purchased on the receipt to the organization you chose. districts) We have begun pick-up services in various locations. Initiatives with communities are also expanding We will also deliver goods bought at stores the same day. Local consumption, local goods consumption, the sixth industrialization, and inbound initiatives have also begun. Investment to local communities, companies, and people is growing through crowd funding. Shopping passes Reduce travel in E-commerce Heavy items Pick-up items at Chiba City Accumulate points Various avenues Aeon Happy Yellow Inbound stores and shopping delivered delivered to stations and Chiba futa WAON in various places of use Receipt Campaign support centers in as little as an hour your house the in lockers same day Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 22 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Corporate Governance Basic Approach Aeon has been leading all of its corporate activities according to the basic philosophy for ‘pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, centered on our customers’. We aim to continue management from a long-term perspective founded in this basic philosophy and DNA of innovation able to reach beyond any one generation. We formulated and released our Basic Corporate Governance Policy around our fundamental belief in focusing on our values, management approach, and corporate governance at Aeon by stipulating the basic approach to corporate governance indicated below. <Basic Stance on Corporate Governance> Value Creation through Customer Orientation and Frontline Focus Sustained Growth Based on a Long-Term Perspective and Ceaseless Innovation At Aeon, we consider realization of a sense of well-being for customers To continue to meet the expectations of customers and local communities, our most important mission. We pursue optimal value creation adapted to Aeon strives for sustained growth accompanied by value creation from a longchanging customer needs by focusing tightly on the frontline of the business, term perspective and management focused on sustained value enhancement our point of contact with customers, and by always thinking with customers for the entire group by undertaking ceaseless innovation to cope with a as the starting point. changing business environment. Respect for People, Our Most Important Management Resource Pursuit of Transparent, Disciplined Management By respecting employees, placing importance on diversity, and actively Aeon strives for transparent and disciplined management by seeking proactive providing education opportunities in keeping with the conviction that people dialogue with customers and other stakeholders, taking their evaluation are the most important management resource, Aeon aspires to be a company seriously, and being self-disciplined at all times. made up of employees who strive for self-growth, are linked by strong bonds, and find their greatest pleasure in contributing to customers. A Posture of Developing Together with Local Communities As a member of local communities and a caring corporate citizen, Aeon seeks to develop together with our fellow community members, namely our customers, employees, shareholders, and business partners, and to contribute to the prosperity of local communities, sustainability of the natural environment, and peace. Corporate Governance Framework The majority of members is made up of outside directors to enhance the supervision functions of the Board of Directors. Aeon is engaged in management based on a basic philosophy from a Group-wide perspective and management that has transparency, sustainability, and stability in addition Outside Directors to ceaseless innovation with our customers at the core. To Our Board of Directors, which are nomination committees put these ideas into practice, we have chosen a nomination and other committees institutionally separated by the committee and other committees as the optimal corporate supervision functions and business execution of management, governance framework. is made up of nine inside directors and five outside directors. We have separated management supervision and We are practicing management with a high-level of business execution in order to greatly transfer authority to transparency based on supervision from a stance with outside executive officers and construct a framework that realizes perspectives. rapid decision-making of management. On another front, we Outside directors ask managers representing Japan to have installed three committees--the nomination committee, share the philosophy and values of Aeon to spearhead the audit committee, and compensation committee--made up most experience and knowledge each individual has from the of a majority of outside directors to assure transparency and standpoint of the customer. objectivity of management. As there are no special interests between the Outside We always aim to have the highest-level of corporate Directors and Aeon, Aeon has notified the Tokyo Stock governance with ongoing inspections and reviews of our Exchange that all five of the Outside Directors are designated corporate governance framework. as independent directors. Operations of the Board of Directors Role and Structure of the Board of Directors The Chairman of the Board of Directors is building a The Board of Directors determines and approves basic framework able to facilitate lively discussion, appropriate management policies and important matters in the execution decision-making, and fair supervision at the Board of Directors’ of business while resolving the legal requirements as a Meetings. decision-making body of management at Aeon. The Board The thoughts and ideas based on the knowledge and of Directors also supervises the performance of directors and objectivity of outside directors is reflected in the operations of executive officers. the Board of Directors by sharing sufficient information with We are establishing a Board of Directors with executives who outside managers through efforts such as prior distribution have diverse experiences, abilities, and specialized knowledge to of Board of Directors’ Meeting materials, explanation in heighten the effectiveness of our Board of directors. advance as necessary, and sharing of vital information with all 23 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 management. Board of Directors’ Meeting and Corporate Committees (FY 2015) We have put in place opportunities for separate discussion Held Main Role toward deliberations at the Board of Directors’ Meeting for ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and important issues prioritized in discussions such as medium Board of 7 times executive officers. ・Determines matters that must be decided by the board of Directors per year term management plans and important policies. directors as stipulated by Article 416 of Japan’s Companies Act and matters that cannot be mandated to executive officers. ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and executive officers. Reason for appointment to Outside Director (As of May 25, 2016) Audit 9 times ・Determines resolutions concerning whether to appoint, dismiss or Committee per year reappoint the Company’s auditor to be submitted to the general Name Duty Reason for appointment shareholders’ meeting. Nomination 3 times ・Determines resolutions concerning the appointment and dismissal Committee per year of directors to be submitted to the general shareholders’ meeting. Based on his knowledge and extensive Director experience in matters concerning global Compensation 4 times ・Determines compensation of individual directors and Nomination environmental issues and corporate social Committee per year executive officers. Committee Takejiro responsibility, Takejiro Sueyoshi, Chairman Chairman Sueyoshi of the Nomination Committee provided Compensaleadership in discussions on a corporation Committion’s role in conserving the environment We review the activities and performance of the previous tee Member fiscal year at the Board of Directors’ Meeting at the end of the and contributing to society. fiscal year, and publish an overview of those results. Director Nomination Based on his extensive experience in and Committee knowledge of legal and complianceThree Committees Keiichi Tadaki Chairman related matters, Keiichi Tadaki provided The nomination committee, audit committee, and Compensaleadership in discussions aimed at procompensation committee are run as even more highly tion Commitmoting legal compliance management. tee Member objective and transparent committees by appointing an outside director as the chairman of each committee. Director Three of the four nomination and compensation committee Based on an extensive career and expert Nomination Committee knowledge as well as crisis management, members are outside directors. Ken Sato Ken Sato provided guidance in enhancThe audit committee is made completely separate from the Chairman ing the transparency and objectivity of Audit Combusiness execution by appointing outside directors for every management. mittee position in the committee Heldto monitor whether the duties of Director In addition to her broad experience and directors and executive officers is lawful as well as whether ・Oversees the execution of work d Yukako Audit Comexpertise within the IT sector, Yukako Boardare operations ofvalid. In addition, Directors perare 8 times we working to improve ・Determines year matters that must be mittee Uchinaga is well versed in diversityfunctions by assisting in duties through the416 internal auditCompanies Ac Uchinaga Nomination related issues and promoting healthy and Article of Japan’s Committee efficient business management division which is independent from Group management and ・Oversees the execution of work d linkingAudit Committee to external 13 times accounting per year auditors. ・Determines resolutions concernin Based on his extensive experience in Nomination Committee 3 times ・Determines per year resolutions concernin Director global corporate management and his Audit Comwide-ranging knowledge, Toru NagashiCompensation Committee 3 times ・Determines per year compensation of indiv Toru mittee ma, Outside Director and Independent Nagashima Nomination executive, provided guidance to promote Committee global management and enhance corporate governance at Aeon. Aeon's Corporate Governance System (As of May 25, 2016) General Meeting of Shareholders Propose appointment/ Appointment/ Propose appointment/ Appointment/dismissal dismissal of directors dismissal dismissal of independent auditors Executive Supervision, Nomination Committee Appointment/ Outside Directors：3 Officers Accounting Auditors dismissal Inside Directors：1 President Chairman of the Board: and 11 other executives Outside Director *(Three double as directors) Accounting Compensation Committee Board of Directors audit Compensation Outside Directors：3 Aeon Management Committee Outside Directors：5 (Highest level management Inside Directors：1 Inside Directors：4 Chairman of the Board: committee) Chairman of the Board of Outside Director Directors: non-executive Audit Audit Committee Management Audit Office Outside Directors：4 Cooperation Chairman of the Board: Outside Director Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 24 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Corporate Governance Executive officers Total Compensation for Each Category of Corporate Officer, Total Amount The President represents the company, determines items for Each Type of Compensation, and Number of Eligible Corporate Officers Implemented in 107 stores as of FY2015 mandated by the Board of Directors and fully engages in Total Total amount for each type of operations. Executive offices determine the mandated items Number amount compensation (million JPY) they receive based on the decisions made by the Board of Category of corof comof eligible Perforcorporate Directors and engage in executing management according to porate officer pensation Basic Stock mance remuofficers the instructions of the President. (Million option remuneration (Persons) JPY) neration Decision-making for Business Execution Directors (Excluding Out46 46 — — 1 We appoint the President and make decisions more quickly, side Directors) excluding matters that must be approved by the Board of Executive ofDirectors, according to the corporate laws and our articles of ficers 452 403 — 49 15 incorporation assigning authority to the Board of directors. Outside corpoThe Aeon Management Committee *, which is made up 75 75 — — 5 rate officers of management lead by the President, debates business execution policies as well as important matters, and the Total Amount of Compensation for Each Corporate Officer on President makes decisions after this council. Consolidated Basis The President clarifies responsibilities and expedites Total Total amount for each type of commanagement decisions by clarifying the role and authority of Name amount of pensation (million JPY) each executive officer. (Category of corcompensaporate officer) tion Basic remuPerformance * The Aeon Management Committee is a deliberative body chaired by the Group Stock option CEO and consisting of the vice presidents, the chief corporate planning officer, and (Million JPY) neration remuneration other persons named by the president and Group CEO. The committee deliberates and decides important matters pertaining to the management of the Aeon Group, Jerry Black 102 98 — 3 including the Group’s business strategies and investment plans. (Executive Officer) Note: Total amount of compensation on consolidated basis only for those with over ¥100 million. O  rganization for Internal Audits and Audits by the Audit Committee Since Aeon is a company with a nomination committee and B  asic remuneration refers to compensation that is paid other committees, the Board of Directors and Audit Committee monthly to directors and executive officers. For the latter, play central roles in the management supervision function. The basic remuneration is determined individually and is Management Audit Office was established as an organization limited to standard amounts set for each position. independent of business units to aid the Audit Committee. E xecutive performance remuneration shall be a sum In addition to linking to full-time auditors, the internal audit paid to executive officers after the end of each business division, and accounting auditors of each Group company, year based on the annual results achieved for the year in the Management Audit Office aids in duties and conducts question. It shall consist of the total of two remuneration administrative operations of the Audit Committee. components based on the financial results of AEON CO., LTD. and the results achieved by individual officers. P  olicies on Remuneration for Directors and Executive However, President shall only be paid the remuneration Officers based on the financial results of AEON CO., LTD. Remuneration for directors and executive officers is decided Stock compensation-type stock options shall be granted by the Compensation Committee consisting of a Chairman to executive officers in the form of stock acquisition and majority of members who are outside directors for highly rights following the end of each business year, based on transparent remuneration policies determined from an their performance during the year. objective perspective. The Company shall not pay directors’ compensation to Basic Remuneration Principles directors who also perform executive duties. (1)Remuneration by principle shall link to the management strategy and performance of Aeon and facilitate strong motivation to execute those management strategies. (2)R emuneration by principle shall have a high level of transparency and feeling of fairness in order for our partners (customers, shareholders, employees, etc.) to consent to and support this remuneration. 25 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Dialogue with Stakeholders and Management Aeon positions all stakeholders from customers and local communities to shareholders and investors as partners of management and it strives to have an active dialogue with these stakeholders. We engage in constructive dialogue based on appropriate informational disclosure in a timely manner and from a long-term perspective. In addition to management strategies and financial information, we work to promote understanding even for non-financial information, which includes our environmental and social contributions and our corporate governance. We have established a division in charge of IR under the executive officer in charge of IR as a contact point to further constructive dialogue with our shareholders and investors. We strive to enhance the content of this dialogue by organically linking the division in charge of IR to relevant organizations such as public relations, general affairs, environmental/social contribution, finance, accounting, and business proprietors. In addition to responding individually through the division in charge of IR for this dialogue, we respond directly to directors, executive officers, and management for important matters. We also actively endeavor to disclose, explain and carefully answer questions related to our management policies at our general shareholders’ meeting. Moreover, we are deepening informational disclosure and furthering the practicality of this dialogue for greater understanding of stakeholders and investors through efforts such as holding briefings for institutional investors and conducting inspections of business facilities both in Japan and overseas as well as by hosting social gatherings for shareholders and corporate overview briefings in each region for individual shareholders. We appropriately debate the feedback we receive through this dialogue in a timely manner at the Board of Directors and Management meetings in an effort to reflect this feedback in the dialogue we have with our shareholders and investors. Responding to the Corporate Governance Code In March 2015, Aeon introduced and has been supporting each and every rule in our response to the corporate governance code required for a public company by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. For more information, please see our Corporate Governance Report at https://www.aeon.info/en/investors/policy/governance.html. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 26 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Risk Management Basic Approach <Five Areas of Focus in the Aeon BCM Project> Aeon regards risk management as an important task of management that is the responsibility of each department. Information Maintenance of information Based on this recognition, daily risk management is handled System infrastructure at the company and department level, while General Affairs of Reinforcement and Cooperation Reinforcement in safety the Group and other departments monitor the status of risk systemization in with External Facilities and security measures cooperation with Organizations Aeon BCP at facilities management at each department. external organizations (Business Continuity Plan) The Risk Management Committee performs reviews of and makes decisions regarding external risk factors, such as new infectious diseases and large-scale earthquakes, which cannot Training and drills to Training Products Reinforcement in ensure business and supply chain be addressed by individual companies, and risks found in continuity capabilities and Drills Logistics products, facilities and services across the entire Aeon Group. We work to foresee, predict and prevent risks with particularly high impact potential by assembling interdivisional task forces. 1. I nformation System (Maintenance of information Aeon has taken an organizational response that includes infrastructure) establishing in-house regulations and forming close ties with We will maintain an information infrastructure between investigative agencies with the aim of eliminating aggressive our 315 Group companies for when disasters strike. We will anti-social forces. reinforcing the link between each company even further by switching to a new Total BCM Aggregation System able Response to Natural Disasters, Incidents, and to centralize disaster-related information such as disaster Major Accidents information, safety confirmation results, and the status of stores Rules and procedural manuals have been conventionally afflicted by disasters. devised at Aeon to respond to large-scale natural disasters 2. Facilities (Reinforcement in safety and security measures at facilities) and major incidents and accidents and we are implementing We will build disaster prevention facilities at 100 locations education and training to ensure swift and precise responses. by fiscal 2020 to enhance security and safety measures of our We also introduced disaster prevention measures in each establishments. This effort has currently completed installations region around the world, including areas afflicted by disasters at 27 locations since the start of the program in 2012. We will based on a BCP (Business Continuity Plan)*1 after the Great East build new disaster-prevention facilities at nine stores in fiscal Japan Earthquake. 2016. In recent years, the estimated risks are diversifying, 3. Products and Logistics (Reinforcement in supply chain) including terror attacks and bombings while the number of We started the operation of a new system to use during natural disasters is increasing from earthquakes to torrential disasters that links approximately 50 companies such as downpours due to unusual weather. manufacturers of food and daily necessities from March Considering these types of environmental changes, Aeon 2016. We use the BCP Portal, which connects our partners has formulated the Aeon Group BCM (Business Continuity using cloud computing, to visualize information with each Management) *2 Five Year Plan with the aim of building a Group company and our partners and conduct centralized management framework able to heighten the performance management of information such as plants, warehouses and of the BCP. We started the Aeon BCM Project toward the products ready for shipment. execution of this plan in March 2016. 4. Training and Drills (Training and drills to ensure business Aeon aims to establish an operational framework by continuity capabilities) promoting BCM in five areas – (1) Information System, (2) Aeon is periodically introducing Group-wide disaster Facilities, (3) Products and Logistics, (4) Training and Drills, and prevention and safety drills. In the future, we will promote not (5) Cooperation with External Organizations. only information gathering drills but also training at stores and *1 Business Continuity Plan: In case of an unforeseen situation, a plan to ensure continuity of important business offices and improve our present business continuity operations or to quickly resume operations after a suspension. capabilities with the aim of protecting our customers and *2 Business Continuity Management: To strategically conduct a process from establishing the BCP to implementing employees from risk. measures to ensure the plan is executed in case of emergency, and reviewing the 5. C  ooperation with External Organizations (Reinforcement and plan. systemization in cooperation with external organizations) We are reinforcing links with external partners rooted in each community from local government offices, hospitals, and schools to private enterprises in each area in addition to links to energy companies required to sustain business when disaster strikes. 27 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Compliance and Corporate Ethics Basic Rules Promotion Framework –Aeon Code of Conduct The Corporate Ethics Team was established as the Aeon established the Aeon Code of Conduct in 2003 department responsible for the promotion of the code of in order to express the Aeon Basic Principles in terms of a conduct throughout the Aeon Group, and is under the direct specific set of guidelines. Education and training on the code, control of the person in charge of management. The Corporate establishment of a Code of Conduct Hotline as an internal Ethics Team develops and executes policies for the overall reporting system, and monitoring activities (the Code of Aeon Group based on an annual plan and proposes and Conduct Survey) were all also started in 2003 in conjunction recommends specific measures to address various problems with establishment of the code. and issues facing the company. The status of compliance issues The Aeon Code of Conduct makes explicit to Group and initiatives as well as the promotion of the code of conduct employees criteria for action, consideration and judgment, pertaining to the overall Group are reported to the Aeon under the Aeon Basic Principles, in order to serve customers. It Management Committee, which is AEON CO., LTD.’s executive is intended as a shared set of values for the Aeon Group. organ, and to the Audit Committee (outside directors). Aiming to make the Aeon Code of Conduct shared and Each company in the Aeon Group has established mutually recognized by all employees, training on the code administrative offices for promoting the code of conduct after for Group companies in Japan began on a full-fledged basis appointing managers for the same purpose to connect to in 2004. The same training has been provided by Group business practices. These managers conduct code of conduct companies overseas since 2006. training, conduct fact-finding investigations for consultations Since FY2011, we have been working to create a system to reported through the hotline, respond to revisions, and report disseminate and instill the Aeon Code of Conduct at Group to AEON CO., LTD. companies in China and ASEAN nations in line with the ‘shift Additionally, each store and business office selects one to to Asian markets,’ one of the strategies outlined in our medium three employees to serve as leaders in charge of promoting the term management plan. code of conduct. They work on activities to disseminate and instill the Aeon Code of Conduct at the business office. Aeon Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Hotline 1. Aeon people are always grateful to the many other individuals who provide support and help, never forgetting to act with huAeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline as an manity. internal reporting system for employees for employees in 2004. The hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance 2. Aeon people value the trust of others more than anything else, always acting with integrity and sincerity in all situations. and improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various workplace issues, such as not being able to speak 3. Aeon people actively seek out ways to exceed customer expecwith a boss or encountering something that is troubling. The tations. hotline handles a wide variety of reports and consultations. It 4. Aeon people continually challenge themselves to find new is available to all employees working at the Aeon Group. There ways to accomplish the Aeon ideals. are two lines in operation, one for internal consultations and 5. Aeon people support local community growth, acting as good another to connect and consult with an outside party. corporate citizens in serving society. Reports and consultations are passed on to Group companies concerned as feedback through a corporate ethics team. Within two weeks time, an investigation is conducted to ascertain the facts behind each report or consultation, and a response is made, with the results, including corrective measures, reported to the corporate ethics team. In addition, all consultation matters are conveyed to the executive management team of AEON CO., LTD. and the presidents of all Group companies in a weekly and monthly report. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 28 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Compliance and Corporate Ethics Education and Training Implementing the Aeon Code of Conduct Survey Aeon conducts training to disseminate and instill the Aeon Once a year since 2003 we have conducted an anonymous Code of Conduct as a buttress for corporate ethics, primarily Aeon Code of Conduct Survey of employee awareness to through four programs: training for executive management, ascertain the extent to which the Aeon Code of Conduct has training for code of conduct promotion leaders, general penetrated the organization as well as to gather information training, and training for new employees. A code of conduct on workplace issues, employee working formats, motivation curriculum is also incorporated into problems asked on hiring levels and the like. This survey is used as a basis for assessing examinations and in recruitment training. employee awareness and corporate culture across the entire Aeon Group, including its overseas locations, through Training for Executive Management (since 2003) evaluation of the visibility of promotional activities, the Executive management from Group companies learns personal commitment of employees and the situation of each about and shares the situation surrounding corporate ethics workplace. and risk management both within and outside their own Its findings are also compiled, analyzed as well as shared respective companies. The curriculum aims to empower with Aeon Group companies, and are used to help resolve participants with the ability to make their own decisions based specific social issues. on the Aeon Code of Conduct and to lead as well as set a In FY2015, we conducted the survey at 59 Group companies precedent for general employees. overseas and received 37,000 responses. In FY2016, we will survey 39,600 employees at 67 companies overseas. We will continue to strengthen our response to Training for Code of Conduct Promotion Leaders (since 2003) compliance risk by identifying the current situation at each Participants learn about corporate ethics and how to company based on an analysis of the responses and building proceed with related training. They also acquire skills to act systems to draw up and implement measures to improve our as teachers themselves for conducting study sessions on the corporate culture. (The survey is conducted every other year in Aeon Code of Conduct. Japan with the next survey scheduled for FY2017.) General Training (since 2003) Creating Support and Awareness-Raising Tools All of the Group employees hold general training to In addition to training programs, Aeon also creates a variety reconfirm the Aeon code of conduct. This training connects of awareness-raising tools to disseminate and instill its Code of to shared values among the employees by once again Conduct. recognizing the necessity of corporate ethics. For example, the Aeon Code of Conduct Newsletter, published every other month since 2004, presents issues Training for New Employees (since 2004) reported or consulted on via the Aeon Code of Conduct This training is held mainly as an orientation for new hotline, reports on the results of training programs, and employees of each Group company to teach the meaning of conveys Aeon’s values through excerpts from the writings of customer-first actions and decisions through the Aeon code of our founder and initiatives of each group company. conduct. Every month, approximately 290,000 copies are printed and distributed to employees of Aeon Group companies. Promoting Corporate Ethics at Group Companies The newsletter has been very well received by employees, Overseas prompting some to revisit the Code of Conduct and take Since 2006, Aeon has begun introducing Code of Conduct advantage of the hotline. training, establishing hotlines, and instituting monitoring systems (the Code of Conduct Survey) at Group companies TOPICS overseas. In FY2015, we held training on the Aeon Code of Conduct Utilizing a Picture Book to Share the Aeon at 60 Group companies overseas. A total of 53,000 employees Basic Principles took part in grade-specific training for management, promotion Aeon makes use of the picture book Arigatou no Yakuleaders, general employees, and new employees. soku (“The Promise of Thank You,” Text by Masato Ochi with In FY2016, we plan to hold training for about 54,000 Aeon pictures by Soya Nagashima) as a tool to share and encourage people at a total of 62 companies, including Group companies mutual understanding of the Aeon Basic Principles among where we plan to introduce the Code of Conduct for the first new employees, employees of new Group companies, and employees overseas whose native language is not Japanese. time. By providing the picture book, which introduces the importance of being grateful and saying ‘thank you’ in any situation, we aim to boost understanding of the essence of our principles in an intuitive manner. 29 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Environmental Management Environmental Policy System Aeon Environmental Policy* Aeon established the Aeon Sustainability Principle in line We strive to balance enriching lifestyles with environmental with the Aeon Basic Principles as the fundamental policy that conservation by providing safe and comfortable stores, prodgoverns the environmental and social contribution activities ucts and services to our customers. that all Aeon Group companies should take part in. Following We also operate an environmental management system to these policies, the Aeon Eco Project and the Aeon Biodiversity implement measures, conduct periodical reviews, and proPrinciple also represent environmental goals and policies for mote continual improvements. the entire Group. 1. We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases Effective measures are conducted following the in all of our business activities in order to realize a lowenvironmental policies and environmental management carbon society. systems established by each Group company based on their (1) We will continually improve the energy efficiency of our own unique characteristics. This is because the Aeon Group stores. encompasses a multitude of business areas and the challenges (2) We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse that each Group company faces may differ depending on their gases in all phases of our products’ supply chain. operating format and sector. As an example, AEON CO., LTD. undertakes environmental 2. We will promote conservation activities and ascertain the benefits and impact of our business activities on natural protection activities based on the Aeon Environmental Policy, ecosystems. which sets targets and objectives for such activities pursuant to (1) We will strive to develop and procure products that use the key issues defined in the Aeon Sustainability Principle. properly managed resources in consideration of sustainTargets for the following fiscal year are determined by ability. sharing the status of activities undertaken across the entire (2) We will promote tree planting and raising activities as Group under the guidance of the AEON Deputy President, well as undertake activities that safeguard the ecosysChief Corporate Strategy Officer, Chief International Business tems of local communities. Officer* as well as by an evaluation of the progress toward meeting previous targets. 3. We will strive to implement resources conservation and * As we changed to a structure under which the Corporate Planning Section is the resources recycling initiatives in order to use resources in a organization for the integrated operation of management strategy, environmental sustainable manner. and social contribution, public relations, and investor relations in FY2015, Deputy President, Chief Corporate Strategy Officer, Chief International Business Officer is now (1) We will promote “reduce, reuse and recycle” for all the responsible for this function. resources we use. (2) We will strive to select raw and general materials that Environmental Policy System have less of an impact on the environment. Peace 4. We will comply with legal requirements and with other requirements related to our environmental aspects, and strive Aeon Basic Principles to prevent pollution. In addition, we will communicate this ▶P.1 Customers policy to all persons working for or on behalf of the organiPeople Community zation as well as making it available to the public. Aeon Aeon Eco Project 5. We will develop partnerships with many stakeholders, inSustainability ▶P.37 Principle cluding our customers, and widen the reach of our initiatives. Group-wide Aeon Biodiversity Principle Policy ▶P.45 ▶P.9 Enacted March 1, 2011 Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle ▶P.47 Motoya Okada President and Executive Officer AEON CO., LTD. Policy of Individual AEON CO., LTD. Company B Company C Companies Environmental Environmental Environmental Policy Policies Policies * The Environmental Guideline of AEON CO., LTD. is applied in the following group companies: AEON CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd., My Basket CO., LTD., AEONBIKE CO. LTD., AEON LIQUOR CO., LTD. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 30 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Environmental Management ISO Certification Wastewater Management As of February 2016, 36 companies in the Aeon Group have Wastewater discharged from Aeon stores rarely if ever acquired ISO 14001 certification, the international standard contains hazardous substances. Sometimes, however, this for environmental management systems. Each company runs wastewater may contain large amounts of oils, which can its own Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle, achieving results in exceed legal limits or clog up wastewater pipes leading to a efforts to continually reduce environmental impacts. leakage or other accident. As a result, Aeon conducts training for its employees and the employees of its tenants to ensure List of ISO-Certified Companies (as of February 2016) day-to-day maintenance is correctly performed, including Company Company compliance with cleaning grease traps. We have been making AEON CO., LTD. Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. improvements by strengthening day-to-day management, AEON Retail Co., Ltd. Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd. including regularly taking photographs for use in providing AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. instructions. We have also included grease trap monitoring as MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD. LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD. part of the required hygiene checks for our stores, and adopted MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD. Mega Sports Co., Ltd. a system where third parties regularly perform these checks. MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD. COX CO., LTD. Furthermore, AEON Retail Co., Ltd. and several other Aeon MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. Group companies perform water quality testing concurrently AEON Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd. Research Institute For Quality Living Co., Ltd. that includes sewage as part of annual voluntary inspections. AEON BIG CO., LTD. AEON Hokkaido Corporation Stores where values exceed our voluntary standards, which My Basket CO., LTD. Head Office AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD. are even stricter than legal requirements are required to AEONBIKE CO., LTD. Head Office GUANGDONG AEON TEEM CO., LTD. take corrective actions which helps to improve our overall AEON LIQUOR CO., LTD. Head Office The Daiei, Inc. wastewater management practices. Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. AEON MARKET CO., LTD. AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., Ltd. The Maruetsu, Inc. Environmental Education Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Kasumi Meat Processing Center, Ltd. Aeon provides time in its various training sessions for Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. AEON CREDIT SERVICE (ASIA) CO., LTD. learning about Aeon’s environmental principles and policies AEON Mall Co., Ltd. AEON CREDIT SERVICE (M) BERHAD in order to raise the awareness of employees regarding the AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. AEON THANA SINSAP (THAILAND) PLC. environment. AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. QINGDAO AEON DONGTAI CO., LTD. Since FY2008, we have encouraged employees to take the AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. ISO9001 ISO14001 Certification Test for Environmental Specialists® (Eco Test) *. * AEON STORE KYUSHU CO., LTD. acquired the ISO14001 in April 2016 and AEON Retail Department managers at the head office and higher ranked Store Co., Ltd. acquired the certification in March 2016. personnel as well as store managers are taking this certification. Companies that have acquired ISO 14001 certification provide We are working to restructure our environmental training for their employees. For example, AEON Retail Co., management system after the reorganization of our Group Ltd. has established a web-based training tool and requires companies. As an example or the management framework employees to keep an ISO 14001 handbook with them. that focuses on AEON CO., LTD. and AEON Retail Co., Ltd., we Training seminars for internal environmental auditors led by have had assessments of systems at 29 stores migrating from qualified instructors are also held every year to facilitate smooth The Daiei, Inc. to AEON Retail Co., Ltd. and 7 stores migrating operation of the environmental management system. As of from MaxValu Tohoku Co., Ltd. in April 2016. This assessment February 2016, a total of 1,876 employees have attended the was separate to our standard periodic assessments. The Japan seminars since 2000, when the ISO certification was acquired. Audit and Certification Organization for Environment and * T he Certification Test for Environmental Specialists is a certification program Quality discovered there is still some separation, but stated a sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was started in 2006 in order to develop human resources who possess broad-reaching basic knowledge comparatively smooth transition had begun to acknowledge of environmental issues and who can utilize their awareness of these issues in the expansion within the range of their certification. In the everyday activities, and to help build a sustainable society with a balance between the environment and the economy. future, we are working to be able to drive a synergistic effect through integration while also increasing our overall level through the integration of systems based on issues confirmed through this assessment. 31 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY2015 ISO 14001 Targets and Performance [Company-wide Targets] ○＝Achieved △・×＝Did not achieve, but will continue to make efforts CompanyEnvironmental EvaluCategory wide Target Results Supervision Policy ation Targets Target: 1,960,309,000kWh Result: 1,971,931,000kWh Realization Stated target: 100.6% Promoting Theme1 Energy Conservation of a LowComparison last year: 99.0% AEON CO., LTD. Stores ◎ Reduce electric consumption to more than 1% to 3% of FY2014 △ carbon * T he total of AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Each Group company * Target varies according to company Society Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Target: 871,659,000 JPY Result: 902,240,000 JPY Stated target: 103.5% Reduction of money used for materials Comparison last year: 98.8% AEON CO., LTD. ◎ At least 1% to 10% reduction from FY2014 △ * T he total of AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Each Group company * Target varies according to company Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Better use Stores of resources <Average> Result: 0.54% Stated target: 117.8% Maintain food waste-to-sales ratio at below 0.50% Comparison last year: 92.6% AEON CO., LTD. ◎ × * Target varies according to company * T he total of AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Each Group company Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., and AEON BIG CO., LTD. [Departmental Targets] CompanyEnvironmental EvaluCategory wide Target Results Supervision Policy ation Targets Realization of a LowAEON Mall Okinawa Rycom AEON CO., LTD. Stores — Smart Aeon Stores opening ○ carbon AEON Mall Shijonawate AEON Mall Co., Ltd. Society 1. Confirm the progress and thorough implementation of Continuation of tree planting activities and education management plans at each GMS store ConservaTogether activities tree “Aeon Hometown Forests Program” 2. S pread weeding and cleaning through Clean & Green AEON CO., LTD. tion of with — △ Systematically introduction of sustainable management Activities carried out by employees at each GMS store Each Group company Biodiversity Customers as hometown forests 3. R evision of management manual (creation of by-laws manual) Expand sales of MSC, ASC certification product LowExpand sales of LED light bulbs AEON CO., LTD. carbon, Expand sales of TOPVALU PEACE FIT AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. resources, Products — Expand sales of environment-friendly products △ Expand dealings in organic products AEON Retail Co., Ltd. and biodiExpand sales o water conservation toilets Each Group company versity Expand sales o SELF+SERVICE products, etc. 334 stores out of the 441 stores conducted activities more Promotion of the Aeon Cheers Club activity than four times/year. (Excluding new shops) Together 1. A ll GMS stores implement more than 4 activities/year Stated target: 97.2% AEON CO., LTD. Partnerships with — More than 80% △ Implement programs linked to companies within the Group Each Group company Customers 2. Complete store wall newspapers and add activities. More than 80% Aim for utilization for 0 activities at stores Implement simultaneous voluntary surveys Rate of violations to initial voluntary standards 24.3% Implement proper wastewater management (comply with (Improvements) standards, prevent accidents) Support was provided to stores with continual violations Pollution 1. Implement efforts aimed at maintaining proper values at AEON CO., LTD. Stores — individually. Introduce proposals for equipment renovations △ Prevention all times Each Group company and implement equipment. 2. Continue individual measures for problem stores (non<Good Examples> correction of infringements/lack of equipment) We take pictures of the cleaning process to make sure cleaning is conducted correctly. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 32 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Environmental Management FY2015 Environmental Accounting Aeon Group GMS(subtotal) Main Category Accounting items Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental conservation costs environmental conserconservation conservation costs environmental conserconservation (Thousand JPY) vation (Thousand JPY) benefits (t-CO2) (Thousand JPY) vation (Thousand JPY) benefits (t-CO2) Installation cost for photovoltaic power systems 3,815,116 34,646 1,022 Investments in energy efficient equipment for new stores *Installation conforming to 3,043,322 273,509 6,149 616,955 67,561 1,574 plans to implement energy-saving equipment set by the General Affairs Department Adoption cost of CO2 refrigerant at new stores 130,613 5,657 239 102,485 617 195 Investments in energy efficient equipment for existing stores *Installation conforming to 1,509,942 196,508 2,486 292,256 56,639 1,197 plans to implement energy-saving equipment set by the General Affairs Department Installation of LED lighting at existing stores 6,375,294 902,811 23,283 1,717,845 303,214 6,867 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Visualization of energy usage at existing stores 381,303 25,744 241 1,400 4,140 87 Costs associated with energy management seminars (participation) 5,188 5,020 FC filling costs 382,529 196,074 Management costs of fluorocarbon leaks (new) 318,393 105,847 Carbon offset costs CO2 emission trading (new) 7,234 1,150 2,962 Total 15,968,939 1,438,877 34,570 3,040,846 432,173 9,921 Aeon Hometown Forest program implementation costs 125,726 13,447 Conservation of Aeon Hometown Forest program tree planting festival 34,890 29,328 Biodiversity Cost of regular maintenance for planted zones / Next 10 million trees 665,490 170,732 Total 826,107 213,509 Payment of third-party processing required under the Act on the Pro1,331,861 340,657 motion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging Better use of Operating costs for home appliance recycling program 89,440 89,364 resources Processing cost of recyclables collected in-store 378,898 136,682 68,782 40,884 Processing cost of recycling of food residue 603,854 11,077 129,289 Total 2,404,055 147,760 628,094 40,884 Contributions to the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign 373,324 237,839 Addressing Social Issues Activity costs of the Aeon Cheers Club 117,206 4,950 Total 490,530 242,790 Cost of preparing the Aeon Environmental and Social Report 27,008 609 Operating costs of environmental website 3,909 Environmental Cost of operating or exhibiting at environmental events 63,538 830 Communication Environmental advertising (external) 308,052 126,525 Cost of Eco Test 285 Membership dues in and donations for environmental organizations 73,202 7,982 Total 475,997 135,947 Processing cost of waste generated by stores and offices 12,069,838 4,958,415 Implementation costs of waste measurement equipment (new) 53,671 325 Maintenance of pollution prevention equipment and devices (includ2,741,528 752,221 ing inspections and testing) Environmental Management Personnel costs 1,757,218 135,284 Operating cost of environmental management system (ISO) 63,168 10,941 11,971 Costs for preventing environmental accidents and for restoring in case of accident 597,481 1,126 Cost of organizing waste management seminars 1,354 24 Total 17,284,261 10,941 5,859,368 Companies covered: AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON Hokkaido Corporation, SUNDAY CO., LTD., AEON STORE KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., AEONBIKE CO., LTD., AEON LIQUOR CO., LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., TOPVALU COLLECTION CO., LTD. 33 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Drugstore & Pharmacy, Financial Services, Service & Specialty SM/DS(subtotal) Small-sized Stores(subtotal) Developer(subtotal) Store, Function Companies, Pure Holding companies (subtotal) Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental Environmental Economic benefits of Environmental conservation costs environmental conserconservation conservation costs environmental conserconservation conservation costs environmental conserconservation Shared conservation environmental conserconservation (Thousand JPY) vation (Thousand JPY) benefits (t-CO2) (Thousand JPY) vation (Thousand JPY) benefits (t-CO2) (Thousand JPY) vation (Thousand JPY) benefits (t-CO2) costs (Thousand JPY) vation (Thousand JPY) benefits (t-CO2) 168,915 51 2,910,324 34,646 770 733,311 201 2,565 474,145 38,378 1,101 1,604,376 146,628 3,222 197,027 150,818 20,940 252 15,355 4,560 33 12,772 480 11 555,423 96,221 1,289 652,645 43,647 9,618 1,816,588 502,773 8,625 35,509 11,104 177 2,330,109 12,528 560 475,241 73,191 7,054 39,133 21,604 154 340,650 120 151 17 182,778 1,006 2,562 107 196,777 1,395 7,260 7,114 3,688 350 584 800 3,452,956 663,537 11,602 5,218,029 236,506 4,181 3,610,920 12,528 761 646,186 94,131 8,106 25,133 87,145 5,505 56 41,332 449,661 3,763 71,971 536,807 3,819 643,764 109,322 238,116 75 287,081 95,798 23,034 322,507 2,491 119,885 2,880 32,172 5,705 1,253,429 98,289 229,207 2,880 293,323 5,705 99,165 36,318 403 111,852 99,568 36,318 111,852 7,685 3,755 3,408 11,549 1,520 2,389 1,176 27,400 34,131 2,833 19,597 159,095 285 60,619 4,600 73,835 3,755 50,692 211,766 4,515,722 585,938 1,815,103 194,658 53,346 604,596 1,680 1,381,584 1,445 154,357 6,600 1,331,902 129,074 24,990 21,230 4,975 10,941 16,237 580,117 709 621 5,369,959 594,218 5,129,938 330,775 10,941 Companies covered: MV Nishinihon Co., Ltd., MV Companies covered: MINISTOP, CO., LTD., ORIGIN Companies covered: AEON Mall, Co., Ltd., Companies covered: AEON CO., LTD., AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd., AEON Tohoku Co., Ltd., MV Tokai Co., Ltd., MV Chubu TOSHU, CO., LTD., My Basket CO., LTD. AEON TOWN Co., Ltd. Eaheart CO., LTD., AEON CULTURE CO., LTD., Reform Studio Co., Co., Ltd., MV Hokkaido Co., Ltd., MV Kyushu Co., Ltd., G-FOOT CO., LTD., AEON FOREST CO., LTD., Claire's Nippon Co., Ltd., A-colle CO., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., AEON Ltd., Talbots Japan Co., Ltd., Branshes Co., Ltd., MIRAIYA SHOTEN MARKET CO., LTD., KASUMI CO., LTD., KOHYO CO., CO., LTD., Mega Sports Co., Ltd., LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD., LTD., SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD., The Daiei, WELCIA YAKKYOKU Co., Ltd., SHIMIZU YAKUHIN CO., LTD., CFS Inc., MV KANTO CO., LTD., MV NAGANO CO., LTD., Corporation, AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd., AEON GLOBAL SCM MV HOKURIKU CO., LTD., MV MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., The Maruetsu, Inc., marunaka CO., LTD. CO., LTD., AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD., AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., *MV=MAXVALU Ltd., Cordon Vert CO., LTD., FeliCa Pocket Marketing Inc. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 34 Strengthening Our CSR Platform Environmental Management Environmental load in FY2015 business activities Output [AEON Retail Co., Ltd.] Customer Packaging Disposal CO2 absorption Input Output through tree planting*2 2,249t-CO2 CO2 CO2 Products CO2 emissions*1 Electricity:1,843,197,000 kWh CO2 In-store Private power generation:1,839,847,000 kWh 1,036,898t-CO2 CO2 Renewable energy power generation: 3,350,000 kWh CO2 CO2 Energy*4 Discharge 220,631t collection boxes Utility gas : 32,198,000m3 Discharged into air LPG : 1,642t Packaging Heavy oil : 3,360kℓ Shopping bags : 5,604t Light oil : 24kℓ Food trays : 4,397t Recycling Stores Gasoline : 160kℓ Wrapping paper : 420t 139,670t Separated Kerosene : 134kℓ Paper bags : 1,041t Food scrap recycling CO2 reduction collection Styrofoam volume reduction through collection boxes Waste oil recycling of recyclable items Cardboard 25,064t-CO2*3 Water Waste products Recycling 8,092,954m3 Other materials*4 Products 80,962t Well water Disposal 3,192,200m3 OA, photocopy paper : 981t Recycling manufacturers Input Output Recyclable items collected CO2emissions*5 Suppliers Aluminum cans: Energy*4 76,688t-CO2 1,210t Light oil: 29,270kℓ Food trays: 633t Waste products Products Paper cartons: 1,267t Distribution center Cardboard PET bottles: 2,788t *1 Calculations based on energy consumption of equipment at stores and business places. Calculated using the CO2 emission coefficient (2.62t-CO2/kl) for light oil. *2 Calculated based on the group-wide total number of trees planted under the “Aeon Hometown Forest” program. *3 Calculated based on the 3R basic unit method (Waste Management and Recycling Department, Ministry of the Environment; March 2013). *4 Calculated by multiplying the ratio of Aeon Retail by the total energy used by Aeon Global SCM. *5 Calculated using the CO2 emission coefficient (2.62t-CO2/kl) for light oil. 35 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY2015 Activities Aeon Group CSR Aeon devised Key Performance Indicators (KPI) as part of its all stakeholders. commitment to achieving sustainable management. In In addition, taking into account environmental changes conjunction with this, we have assigned a division and inside and outside the Company, we regularly review KPI. The person in charge for each KPI field and established a system Aeon Management Committee receives proposals from the for taking stock of and managing the results of activities on a division and person in charge of each KPI field and takes into regular basis. Since FY2012, we have been reporting on the account input from external experts, government affiliates, state of KPI implementation and sharing that informatin with and others before reviews are finalized. CSR Promotion Framework At Aeon, key issues concerning the environment, social The Corporate Citizenship Department has been established and contribution, and other CSR activities are reviewed and given responsibility for the Aeon Group's CSR activities. The approved by the Aeon Management Committee (MC), of which Corporate Citizenship Department is the central administrative all Aeon executives are members. As the scale and geographic office for activities and is in charge of reporting and communicating scope of our business expand, and as our effects on society and with the chief environmental officer. The Department publicizes the environment increase, Aeon will continue to practice our and shares information with Group companies and plays a role in basic principle of ‘pursuing peace, respecting humanity and leading and supporting their activities. The Department regularly contributing to local communities, centered on our customers.’ holds a corporate citizenship managers’ meeting, examines and In order to achieve our objectives of ‘Improved customer considers countermeasures for challenges facing individual Group satisfaction,’ ‘Societal development,’ and ‘Aeon Group growth,’ companies, and collaborates with them to promote execution of promoting sustainable management that shares growth with the PDCA cycle. Furthermore, as an ISO 14001and 50001-certified all of our stakeholders is indispensable for identifying business office, the Department works to operate and ensure an opportunities in solutions to a variety of challenges endangering environmental management system across the entire Group. a healthy society. Members of the Corporate Citizenship Department also Proposals and reports to the MC are brought forward by the participate in internal gatherings such as the General Affairs chief environmental officer, Deputy President, Chief Corporate Department managers’ meeting and the Area management Strategy Officer, Chief International Business Officer, and approved planning meeting, while sharing information and collaborating matters are publicized throughout the Group to share and spread with each Aeon Department. CSR awareness. CSR Promotion Framework Aeon Basic Principles and Sustainable Business Societal Development Group Growth Aeon Group Realization of a Sustainable Society Aeon Management Committee(Highest level management committee) Senior shift Deputy President, Chief Corporate Strategy Officer, Chief International Business Officer Asian shift Aeon Group Medium-term Digital shift Management Plan Reporting and communicating MediumGeneral Sharing Sharing Urban shift term Regional Affairs Dept. information information strategy Initiatives managers’ meeting meeting Corporate Better Use Citizenship of Resources Sharing Dept. Sharing Each in formation information Each Medium & Meetings Meetings Long-term Initiatives Realization of a Aeon Sustainability Addressing Information publishing and sharing, Low-carbon Society Basic Principle Social Issues guidance, support 4 Key Issues Conservation Corporate citizenship leaders’ meeting of Biodiversity Group Group Group Group Group company company company company company Peace Customer People Community Stakeholder Aeon Basic Principles Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 36 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Key Issue 1 Management Approach Recognition of Challenges The problem of global warming has brought a large and negative impact to the global environment. Aeon has expanded its business to 20,476 stores/locations in 13 countries around the world, and as business activity has an impact on global warming, we believe that the use of energy in store operations and the use of alternative fluorocarbon refrigerants in refrigerated cases is large. A society with fewer greenhouse gas emissions the realization of a low-carbon society is listed in the key issues, and we are working on a variety of initiatives. Aeon’s Approach Aeon has set environmental targets for FY 2020, the Aeon eco Project. With current increasing needs for energy use efficiency and power conservation, and with the experience of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon has added perspectives of reducing energy use and developing renewable energy to environmental protection in September 2012 and has additionally taken on a role as a lifeline center protecting the community in disasters and emergencies. The Aeon Natural Refrigerant Declaration was announced in FY 2011, and the introduction of natural refrigerant refrigerated cases with a small global warming potential is also being promoted. In addition, we are also working on the reduction of CO2 emissions in products and logistics. Future Initiatives In July 2015, the Government of Japan finalized a goal to reduce domestic greenhouse gas emissions 26% compared to FY2013 by the year 2030. To contribute to reaching this goal, Aeon will continue to engage in the Aeon Eco Project and will begin sharing its energy management expertise developed in Japan at its subsidiaries in China and ASEAN. Aeon Eco Project In the form of our Aeon Eco Project, Aeon set environmental targets for FY2020, and is carrying out Aeon various initiatives to achieve those targets. The project incorporates a protection strategy in addition to targets that aim to conserve energy and save power, such as strategies for reducing energy use that Project promote smart use of energy to conserve it, and strategies for generating energy to produce renewable energy, primarily solar power generation. This aims to turn stores into disaster prevention facilities to function as lifelines in times of emergency. Reduction Strategy Generation Strategy Protection Strategy Smart Aeon is one of the initiatives for implementing the Aeon Eco Project. 9 stores have given birth to Smart Aeon up to the end of FY2015. ( P.41) 50% reduction in 200,000 kW from 100 disaster-prevention energy consumption renewable energy sources facilities across Japan FY 2015 Results Targets for FY2020 Examples of Initiatives Energy consumption Reduction P.39 50% reduction in energy Transition to LED lighting Expected reductions of 25% Strategy consumption (compared to FY2010) Stores installed with solar panels Generation 1,029 stores Electricity generation 200,000 kW from renewable P.44 Solar panel installation Strategy capacity 57,261kW energy sources (total up to FY2015) Protection Disaster-prevention 27 locations Make 100 Aeon stores across Japan Private power generation P.85 Strategy across Japan (total up to FY2015) disaster-prevention facilities equipment installation 37 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY2015 KPI Progress Main SubcatSummary of Actions/Initiatives in CatKPI Scope Covered Target FY 2015 Results egory FY 2015 egory Reduce Total Total Annual CO2 Consolidated Group FY 2010:0.101t/m2 (Performance) Emissions Factor companies in Japan 1) Energy-saving equipment 0.0754t/m2 (expected) FY 2015:0.075t/m2 or less CO2 Emissions (CO2 Emissions/ and overseas (Japan, introduction/update: Total Floor Area) China and ASEAN) FY 2020:0.050t/m2 or less · Store lighting LED conversion (basic lighting, such as spotlights) · Introduction/updating of energy-saving refrigerated cases, air conditioning equipment 2) Energy saving through operational improvement Improve Energy Efficiency (lighting, refrigerated cases, air conditioning, etc.) Total Energy Use Consolidated Group FY 2010:2.731GJ/m2 (results) · Education by energy advisor Factor companies in Japan 2.048GJ/m2 (expected) training FY 2015: 2.048GJ/m2 or less [Reduction Strategy] (Amount of Heat / and overseas (Japan, · Verification of energy rational Total Floor Area) China and ASEAN) FY 2020: 1.365GJ/m2 or less management techniques · Energy-saving operation Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores propulsion using an energysaving checklist and Procedure manual Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons and Natural Refrigerant Equipment Promote Visualization in Measures for Ascertaining Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. introduces 1) Simple and periodic equipment Replacement FY 2015: a centralized management inspection Amount and Consolidated Group Operation of management system scheme 2) Fluorocarbon leakage amount Preventing Leakage companies in Japan compliant with the Fluorocarbons (Running in 22 companies such management and periodic of Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law as GMS, SM, DS) reporting follow up used in Refrigerated Display Cases 1) CFC-free regular holding of Number of implementation project Consolidated Introduced to the six new GMS Stores Installing 2) Information gathering for Introduction Promotion [Natural Refrigerant Declaration] Logistics companies in Japan Plan for installation at new stores stores and eight supermarket Refrigerated handling manufacturer for GMS, SM and FY 2015:Introduction in all new and small stores Display Cases expansion and consideration of Small-sized Store stores (Total 42 stores) that use Natural introduction expansion of builtBusiness Refrigerants in CO2 refrigerant refrigerated cases. Reduce CO2 Emissions in CO2 Emissions CO2 emissions per case 1) Environmental vehicle per Case during FY 2015: AEON GLOBAL 132.3g (FY 2015) introduction promotion Shipment from 10% reduction compared with FY Products and Logistics SCM CO., LTD. 10.0% reduction compared with 2) Eco-drive promotion Distribution Center 2013 FY 2013 3) Excellent driver awards to Store Generating Electricity in stores Generating renewable energy Power generation Consolidated Group capacity of companies in Japan Generate 200,000kW of electricity Installed solar panels in 15 stores renewable energy Total 57,000kW [ Creation Strategy] for GMS and SM by 2020 (Total 1,029 stores) (purchased power businesses only) Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 38 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Obtain ISO50001 Reducing CO2 in stores In July 2013, AEON CO., LTD. became the first retailer in Japan to obtain the ISO 50001 certification, an energy management certification defined by the International Organization CO2 emissions reduction/energy efficiency improvement for Standardization (ISO). ISO 50001 is an international [Aeon Eco Project: Reduction Strategy] standard specification that defines the requirements to be Aeon stores consume a large volume of energy*1, mainly in met by business operators when they establish an energy air-conditioning and lighting as well as freezer and refrigeration management system. It is being adopted around the world, cabinets. For Aeon, which has a store network spanning Japan including in the U.S. and China. as well as other countries in Asia, reducing CO2 emissions from AEON CO., LTD. has established stores*2plays a key role in reducing emissions for the entire an energy management system company. That makes it all the more important for us to focus under which it works as an イオン株式会社 on reducing CO2 in our stores. entire group of companies to 千葉県千葉市美浜区中瀬1丁目5番地1 Switching to LED lighting in stores continued and was use energy more efficiently with 登録証 登録番号:NC13J0002 actively promoted in FY 2015, and basic lighting and spotlights the goal of attaining the energyISO 50001:2011・JIS Q 50001:2011 イオン株式会社におけるイオングループ（省エネ法ᴾ 第三章工場等に係る措置等ᴾ were changed to LED lighting in 333 stores nationwide and saving targets laid out in the 第七条にて特定事業者に指定される連結決算対象子会社及びᴾ これに準ずる国内外の子会社ᵆᵔᵑ社ᵇ及びエネルギーマネジメントが及ぶᴾ 国内外の子会社ᵆᵐ社ᵇᵇのエネルギの統括的マネジメント活動ᴾ 4,339 stores in total. In addition, we have worked on items such Aeon Eco Project. The scope of ᴾ 当機関は、上記組織が、当該マネジメントシステムᴾ 要求事項に適合していることを証します。ᴾ ᴾ as the introduction and updating of energy-saving equipment Aeon’s ISO 50001 certification 登録日 ：年月日 更新日 ：年月日 ᴾ ᴾ ᴾ and verification of rational energy management techniques. For is blanket energy management 発行日 ：年月日 ᴾ 有効期限：年月日  ᴾ  ᴾ 本証は登録証の一部ですので、付属書と合わせてご覧ください。ᴾ example, facility managers from AEON Retail Co., Ltd. worked activities covering the entire ᴾ ᴾ ᴾ ISO 50001 certificate with store Energy Advisors to plan and execute measures in an Aeon Group of companies. effort to improve the energy-efficient operations of stores that lacked energy consumption efficiency in terms of energy used Framework for Promoting our Energy Management System (EnMS) per basic unit. Based on these efforts, Aeon’s electricity usage in FY2015 was approximately 25% lower than in FY2010. This AEON CO., LTD. Group Companies is mainly effective through the introduction of LED lighting Top Management and each piece of energy saving equipment and measures introduced. Internal Auditing Team In FY2016, we will work on reducing energy usage even more by introducing new energy-saving equipment and by Energy Management Energy Management improving energy-saving operations. Our efforts will focus on Representative Control Officer measures at stores with air conditioning systems that use hotEnergy Management Energy Management and-chilled water generators in an effort to reach our targets Secretariat Secretariat set for FY 2020. Subcommittees on Business offices *1 Looking at a breakdown of energy consumed on a heat conversion basis, around Energy Strategy and stores 90% is accounted for by electricity and the remainder by city gas, LP gas and heavy oil. *2 All CO2 emitted from stores can be attributed to energy consumption. Specifically, around 8% comes from direct emissions through city gas, LP gas and combustion of Energy suppliers Tenants heavy oil (Scope 1) and around 92% comes from indirect emissions through power consumption (Scope 2). The calculation of CO2 emissions from power consumption uses calculation standards and an emissions factor pursuant to the Act on Promotion Energy management of Global Warming Countermeasures. subcontractors FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Improving energy management practices Total Annual CO2 Emissions per unit Total Energy Use Factor AEON CO., LTD. has systematized an in-house Energy (CO2 Emissions / Total Floor Area) (Amount of Heat / Total Floor Area) Advisor Program aimed at leveraging our Aeon Eco Project to 2010 0.101t/m2 2.731GJ/m2 further develop human resources in our retail stores. 0.079t/m2 2.175GJ/m2 The Energy Advisors help assess the status of energy usage 2014 in stores and work to propose and promote ideas for more 2015 0.075t/m2 (expected) Results 2.048GJ/m2 (expected) Results efficient usage. As of the end of February 2016, a total of 500 2020 Energy Advisors had been certified. 0.050t/m2 or less 1.365GJ/m2 Target In the future we will continue to develop more certified * With The Daiei, Inc. becoming a full subsidiary in January 2015, figures have been Energy Advisors, enhance the capabilities of current Energy recalculated back to FY2010. Advisors, and work to expand the program to Group companies, including those outside of Japan. 39 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016  reventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons and P FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Promoting Use of Natural Refrigerant Equipment Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount and Preventing More and more freezing and refrigeration units started Leakage of Fluorocarbons used in Refrigerated Display Cases using non-ozone depleting alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons • Completed tallying the amounts of fluorocarbons replaced in FY 2012 (90% or better capture rate of ascertained leakage) (CFCs) as refrigerant following the abolition of the production • Put together a working team for fluorocarbon leakage management • As a representative of the Japan Chain Stores Association, voiced opinions and use of ozone-depleting CFCs under the Montreal Protocol in the Industrial Structure Council’s working group on countermeasures for fluorocarbons and at the Joint Council Meeting adopted in 1987. However, these alternatives have extremely 2013 high global warming potential (GWP) *1 and the problem of leaking into the atmosphere, which prompted calls to switch 2014 • Establishment a freon management system to natural refrigerants with low GWP. In 2009, Aeon became Japan’s first retailer to start Centralized management system introduction through Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. 2015 (running in 22 companies such as GMS, supermarkets, department stores, etc.) Results introducing refrigerators and freezers that use a low-GWP natural refrigerant*2 (CO2). Following this, we announced the 2020 Aeon Natural Refrigerants Declaration in 2011 and are planning to install natural refrigerant-based refrigerators and freezers in every new store to open from now on as well. Number of Stores Installing Refrigerated Display Cases that use Natural Refrigerants on a Trial Basis As of the end of February 2016, we have installed natural • Introduction to 2 new stores refrigerant-based refrigerators and freezers at 42 stores, • Started an in-house project team for promoting the adoption of natural including our new Aeon Style Tokoname store, MaxValu refrigerants • As a representative of the Japan Chain Stores Association, voiced opinions supermarkets, and Ministop convenience stores. We will in the Industrial Structure Council’s working group on countermeasures for fluorocarbons and at the Joint Council Meeting continue considering to switch to natural refrigerants even in • Promotion of good relations with challenges delay 2013 existing stores on a gradual basis. Aeon faces certain issues ahead of the introduction of Introduced to the four new GMS stores and 13 stores of supermarket and small stores (Total 28 stores) natural refrigerants, including the lack of manufacturers and 2014 high installation costs. We will do our utmost to overcome Introduced to six new GMS stores and 8 supermarket these issues and promote the industry-wide use of natural 2015 and small stores (Total 42 stores) Results refrigerants by leveraging performance data accumulated to date to raise awareness going forward and build ties with 2020 companies within the same industry and other industries. *1 Global warming potential: Coefficient indicating the degree of influence to global warming. If CO 2 is 1, the alternative for fluorocarbons that are being used in refrigerated cases are several thousand times larger *2 Natural refrigerants: Substances known as natural refrigerants include ammonia and carbon hydride as well as CO2. Aeon Style Tokoname Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 40 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Aeon store development Installation of Recharging Stations for Electric [Smart Aeon development] Vehicles Working to build environmentally friendly stores, Aeon has Aeon first set up a high-speed recharging station for electric defined Eco Stores as outlets that achieve at least 20% lower vehicles at the Aeon Lake Town store located in Koshigaya CO2 emissions in comparison with conventional stores, and a city, Saitama prefecture in 2008 in order to respond to the CASBEE*1 ranking of A* or higher. Since the opening of our first increasing use of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. Eco Store, the Aeon Chikusa Shopping Center, in May 2005, 12 Since then, we have set up recharging stations at most of our such stores had been opened by February 2013. new shopping centers as well as certain existing stores based In September 2012, we started working on further on demand. developments for Next-Generation (Smart Aeon) Eco Stores. In In FY 2015, we aggressively moved forward with the addition to building stores with lower environmental impacts installation of recharging stations at existing stores, with the than in the past, we also formulated five criteria, (Smart Energy, grand total now standing at 458 stations at 198 stores as of the Integration of E-Money and the Internet, Traffic Situation (Smart end of May 2016 (of these 204 were rapid recharge stations Mobility), Biodiversity and Landscape, Disaster Prevention and and 254 were ordinary recharge stations). Going forward, we Regional Infrastructure), from the perspective of civicand are continuing our proactive approach to installation. community-building efforts carried out in cooperation with Stores installing recharging local regions. We have positioned this as a key initiative for stations for electric vehicles implementing the Aeon Eco Project. Number of installed stations Starting with the opening of the 1st Smart Aeon store Aeon Total number of stores Mall Yahata Higashi in March 2013, there was an expansion of 2 (as of the end of May 2016) more Aeon Smart stores in FY 2015, Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom, and Aeon Mall Shijonawate 9 stores*2 have given birth to Smart 458 stations covering 198 Aeon up to the end of February 2016. *1 C ASBEE: Environmental performance evaluation system architecture that was stores developed in 2001. It is used as an index to evaluate and display objectively the performance whether you are conscious how the global environment and surrounding environment, that there is no waste in running costs, such as, or comfortable for the user. *2 9 stores: Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi, Aeon Mall Osaka Dome City, Aeon Mall Makuhari New City, Aeon Mall Nagoya Chaya, Aeon Mall Kyoto Katsuragawa, Aeon Mall Kisarazu, Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom, and Aeon Mall Shijonawate Building f or Tomorrow Toge ther 41 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 jointly participating in the same study group run a dedicated Reduce CO2 Emissions train between Tokyo and Osaka, and this has been greatly in Products and Logistics expanded to 40,786 containers (12 foot equivalent) through Aeon’s railway transport. These efforts have been evaluated, Promote Visualization in Logistics and we were awarded the “Minister of Economy, Trade and Aeon defined “CO 2 emissions per case in delivery from Industry Award” in the “Green Logistics Excellent Business distribution centers to stores” in KPI, and we are working on Award” at the “Green Logistics Partnership Conference” held emissions reduction in “visualization” of CO2 emissions related by parties such as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport to logistics. and Tourism and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry The results of continued efforts in FY 2015 for items held in December 2015. The same award is intended to honor such as the promotion of eco-driving and introduction of initiatives with significant achievements in the creation of environmental vehicles such as large natural gas vehicles sustainable logistics systems, such as the reduction of CO 2 and electric vehicles were that the CO2 emissions per case in emissions through promotion of a modal shift. delivery from distribution centers to stores were reduced to We are assertively promoting a modal shift beyond industry 132.3g CO2, a reduction of 10.1% compared to FY 2014. in the future and are working to reduce CO2. In FY2016, CO 2 emissions per case in delivery from * A sahi Breweries, Ltd., Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Ezaki Glico Co., Ltd., Kao distribution centers to stores were reduced to 128.0g CO 2, a Corporation, Nestle Japan Ltd., reduction of 13% compared to FY 2013. Procter & Gamble Japan Co., Ltd. (P & G), Sapporo Breweries Ltd. (in In addition, along with participating in various research alphabetical order) meetings related to the environment started by groups such as universities, automotive manufacturers, gas companies, logistic companies and governments, through an environmental vehicle study group and rail transport study group sponsored Aeon rail transport study group by Aeon, we are promoting the introduction of large natural dedicated trains gas vehicles and the expansion of a modal shift. In addition to continuing these efforts, in the future, we Manufacturer’s plants, Manufacturer’s warehouses Cross-sector Freight Aeon’s distribution center, Manufacturer’s warehouses Train Service are promoting initiatives on both the hardware and software sides for the expansion of a good driver award system Tokyo Freight Terminal Kudara Freight Terminal Station (Tokyo) Station (Osaka) and implementation of Eco-drive * workshops and 100% introduction of environmental adaptive vehicles. Aeon’s distribution center, Manufacturer’s plants, * Eco-drive: Efforts to save fuel such as trying gentle string or stopping wasteful idling, Manufacturer’s warehouses Manufacturer’s warehouses and driving to reduce CO2 emissions FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI CO2 reduction communication with customers Aeon is working on a “visible” carbon footprint (CFP) that CO2 Emission per Case during Shipment from Distribution Center to Store is displayed on products where CO2 emissions are generated through the entire life cycle of the product (raw materials, processing steps, distribution, consumption, disposal, 12.7% reduction compared with FY 2010 2013 recycling). Through the “visualization” initiative, we are aiming for reduction of CO2 emissions and further enhanced interest in 7.3% reduction compared with FY 2013 the customers’ environment. 2014 We have participated in the “Carbon footprint (CFP) study group” sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and 10.1% reduction 2015 compared with FY 2014 Results Industry since 2008, and we have been working on verification of carbon footprints in about 20 products. 2020 15% reduction We implemented “Bio My Basket” CO 2 calculation and Target verification in March 2015. Based on the results, we also implemented a carbon offset to compensate for CO2 reduction Promote a modal shift in collaboration with companies in activities in other places where CO2 was emitted in FY 2015 as other industries well. AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD., which is responsible for Carbon Offset Achievements Aeon’s logistics, aims for the reduction of CO2 emissions and • Target products: Bio My Basket studies rail transport initiatives jointly with each member • Period: March 2015 February 2016 company through the Aeon Rail Transport Study Group • Amount: 700t-CO2 sponsored by the same company. As for these efforts, with the cooperation of the Japan Freight Railway Co., Ltd., seven member manufacturers * Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 42 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society  eveloping and Selling Products that Help D data, add more businesses for which we gather data, and use Reduce CO2 Emissions data analysis to pursue our reductions in CO2 emissions. Aeon is working to develop and sell products that help * For calculations, we reference the Emissions Rate Index Database for Calculating GHG Emissions, etc. in an Organization’s Supply Chain (Ver. 2.0). reduce CO2 emissions. Our TOPVALU Gurinai Yukigura potatoes from Toya, FY2015 Scope 3 Emissions Hokkaido are one example. These Category Scope 3 Emissions Categories Emissions(t-CO2e) potatoes use the cooling power 1 Purchased products and services 2,846,663 of snow for preservation after 2 Capital goods 1,665,987 harvest, which reduces electricity Fuel and energy related activities not 3 336,072 usage and also helps reduce included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO 2 emissions. In FY 2015, CO 2 4 Transport and shipments (upstream) 254,421 emissions have been reduced 5 Waste from business activities 112,798 by about 30 tons through this 6 Business travel 72,752 TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Food Series initiative. Hokkaido Toya produced Yukigura potatoes 7 Employee commutes 35 8 Leased assets (upstream) 9 Transport and shipments (downstream) TOPICS 10 Processing of products sold Selling “TOPVALU fururi” umbrellas to con11 Use of products sold 486,764 tribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions 12 Disposal of products sold 58,987 13 Leased assets (downstream) 824,111 The “TOPVALU fururi”, a changeable vinyl umbrella that combines vinyl fabrics and umbrella ribs, was launched in 14 Franchise about 390 Aeon and Aeon Style stores*1. 15 Investments 8,451 This product uses sugar cane-derived green polyethylene and reduces CO2 emissions in part of the raw material. In addition, the vinyl fabric, ferrule and each part of TOPICS the umbrella ribs can be disassembled and easily separated as garbage, which will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions. Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions You can “change” to your own style with up to 46 by Third Party possible combinations, and the umbrella can be combined with your favorite colors and patterns. We have developed Aeon has obtained a third-party a long plastic umbrella that has been taken for granted as review of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 disposable until now, and it is a fashionable, ecological and greenhouse gases for AEON Retail Co., next generation umbrella. Ltd., which is the largest producer of In addition, part of the sales of this product will be these emissions within the Aeon Group’s donated to the Association for Aid and Relief Japan (AAR core retail business. Japan), an authorized NPO, through the activities of the AEON Third party verification was also done in AEON Mall 1% Club. This is for the purpose Co., Ltd. group companies in FY 2015. We will continue to of healthy development of receive such reviews in the future in order to enhance the young people in Asia in order reliability of our data and continue with our efforts to reduce to support the education of greenhouse gas emissions. children in Cambodia, where 1. Scope of Verification the umbrellas are produced. •Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions: *1:About 390 Aeon and Aeon style Energy consumption of CO2 emissions associated with stores in Honshu, Shikoku and the management of 388 AEON Retail Co., Ltd. stores in Japan Kyushu in the period from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014. 2. Methodology ISO 14064-3(2006): Obtained third-party verification in accordance with greenhouse gases-Part3: Specifications  abulating CO2 emissions across the entire supply T with guidance for the validation and verification of chain greenhouse gas assertions. In addition to managing greenhouse gas emissions they generate directly (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from the Verified greenhouse gas emissions use of electricity (Scope 2), companies must now manage Scope 1 Scope 2 96,799 t-CO2e 1,021,303 t-CO2e emissions across their entire supply chain (Scope 3). In response to this development, Aeon has been calculating* Scope 3 CO2 emissions since FY2012. Verification by a third party is planned in FY 2016 with regards to Scope 3 emissions. In the future, we will further expand the precision of our 43 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 ndation AEON Environmental Fou Generating Electricity at Stores Donating Solar Systems to Junior High Schools The AEON Environmental Foundation is donating solar Generating renewable energy power systems to junior high schools with the aim of pro[Aeon Eco Project: Generation Strategy] moting and spreading environmentally friendly renewable The goal of building electricity generation capacity of energy, and providing students with the opportunity to uti200,000 kW* by 2020 is part of the “Generation Strategy” in the lize the systems for environmental studies. This activity started in FY2009 as a five-year project to Aeon Eco Project. commemorate the 20th anniversary of the founding of the In FY 2015, we installed solar panels with electrical Foundation. As of the end of FY2014, we have donated sysgeneration capacity totaling 2,704kW in 15 of our stores, tems to 35 junior high schools, including schools in Japan, including supermarkets with flat roofs, new large-scale Malaysia, and Vietnam. supermarkets, as well as convenience stores. This brings This initiative is determined to continue in the future, our total of stores with installed units to 1,029, and our total and it has donated solar power generation systems to 5 targeneration capacity to 57,261kW*. get elementary and junior high schools in Wuhan City, China In addition to leading to reductions in electricity usage, in FY 2016. thanks to captive consumption, electricity from solar panels is also being sold back to power companies through the fixed wholesale purchase system. We are reinvesting profit from electricity sales to offset increased electricity rates, contribute to our BCP, invest in the environment, and invest in renewable energy. Tan Nhut Junior High School in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam In FY2016, we plan to add 3,720kW of generation capacity to 65 stores. Aeon Group Initiatives * 5 7,000 kW is equivalent to the ability to cover the annual power of AEON Retail Co., Ltd. Reform Section approximately 13,000 households in the common household. Solar panel installation Eco-Home (Uchi-Eco) Diagnosis Initiative The Ministry of the Environment is implementing an FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI initiative called Eco-Home Diagnosis in which accredited professionals with wide reaching experience in global Power generation capacity of renewable energy(Electricity sales only) warming and energy-saving home electronics use specially 33,000kW developed software to provide tailored advice for each 2013 household on more effective ways to reduce CO 2 and reduce energy usage in order to reduce the greenhouse gas 56,000kW 2014 emissions of ordinary households. Aeon Retail, which maintains energy-saving proposals for 2015 57,000kW Results helping consumers reduce utility bills as an important Company policy, completed its registration as a home ecology diagnosis provider so that it can carry out this policy. The company 2016 received certification in July 2014, and 110 people had passed 2020 200,000kW the “Uchi-Eco” qualification test up to February 2016. Target Furthermore, we conducted a diagnosis with 900 people up to June 2016 through stores and each local event. We intend to promote energy conservation carried out in FY 2015 further by expanding the system to grant WAON points as Aeon Eco-points to customers who continue to be consulted by an “Uchi-eco diagnosis” and who have purchased specific energysaving renovations and energy-saving equipment. In addition, we will carry out education and support towards obtaining qualifications, aiming for a system of 200 people as “Uchi-eco Consultants” in this fiscal year. Diagnosis Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 44 Conservation of Biodiversity Key Issue 2 Management Approach Recognition of Challenges All companies harness ecosystem services, leveraging the resources produced by our ecosystem in each phase of the lifecycle, from the sourcing of raw materials to production, sales, use and disposal. At the same time, however, the world continues to lose its tropical forests while the number of fauna and flora found on the red list of endangered species continues to grow unabated. Also, Aeon’s business operations are based on the recognition that they cannot be sustained without the ecosystem services of agricultural produce and marine products, which is why Aeon continues to work on various initiatives for the sustainable use of resources, with biodiversity conservation considered as one of the key issues. Aeon Approach/Aiming Direction Aeon established the Aeon Biodiversity Principle in 2010 in order to continually promote the sustainable use of resources while conserving biodiversity. We are promoting various efforts in accordance with the Code of Conduct that was defined in this Principle. S ustainable procurement  We formulated the “Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle” in FY 2014 in order to aim for compatibility between the continuous development of business and the sustainability of natural resources. As an example of these initiatives, • In products, the “Aeon Seafood Procurement Principle” has been formulated for the sustainable procurement of marine products. • In stores, we are building stores with consideration to sustainability by methods such as expanding the use of domestic FSCcertified lumber as building material for Ministop stores. “Aeon Forest Circulation Program” together with customers  We have been planting trees with customers since 1991 as an activity that embodies the “Aeon Basic Principles”. The “Aeon Forest Circulation Program” was started with the theme of “Plant”, “Nurture” and “Utilize” upon the planting of the 10 millionth tree in FY 2013. Future Initiatives Environmental agencies and the Conference of Parties (COP) under the Convention on Biological Diversity are working to make biodiversity mainstream through various social and economic activities promoting the protection of biodiversity and its sustainable use, from a worldwide to local community. Consequently, Aeon will utilize its business characteristic of coming into contact with vast numbers of consumers on a daily basis to continually highlight the importance of biodiversity through the familiar platforms of stores and products. As part of these efforts, “TOPVALU Gurinai Organic” product expansion proceeded in FY 2016 in addition to promoting efforts based on the “Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle”. In addition, there was a full-scale startup of the “Aeon Forest Circulation Program” in FY 2016, which was a milestone year celebrating 25 years of tree planting activities in Aeon. Aeon Biodiversity Principle Aeon’s business depends on living products, such as agricultural and marine products. Recognizing this, Aeon formulated the “Aeon Biodiversity Principle” in March 2010, towards the conservation of biodiversity are essential to form a sustainable society. Basic Principle Action Guidelines (Excerpt) Grasping the impact our overall corporate activities have on the 1. Products: We will set sustainability targets for resource managed ecosystem, we actively focus on reducing the impact on the fresh seafood and processed products, engage in their purchase ecosystem and conservation activities, working in collaboration and sale while sharing those targets with our business partners, with our stakeholders, including our customers, local authorities and communicate related information to customers. and non-profit organizations. We focus on the following points 2. Stores: We will continue to promote tree-planting campaigns related to the ecosystem in our corporate activities: with local customers at new store sites and continue to develop Eco Stores with less environmental impact than conventional Through our corporate activities, we facilities. 1. Remain conscious of blessings and burdens. 3. With Customers: Through tree-planting campaigns and other 2. Engage in initiatives that protect and nurture. programs, we will share environmental awareness and learn 3. Disclose information on our activities. together with all of our customers. 45 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY2015 KPI Progress Main SubcatSummary of Actions/Initiatives CatKPI Scope Covered Target FY 2015 Results egory in FY 2015 egory (Marine Products) • Expansion of the MSC/ASC CoC (Chain of Custody) certificaSustainable Resource Usage in Products Promoting Sustainable Procurement tion in Aeon group business 1) A nalysis of the risks and opAcquired in 4 GMS companies, portunities for sustainable 8 SM businesses procurement based on input MSC: 18 species, 36 items (as of from internal and external Expansion of initiatives based on the end of February 2016) shareholders in the Assessment Sustainable proConsolidated Group the Aeon Sustainable ProcureASC: 4 species, 9 items (as of the Committee (Marine Products) curement initiatives companies in Japan ment Principle and Aeon Sustainend of February 2016) 2) Identify priority initiatives and in seafood able Seafood Procurement Policy • A permanent “Fish Baton” implementation feasibility in corner to display only MSC the Promotion Committee and ASC certified products is (Marine Products), and impleinstalled in 15 Aeon Retail (Ltd.) ment the breakdown of specific stores efforts (As of April 2016) • Sales start of Completely FarmRaised Bluefin Tuna (June 2015) (Products) Sustainable Resource Usage in Stores and • S ell about 130 FSC certified Promoting Sustainable Procurement products in stationery and H&BC generic items Switched 1) P ublication preparation and all 100 generic workbook items development of a sustainable to FSC® certification procurement policy for forest • Take advantage of FSC-certified resources Sustainable proConsolidated Group Development of procurement paper in generic items, even in 2) Development of an organizacurement policies Products companies in Japan policies of forest resources food packaging and hanging tional structure for sustainable of forest resources clothes tags procurement in terms of products (Stores) 3) Study of initiative contents in • Number of Ministop stores in terms of products Japan that use FSC-certified wood: 152 stores (As of the end of February 2016) 1) C onfirm the progress and Biodiversity Conservation at the thorough implementation of Aeon Hometown Forests management plans at each GMS store Companies to Focusing on GMS and SM, Maintenance and 2) Spread weeding and cleaning implement the Aeon spread planting zone manageManagement Situa100% implementation through Clean & Green ActiviStore Level Program Hometown Forests ment based on the management tion of Forests ties carried out by employees at Program manual each GMS store 3) Management Manual Revision (Supplementary Manual Creation) Contributions to the ComSustainable forest conservaA Curriculum to Education ForestConscious People Aeon forest circulaConsolidated targets Promotion of new businesses in • Cooperation with Mie Prefecture tion In a “Nurture” Field in Japan the fields of the “Plant”, “Nurture”, Miyagawa forest election set munity tion Program Pilot Project Implementation Group Companies “Thrive” • Holding a tree nurturing event Development through collaboration with students and Mie Prefecture Initiatives through our Conscious of the Ecosystem Get the JAS organic produce proA total of 27 Gurinai Organic cessed foods “Certified Importer” Consolidated compaproducts, one of the largest Appropriate TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Food status prescribed by the Ministry nies in Japan for GMS number as private brand label products in private Series of Agriculture, Forestry and FisherProvide Products Products and SM products in Japan Expand to 185 brand Product expansion ies, develop domestic and foreign Small companies items. (As of the end of February organic products, and promote 2016) procurement Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 46 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy Sustainable resource usage Carry out regular risk assessments from a resource depletion prevention and biodiversity conservation perspective. Also, in order to mitigate risks, review feasible countermeasures and Promoting Sustainable Procurement strive to procure sustainable seafood. Our natural resources face many threats today, from Specific Measures ecosystem destruction from overexploitation to poor Aeon is constantly devising and implementing measures to shift agricultural harvests from abnormal weather caused by climate from endangered seafood to seafood with a sustainable backing change. Whereas, with the supply chain now stretched across into the future. 1. Provision of Sustainable Products the entire world, Aeon must be conscious of human rights and · Actively sell sustainable seafood such as MSC-certified and working environments at suppliers as well as work to prevent ASC-certified products corruption, including bribery and extortion. · Strengthen handling of complete aquaculture The products manufactured and sold by Aeon are made 2. Elimination of Illegal Trade possible by the bounty of nature and contain raw materials · Comply with international conventions, such as Washington Convention procured from producers and locations around the globe. 3. Establishment of Traceability Measures Efforts towards procurement guideline formulation have · Promote strengthening of resource management in Indonesia begun from 2011 towards the realization of even more 4. Regular Risk Assessments sustainable high-level procurement. Through the work of a CSR · Launch organization to promote sustainable Procurement Guidelines Committee comprised of managers procurementMeasures in organization development as well such as “Assessment Meetings” and a “Sustainable Procurement from related Aeon departments, and tasked with gathering Promotion Committee” for promotion have begun. CSR procurement-related information, we formulated and published, in February 2014, our Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle. Sales and development of MSC-certified and ASC-certified products Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle The MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) is an independent 1. Eliminating natural resource transactions, gathering, and fishand non-profit organization that can recommend sustainable ing conducted illegally. fisheries and can put a “sea eco-label” on marine products 2. Establishing and managing Aeon standards from the perspeccaught by certified fisheries. After beginning to sell MSCtive of biodiversity preservation and preventing the depletion of natural resources. certified products in 2006, Aeon has gradually expanded the 3. Minimizing use of non-renewable resources. number of available items. 4. Establishing traceability, including place of production and As of February 2016, we offer fishing methods, for produce and marine resources. customers 36 MSC-certified 5. Preventing the destruction of forest land with high conversaproducts across 18 species— tion value. TOPVALU more than any other retailer MSC-certified salt sockeye in Japan. P  romoting the Procurement of Sustainable In addition, ASC (Aquaculture Stewardship Council) certified Seafood product sales began for the first time in Asia in 2014. It also Aeon established the Aeon Seafood Procurement Principle aims for sustainable procurement through the dissemination of in February 2014 in order to help protect limited marine “responsible aquaculture fisheries” which also considered local resources and to hand down to future generations our societies and human rights traditional culture surrounding food sources from the water without imposing a heavy and sea. burden on the environment. As We formulated the Seafood Assessment Committee of February 2016, we are selling comprised of Aeon’s Environment Division and other Divisions nine ASC-certified products at Aeon Group companies, functional companies, and other across four species. companies. Based on input from external stakeholders (NGOs, In June 2015, eight Group TOPVALU ASC-certified raw the government, seafood businesses), we analyzed risks and Atlantic salmon companies joined AEON Retail opportunities, reviewed feasible projects, and used the results to plan key initiatives. 47 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Co., Ltd., AEON Hokkaido Corporation, AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 and AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. in acquiring Chain of Custody (CoC) certification. CoC certification ensures the reliability of Sustainable procurement initiatives in seafood Susta MSC and ASC certified products and is a system for assuring Development of action plans based on the 2013 Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle and Target 2013 consumers of the traceability of certified products. Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy Going forward, Aeon will promote procurement of 2014 Seafood 2014 sustainable seafood by increasing the number of companies •Expansion of the ASC/MSC CoC (Chain of Custody) certification in Aeon group that acquire certification. 2015 In June 2015, in addition to the 4 companies of AEON 2015 Retail Co.,Ltd. and AEON Hokkaido Corporation, AEON KYUSHU CO.,LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. in Development and sales of “Full-cycle Aquaculture Pacific Bluefin” addition to these 4 companies, 8 group companies 2016 newly obtained CoC (Chain of Custody) certification Aeon started the sales of full•Handled productassortmentexpansion (species) Results Target MSC: 18 species, 36 items (as of the end of February 2016) cycle aquaculture raised * Pacific ASC: 4 species, 9 items (as of the end of February 2016) 2020 bluefin tuna “TOPVALU Gurinai A permanent corner to display only MSC, ASC certified products, the Fish Baton corner Amami Raw Pacific Bluefin Tuna”. installed in 15 stores in AEON Retail Co., Ltd. (April 2016) International measures have been 2020 • Sales start of Full-cycle Aquaculture Bluefin Tuna (June 2015) stepped up for the management of Co mplete farmi ng for the fi rs t ti me i n a whil e wild natural resources. Bluefin tuna was designated in November 2014 as a wild animal in danger of extinction by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), and, in December TOPICS of the same year, the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Start “Fish Baton” deployment Commission (WCPFC) decided to halve catches of young Based on the thoughts Atlantic Bluefin tuna. of “wanting to connect the These circumstances led Aeon to supply full-cycle next generation to a rich aquaculture Bluefin tuna from the perspective of resource food culture”, deployment depletion prevention and biodiversity conservation, and we of a permanent corner did so utilizing the cooperation of Maruha Nichiro Corporation called “Fish Baton”, which and their ability to raise full-cycle aquaculture tuna that does is composed of ASC and not rely on wild stocks. MSC-certified products indicating that they are sustainable In addition, in consideration of the ecosystem surrounding marine products, started from FY 2015. As of June 2016, Aeon fish farms, we are taking care to regularly carry out water is handling up to 43 items in 20 species that are exhibited in quality checks and properly steward the natural environment 17 stores and are exhibited according to season and region. * ASC-certified and MSC-certified products are also handled in stores where around Amami island. “Fish Baton” corners are not installed. Sales of full-cycle aquaculture Japanese amberjack “TOPVALU Miyazaki Prefecture Japanese amberjack (aquaculture)” started in about 1000 Aeon and Aeon Style stores all over Japan. Generic sales of full-cycle aquaculture Japanese amberjack following full-cycle aquaculture Pacific bluefin tuna will be the first in Japan. Going forward, Aeon will promote the procurement and sale of sustainable seafood by protecting limited resources. * full-cycle aquaculture raised: Fertilized eggs are taken from adult tuna and artificially hatched, then those eggs are raised in a full-cycle that does not rely on wild tuna stocks. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 48 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity P  romoting the Procurement of Sustainable Efforts in stores: Stores using domestic FSC®-certified Forestry Products domestic lumber Following the Aeon Seafood Procurement Principle, the Aeon practices store development with consideration to Aeon Forest Resources Procurement Principle was established preservation of the ecosystem. For example, MINISTOP CO., LTD. in 2016. We aim to contribute to the balance of utilization and opened a Ministop store that used 100% FSC® Japan certified conservation of forest resources based on the principle. materials in 2009, as the first FSC-certified convenience store in Japan. As of the end of February 2016, 152 Ministop stores are FSC® certified. Going forward, we plan to actively increase Aeon Forest Resources Procurement Principle (Paper/Pulp/Timber) the number of environmentally-friendly stores using FSC Japan We will continue to utilize store materials and product certified materials. raw materials made of lumber and pulp produced from properly managed forests, and we strive to prevent forest destruction. Initiatives through our Products Identify risks and opportunities, consider viable methods, and aim for sustainable procurement through continuous improvement. 1. Handling of Sustainable Products Raw material from properly managed forests is authenticated and products that have acquired FSC® certification are handled Store under construction Ministop store assertively. 2. Effective use of domestic lumber in Japan Efforts for the effective use of domestic lumber in order to have sustainable recycling in Japan’s forests. 3. Ensuring Traceability Measures For high-risk countries and regions, raw material confirmation traceability to forests are handled on a priority basis. 4. Prevention of Illegal Deforestation We confirm legal lumber, etc. based on laws related to promotion of the use of legally harvested lumber. Properly managed Yamanashi Prefecture FSC®-certified forests 5. Preservation of Areas with High Conservation Value We confirm if precautions were taken in order to maintain areas with high conservation value. FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 201 Sustainable procurement initiatives in seafood Sustainable procurement policies of forest resources Maint 2013in products:Aeon Development of action plans based on the 2013 (Products) Efforts Products using Sustainable FSC®-certified Procurement Principle paper and Target •Sell about 130 FSC® certified products in stationery 2013 Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy The Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certifies wood and H&BC generic items Switched all 100 generic 2014 2014 workbook items to FSC® certification products and paperSeafood manufactured •Expansion with timber of the ASC/MSC from of CoC (Chain properly •Take advantage of FSC®-certified paper in generic 2014 items, even in food packaging and hanging clothes tags Results managed sustainableCustody) forests.certification in Aeon group (Store construction) 2015 In June 2015, in addition to the 4 companies of AEON 2015 •Number of Ministop stores in Japan that use Aeon has been selling notebooks Retail Co.,Ltd. and AEONand other Hokkaido FSC®-certified Corporation, FSC®-certified lumber: 152 stores 2015 AEON KYUSHU CO.,LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. in paper products sinceaddition 2008.toFrom FY2011, we have these 4 companies, 8 group companies been using (Store materials) newly obtained CoC tags (Chain and of Custody) certification 2016 • Implement the procurement based on the Green FSC®-certified materials for price other widely •Handled productassortmentexpansion (species) Results used Target Procurement Standards 2020 markers. MSC: 18 species, 36 items (as of the end of February 2016) ASC: 4 species, 9 items (as of the end of February 2016) 2020 About 130 stationery and H&BC A permanent corner category to display only FSC®-certified MSC, Development of procurement policies of forest resources products were sold ASC in certified products, the Fish Baton corner FY 2015. Furthermore, we installed in 15 stores in AEON Retail Co., Ltd. switched all TOPVALU learning books (April 2016) to 100% FSC®-certified items. We plan 2020 • Sales start of Full-cycle Aquaculture Bluefin to promote acquiring TunaFSC® (Junecertification 2015) for items such as toilet paper and paper towels. (FSC® C005942) TOPVALU Best Price tissue paper using FSC® certified paper 49 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Biodiversity conservation communication with customers Sustainable forest conservation Aeon is committed to informing customers and earning their support with regard to the importance and significance of using sustainable products and products that conserve Aeon Forest circulation program biodiversity. Based on this commitment, we are engaging in When we open a new store, Aeon Hometown Forests a variety of initiatives such as providing products that take Program joins with our customers to plant trees on the new into account the sustainable use of bio resources, as well site. Since this Program began at our JUSCO Malacca store as providing opportunities for people to learn more about in Malaysia in 1991 (Currently renamed Aeon Malacca SC), biodiversity. customers have planted trees together with us, passing the 10 millionth tree mark in 2013. In addition, Aeon will celebrate 25 years of tree planting activities in 2016. TOPICS With this opportunity, Aeon started the Aeon Forest We participated in the first “FSC Forest Circulation Program with the theme of “Plant”, “Nurture”, Week” held in Japan. “Thrive” in order to advance to a new stage. Specifically, we will continue to promote this with our “plant” objective targets Aeon participated in tree planting that improves the quality of life in regions across the “FSC Forest Walk”, the globe, and tree planting that protects areas from tsunami Japan’s version of the and disasters; our “nurture” objective targets activities to “FSC Friday” event which develop and managed planted trees is held in various countries around the world on the last and foster successor forests; and our Friday of every September. This event aims to spread forest conservation means, “thrive” objective assertively promotes and we have conducted awareness-raising activities such as the utilization of forest products such volunteer work, seminars and workshops where about 20 as lumber, etc. as resources for our Letting Forests Grow companies and organizations that have been working on products and building materials for our Plant, Nurture, Thrive the expansion of FSC participate in. Aeon is implementing stores. a stamp rally to find FSC®-certified products sold in the Daiei Akabane store and storytelling with the WWF Japan picture Letting Forests Grow—Plant book “Let’s choose a mark and protect the forest!” through Aeon Hometown Forests Program group company AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd. carried out in 65 So that new stores become a local community place and stores throughout Japan. These activities clearly tell children spread the spirit of fostering green spaces to people in the about FSC Japan activities and certification marks. region as well. With these thoughts in mind, since 1991, when From now on, in order to deliver a green earth to the next generation and help sustainable forest development, Aeon opens a new store, “Aeon Hometown Forestation” is we will implement various efforts through products and carried out with tree planting at the site of a store. services. In FY 2015 we planted a total of 214,250 young trees in 31 locations. As of the end of February 2016, 11,179,065 trees* had been planted through these activities. Aeon is deeply grateful to TOPICS the customers who have participated in our tree planting AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd. official characters efforts and we look forward to the next group of trees which Lala-chan and Io-kun have been we will plant and nurture alongside our customers and local communities. appointed 2016 FSC Japan Goodwill *Through “Aeon Hometown Forestation”, and AEON Environmental Foundation tree Ambassadors. planting, total tree planting in the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd. official characters Lalachan and Io-kun have been observed in activities up to now, and they had been appointed as FSC Japan Goodwill Ambassadors in May 2016. There are plans to be active in various events so that even children can have a further awareness and understanding of FSC in 2016. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 50 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Letting Forests Grow—Nurture A Curriculum to Education Forest-Conscious People In recent years, preventing global warming and conserving biodiversity are challenges joined by another urgent social issue. That is, preserving and sustainably using forests, which serve multifaceted roles for carrying on Japanese culture, “Aeon Hometown forest creation” 4th Kesennuma Oshima Kameyama AEON MALL Okinawa Rycom tree-planting ceremony offering recreation, etc., and villages, which serve as places for humans and nature to coexist. The Forest Transcend Project—Educating ForestFY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Conscious Results FY 2014People is aand Target ofeffort collaborative KPI between Aeon, Mie FY 201 Maintenance and Management Situation of Forests Prefecture, and the NPO Miyagawa Shinsengumi, Development of circulation program of Aeon S to aiming Appro foster the future generation of forestry workers by offering Horizontal development of setting model stores, manual workshop, ato Mori progress management of budget planning various2011 programs to deepen understanding of Japan’s forest ry 2013 2013 ric management. 2012 In FY 2015, our second year, the Project was held over the ric 2014 Focusing on GMS and SC, 2014 ags Results spread planting zone management Results course of two months, from December 20, 2015 to February se based on the management manual 14, 2013 2016, in Odaicho, Mie Prefecture. The curriculum had 2015 2015 lectures and workshops related to forestry and Promotion of forests (“Forest new Target en 2014 1 day / Other 2 days) seminar” businesses in the training and hands-on ﬁelds of(“Forest 2020 2020 techniques” 8 days / Field work 2 days) for a total Implementation 13 days. of Pilot of the Project i Results 2015 eight-day “forest skills The n the“Nurture” course” was ﬁeld especially unique esources and hands-on. By focusing on making a functional pathway for 2020 the course taught forestry labor techniques and skills workers, Letting Forests Grow directly in the mountain forests of Odaicho. Total This year 6 students completed the entire curriculum. After China 11,179,065 trees completion of the course, an event telling about the value (as of the end of February 2016) 1,242,569trees Japan of forests was conducted by Laos project sponsor at the “Aeon 8,836,842trees 148,250trees Mall Yokkaichi Kita” on March Myanmar Vietnam 26 and March 27. We believe 24,000trees 76,300trees that we want to evolve with Thailand tree planting activities as one Cambodia 225,500trees of the project’s themes from 29,844trees Kenya now on. Forest Transcend Project 3,450trees Malaysia 509,110trees Letting Forests Grow—Thrive Australia Utilization of Forest Resources Indonesia 200trees In addition to the deployment of FSC-certified product sales 83,000trees ( P.49) and deployment of stores using 100% domestic FSCcertified lumber ( P.49), we are working on the promotion of utilizing forest resources in a variety of measures. For example, in the “Aeon Mall Toin”, a permanent children’s playground, the “Mie Tree Plaza” was installed utilizing forests from Mie Prefecture. “Mie Tree Plaza” 51 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Initiatives through our Stores Initiatives through our Products Developing and Evaluating Indicators TOPVALU Gurinai Aeon pays great attention to conservation and creation of TOPVALU Gurinai is a food safety brand that considers ecosystems in developing its stores through initiatives such natural environmental friendliness and health for our bodies. as planning and implementing biodiversity evaluation and The brand’s product lineup offers food that meets customer environmental burden reduction measures when opening demands and their desire “to buy food that is safer because it is stores. The aim is to minimize the impact of our stores on the something we eat every day”. surrounding environment and ecosystem. Examples of these initiatives include the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and Developing and Promoting the Procurement of Organic installing biotopes at some of our shopping centers. Products As part of the store biodiversity assessment, “Creature In the “TOPVALU Gurinai” organic series, a rich assortment symbiosis office® certification (Urban/SC version)” was acquired of environmentally friendly products that received certification through the “Association for Business Innovation in harmony both in Japan and overseas are offered, and as of February with Nature and Community”. Following the “Aeon Mall 2016, we handle 185 items, the largest amount of any retail Toin” and “Aeon Mall Tamadaira Forest”, certification was generic brand in Japan. obtained in FY 2015 for the “Aeon Mall Tokoname”, “Aeon Mall In order to reflect increased consumer interest in healthy Shijonawate” and “Aeon Mall Sakai teppo-cho”. food, safety and security, as well as to respond to requests from customers for more organic products in our stores, we promote development and procurement of organic products in Japan TOPICS and from other countries utilizing the Japanese Agricultural Ideal Biotopes as Fusions of Aeon Stores Standards (JAS) * certification for importers of organic and Local Communities agricultural/processed food products, a certification issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) A “Biopark” that appeared suddenly in the center of a spacious parking lot was Aeon’s first biotope installed in “Aeon Yokkaichi of Japan. In addition, we started handling organic goods, Mall North”, the first location opened in the 21st century. It is a including some underwear, from the 2014 fall and winter lush green space about 300 square meters in size consisting of season. In the 2015 fall and winter season, we expanded the waterfront that surrounds the area that was a forest village shrine. deployment of children, baby and ladies inner wear, and in the With the cooperation of Chamber Group, a local 2016 spring and environmental NPO led by Chairperson Hiromi Tanaka, the summer season biotope is being maintained with an aim toward proliferating we introduced plant and animal life, based on expert advice on insects, fish, men’s items, and and plants suitable for a shopping center location. offered the organic Weeding and daily maintenance is performed with the series lineup of help of employee volunteers who are Aeon Biopark Assist u n d e r w e a r f o r TOPVALU Gurinai members, while the site is also used for Aeon Cheers Club activities and advanced environmental education including adults and children. Organic Series *Organic JAS logo planting festivals, pond drying and animal observation O perators certified by certification organizations events, and invasive species surveys and removal. registered by the MAFF are able to attach the organic We have also started seeing the results of firefly habitat JAS logo to their products. The logo is attached to agricultural, processed, or livestock products, as well creation coming out little by little. Since the prospects of as livestock feed, produced with a method of organic development of black snails for bait and assurance of the farming that uses natural power instead of pesticides or Organic JAS logo chemical fertilizers. proper amount and accumulation of know-how for light shading through 2015 initiatives were reached, from now on we will go to the next step of expanding spawning grounds. FY 2014In theResults future, weand Target continuing of KPI efforts with the will promote FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI realization of facilities where you can feel nature close by as Development of circulation program of Aeon S Appropriate products in private brand the forms of retail consideration of biodiversity. orkshop, ato Mori 2011 2013 A total of 120 organic products, one of the largest number as private brand label products in Japan 2012 Expansion to 137 items as of February 2015 2014 2013 A total of 27 organic products, one of the 2015 largest number as private brand label Results Promotion of new products in Japan Expansion to 185 items Target 2014 The Biopark (Aeon Mall Yokkaichikita) The Biopark in businesses management the ﬁelds conference ofby as of the end of February 2016 citizen’s group, experts and Aeon members 2020 Implementation of the PilotResults Project i 2015 n the“Nurture”ﬁeld 2020 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 52 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity ndation Initiatives AEON Environmental Fou 25th anniversary of establishment Excellence in Biodiversity Maintenance Biodiversity Award The AEON Environmental Foundation has supported many The AEON Environmental Foundation inaugurated the Japan people since its establishment in 1990, and it celebrated its 25th Awards for Biodiversity to promote biodiversity conservation and anniversary. sustainable use of biodiversity in Japan, as well as the MIDORI Prize To commemorate the 25th anniversary, the 4th Japan-China for Biodiversity, which is an international prize. The two awards Environmental International Symposium was held in Beijing. honor recipients in alternate years. Discussions were held by specialists and experts from both The Yezo Deer Association was awarded at the 4th “Biodiversity countries with the theme of “Sustainable development of society Japan Award” Grand Prix in FY 2015. and environmental improvement in the international community”, In FY 2016, we will hold the fourth international awards and the “Aeon Beijing Environment Proposal” was announced as ceremony for the Biodiversity Green Award. a summary. Two lecturers in Japan, Mr. Kiyoshi Higuchi and Mr. Chiaki Mukai, were invited, and they conducted lectures thinking about environmental issues with the theme of “Contribution from FY 2015 Japan Award Grand Prix the environment and health from space”. Aeon Tree-Planting Activities Yezo Deer Association The AEON Environmental Foundation, with cooperation at the national and local government level of each country, conducts tree-planting activities that aim to regenerate forests devastated by natural disasters. The Foundation’s current tree-planting initiatives are being carried out in different parts of the world, particularly in Asia, in addition to Japan. In FY 2015, tree planting was carried out in Urayasu-shi, Chiba Delivery class to learn about Prefecture; Aya-cho, Miyazaki Prefecture; Atsuma-cho, Hokkaido Yezo Deer and Okazaki-shi, Aichi Prefecture in Japan, and Yangon, Myanmar; Hanoi, Vietnam and Phnom Penh, Cambodia overseas. In FY 2016, tree planting is carried out in Atsuma-cho, Hokkaido; Chiba-shi, Chiba Prefecture; Watari-cho, Miyagi Prefecture; and Taketa-shi, Oita Prefecture; in Japan, and Phnom Penh, Cambodia; Yangon, Myanmar; and Miyun District in Beijing, China. Outstanding Performance Award ITO EN, LTD. Biodiversity conservation efforts through the “Tea at beautiful Tree planting in Atsuma-cho, Hokkaido Tree planting in Aya-cho, Miyazaki Lake Biwa/Beautify Japan with tea” Kyushu river fan club (Kyushu University Shimatani Laboratory) Regional revitalization and Tree planting in Phnom Penh, Cambodia Tree planting in Yangon, Myanmar waterside environment conservation/regeneration Giving Grants for Environmental Activities implementation Since its establishment in 1990, the AEON Environmental Foundation has awarded grants for activities related to sustainable use Specified Nonprofit and the preservation of biodiversity in Japan and developing countries. Corporation In FY 2015, 92.9 million JPY was awarded to 80 organizations Groundwork Mishima Mobilize the power of citizens in Japan and overseas that are engaged in tree planting and forest and regenerate/revive improvement, anti-desertification, regeneration of mountain villages “hometown rivers” where a and the nearby woodlands variety of creatures live in gutters and ocean, cleanup of lakes and rivers, wildlife protection, Kesennuma City Otani and endangered species conservation. A total of 2645 Junior High School organizations were given grants, Otani hummingbird plan with a total of 2,399,030,000 JPY in grant money. We will also continue in FY 2014 funding body activities 2 0 1 6 t o i m p l e m e n t g r a n t Nature observation meetings through the NPO activities. corporation Fukuoka Wetland Conservation Society 53 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 54 Better use of Resources Key Issue 3 Management Approach Recognition of Challenges The world’s population continues to grow. Many believe it will increase from the current 7 billion to 9 billion by the year 2050. Meanwhile, the issues of hunger and poverty continue to plague developing countries. The only way to improve the living standards of people around the world in a sustainable manner is to make sure that the earth’s limited resources are used effectively and responsibly. Aeon generates waste through its business and is also tied to waste produced by customers after the use of plastic bags and food containers. This is why we are working on various initiatives for the better use of resources as one of our key issues. Aeon’s Approach Aeon launched the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign back in 1991 and has changed the specifications and formats of packaging materials as part of its ongoing efforts aimed at the responsible use of resources. Societal demand for waste reduction has been increasing both in Japan and overseas. Goals related to the reduction of waste and food waste were included as United Nations sustainable development goals (SDGs) and adopted in 2015. In addition, Japan is also expected to strengthen related regulations such as the Food Recycling Law and the Waste Disposal Law. In order to meet these demands, Aeon aims for “Zero waste by FY 2020 (=disposal/incineration/landfill of waste as is to zero), determines the “Aeon “Waste Zero” Effort Concept” and is promoting these efforts. Even within these efforts, there are important themes from the relevance of food waste to Aeon’s business, and efforts have been strengthened in these 3 sections: “In stores and products”, “Through communication with customers” and “Together with local areas”. Future Initiatives Activities being worked on in each region and individual company in Aeon are aggregated based on growing social demand for waste reduction, which is listed in the goals such as the UN’s SDGs, and we are committed to construction of a common group infrastructure through organizing items such as cases, indexes and the basic ideas of the activities. Starting in FY 2016, Aeon’s subsidiaries will begin to set individual targets and carry out efforts to achieve them. AEON “Zero Waste” Initiative Concept We will continue to reduce waste through disposal/burning and landfills to zero through the 3R method of “Reduce”, “Reuse” and “Recycle”. In collaboration with stakeholders and customers through our efforts, we will contribute to the construction of a recycling-oriented society. Through stores/products Through communication with customers With local areas Reducing food waste in the store and product supply Reducing food waste along with customers through Reduction of food waste through donations to food chain through visualization, ISO14001, disposal sales food education and campaigns at stores. banks, etc. and construction of a recycling loop in change reduction, separation and recycling. cooperation with stakeholders in the region. 55 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY2015 KPI Progress Main SubcatCatKPI Scope Covered Target FY 2015 Results Actions/Initiatives in FY2015 egory egory Amount for ThirdReduce Amount of Materials Used Party Processing Required under the Reduce the use of sales materials Law for the Promotion Consolidated domestic FY 2010: 1.175 tons such as plastic shopping bag 1.080 tons of Sorted Collection companies subject to ⇒FY 2015: less than 0.88 tons reduction 8.1% reduction compared to FY in Packaging and Containers and Recycling of third-party processing * 2 0 % r e d u c t i o n o r m o r e • Specification change of packaging 2010 Containers and requirements compared to FY 2010 materials Packaging (basic unit • Review of providing method per ¥100 million in net sales) <Case> 1) A eon Mall: Sorting 17 basic Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products items into waste. We operate Reducing Waste Initiatives Undertaken by Each a system to weigh by item in Consolidated Group Group Company cooperation with stores. Aim Emissions of noncompanies in Japan, Expansion efforts Aggregation and information for “visualization” and work for food waste China and ASEAN sharing reduction (Japan, China, ASEAN) (Ongoing efforts) 2) C OX: Efforts with the goal of product waste reduction through store responsibility. Interior part reuse implementation 1) Selling price change reduction Domestic consolidated FY 2014 Results: through disposal of goods (food) Food Waste Emissions target of food-related FY 2015: Reduction from the 36.48kg/million JPY 2) Thorough sorting of the resources (basic unit per ¥100 companies within previous year FY 2015 Results: 3)“ V i s u a l i z a t i o n ” t h r o u g h Reducing Food Waste Emissions million in net sales) GMS, SM companies 36.40kg/million JPY introduction of a weighing machine, uniform management FY 2015-FY 2019 55% (Abide 1) Waste oil, fish crude recycling, Domestic consolidated by the basic policy related to consignment forwarding to play Food waste recycling target of food-related FY 2014 Results: 53.1% promotion of food circulation operators rate companies within FY 2015 Results: 56.1% resource recycling, etc.) 2) Construction of a recycling loop, GMS, SM companies *Year-on-year plus 1% investment promotion Domestic consolidated Food residue recovery store: 12 C o n s t r u c t i o n o f target companies Construction of recycling loop stores⇒76 stores* Aeon Group Companies expand Food Recycling Loop within food products (1 place / year) *O peration from November food residue recovery stores Related companies 2016 1) Provision of information to each Reduce the Number of group company shopping bag Percentage of Together with Consolidated Group 64.8% refusal rate and shopping bag Customers Declining companies in Japan FY 2015: More than 70% (Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags free distribution stopping stores Plastic Shopping Bags Plastic Shopping Bags Customers f o r G M S a n d S M FY 2020: More than 80% stores increased 161 stores, 1,553 2) A c t i v e p a r t i c i p a t i o n a n d (Nationwide store businesses stores in total) outreach to the shopping average) bag free distribution abort agreement in the region The training by external Number of Employees specialized agencies In addition 45 students, Completing Internal Consolidated targets to utilizing videoconferencing, FY 2015: More than 360 people out of 25 test examinees, 21 Training Course to in Japan seminar contents are recorded passed (Total from FY 2010) people passed Strengthening the Management System Management System for Waste Emissions Improve Management Group Companies in the Aeon Mall, and they are A total of 361 people passed of Waste Emissions utilized as in-house teaching materials Adopting companies up to the end of FY 2015 (more than 95%) 15 companies: 1) Consignment to management Aeon Kyushu, Aeon Store Kyushu, Daiei, providers, contract management MV Minami Tohoku, MV Kanto, MV and introduction of interlocked Introduction rate of 50% by FY 2016 Nagano, MV Chubu, MV Kyushu, Aeon mechanisms Electronic manifest Consolidated Group (Country target: introduction rate Market, Maruetsu, Sanyo Marunaka, Aeon 2) Sharing of roles with the stores, introduction rate companies in Japan of 50% by FY 2016) Big, Origin Toshu, My Basket, Acore head office and management consignment company, and (Less than 95%) 8 companies: communication rules review Aeon Retail, Aeon Hokkaido, Aeon Bike, MV implementation Hokkaido, MV Hokuriku, Marunaka, Aeon Mall, Aeon Town Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 56 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Packaging materials reduction case 2 Initiatives for Zero Waste In the past we attached both a product name sticker and a in Stores and Products thermal sticker to bentos (boxed meals) and salads. We have eliminated the product name sticker by putting the TOPVALU  educe the Amount of Materials Used in Packaging R logo on the thermal sticker. As a result, this has led to a and Containers reduction of about 14,210,000 stickers in FY 2015. Most of the rubbish discharged from the home is made up of packaging and containers. It is therefore an important responsibility of the retail industry to sell products used in everyday life that contribute to less rubbish by recognizing and minimizing them. With this in mind, Aeon is working actively to reduce the amount of packaging and containers we use. In addition to focusing on reducing plastic shopping bags, we are also promoting the use of thinner as well as more ecofriendly trays. Waste Reduction When developing TOPVALU products, we closely examine As an enterprise that operates business in approximately packaging and containers and after careful consideration 20,476 stores and locations in Japan and overseas, Aeon of the impact on the quality of product contents and safety generates a large volume of waste. The social demand for during shipment, we work to make product containers lighter reductions in waste has increased in Japan and overseas. and more thin-walled and switch to recyclable material. In addition to the targets for waste management and food Additionally, we are striving to develop refillable products and waste reduction that were incorporated into the United change packaging material based on customer feedback. Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and adopted As a result of these efforts, we reduced the required amount by the UN General Assembly in 2015, regulations are also of packaging and containers for recycling by a third party being strengthened in the EU. Moreover, there are plans (per ¥100 million in net sales) under the Law for Promotion of to strengthen waste-related laws and regulations in Japan, Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging including the Food Recycling Law and the Waste Management by 8.1% in FY 2015 compared with FY 2010, with a total of 1.080 and Public Cleansing Act. tons. Moving forward, we plan to take further action in this In order to meet these demands, Aeon has decided to area. further strengthen initiatives aimed at reducing waste and has established a new target for zero waste by FY 2020 (reduction FY 2014 FY2015 Results Results andand Target of KPIof KPI Target ofFY landfill 2015waste Results to launch zero)Target toand of KPI initiatives. FY 20 Currently, each Aeon Group company is implementing a Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under the Law FoodofWaste Emissions (basic unit per ¥1 million in net sales) Food for the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of variety initiatives aimed at waste reduction. Containers and Packaging(basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) For example, in AEON Mall Co., Ltd., 38.73kg/million JPY the medium-term 2013 2013 2010 1.175 tons environmental plan from April 2015 to FY 2017 was determined, Base year and for waste, they are aiming for zeroJPY 36.48kg/million emissions malls, with 2014 2014 2013 maintenance of a waste recycling rate higher than 80% and implementation of waste education to specialty stores as pillars 0.88 tons: (25.1% reduction compared with FY 2010) 2015 36.40kg/million JPY Results 2015 2014 of this plan. With the cooperation of specialty stores, a system to separate waste into 17 basic items and to measure each 1.080 tons 2020 2020 2015 (8.1% reduction compared to FY 2010) Results item is introduced, and this aims for waste “visualization”. In separated waste, items that can be recycled are recycled, and 2020 the recycling rate is aggregated in each item. In this way, although many of the group companies are implementing various initiatives, the actual situation is that Packaging materials reduction case 1 initiatives are being worked on by individual company and For our product named TOPVALU region. Based on these circumstances, each company’s BESTPRICE Buttered Roll, we tried to situation in FY 2015 is collected and shared, and we promoted save materials by eliminating the closure foundations to tackle commonly as a group and considered mechanism and shortening the length of indicators along with organizing company thinking and the product bag. As a result, we were able approaches that have been successful. to cut the bag weight to approx. 50% of the In FY 2016, we will aim for each group company to establish benchmark national brands. targets and promote waste reduction initiatives. The efforts of each region about waste through the characteristics and legal constraints of waste itself is important. Communication is enriched with stores as the base along with working with stakeholders in local areas such as recyclers, 57 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 producers, FY2015 FY 2014 governments Results Results andandTarget and Target NPOs, of KPI of KPI and we will continue FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 to contribute to local waste reduction as a part of societal Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under the Law Food Waste Emissions(basic unit per ¥1 million in net sales) Food infrastructure. for the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging(basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) 38.73kg/million JPY 2013 2013 FY 2015 Results and 2010 1.175 Target tons of KPI FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 2 Base year 36.48kg/million JPY Emissions of non-food waste 2014 Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags 2014 Num 2013 (Nationwide store average) 67.8% 2013 0.88 tons: (25.1% reduction compared with FY 2010) 2015 2013 36.40kg/million JPY Results 2015 2011 2014 67.5% 2012 2014 Expansion 1.080 tonsefforts Target 2014 2020 2020 2015 (8.1% reduction compared to FY 2010) Results 2013 2015 Aggregation and sharing of information Results 2015 64.8% (161 store increase Total 1,553 stores) Results FY2020 2015 Results and of group of KPIefforts companies Target FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 201 2020 More than 80% 2014 Law 2020 Waste Emissions(basic unit per ¥1 million in net sales) Food Food Target waste recycling rate Const f 38.73kg/million JPY 50.2% 2015 2013 2013 2014 Food Waste Reduction Aeon is working on the36.48kg/millioncontrol ofJPY food waste emission 53.1% 2020 2014 2014 occurring in stores. 2015 For example, in AEON Retail Co., Ltd., a goal of “reducing the 2015 36.40kg/million JPY Results 2015 56.1% Results food waste sales ratio to less than* 0.5%” has been set. 2020 Led by store managers, many stores successfully kept 2020 2020 the food waste-to-sales ratio low through such means as implementing thorough progress management of price changes, promotion of information sharing through meetings, Construction of Food Recycling Loop clearance of products using taste testing and other methods, AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd., which manages Aeon’s and early withdrawal of products with degraded freshness. directly operated farms, and Daiei Kankyo Co., Ltd., engaged in Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. is also working on a goal of a 5% recycling business, concluded an Agreement on the Promotion year-on-year reduction of general waste weight, including food of Food Recycling Loop in September 2014. As a result, farms, waste. stores and composting treatment facilities are connected, and The company actually measures emissions in meters they aim at the construction of a composting recycling loop. installed in waste depots, and the emissions are counted and Daiei Kankyo processes food waste such as vegetables and managed daily in the head office general affairs department. meat dregs gathered from the stores. The produced compost The significant purpose is described in addition with is then used on the Aeon Mikidescriptions of usage methods in the stores, and they are Satowaki farm. The vegetables working to raise awareness. grown and harvested using this In addition, a discard rate (waste amount÷sales amount) compost will be sold in Aeon goal is set by every company, and each department stores. In this way, Aeon will be implements day-to-day execution management in a PDCA able to achieve a self-contained Cabbage that has been shipped cycle. Changes and the like are also recommended to recyclers food recycling loop. from the Aeon Miki-Satowaki Farm from business-based waste disposers in order to improve the Soil development started from January 2016, and group food residue recycling rate. stores in Hyogo Prefecture started full-scale shipments from In the future we will also share this best practice GroupJune. Shipment of about 500 tons of agricultural products is wide in this way and continue promoting initiatives aimed at being planned for radish, Chinese cabbage, spinach and cherry reducing food waste. tomatoes in addition to cabbage. * Food waste-to-sales ratio: Food waste x Retail price / Sales In addition, implementation scales, etc. as a closed recycling loop are recognized worldwide, and the system was introduced as a best practice system at TCGF (The Consumer Goods Forum/the world’s largest consumer goods distribution industry organization, with about 400 companies in 70 countries around the world) in April 2016. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 58 Key Issue 3 Better use of Resources FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Promoting FY 2015 Results Green Purchasing and Target of KPI FY 20 Aeon started the Green Purchasing initiative from 1996. Construction of Food Recycling Loop Emissions of non-food waste and other office supplies, we Perce When purchasing stationery (Nation Stretch penetrating type food recycling loop operation adequately consider their necessity and make purchasing in Miki city Hyogo prefecture 2013 2013 2014 decisions while prioritizing products with low environmental impacts. This is done as a matter of course for office supplies, Food residue recovery 2014 Expansion efforts Target 2014 2015 implemented in 12 stores Results but we are also expanding the scope of green purchasing to include display cases, shelving and other fixtures used on sales 2020 2015 Aggregation and sharing of information Results 2015 floors as well as construction materials of group companies and the like. efforts Green procurement of construction materials started from 2020 2020 Target Circulation flow 2001. When developing new general merchandise stores, we Approx. 3,660 t/year (food waste collection volume) to be increased gradually strive to use products procured through KPIの2014年度実績 green purchasing ・今後の目標 (Total of target Aeon stores and TOPVALU manufacturing factories) for construction materials and to increase the range of items お客さまのレジ袋辞退率（全店平均） subject to green purchasing. Food 60.4％ waste 2011 63.4％ Aeon, Daiei, Maxvalu stores Daiei Kankyo Co., Ltd. Together with Customers 2012 67.8％ Recycling Loop 2013 Reduce the Number of Plastic Shopping Bags 70%以上 目標 TOPVALU agricultural For more than twenty years since2014 1991, Aeon has engaged Compost products in effortsイオン株式会社 to conserve petroleum, the raw material of plastic 67.5% （レジ袋無料配布 2015 49店舗増加。 トータル1 Approx. 120 t/year bags, イオン株式会社 and cut CO2 emissions from the production of plastic AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd. (compost production Miki-Satowaki Farm volume) to be increased bags. イオン株式会社 2020 80%以上 gradually of the end of February 2016, the目標 As イオン株式会社 reduction of plastic bags Use of Returnable Containers at our 29 Group companies has totaled 2,794.7 million bags, Aeon is reducing the amount of cardboard thrown away with 64.8% of customers declining plastic bags. This result at stores by using returnable containers and agriculturalイオン株式会社 broadly out paces the 51.86% グループ企業 *1 average for retailing businesses product containers that can be used repeatedly when shipping and has led to CO2 reductions of 83,452 tons*2. ダミー監査チーム products. Customers who also want to use plastic bags are provided ダミー監査チーム ダミー管理統括者 In addition, our apparel departments conduct reused them for a fee. These proceeds *3 help local environmental ダミー管理責任者 ダミー管理統括者 hanger delivery in which clothing is brought to the store on conservation activities, such as through local governments. hangers and then displayed on the sales floor using the same ダミー管理事務局 Proceeds in FY 2015ダミー管理事務局 were 16,360,000 JPY, and the total hangers. This reduces the amount of cardboard boxes used proceeds from plastic bag fees since 2007 have been about ダミー供給会社 when transporting the clothing and the amount of hangers 602,340,000 JPY. ダミー管理の委託先 used only for transport. *1 As of October 2015. Japan Chain Stores Association examination *2 CO2 reduction rate index: 30.8g-CO2 per plastic bag declined by customers (treated In FY 2015 we used 76.19 million cases of returnable as 6.8g of unused HDPE plastic bags). containers*, and 23.31 million cases of agricultural product Source: Ministry of the Environment’s “Tools for Visualizing 3R Activities” TOPICS *3 Plastic bag profit = Sales price − (consumption taxes + material cost) containers, which helped us substantially reduce cardboard waste. * Aeon’s own containers only. Usage of Returnable Container, Agricultural Product Container Production Site Returnable Container Use 76.19million cases Cardboard Agricultural Product Container Use 23.31million cases AEON Manufacturer Reuse Hanger Use **.**million units Cardboard AEON 59 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2 TOPICS Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags Number of Employees Completing Internal Training CourseElec to I Total (Nationwide number of stores store average) Aeon welcomes the 25th year of “Bringing (FY 2015 Results) 67.8% Our Own Shopping Bags”. Seminar participants: 82, Successful candidates: 55 1,553 2013 (Total for 29 Aeon Stores 67.5% 2011 We have Seminar participants: been working 128, Examinees: on “Bringing Our Own 74, Successful candidates: 63 Shopping 2011 2014 2012 2012 Group companies) Bags” since 1991 for the purpose of reducing CO2 emissions Seminar during plastic participants: 53, Examinees: 49, Successful candidates: 45 bag production. 2013 2013 sults 2015 64.8% (161 store increase Total 1,553 stores) Results According to the June 2015 Environmental Monthly, reusable bags were reborn and made easier to use. 2020 More than 80% 2014We have newlySeminar participantstotalTarget more than 300 people deployed “Bag IN Bag”, a cold and room 2014 Target temperature 2 piece set, andparticipants Seminar a “non-woven total fabric totepeople 316 bag”Results 2015 Seminar participants: 53, Examinees: 30, Successful candi 2015 with the ability to reflect light in the street at night (with Stores Stopping Free Plastic Shopping Bags retro-reflective tape) while having an affordable price. 2016 Total number of stores 2020Through these reusable bag suggestions and familiar Target (FY 2015 Results) shopping, we are committed to various environmental 1,553 (Total for 29 Aeon Stores conservation activities going forward together with our customers. Reduction in the Group companies) number of 2,294.57 2,408.25 plastic bags million reduction million reduction 1,738.90 1,804.44 million reduction 2,709.47 million reduction million reduction CO2 reduction amount 83,452t-CO 2 Percentage of Bag IN Bag Non-woven fabric tote bag customers declining 67.8% 67.5% plastic bags 60.4% 63.4% 64.8% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Reduction in the number of 2,294.57 2,408.25 plastic bags million reduction million reduction 1,738.90 1,804.44 million reduction 2,709.47 Progress of plastic bag reductions million reduction million reduction CO2 reduction amount 83,452t-CO 2 For use in regrowing regional forests, etc. 2015 Percentage of My Bag customers declining Renewal 67.8% 67.5% plastic bags 2013 60.4% 63.4% 64.8% Introduced bio-mass certi ed plastic bags a 2009 nd “My Baskets” (for a fee) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Began an initiative to 2007 direct pro t from plastic bag charges into environmental conversation e orts Began the “Stop Free 2000 Plastic Shopping Bags” Program Bio-mass certified plastic bags Began the “My Basket” 1991 Campaign Began the “Bring Your Own Shopping First for a nationwide Bag” Campaign calling on customers retail chain in Japan to bring their own shopping bags Bio My Baskets Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 60 Key Issue 3 Better use of Resources Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources in Stores Launching Recovery of Waste Paper and Plastic Bottles For recycling valuable resources, Aeon has collection bins Linked with WAON for drink cartons, food trays, aluminum cans, and PET bottles in Aeon has launched resource recovery (waste paper and our stores. Drink cartons and aluminum cans are used as raw plastic bottles) that provides WAON points to customers who materials for TOPVALU brand products. Through these efforts, take part in resource recovery with the aim of promoting Aeon is moving forward to the creation of a recycling society. resource recovery and increasing convenience for customers. In the delicatessen sections in our stores, 100% of used oil is We are promoting the initiative with a focus on stores in collected and recycled for soaps, feed, and fertilizer. municipalities where there are infrequent collections of recycling waste. As of July 31, 2016, the initiative had been introduced at a total of 59 stores —including 33 Aeon Retail Stores, 9 MaxValu Tokai stores, 12 MaxValu Chubu stores — and has been welcomed by customers. In introducing the initiative, we established a clear division of roles with recycling businesses to create a system “TOPVALU BEST PRICE TOPVALU Oil Guard Recycled toilet paper single” An aluminum oil guard that prevents that can carry out Recycled toilet paper that uses 100% soiling due to oil splashing around the ongoing recovery. A recycling station (waste paper and plastic bottle waste paper pulp. gas range cooktop. It is made using collection equipment) at least 80% aluminum remelted from aluminum cans collected at stores. up Companies Initiatives Undertaken by Gro AEON Retail Co., Ltd., Minami Kanto Company Collection boxes placed in one of our stores [In food] Carry out an enlightenment event Results for 2015 (total for 25 consolidated subsidiaries) The AEON Retail Co., Ltd., Minami Kanto Company held the “Food Loss Challenge Festival!@ Aeon Kasai Store” in Drink cartons Food trays February 2016, hosted by the Tokyo Metropolitan Governapprox.161.05million approx.446.06million ment and Food Loss Challenge Project. As part of the food loss measures, one of which is Tokyo’s Recovered amount 4,831t Recovered amount 3,122t “Model project to promote the sustainable use of resources”, CO2 reduced 2,416t-CO2 CO2 reduced19,671t-CO2 PR activities were conducted in shopping places along with the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of EnviAluminum cans PET bottles ronment Food Loss Challenge approx.303.85million approx.150.75million Project, and awareness-raising and information dissemination Recovered amount 4,861t Recovered amount 9,497t about the food loss problem CO2 reduced 41,810t-CO2 CO2 reduced 34,191t-CO2 was carried out. During the event Weight conversion: Conversion as Paper carton (1000ml) 1 carton = 30g, AEON Retail Co., Ltd. Food tray 1 tray = 7g, Aluminum can (350ml) 1 can = 16g, PET bottle 1 bottle = 63g Collecting and Promoting Reuse in Clothing *CO2 reduction rate index (per 1kg of collected material): AEON Retail Co., Ltd. has established a system for reguPaper cartons: 0.50kg-CO2, Food trays: 6.3kg-CO2, Aluminum cans: 8.6kg-CO2 PET bottles (material recycling): 3.6kg-CO2 Source: Ministry of larly trading in clothing in partnership with I:CO Japan*, the the Environment’s “Tools for Visualizing 3R Activities” Japanese subsidiary of SOEX, which is the world’s leading corporate group in textile recycling. Traded in clothing is transported to I:CO’s partner plants without being discarded in about one week and about 400 types are subsequently sorted at the plants of the company’s overseas partners. 70% of the clothing is reused as apparel with the remainder being recycled according to condition and application. After trade-in at a store, the items are sold in 64 countries in places such as Africa, South America and Asia in at least 3 months. 61 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 stages. FY 2015 Clothing trade trade-in campaign performance past performance As of the end of February, 2016, the Electronic Manifest 338Stores 329Stores 332Stores 331Stores 338Stores Number of implementing stores Trade-in amount Unit: t (tons) system had been introduced at 23 companies, including those where it had been introduced at some offices. We will continue efforts to have a target of introduction in half of the group companies. 163 * Electronic Manifest: A manifest issued to ensure that processing has been performed About 151 t About t (64,543 cases) 133 when discharging industrial waste. Traditional operation between emitters and 103Stores (53,900 cases) About 125 t About t About 107 t (45,033 cases) (52,126 cases) processing companies has been done in paper form, but digitization of manifest (43,084 cases) 16Stores 55 information in recent years with electronic manifests that are exchanged through 8 About t About t (22,797 cases) networks have become widespread. (3,214 cases) August 2014 September 2014 November 2014 March 2015 May 2015 September 2015 October 2015 The trade-in campaign was also conducted 4 times in FY FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 2015. This campaign is also planned in FY 2016. A trade-in campaign wasofconducted Percentage Customers in AEON Declining Retail Co.,Plastic Ltd. with the Number of Employees Completing Internal Training Electr main purpose of(Nationwide continuousstore clothing rewear, and it aims Course to Improve Management of Waste Emissions Shopping Bags 60.4% average) towards the realization of a recycling-based society. 2011 Seminar participants: 53, Examinees: 49, Successful candidates: 45 2013 63.4% 2013 2012 G-FOOT CO., LTD. Seminar participants: 53, Successful candidates: 30 All members Passed 2014 mation sharing ts [In shoes] Promote reuse and 67.8%recycling 2014 2013 Seminar participants Target G-FOOT CO., LTD. is actively working on shoe recovery 2015 Total 350 people and reuse/recycling. The company 2014 More than developed Target 70% a system in Seminar participants total 361 people 2015 cooperation with I:CO so that trade can be permanently 2016 Seminar participants: 45, Examinees: 25, Results 67.5% (Stop Free Plastic Successful candidates: 21 2016 carried out, and they Shopping are working Bags stores to contributeResults to 2015 Target environmental issues. 942,599 increased shoesbywere 49 stores. recovered in FY 2020 2015. In addition to providing 2020 More than 80% shoes to those who need them overseas as reuse of traded-in shoes that can still be Target used, shoes that cannot be reused are recycled as road building FY 2015 materials, Results andand Target of KPI of waste is promoted. the reduction FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Number of Employees Completing Internal Training * I:CO stands for I COLLECT, and it is a subsidiary of the world’s largest fiber Electronic manifest introduction rate Courseand shoe to Improve recycling company, Management SOEX. of Waste Emissions Seminar participants: 53, Examinees: 49, Successful candidates: 45 Companies that were introduced into the 2014 year-end: 12 2013 (More than 95%: The Daiei, Inc., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU 2013 NAGANO CO., LTD., SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., My Basket CO., LTD. Seminar participants: 53, Successful candidates: 30 All members Passed 2014 95% or less: AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEONBIKE CO., LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., AEON MARKET CO., LTD., AEON TOWN Co., Ltd.) 2014 Seminar participants Strengthening 2015 Total 350the peopleManagement System Target Companies that were introduced into the 2015 year-end (more than 95%) 15 companies: Seminar participants total 361 people 2015 AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON STORE KYUSHU CO., LTD., Seminar participants: 45, Examinees: 25, The Daiei, Inc., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., Results 2016 Successful candidates: 21 MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., esults 2016 LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., Management System for Waste Emissions Target AEON MARKET CO., LTD., The Maruetsu Inc., SANYO Results MARUNAKA CO., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., ORIGIN Aeon holds internal training courses on a regular basis 2020 TOSHU CO., LTD., My Basket CO., LTD., A-Colle CO., LTD. aimed at improving its management of waste disposal. Each (Less than 95%) 8 companies: AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON Hokkaido Corporation, year the Waste Management Training Course, which was AEONBIKE CO., LTD., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., marunaka CO., LTD., developed together with an external specialist organization, AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON TOWN Co., Ltd. is held for environmental managers and waste management leaders of Group companies. 50% rate of introduction 45 people attended waste disposal management training in FY 2015. 25 of these people took the waste disposal manager test, and 21 people passed. This result brought the cumulative total, since FY 2011, to 361 employees receiving the training and 218 receiving official waste disposal management certification. Continuing to provide training will pave the way to improvements in the Group’s level of waste management. Meanwhile, we provide combined training and testing for persons in charge, with the aim for them to acquire the requisite skills and knowledge, such as waste manifest management at each respective company. Also, in order to make Manifest management more efficient and precise, we are introducing the Electronic Manifest * in Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 62 Addressing Social Issues Key Issue 4 Management Approach Recognition of Challenges As more and more companies have multinational operations, the extent to which a company affects its stakeholders and society continues to grow, whiles impacts continue to increase. Amidst this, companies need to fulfill their responsibilities to society throughout the supply chain while facing off against myriad social issues, such as human rights, compliance, quality and labor practices. Aeon is also working on via various initiatives to help resolve social issues through dialogue held with its various stakeholders. Aeon’s Approach Aeon, as a member of the local community and international community, aims to solve a variety of social issues through its business activities. Within “addressing social issues”, we have set the following 4 efforts as pillars to cut to ISO26000 core subjects. • Community Involvement Aeon gives back to local communities by improving community promotion and welfare through its business operations and contributing to a safer society. And Aeon is also providing myriad programs for supporting the growth of our youth at each life stage, from infants up to university students. We have also been working continuously on reconstruction assistance in Tohoku region since the Great East Japan Earthquake. • Fair Operating Practices Under the Aeon Supplier CoC (Code of Conduct) established in 2003, Aeon is working with its suppliers in Japan and other countries in order to build a sustainable supply chain. • Consumer Issues We thoroughly do quality management of “TOPVALU” so the safety and security of our customers will be top priority. We are also working on safe and comfortable store building. • Human Rights/Labor Practices Aeon is working to appoint more female managers and hire more people with disabilities as part of its efforts to promote diversity in the workplace. We are also actively providing opportunities for our employees in Japan and overseas to interact and network with one another. We are also focusing on making a worker-friendly work environment. In addition, Aeon major group companies contribute 1% of their pre-tax profits, and they are supporting and participating in social contribution activities carried out by the AEON 1% Club. Future Initiatives Aeon plans on proactively expanding its business operations in Japan, China and ASEAN in the fields of retail, finance, real estate development, and services. The needs and expectations of stakeholders vary based on the business and region, so Aeon will seek to become a responsible retailer essential to the local community by identifying important issues and goals through dialogue with stakeholders. 63 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY2015 KPI Progress Main Summary of Actions/Initiatives in KPI FY 2015 Results Category Subcategory Scope Covered Target FY2015 FY 2015: Submission rate of 20% or more in Making Contributions to Local Communities the GMS all stores GMS: Submission rate of 20% or Submission rate of 15% or more in 1) Strengthening communication Consolidated Group more in 366 stores (Entire rate Aeon Yellow the SM/DS all stores in stores companies in Japan 62.4%) Receipt Campaign 2) Strengthening communication for GMS, SM and DS SM/DS: Submission rate of 15% Submission Rate FY 2020: utilizing media businesses or more in 175 stores (Entire rate Submission rate of 30% or more in 3) Proper management 35.5%) the GMS all stores Submission rate of 20% or more in the SM/DS all stores Community Involvement Local goods such as “Red picked Consolidated Group FY 2015: tomatoes” produced in Taketa-shi Handling of regioncompanies in Japan Development of handling planFood Artisan products: and Usuki-shi, Oita Prefecture and specific products for GMS and SM busining of regional products ASC: 25 prefectures, 35 items “silk-skin eggplants” produced in nesses • Model building in PB Saijo-shi, Ehime Prefecture are sold. 1) S trengthening of basic and Develop the Human Resources thorough management foundation of • Implementation of “Aeon Cheers Club start expression” Consolidated GMS Number of activities Conducted more than four times Stores with more than 4 activiin all stores companies and some by the Aeon Cheers the activities in all stores to carry ties/year: • Strengthening of skills trainof the Future SM companies in Club out the activities 343 stores (overall 77.8%) ing coordinators Japan 2) S trengthening of programs in conjunction with business activities such as “TOPVALU”, “Food Artisan”,“Aeon Agri Farm” 3) Strengthening of publicity Tohoku earthquake Implement tree planting activities reconstruction assistance Regeneration of to reproduce coastal forests lost Consolidated Group 300,000 tree planting in 10 years 39,282 trees coastal forest in the in a tsunami in cooperation with Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction companies in Japan of the 2012-2021 fiscal year (Total 146,279 trees) affected area governments (country, prefecture, municipalities) ~Tree planting in affected areas~ Tohoku earthquake reconstruction assistance Conducted two kinds of local ~Volunteer activities participation of Group Volunteer Activivolunteer activities and volunteer 300,000 employees participated in ties Promotion of Consolidated Group 58,675 people activities in each company and volunteer activities in 10 years of Group employees companies in Japan (Total 196,728 people) region that can support without the 2012-2021 fiscal year as disaster relief going to the northeast of the affected areas employees~ 1) Implement group training for all auditors in the China and ASEAN districts, and improve Promote the Aeon Supplier auditing skills 2) T rain auditor leaders in each region, and upgrade a system Construction of for Aeon second-party that can respond in each region sustainable supply Fair Business Practices audit certified audiFY 2015: 8 in Japan, 30 overseas 8 in Japan (31 overseas) to give education to new audiCode of Conduct chain building audit tors tors system 3) Develop overseas affiliates, and strengthen training of “overseas sales TOPVALU full-time auditors” who audit contract manufacturing plants that sell TOPVALU products Strengthening Trading volume of International 5 times the trading volume of Participate in the International Fair Trade “Fair Trade Procurement Strengthening of Fair Trade certification cacao: 40 International Fair Trade certificathe Social Value fair trade products TOPVALU products tons by FY 2020 (10 times comtion cacao: (Compared with FY Program”, and expand the fair trade raw material procurement of Our Brand pared with FY 2012) 2012) amount Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 64 Main SubcatSummary of Actions/Initiatives KPI Scope Covered Target FY 2015 Results Category egory in FY2015 Hold a TOPVALU customer voice Safe Food and 48 (apparel: 17; food: 14; living / Number of Consolidated Group committee meeting and aggreHBC: 17) TOPVALU Products companies in Japan FY 2020: 30 (apparel: 12; food: 8; *Improvement results through implegate requests/comments, and fix Reliable Removed due to and overseas living / HSC: 10) defects by concentrating discusmentation of a challenge extraction Products Serious Incident (Japan, China, ASEAN) meeting sions with projects that need to be resolved in particular In order to reduce the enormous damage during the earthquake, Store there has been implementation Consolidated Group Number of stores reinforced Safety and Security of work such as making ceilings companies in Japan against earthquakes: Implementation completed in Infrastructure Desteady, preventing falls of items Safety and Security for GMS, SM and DV Since FY 2013: Steadily complete 107 stores up to FY 2015 velopment such as hot and cold water pipes, businesses work at 270 applicable stores prevention of smoke vent ducts falling out, and installation of noncombustible wall sheets Implementation temporary shelter In a total of 7 new and existing in the event of a disaster, activity [Protection strategy] lifestyle infrastructure\ Serving as a form of stores such as Aeon Mall Okinabase of relief and rescue, towards Consolidated group The number of local FY 2020: Local temporary shelters wa Rycom and the Aeon Komaki the implementation of the provicompanies in Japan temporary shelters at 100 of its stores across Japan Store sion of daily necessities, energy for the GMS business Development has already been security measures to be able to implemented in 27 stores open the food department in the Consumer Issues event of a disaster 1) Increase opinions through Internet email System of Dialog with Customers 2) Analyzes the complaint content Number of service complaints Number of service complaints and trend of customer feedNumber of ComConsolidated Group FY 2020: 2,420 10,381 back, and it is possible to carry plaints and Complicompanies in Japan out the report and share to the ments Received and overseas Number of compliments Number of compliments relevant departments, review FY 2020: 2,900 2,060 measures to prevent recurrence, as well as to implement correspondence In weekly regular meeting by the Number of ProdConsolidated Group relevant departments, use of the ucts Developed / companies in Japan FY 2020: 180 125 Product improvement and deImproved based on and overseas velopment share the voice of our Customer Feedback customers Providing Products to Support FY 2015: Strengthening development of Consolidated Group New product development plans Low carbohydrate generic item Health-Conscious “low carbohydrate” products with companies in Japan and product development planproducts, about 15 items sold (as Our Customers’ Healthy Life Initiatives reduced carbohydrates in generic and overseas ning in line with the concept of of the end of April 2016) items “Health & Wellness” 1) Group diversity promotion officers/leaders gather 4 times a year to conduct a meeting and share information 2) Hold a seminar for women and Consolidated Group Female Manager FY 2016: 30% Female Manager Ratio: 22% managers in order to solve companies in Japan Ratio FY 2020: 50% 5,887 people common group issues and overseas 3) Held a diversity award, which recognizes each company's efforts 4) Expanding installation of workPromoting Diversity place childcare facilities Human Rights / Labor Practices 1) I mplementation of a group Group International public offering for young Consolidated Group FY 2016 (Target) Total 600 people, People to overseas dispatch and overseas companies in Japan FY 2020 (Target) Total 1,500 2013-2015: Total 288 people People Exchange companies and overseas people Programs 2) Centralized management of human resources information 1) R egularly carry out progress management of the employEmployment Rate Employment Rate for People ment situation for People with Consolidated Group FY 2020: more than 3.0%, with Disabilities: 2.16%, 2) Challenges and measures in the Disabilities and the companies in Japan 10,000 people 6,341 people employment of people with Number of People (As of June 1st, 2016) disabilities to share in the Group companies, and lead to adoption and fixing Promote initiatives under the Reporting and verification of each “General Business Action Plan” for Companies that acquired Kurucompany's acquisition situation Labor Creating PleasConsolidated Group Japan's Act for Measures to Supmin: 13 Group Companies and efforts in the Group compaant, Comfortable port the Development of the Next Practices Workplaces companies in Japan Generation (expand the number Companies that acquired Platinies Human Resources Director num Kurumin: 1 company meeting and diversity promotion of companies certified to use the personnel meeting Kurumin logo) 65 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Community Involvement Making Contributions to Local Communities Aeon Yellow Receipt Campaign Submission Rate Handlin 35.29% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% (GMS: 64.06% / Supermarkets: 16.09% / Discount stores: 8.11%) 2013 2014 Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign 32.4% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% Countless volunteer organizations * throughout local 2014 (GMS: 51.9% / Supermarkets: 16.6% /Discount stores: 12.8%) 2015 communities in Japan are in need of support. At the same time, GMS: Submission rate of 20% or more Target countless Aeon customers would like to support organizations of the stores 366 stores (overall 62.4%) Food artisan products: 2 2015 SM/DS: Submission rate of 15% or more Results 2020 devoted to their local communities. Aeon, as a local of the stores175 stores (overall 35.5%) community member, launched the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt 2020 Target Submission rate of 30% or more in the GMS all stores Campaign to link customers and volunteer organizations. The Submission rate of 20% or more in the SM/DS all stores “Aeon Happiness Yellow Receipt Campaign” started from these feelings. Customers participate in the Campaign simply by taking the yellow receipts they receive when making purchases Clean & Green Activities on “Aeon Day,” the 11th of every month, and placing them in Aeon is actively involved in community landscaping a box labeled with the name of an organization or a particular projects around its stores. Clean & Green Activities, conducted activity. Aeon then contributes goods accordingly at a value of since 1991, consist of employees volunteering to clean up 1% of the total amount of the receipts. parks and rivers around stores and areas surrounding public In FY 2015, the Campaign had expanded to include 1,670 facilities. These activities have been conducted every month stores, and we contributed goods worth approximately on the 11th, Aeon Day, since 2001 at all General Merchandise 289.85 million JPY to a total of around 24,000 organizations. Stores and supermarkets as well as head office and other Of participating stores, 32.6% had a submission rate of at least business offices. 20%, a target which has been established as a KPI. We began collecting garbage Since the Campaign’s inception in 2001, 242,600 and removing weeds from the organizations have received support totaling around 2,784.21 area where trees were planted million JPY. for the Aeon Hometown Forests We encourage our customers to participate in the Aeon Program as part of the Clean & Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign. Among other efforts, we offer Green Activities. Cleaning up around a store volunteer organizations a chance to come into stores to talk about their activities. We plan to actively pursue new initiatives Supporting Local Traditional Events that will allow participation by as many of our customers as AEON 1% Club Foundation possible. The AEON 1% Club Foundation engages in activities in * V olunteer organizations’ activities should fall under one of the following five categories. support of building more vibrant local communities through 1. Activities to promote welfare assistance provided for the hosting of local festivals and 2. Activities to promote environmental preservation and environmental education 3. Activities to promote urban development traditional events. Started in 2007, these activities have now 4. Activities to advance arts and culture supported a total of 369 festivals and traditional events held 5. Activities to enhance the health and safety of children across Japan. In FY 2015, the AEON 1% Club Foundation supported How Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign works festivals and local events such as the Aomori Nebuta Festival, one of the most famous summer festivals in the Tohoku region, as well as the Akita Kanto Cumulative total of Festival, and Morioka Sansa 2,784.21million JPY Odori Festival, illustrating in goods donated as of February 2016 Aeon’s commitment to being a contributing member of the local community for many AEON Volunteer generations to come. Customers Sansa Festival (Iwate Prefecture) organizations Place yellow receipts Stores calculate the Receive goods worth 1% of in the box for the total value of receipts the total value of receipts organization they wish for each organization contributed to the cause to support of their choice Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 66 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Issuing Local WAON Cards with 44 prefectural governments and 15 governmentWAON is a system of e-money pre-paid cards available at ordinance-designated cities. over 246,000 participating stores throughout Japan. In the case Through these agreements, we are, providing emergency of Aeon’s Local WAON cards, a part of the proceeds from sales supplies and emergency shelters for times of disaster upon goes to social contributions for communities.* request, holding local product fairs and promoting local The social contributions that result from Local WAON card tourism through our stores, use are wide-ranging, and include community environment and working with local conservation efforts, promotion of tourism and sports, governments to plan and preservation of cultural assets, and animal welfare. As of the market boxed lunches made end of February 2016, there are 109 different Local WAON with local foods. In this card programs featuring wonderful local color. The aggregate way, we are also helping to amount of local contributions comes to about 665 million JPY. stimulate local communities A total of over 56 million cards (as of the end of February and improve daily life services. Signing ceremony (Asahikawa City) 2016) had been issued since the start of the WAON system in April 2007, and the use of WAON cards continues to spread. S  upporting the revitalization of local industries Aeon can offer customers the convenience of an e-money preand preservation of traditional food culture paid card while at the same time actively contributing to the Aeon actively contributes to local economies and the support of local communities. preservation of local traditions. * Some exceptions exist Direct Business Dealings with Fishery Cooperatives Types of Local WAON Cards Aeon has done business directly with fishery cooperatives Current as of the end of February 2016 109 since 2008 in an effort to raise customer satisfaction by different types providing even fresher fish while at the same time helping of local WAON maintain cultural practices associated with consuming fish through a sustainable fishing industry. As of the end of February 2016, we directly deal with five fishery cooperatives.* Provision of “fresh fish caught in the morning” started from July 2013. By arranging fresh fish that landed in the morning over-the-counter in the afternoon of the same day, we enjoy giving fresh fish to homes. We provide delicious menu suggestions for children who don’t like to eat fish as well. We also began an initiative in which we will freeze freshly caught Sample of Local WAON cards issued in FY 2015 seasonal fish in order to ensure consumers can enjoy them during other times of the year. We do minced fish processing of rockfish caught in season, and we have All fish caught by this fishing new plans for the sale of minced vessel is purchased by Aeon fish containing natural tuna. “Tonami Tulip WAON” “Karatsu Karawan WAON” Through dialogue with the Part of the money used will be Part of the money used will be donated to flower and green town donated to efforts related to the National Federation of Fisheries development in Tonami-shi, Toyama healthy development of children Cooperative Associations, Aeon Prefecture. responsible for the future of Karatsushi, Saga Prefecture intends to continue conducting initiatives that benefit our C  oncluding Comprehensive Cooperation customers, and continue to help Agreements to solve problems in marine Aeon has entered cooperation agreements with local products. governments to effectively combine respective resources * JF Shimane, JF Yamagata, JF Hiroshima, JF Ishikawa, JF Katase-Enoshima. Additionally, we Starting a program to sell fish for expanding sales of local products, disaster preparedness, engage in indirect business transactions with caught early in the morning by public health, social welfare, and environmental conservation, JF Ishikawa and JF Katase-Enoshima as well. the afternoon of the same day and, through Local WAON cards, to stimulate commerce and tourism. The first Agreement was concluded in June 2010 with the Osaka Prefectural government. The first agreement was concluded in June 2010 with the Osaka prefectural government. At the end of February 2016, we had agreements 67 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Promoting Food Artisan Project assorted expansion of local products that are “delicious”, “fresh Aeon has conducted the Food Artisan Project since and good” and “safe and secure” to customers hand in hand 2001 with many producers across the country dedicated to with our regional producers. preserving local flavors. The project seeks to preserve and build local culinary cultures as brands. Everyone involved pools their wisdom and works to publicize the ingredients and traditional techniques that support exceptional local culinary cultures in an effort to protect, preserve and create new brands. As of the end of February 2016, food Kagawa Prefecture Udondashi Gunma Prefecture Green rice ball onion rice ball artisan activities have covered 25 prefectures and 35 dishes, whose unique local flavors are  eon Welfare Fund Supporting Disabled Persons A being delivered to the dinner tables of people Supporting Disabled Persons across Japan. The Aeon Welfare Fund was established in 1977 to promote the welfare of persons with disabilities and to support their independent participation in society. Aeon has carried out various projects, focusing on donating special vehicles and contributing to volunteer activities, through 50-JPY monthly employee contributions matched by the employer. As of the end of February 2016, 63,250 Aeon employees from 89 companies are participating in this program. In FY 2015, neighborhood welfare facilities for people with “Red picking tomatoes” “Silk-skin eggplant” disabilities were presented with welfare vehicles upon opening “Red picking tomatoes” have been “Silk-skin eggplant” fostered by new stores. This brings the total number of donated special grown in Usuki-shi and Taketa-shi, Oita “stamping” in the spring water of SaijoPrefecture. They are picked when they shi, Ehime Prefecture, which is referred vehicles to 63 since the become red and are delivered to our to as the “City of Water”. Its features are inception of the Welfare Fund. customers in the most delicious state. soft skin and a smooth feeling when being eaten. In addition, our volunteer activities included roughly FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI 1,000 FY visits 2014 to welfare Results and facilities, Target of KPI FY 2014 Re with events such as Christmas Rate Handling of region-specific products Number of activities by the Aeon Cheers Club Regenerat parties. About 10,981 facilities han 20% Food Artisan Products: 25 prefectures have 2011 been visited so far. Welfare vehicle presentation ceremony 2015 35 item Result 2014 han 20% 2016 Signing Disaster Prevention Agreements 2012 2015 than 20% Target Development of handling planning of regional products Model building in PB Aeon Stores strivesthat ensure thatmore to implemented than 4 activities: employees working at ourof all stores) 334 (77.0% t stores: 8.11%) 2013 stores constantly act as members of the community. The same 2021 3 2020 Target applies during natural disasters. We continue to sign disaster than 20% at all Target 2014 Conducted more than four times the activities in Results mpaign prevention agreements withtolocal all stores carry authorities throughout out the activities ssion rate of greater Holding Local Product Appreciation Days to Promote Local Japan, pledging cooperation Stores that and implemented support in the more thanof4 an event activities: Result Results 2015 328 (73.5% of all stores) ts: 16.6% / Production for Local Consumption emergency in an effort to be of use to people in the local MS all stores M/DS all stores Given growing concerns over local sustainability, more and community. 2020 Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: 100% Target more customers prefer to purchase locally made products As of the end of May 2016, disaster prevention agreements because they want to give back to the communities in which have been signed with about 700 municipalities around they live by buying locally. Japan, and they will provide parking spaces as evacuation Aeon, recognizing this social issue and need, launched sites or provide relief supplies during a disaster. We are also an initiative called Local Product Appreciation Day in strengthening cooperation and cooperating in local disaster October 2014 in order to promote local production for local prevention activities such as implementing disaster prevention consumption. With the help of local producers, Aeon provides training in addition to joint activities. customers a selection of local favorites that include familiar items, freshly harvested produce and seasonal seafood. Local Product Appreciation Day is now held every month at each Aeon Group store across Japan. Aeon launched “regional rice balls” in March 2015, and it has provided specialties and famous products of regional areas in 1,400 stores and 47 prefectures from Hokkaido to Okinawa. Aeon will also respect the diversity of regional food culture in the future. We are promoting a variety of initiatives towards regional revitalization through measures such as improving the Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 68 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Introducing Balloon Shelters Aeon has promoted installation of “balloon shelters”— Community Involvement large tents for use in emergency evacuations—since 2004 to Develop the Human Resources of the Future be ready in the event of an earthquake or other major natural disaster. The tents have Aeon Cheers Club AEON 1% Club Foundation been placed at a total of The Aeon Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities 29 locations, primarily for first through ninth-grade students to learn about the shopping centers around environment. Young people living near Aeon stores can come the country (as of the end together once a month or once in two months to participate in of February 2016). The tents Aeon Cheers Club environmental activities with the support of are lightweight and easy store employees. to carry, so those stored A balloon shelter The theme for FY 2015 was “Plants.” Around 440 clubs Balloon shelters can be easily inflated with close by can be brought a special blower and be ready for use in and around 7,900 students from all over Japan participated to locations affected by around 40 minutes. They come two to a in the activities. In July and August 2015, the Aeon Cheers set and one set has room for around 100 disasters. people to lie down. Club National Meetings were held in Okinawa and Hokkaido respectively. A total of 50 clubs, representing the top clubs selected at regional meetings, and 240 awardees gathered, with each club reporting on learning outcomes for the year Supporting Disaster Recovery AEON 1% Club Foundation and participating in nature experience programs. The AEON 1% Club is implementing items such as the In addition, AEON Retail Co., Ltd. clothing shop “SELF + presentation of disaster reconstruction assistance funds as a SERVICE” products were picked up and a “friendly organic way for disaster victims and regions affected by events such cotton program to a people-friendly earth” program is as a large-scale disaster to return to everyday life as soon as implemented as an educational program with the theme of possible. Fund raising activities are also carried out in stores at “Plants.” Members learned about topics such as commodity Aeon Group companies. production and cultivation methods until organic cotton can In FY 2015, in response to the Nepal earthquake that be made while touching material and SELF + SERVICE goods. occurred in April, emergency financial assistance of 10 million About 230 Cheers Club members in 22 stores around Japan JPY was presented to the Embassy of Nepal in Japan. In participated in this program. addition to this, we conducted fund-raising across the country In FY 2016, we will be working on activities under the theme at about 9,600 locations. With the same amount of donations “Animals.” being matched, we donated a total of 108,748,194 JPY. Emergency assistance of 5 million JPY was donated to Ibaraki Prefecture, Tochigi Prefecture and Miyagi Prefecture respectively in response to damage due to record heavy rain in the Kanto and Tohoku regions. Additionally, a total of 49,340,952 JPY in funds raised from customers around Japan were presented to the three prefectures. National meeting in Hokkaido Survey of aquatic plants in the plant program FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Handling of region-specific products Number of activities by the Aeon Cheers Club Regene 20% Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: 334 es: 8.11%) Presenting disaster relief assistance (77.0% of all stores) 2013 money 2014 2014 Results 0% Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: 328 12.8%) (73.5% of all stores) 2015 2014 2015 Target e %) Food artisan products: 24 prefectures, 34 items (as of February 2016) Stores that implemented more than Results 2021 ore Results 2020 2015 4 activities: 343 (77.8% of all stores) Target %) 2020 Stores that implemented more than 4 ll stores Target activities: 100% S all stores 69 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Agricultural Eco-experience Project for elementary H  eld Biodiversity Training Program on Yakushima and junior high school students for Winners of the Environmental Essay Contest Since 2012, AEON 1% Club Foundation has held the AEON 1% Club Foundation Agricultural Eco-experience Project for children who are AEON 1% Club Foundation held an Environmental Essay members of Aeon Cheers Clubs. The Project has children Contest and invited the winners to attend a training program visiting TOPVALU Gurinai production sites around Japan and about environmental issues and nature. Training programs AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd. farms. Its objective is for the have been held in Germany, home to advanced environmental children to have fun while learning about the commitment initiatives, and Tasmania Island in Australia, home to vibrant to taste and the ingenuity in order to have safe, secure and nature. environmentally conscious vegetable production through Following FY 2014, this training will be conducted in FY agricultural experiences such as vegetable harvesting and 2015 in Yakushima, which has been designated as a World packaging operation. As of the end of February 2016, a Natural Heritage Site, in Kagoshima Prefecture. In addition to total of 4,322 students have participated in the project in 93 the 40 contest winners, 4 junior high school students selected production sites. from children who are doing Aeon Cheers Club activities in In FY2015, 1,054 children from Aeon Cheers Clubs Malaysia will also participate. The program taught the children representing 65 stores across Japan took part in the 30 sessions about biodiversity through hands on experience with the held at 23 production sites. natural surroundings, which include Japanese cedar trees that We will also continue to offer this project in FY 2016. are more than 1,000 years old and primordial old growth forest. In addition, the Aeon Cheers Club Farmers Program, where In FY 2016, the Junior High School children can consistently learn Student Environmental Essay Contest about the process of growing will be held from September to agricultural products, will be October and the biodiversity training conducted at the Aeon Mie program is scheduled to take place Biodiversity training tour on Inabe Farm in the Tokai area and again on Yakushima in March 2017. Yakushima the Aeon Mikisato Cooperative Primary school Farm in the Kinki area. students Experience harvesting of pumpkin Aeon’s training initiatives for the next generation We provide a host of programs to support the learning development of youth in various life stages, from infants to university students. Aeon Sukusuku Aeon Cheers Club Teenage Ambassadors Aeon Scholarship The Asian Students Laboratory ▶P.69 Program Program Environment Platform ▶P.71 ▶P.71 ▶P.72 ▶P.72 Infants Primary school Junior high High School University students school students Students Students Asia Youth Leaders Junior high school Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix ▶P.72 TOPVALU Rice Project student Environment ▶P.72 ▶P.71 Essay Contest ▶P.70 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 70 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory AEON 1% Club Foundation Teenage Ambassadors Program AEON 1% Club Foundation AEON 1% Club Foundation has been organizing the Aeon High school students from Japan and other countries learn Sukusuku Laboratory yearly at Aeon shopping centers since about global perspectives and diverse values by interacting FY2007. This is directed to families raising children and includes with each other and through ambassador activities, classes seminars on childcare led by experts in the field, as well as the at high schools and homestays in the Teenage Ambassadors singing of Japanese nursery rhymes and songs, with children program. and parents enjoying a meaningful chance to sing together. This program has been ongoing since the AEON 1% In FY 2015, Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory was held in four Club Foundation was established and up to FY2015, 2,052 cities across Japan. A total of 593 attended the four sessions, high school students from 18 countries, including Japan, including 374 adults and 219 children. As of the end of had participated. A total of three programs have been held February 2016, the Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory had been annually, comprising of two for ASEAN countries and one for held a cumulative total of 42 times with a cumulative total of China. approximately 8,600 participants. In FY2015, high school students from Laos, Cambodia, China In FY 2016, we plan on holding four sessions nationwide. and Japan participated. In FY2016, we plan to conduct mutual exchanges with students in Myanmar, Vietnam and China. Japan Laos Teenage Ambassadors In July 2015, 20 high school students from Uji City, Kyoto visited Laos for an exchange with Vientiane High School students in Vientiane City, which is the capital of Laos. Later in Child-raising Seminar by Prof. Katsumi Ms. Saori Yuki and Ms. Sachiko Yasuda Tokuda, professor in the Faculty of holding a nursery rhyme concert September 2015, the same Laotian Medicine, University of Tsukuba high school students visited their counterparts in Japan to deepen their Japanese high school students TOPVALU Rice Project friendship. talking with host families The TOPVALU Rice Project was conducted at four schools in four prefectures with the hope for the children to learn Japan Cambodia Teenage Ambassadors about the nature we are blessed with and the importance of In January 2016, 20 Cambodian high school students came to food through the cultivation of rice. This is an ongoing effort Japan and interacted with Japanese undertaken with local agricultural cooperatives and educational high school students in Sapporo, committees to teach children about food and sustenance by Hokkaido. Later in March 2015, the same letting them experience the production process, from planting high school students from Sapporo, Japanese high school students through harvest, and, ultimately, the sale of rice at a retail store Hokkaido visited their counterparts in presenting a memento to with activities tailored to each region of each prefecture. Cambodia to deepen their friendship. Deputy Prime Minister Sok An At Hayami Elementary School in Shiga prefecture, students also learn the importance of protecting and raising living Japan China Teenage Ambassadors creatures, by raising juvenile nigorobuna fish (Lake Biwa’s This program was originally part of the Teenage endemic crucian carp) in rice paddies. Ambassador program, but branched off into its standalone exchange activities called the Japan-China High School Student Exchange Program since 2010 after the People’s Government of Beijing Municipality raved about the success of the program in 2009. In FY 2015, an exchange between a total of 120 participants was had with 60 high school students from Beijing, Wuhan, and Suzhou, China and 60 high school students from Tokyo Rice retail marketing experience Observation of nigorobuna fish and Chiba. In Japan in July and China in October, the students (Akamatsu Elementary School, Saga (Hayami Elementary School, Shiga deepened mutual understanding through courtesy calls to prefecture) Prefecture) the embassy and cultural experiences. In FY 2016, we plan to conduct an exchange between a total of 140 participants with 70 high school students from Beijing, Wuhan, and Qingdao and 70 high school students from Tokyo, Chiba, Hokkaido, and Oita for a cumulative total of 1,050 participants. Chinese high school students participating Rice harvesting experience Rice retail marketing experience in a Japanese high school English class (Kyowa Elementary School, Akita (Shibutami Elementary School, Iwate prefecture) prefecture) 71 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix AEON 1% Club Foundation perspective and self-motivated action to resolve issues. Aeon instituted the Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix to raise In FY2015, students from Japan, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, environmental consciousness and proliferate ecological Thailand, and Vietnam debated urban beautification and waste activities by providing high school students who are engaged issues in Tianjin, China. in daily environmental activities with a forum to report their After field work that included touring a waste processing achievements and learn about the efforts at other schools. facility and interviews regarding the separation of garbage by FY 2015 is the fourth year the Grand Prix has been held with citizens, the high school students presented an enlightenment 130 entries from 126 schools. 14 schools were then selected to campaign from the standpoint of city residence to improve the move on to the final screening session. Particularly excellent waste problems. The college students gathered and presented eco activities were presented with various awards, in addition specific governmental policies to overcome the issues from a to the Grand Prix (Prime Minister’s Award). political perspective. In addition, an “Environmental Ring” school registration This program was initiated in FY2010 under the name system was newly established to promote cooperation of “ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum,” and a total high schools all over the country and exchange information. of 534 students from six countries have participated to date. In Roughly 155 schools are registered as participants. In FY2016, FY2016, we plan to hold this forum in Bangkok, Thailand with we established an Easy Entry system to allow schools without the theme of “water conservation issues”. any familiarity in eco activities to participate easily and further expand the Environmental Ring. Multi-national team Students giving proposal to Tianjin City discussions between students officials Prime Minister’s Award, “Education and Prime Minister's Award, “Research Awareness Category” Iwate Prefectural and Special Topics Category” Hyogo The Asian Students Environment Platform Morioka Agricultural High School Prefectural Sasayama Shinonome High AEON Environmental Foundation School The Asian Students Environment P latfor m has been held si nce Aeon Scholarship Program AEON 1% Club Foundation FY2012, following the 2011 United The AEON 1% Club Foundation has held the benefitNations Decade on Biodiversity. type Aeon Scholarship Program since 2006 for students The objective of this forum is to develop human resources from countries throughout Asia as well as privately financed with a global perspective who will be active in the field of international students from Asia to study in Japan. Economic the environment. University students from across Asia gather support throughout the year is of course provided along with to exchange views on biodiversity while learning about assistance for further growth in students' futures by holding differences in the natural environment, history, culture and seminars such as discussion workshops as well as offering values of each others’ countries. opportunities to participate in volunteer activities. In FY 2015, the fourth forum, a total of 90 students of Royal To date, we have provided scholarships to 4,393 students University of Phnom Penh (Cambodia), Tsinghua University in attending 34 universities in (China), Waseda University (Japan), Korea University (South seven countries; Japan, China, Korea), University of Malaya (Malaysia) and Vietnam National Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia, University, Hanoi participated in the platform held in Vietnam Cambodia, and Myanmar. under the theme “Biodiversity and Humanity”. Scholarship graduates have The students discussed the ideal form of environmental gone on to work in specialized conservation and the coexistence with nature, undertook field fields as a bridge between work in Hanoi, Ninh-binh, and at the world heritage of Hạ Long Japan and their home country. Certificate award ceremony in Hanoi, Bay, held lectures from experts, and conducted interviews with Vietnam people of the community. In FY2016, we plan to hold the Environmental Platform in Asia Youth Leaders AEON 1% Club Foundation Japan under the theme of Asia Youth Leaders is a program to advocate solutions to “Biodiversity and Wisdom”. governments in the host country by bringing together the next-generation of high school students from Japan and the rest of Asia to discuss ways to resolve the environmental and social issues of that country. This program provides opportunities for participants to learn about diverse values Students exchanging ideas about through multi-national debate while nurturing a global biodiversity Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 72 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues School Construction Support Project AEON 1% Club Foundation In order to respond to children who wish to go to school, AEON 1% Club Foundation has been working on school construction support projects since 2000 in Asian countries, which lack educational facilities. With the cooperation from customers, we have helped construct a total of 393 elementary schools in Cambodia, Villagers using the newly installed water Nepal, Laos, Vietnam and Myanmar by the end of February supply tap (Laos) ©UNICEF/Laos/2014/S.Nazer 2016. In addition to school buildings, we are supporting faculty education and assisting with plumbing facilities. We supported the construction of three schools in PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign FY2015, which was the final fiscal year of our three year plan Aeon collects PET bottle caps from customers at its stores in Myanmar. AEON 1% Club Foundation has added the same from 2008. The caps are converted into money as recycling amount of the donations collected through “Myanmar School resources, which is then donated to three international support Construction Support Project”, and sent the added amount organizations *1. This effort plays a role in supporting the to the Japan Committee for UNICEF. By the end of October children in developing Asian countries. 2015 in Myanmar as well, 35 schools were opened and around In FY2015, 5,179,649 JPY from 375.46 million*2 bottle caps 320,000 children are learning there. was donated to these organizations. The funds will provide In FY2016, we plan to support the construction of schools in vaccines, nutritious food, and books to children in Asia. both Nepal and Myanmar. *1 The three international organizations are: Plan International Japan Save the Children Japan Vaccines to children around the world Japan Committee *2 Caps collected from March 1, 2015 through February 29, 2016. New schoolhouse (Aeon PADAUK Children studying in the new School, Yangon Region) schoolhouse N u t r i t i o u s f o o d f o r C h i l d r e n i n V i e t n a m Vaccinations to children children in Vietnam receiving training about of Mon people in Laos Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign © Save the Children Japan using the library ©JCV AEON 1% Club Foundation ©Plan International In some areas of Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar, an insufficient number of wells and poor water infrastructure means that children have to spend valuable time collecting water, and their attendance at school suffers. From 2010, we have been carrying out the Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign in order to support the health and education of children by building water supply infrastructure. In FY2015, 19,247,501 JPY in donations from customers, an equivalent in donations from the AEON 1% Club Foundation, and a total of 1,844,160 JPY of donations from 5-JPY donations on the sale of each 500ml bottle of TOPVALU Natural Mineral Water purchased during the campaign period was donated to fund the activities of the Japan Committee for UNICEF. This donation ensured that some 378,000 people in the three countries of Cambodia and Laos as well as Myanmar would have access to safe drinking water. By reducing the labor needed to source water from wells, many children in these three countries are now able to attend school. In FY 2016, this same campaign is planned to be held. 73 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Fundraising Activities (FY2015) Number of particiFunds raised from AEON 1% Club Activity Activity period pating stores and customers and Total Amount Donees Contributions locations employees Donation to the school establishApril 4, 2015 ADRA Japan specified non-profit 9,696 28,702,025 JPY 10,000,000 JPY 38,702,025 JPY ment support in Myanmar to June 7, 2015 corporation Nepal Earthquake Emergency Relief April 24, 2015 Federal Democratic Republic of 9,600 54,374,097 JPY 64,374,097 JPY 118,748,194 JPY Fund to May 10, 2015 Nepal Embassy Kanto-Tohoku Heavy Rainfall Disaster September 11, 2015 Ibaraki, Tochigi, and Miyagi 7,568 49,340,952 JPY 15,000,000 JPY 64,340,952 JPY Emergency Relief Fund to September 30, 2015 prefecture Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water October 11, 2015 8,000 19,247,501 JPY 21,091,661 JPY 40,339,162 JPY The Japan Committee for UNICEF Campaign Fund to November 15, 2015 Disability manufacturing supportFebruary 10, 2016 Association of Aid and Relief, Japan 9,000 22,584,904 JPY 10,000,000 JPY 32,584,904 JPY fund to March 13, 2015 (AAR Japan) June 10, 2015 24-Hour Television Charity 24-hour television 38 fundraising 11,916 285,585,894 JPY 285,585,894 JPY to August 30, 2015 Committee Total 459,835,373 JPY 120,465,758 JPY 580,301,131 JPY Continuous Fundraising Activities Funds raised from customers and Activity Activity period Accumulated funds Donees employees October 1, 2015 The Central Community Chest of Red Feather Community Chest 18,355,723 JPY 274,468,001 JPY to December 31, 2015 Japan Kumamoto Earthquake Relief Fundraising Number of particiFunds raised from AEON 1% Club Activity Activity period pating stores and customers and Total Amount Donees Contributions locations employees Kumamoto Earthquake Emergency April 15, 2016 8,683 187,243,283 JPY 100,000,000 JPY 287,243,283 JPY Kumamoto prefecture Relief Fund Round 1 to April 24, 2015 Kumamoto-Oita Earthquake April 25, 2016 Emergency Relief Fund 10,120 248,891,036 JPY 73,384,635 JPY 322,275,671 JPY Kumamoto and Oita prefectures to May 31, 2015 Round 2 Total 436,134,319 JPY 173,384,635 JPY 609,518,954 JPY Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 74 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues Auditing Our Manufacturing Partners Fair Business Practices Aeon audits its manufacturing partners to make sure they are in full compliance with the requirements of the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC). Audits include thirdAeon Supplier Code of Conduct* party audits carried out by professional auditing firms that The products we deliver to customers are procured and objectively evaluate conformity with standards, second-party manufactured around the world and made after undergoing audits performed by Aeon auditors who monitor suppliers various processes. As the distributor, Aeon recognizes that it while encouraging dialogue, and first party audits carried has a responsibility through the entire supply chain, from raw out by suppliers to maintain and improve their management materials to commercialization. Based on this, we are working systems. Different levels of audits are performed based on the closely with suppliers to ensure the safety and security of the results and we provide various forms of support to improve the products we carry. management practices of suppliers. Based on the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) We had been implementing initial third-party audits for formulated in 2003, we check to make sure that the employees all final processing plants both in Japan and overseas starting and workers of suppliers are working in sanitary workplaces in 2003 and ran until FY 2015 (as of the end of February and that suppliers are in compliance with all relevant laws, 2016). However, because the environment and issues differ and we encourage improvements be made where necessary. overseas and in Japan, third-party audits are only being Currently, we require suppliers of TOPVALU and TOPVALU conducted overseas from FY2016. In Japan, we are facilitating Collection products to comply with the CoC. communication and confirming the state of things with As of the end of February 2016, approximately 1,540 second-party audits through Aeon-certified auditors. Even suppliers have submitted documentation verifying they are in overseas, we are conducting second-party audits as monitoring compliance with the CoC. We are continuously working with audits for subsequent audits. our suppliers to build a sustainable supply chain. The Aeon Supplier CoC does not call for surprise audits *CoC: Code of Conduct because its primary goal is to foster trust and cooperation with suppliers. Third-party audits are checked by an evaluation organization different from the auditing firm to ensure the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct objectivity and reliability of audit results. Conform with legally stipulated social responsibility standards in In terms of raw materials, currently we have yet to begin countries where manufacturing and procurement takes place confirmations using direct audits, but our manufacturing Conform with national laws and regulations partners have been asked to require and check that their 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited second and third tier suppliers comply with the CoC. In this 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited manner, the final goal of the Aeon Supplier CoC is to build a 3. Health and Safety: Provide safe, healthy workplaces supply chain where management practices and competencies are continually improved. 4. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: Respect employee rights 5. Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of origin or creed is prohibited 6. Disciplinary Practices: Cruel punishment of employees is prohibited 7. Working Hours: Comply with laws related to working hours 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages and benefits 9. Management responsibility: Pledge compliance with the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and damage 11. Trade: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions 12. Certification, Audit, and Monitoring and Renewal: Accept certification, auditing and monitoring under the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 13. Ban on Gifts: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is prohibited 75 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Procedure of ‘Aeon CoC’ Certification and Audits Developing Accredited Auditors for Second-Party Audits New Supplier Briefing There are eight internally certified auditors in Japan and 31 overseas. (As of the end of February 2016) These auditors not only conduct audits but also support AEON Supplier Code of Conduct Pledge Compliance Submission improvements. 新規製造委託先向け説明会 As the social environment changes year after year, these changes must be meticulously reflected in our communication イオンサプライヤー CoC 遵守宣言書 提出 with factories, and information and education must also be Second-Party Audit Third-Party Audit updated on-site, particularly overseas. 二者監査 第三者監査 Therefore, we train leaders in each region to build a system Second-Party 二者監査 Audit to quickly and cordially respond to evaluations for audits and the education of auditors. 一者監査 二者監査 一者監査 In Japan, audits had been conducted using the same initial First-Party Audit Second-Party Audit First-Party Audit third-party audits as overseas, but these evaluations are now conducted by second-party audits as of FY2016. For this reason, the number of second-party audits increased, which required a greater number of auditors. This fiscal year no one Continuous Management ＣｏＣの仕組み has yet been certified, but six auditor candidates were selected Third-Party Audit As of the end of February 2016 and are in training. Audit Report auditing results Assess and Confirm Improvements FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 Third-Party Auditor GermanyNGO Initial questions Construction of for sustainable supply chain building audit Tradi Conduct audit system Report improvements Plant 7 in Japan, 26 overseas *Including 8 local auditors Manufacturing 2013 2014 partners (Support) 8 in Japan, 30 overseas Second-Party Audit 2014 2015 Conduct audit Plant Aeon Guide 2015 8 in Japan, 31 overseas Results (Audit,Evaluation,Confirm 2020 modifications) Target Manufacturing partners Report improvements (Confirm, Guide, Report) 2020 Third-Party Audit For the first ‘third-party audit,’ an external audit agency checks over 350 universally recognized items and assesses anything differing from the standards at factories outside of Japan. The evaluating agency points out items in need of correction and confirms improvements. In this process, there may be dozens of interactions to not only check results, but also to assure that proper management mechanisms are in place. When corrections are finalized, a certificate of CoC compliance is issued. By the end of FY 2015, around 2,800 Developing Accredited Auditors for Second-Party Audits production plants (including plants in Japan) had been certified as meeting the standards. Second-Party Audit Following authentication of CoC compliance, a certified Aeon auditor will do checks through factory visits once in two years or, in the case it is deemed necessary, once in six months, as a ‘second party audit.’ Around 3,900 domestic second-party audits were conducted between FY2004 FY2015. First-Party Audit Factories that have established good management through third and second-party audits are given a check-list to carry out a ‘first-party audit’ themselves. Between FY 2009, when the system was instituted, and FY 2015, there have been 112 factories (up 112% YoY) doing ‘first-party audits’ and the level of supply chain management overall has been steadily improving. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 76 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues Audit results of FY 2015 year-end Third-Party Audit Second-Party Audit Factories Factories whichwhichcarried carried out out Factories Factories whichwhich carried carried out out Factories Factories whichwhichcarried carried out out Factories Factories whichwhich carried carried out out Third-Party Third-Party Audits Audits (by region) (by region) Third-Party Third-Party Audits Audits (by category) (by category) Second-Party Second-Party Audits Audits (by region) (by region) Second-Party Second-Party Audits Audits (by category) (by category) 2% 2% 1% 1% 11%11% 23%23% 22%22% 18%18% 33%33% 38%38% 39%39% 24%24% 64%64% 37%37% 60%60% 28%28% Asia (excluding Asia (excluding China China Japan Japan Japan, China) Japan, China) Food Food HBC / HBC Living /Living ApparelApparel Japan Japan Asia (excluding Asia (excluding China China Japan, China) Japan, China) Food Food HBC / HBC Living /Living ApparelApparel Æ Other Other Other Other Points indicated by third-party audits of factories (by item) Points indicated by second-party audits of factories (by item) The number The number of theofThird-Party the Third-Party 1%Audits Audits enforcement enforcement factoriesfactories The number The number of theofSecond-Party the Second-Party AuditAudit enforcement enforcement factories factories 1% Overseas OverseasJapan Japan OverseasOverseas Japan Japan 600 600 4% 700 700 5% 13% 5% Factories which carried Factories which carriedout out Factories which carried Factories out out 600 which carried Factories 600 which carried Factories which carriedout out Factories which carried Factories out out which carried 500 500 Audits (by region) Third-Party 25% Third-Party Audits (by region) Third-Party Third-Party (by category) Audits Audits (by category) Second-Party Audits Audits Second-Party (by region) (by region) Second-Party Audits Audits (by category) Second-Party (by category) 8% 1% 1% 2% 2% 500 11% 500 11% 400 400 3% Factories which carried out Factories which carried out Factories which carried 400 400 Third-Party Audits (by region) 22% 22% Third-Party 18% Audits 18% (by category) Second-Party Audits (by r 300 23%300 23% 35% 33% 33% 46% 5% 2% 1% 10%38% 38% 39% 39% 300 300 11% 24% 24% 200 200 200 200 23% 64% 38% 33% 2% 17% 64% 39% 100 10037% 37% 3% 60% 60% 24% 16% 100 100 28% 28% 64 0 Japan 0 Commercial Asia (excluding Japan, China) Japan0 Japan 0 1% Japan China China transactions Asia (excluding laborFoodForced ChildChina) Japan, Apparel Safety/and Living labor Apparel Food HBC health Living / HBC China Asia (excluding China Asia Japan, China) (excluding Food Apparel Food Living / HBC Apparel Living / HBC Other 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2003 2006 2006 2008 2009 2007 2007 2010 2010 2008 2009 2011 2012 2011 2012 2013 20132014 2015 2014 2015 (FY) 2004 2004 (FY) Other 200537%2006 2005 2007 2006 2008Japan, 2007 2008 2009 China) labor 2009 2010 2010 2011 2012 and2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 20142015 (FY) 2015 (FY) Other Rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining Other Child labor Forced Safety 28% Punishment health Discrimination Punishment Working time Wages and benefits Working time Wages and benefits Environment Japan China Asia (excluding Japan, China) Food Apparel Living / HBC Japan China Asia (excluding The number Management of responsibility the Third-Party AuditsEnvironment enforcement factories The number of the Second-Party Audit enforcement factories The number of the Third-Party Audits enforcement factories The Othernumber of the Second-Party Audit enforcement factories Other OverseasOverseas Japan Japan OverseasOverseas Japan Japan 600 600 700 700number of the Third-Party Audits enforcement factories The The number of the Seco The number The number of theofFirst-Party the First-Party AuditAudit enforcement enforcement factories factories 600 Overseas Japan 700 500 500 600 600 Overseas Overseas JapanJapan 140 140 600 500 500 500 400 400 120 120 500 400 400 400 300 300 400 100 100 300 300 300 200 300 80 200 80 200 200 200 200 10060 100 60 100 100 100 100 0 400 40 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 20122014 2015 2015 (FY)20040 2005 (FY) 2006 200420042005 2007 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2014 2003 2005 20062007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2010 20092010 2011 2013 2013 20122012 2011 2014 2015 2014 (FY)2015 (FY) 2004 2005 2006 200 20 20 0 0 First-Party Audit 2009 20092010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 (FY) (FY) Factories which carried out The number of the First-Party Audit enforcement factories The number of the First-Party The number Audit enforcement of the First-Party Audit enforcement factories factories First-Party Audits (by Japan Overseas category) Overseas Japan Overseas Japan 140 140 140 4% 6% 7% 18% 120 120 120 100 100 100 80 80 80 89% 60 76% 60 60 Japan China Asia (excluding Japan, China) Apparel Food Living / HBC 40 40 40 20 20 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 0 2009 20092010 2010 2011 2012 2011 2013 2012 2014 2013 20142015 (FY) 2015 (FY) 77 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Reference: Actual Auditing Examples Top priority management: 1. Points indicated in working time and wages Private TOPVALU brand suppliers Working time Wages Management method: Confirmation of status and improvements with third-party and second-party audits at all final processing factories. F actories satisfying the standard evaluation implement audits by manufacturers and confirm improvements. Scope of manufacturers: Japan 520; Overseas 369; Total 889 (Conducting business as of the end of February 2016) Scope of plants: Japan 2,038; Overseas 1,940; Total 3,978 (As of the end of February 2016) Audits conducted in FY2015: Third-party audits: Total 308 Japan 118: China 113; Asia 2013 (excluding2014 China) 71; Europe 2015 4; South America 1; 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 North America 1 2. Points indicated overall By industry: Total Apparel 99; Food 88; Living/HBC 121 Japan: Apparel 3; Food 75; Living/HBC 40 Overseas: Apparel 96; Food 13; Living/HBC 81 4 Second-party audits: Total 579 Japan 372: China 139; Asia (excluding China) 64; Europe 2; North America 2 By industry: Total Apparel 104; Food 345; Living/HBC 130 Japan: Apparel 4; Food 313; Living/HBC 55 Overseas: Apparel 100; Food 32; Living/HBC 75 First-party audits: Total 112 Japan 100: China 8; Asia (excluding China) 4 By industry: Apparel 7; Food 85; Living/HBC 20 Japan: Apparel 2; Food 84; Living/HBC 14 2013 2014 2015 2013 201 Overseas: Apparel 5; Food 1; Living/HBC 6 Points indicated in FY2015 audits: Group Company Management 1. P oints indicated by audits were reduced compared to the previous year for items The Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct of course pertains to TOPVALU but related to working time and wages overseas (China and other Asian countries) also covers the PB products and business activities of each Group company. Reasons: In FY2015, we provided education to our specialized shoe business at our • S tronger management of compliance with laws and regulations in each country GFOOT CO., LTD. Group company and AEON Retail Co., Ltd. construction • E mployees do not request more working hours because the and developer division. minimum wage is increasing As part of reinforcing our policies overseas, we also held lectures by • Finding employees is difficult if conditions are not improved in a deploying speakers from our head office even to overseas business labor shortage establishments (AEON China, AEON Vietnam, and AEON BIG Malaysia) other 2. The overall assessment is improving (fewer points indicated by audits) than AEON TOPVALU. Reasons: • We use factories that have improved their Code of Conduct management through the use of existing plants rather than contracting new factories. We have decreased the points indicated by auditors as a result • We conduct simple guidance and provide explanations before audits TOPICS Global Framework Agreement efforts in conjunction with labor unions In November 2014, AEON CO., LTD. signed the Global Framework Agreement on labor, human rights, and the environment with UNI Global Union, which is an international labor organization, UA zensen, and Federation of Aeon Group Workers’ Union. The agreement is a commitment acknowledging that Aeon and the labor union are partners who will work to resolve problems as the enterprise expands business globally. The first investigative committee was convened on October 30, 2015. At this meeting, Aeon and the labor union discussed supplier management in great depth based on the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct. In regards to the labor union trouble that occurred at our partner factory in Bangladesh in February 2016, we responded together with UA Zensen to resolve the matter. In the future, we will continue to further our cooperation with labor unions in order to appropriately respond to global labor issues. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 78 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues Acquiring and Maintaining SA8000 Certification Practicing Fair Trade After establishing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (2003), Responding to customers’ desire to do something through in 2004 we acquired SA8000 certification, an international their purchases for the world’s underprivileged, Aeon has standard, becoming the first Japanese retailer to do so. The developed and begun marketing Japan’s first Fairtrade-certified standard establishes normative guidelines for protecting coffee (in 2004) and Fairtrade*-certification chocolate (in 2010), the human rights of workers in international labor markets. both under the TOPVALU brand. It requires compliance in eight areas that include protecting In order to make these products available to a greater human rights and nondiscriminatory employment practices number of customers, Aeon is the first and only Asian company as well as development of a related management system and to participate, since January 2014, in the new Fairtrade Sourcing ongoing improvement to it. Programs launched by Fairtrade International. We have also The SA8000 certification applies to head office operational announced a plan to increase the purchase of Fairtrademanagement of AEON CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., and certified cocoa up to ten times the trade volume of 2012, by AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. as well as supplier management of 2020. the TOPVALU Aeon brand. The certification is renewed after As of the end of February 2016, the amount of procurement receiving a renewal audit every three years and a maintenance of Fairtrade-certified cocoa has increased five times that of the audit every six months. previous year. In the fall of 2016, we plan to have a renewal of Aeon will continue to pursue appropriate business our product line using cocoa ingredients certified by Fairtrade processes together with suppliers on the twin basis of the International, which is in-line with our projected plans for Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct and SA8000. procurement through 2020. In the future, we plan to expand Fairtrade-certified products even more broadly by acquiring certifications for additional Objectives of Aeon SA8000 products such as raw cane sugar certified by Fairtrade 1. We will respect the basic human rights of employees at the International. workplace and establish comfortable working conditions by In addition, Aeon has been visiting junior high and high ensuring safety, security and health. schools across Japan so that the younger generation has a 2. Along with our suppliers, who are equal business partners, we better understanding of Fairtrade. will respect laws related to human rights and labor standards * Fairtrade: An initiative for doing business with producers in need of support in and will continue to make improvements to help build a socideveloping countries and setting product prices at levels appropriate to the labor ety where universal human rights are protected and efforts are involved. The initiative helps producers attain economic and social autonomy and constantly made to improve working conditions. also supports environmental conservation. Policies for Promoting Aeon SA8000 1. W  e will respect international norms and laws related to human rights and labor standards and will make improvements on an ongoing basis. a. Child Labor: We will prohibit child labor and take remedial FLO (Fairtrade International) Fairtrade Sourcing Program certification mark label (cocoa) measures. b. Forced and Compulsory labor: We will reject forced labor in all its forms. c. Health and Safety: We will ensure the health and safety of employees and provide healthy work environments. d. F reedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining: We will ensure freedom of assembly and the right to collective bargaining. TOPVALU TOPVALU e. Discrimination: We will not discriminate on the basis of nationality, Fair trade chocolate milk smooth mouth-melting bite-sized race, sex, academic background, religion, physical disability or age. milk chocolate f. Disciplinary Practices: We will not engage in corporate punishment, psychological or physical force, or verbal abuse. FYg.2015 Results Working andWe Hours: Target of KPI laws and labor agreements will observe FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Construction of for sustainable related to working hours, breakssupply chain and days off.building audit Trading volume of fair trade products system h. Remuneration: We will observe laws related to payment of fair wages. 7 in Japan, 26 overseas *Including 8 local auditors 2.2013 We will conduct training programs to fully educate all employees 2014 4.2 tons procurement (planning ratio 83.8% achieved) in order to make this policy a reality, conduct regular reviews of this initiative and 8 inwork Japan,to30make overseas improvements on an ongoing basis. Five times trading volume of the 2014 2015 International Fair Trade certification Results 3. We will encourage business partners (suppliers) to create and cacao (compared with FY 2012) observe a code of conduct related to human rights and labor 2015 8 in Japan, 31 overseas Results standards and to work together with Aeon to make improveTrading volume of the International Fair Trade certification 2020 cacao: 40 tons (10 times compared with FY 2012) ments on an ongoing basis. Target 4.2020 We will work to broadly disclose this policy and provide appropriate information and we will practice corporate social accountability. 79 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Consumer Issues •Product planning and design During product planning and design, our development, Safe Food and Reliable Products quality control, and customer service people scrutinize potential raw material suppliers, investigate possible  uality Management of TOPVALU Brand Q safety concerns, examine the use of additives, research Products manufacturing processes, and consider other key issues to Aeon developed its own TOPVALU brand of products ensure that the final product is safe and without any health or to improve our customers’ daily lives. We are working to safety risks. create products in the point of view of our customers, from •Selection of manufacturers the product planning and design phase up to selection of We select manufacturers by first performing Aeon Supplier subcontractors, determination of product specifications, Code of Conduct (CoC) audits, product safety examinations, production management and sales. and plant hygiene inspections. TOPVALU Brand System •Determination of the product specifications Customer monitors and Aeon employees evaluate the prototypes, considering matters such as raw materials, additives, and manufacturing processes. •Distribution and sales Following that, Aeon finalizes product specifications TOPVALU pursues customer satisfaction TOPVALU Best Price realizes the and enriches the quality of lives best prices in each trading area and then inspects production and sends only products that with product quality that exceeds meet our criteria to stores. Thereafter, regular product quality customer expectations evaluations, plant hygiene inspections and other types of audits are conducted to make sure that the products we offer are both safe and reliable. TOPVALU Select enhances customers’ TOPVALU Gurinai ensures safety We are implementing initiatives aimed at ensuring product daily lives by offering products of the and security by delivering products safety and security. In case a defect or flaw is discovered in highest quality that are healthy and friendly to the environment a product despite these initiatives, Aeon informs the public of the fact as quickly as possible and recalls and withdraws The Five TOPVALU Commitments the product in question. In FY2015, Aeon reported 48 serious 1. We shall reflect the voices of customers in our products. product accidents. 2. We shall offer safe, reliable, and environmentally friendly products. Aeon will strive to prevent product accidents through 3. We shall present product information in an easily understandable way. efforts that include identifying problem areas based on 4. We shall offer products at affordable prices. customer feedback to avoid reoccurrence of an issue, 5. We shall guarantee our customers’ satisfaction. strengthening relationships between related departments and reviewing problem areas at the production and shipment phases of a product. The Process of TOPVALU Products to Customers Selection of FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Aeon Product Manufacturers that Planning and Design Number of TOPVALU Products Removed due to Serious Incident Meet Aeon’s Standards 55 (apparel: 22; food: 14; living / HBC: 19) Procurement sources, safety, Manufactured exclusively at Results 2013 additives and production plants that complete and processes reviewed by comply with Aeon Supplier 103 (apparel: 25; food: 38; living /HBC; 40) development, quality control Code of Conduct audits, plant 2014 and customer service staff sanitation surveys, etc. 2015 48 (apparel: 17; food: 14; living / HBC: 17) Results 2020 30 (apparel: 12; food: 8; living / HBC: 10) Target Sales through Aeon Group Stores Distribution by Aeon Regular product quality After being inspected for inspections are done before whether they met quality and after sales, and standards, products are manufacturers are audited transported to each store through plant sanitation under strict distribution surveys, etc. controls Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 80 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients for Processed Foods FY 2015 TOPVALU Product Accidents The labeling of the place of origin of 26 food items, TOPVALU Tuna Konbu including dried mushrooms, green tea, and konjac, among Accident details: Missing allergen labeling (Milk) Response: Product withdrawal and voluntary recall (recall announced with others, has been required by law in Japan since October in-store display and on the homepage) 2006. In order to address customer requests and inquiries, for TOPVALU brand products, Aeon strives to provide the place of TOPVALU Coffee Machine Accident details: The bottom of the machine became a heat source during use origin for the main ingredients when the place of origin can be Response: Product withdrawal and voluntary recall (recall announced with identified and not just for those food items required by law. in-store display and on the homepage) In addition, we have established clear quality standards TOPVALU Women's Denim for ingredients irrespective of their place of origin and Accident details:Denim contained broken machine needles investigations that include testing of ingredient standards and Response: Product withdrawal and voluntary recall (recall announced with residual pesticides. in-store display and on the homepage) At the same time, we sign agreements with Labeling and Disclosing Product Information manufacturers and Aeon is working to label and disclose information necessary carry out our own for consumers to choose TOPVALU brand products in a clearer v er i f i ca ti o ns wh e n Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients and easier manner to ensure they can be used and consumed necessary. by customers with peace of mind. Disclosing Information on Agricultural Product Producers Labeling of Food Allergens In 2003 we established the Producers Data Search System Aeon uses standardized icons on the outside of all food for Aeon’s TOPVALU Gurinai products to give customers online product packaging to ensure consumers can easily identify access to information on producers. Since 2004, we have also nutritional information and food allergens contained in products.*1 added a barcode function that allows customers to access The information covers use of seven officially designated producer data by reading the QR code. The data includes ingredients that by law must be displayed on the outside of the place of origin as well as the product packaging.*2 The back label of products also contains commitment of the producer and the 20 secondary items recommended for inclusion in product how the item was grown. labeling, bringing the total number shown to 27 ingredients.*3 In FY2015, a cumulative total We also strive to include, where possible, food allergens that of approximately 75 agricultural are handled in the manufacturing process and therefore products* were labeled with QR codes. could be found in trace * Products that differ by prefecture and that have more than one type are counted as a single amounts in the product. product. Products labeled with QR codes Inspections are also conducted every year on Disclosing Information on Domestic Beef applicable products to Labeling of Food Allergens Aeon established the Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation confirm labeling accuracy. System in 2002, prior to enforcement of the Beef Traceability *1 Icons are not used yet on certain products. Act*, in order to provide peace of mind to customers buying *2 The seven officially designated ingredients, which are the most common and most serious allergens and must be displayed according to law, are eggs, milk, wheat, beef. The system allows customers to find out information prawns, crab, buckwheat and peanuts. about beef products from cattle raised in Japan, including *3 The 20 secondary items: the 20 secondary items recommended by the national government for inclusion on labeling are abalone, squid, salmon roe, oranges, where the cow was raised, who raised it and what feed it was cashew nuts, kiwi fruit, beef, walnuts, sesame, salmon, mackerel, soy beans, chicken, raised on. The system is available via a website. bananas, pork, matsutake mushrooms, peaches, yams, apples, and gelatin. * Enforced in December 2004, the law’s formal name is the Act on Special Measures concerning the Management and Relay of Information for Individual Identification of Cattle. Labeling of Genetically Modified Ingredients In April 2001 legislation in Japan enacted a labeling system Disclosing Information Related to Radioactivity and for genetically modified ingredients, but even before this, Radioactive Material in September 2000, Aeon began labeling TOPVALU brand Aeon has been voluntarily inspecting radioactivity and products that contain genetically modified ingredients in radioactive materials in Japanese beef, seafood, agricultural response to urging from our customers. We have expanded goods, and other foodstuff since the Great East Japan the scope of items labeled and strive to provide labeling even Earthquake. The results of those inspections are published on for items not mandated by law. our websites. Additionally, in order to confirm label accuracy, products subject to labeling (separate items) undergo testing for genetically modified DNA every year. 81 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Search System for Manufacturing Plant Codes Sanitation Training for Employees Aeon is ultimately responsible for all aspects of TOPVALU Employees in the food departments of Aeon stores must brand products, from planning to design and marketing and undergo sanitation training at least once a year. Employees this is why Aeon CO., LTD. is labeled on all product packaging review basic sanitation knowledge and rules for food as the distributor.* preparation areas. Practical skills tests are also conducted for Consumers can check the manufacturing plant and its address each person based on a test booklet. for food items or food additives using a unique code comprising In FY2015, we strengthened education concerning those numbers and letters labeled on the product and reported to Japan’s points that must be observed in the preparation of food with Consumer Agency. This a focus on the three principles of food poisoning prevention: system can be accessed avoid contact with bacteria, avoid allowing bacteria to multiply, from the TOPVALU sterilize bacteria. website. Consumers can find the exact name Audits of Food Preparation Areas and location of the Food preparation areas are audited at least twice a year. manufacturing plant Audits are continued until certain established standards are met. simply by entering the code on the online form. Consumer Issues * T his is written on the cap Search screen of the Search System for Store Safety and Security of PET bottle drinks and Manufacturing Plant Codes other beverages. Please check the package as the area including the labeling differs according to the product. Improving the Earthquake-resistance of Stores During the Great East Japan Earthquake many of our store Food Sanitation Control buildings suffered extensive damage, which in some cases Under the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System even caused loss of life. For this reason, Aeon is moving forward established in 1995, Aeon engages in a variety of activities to with improving the safety and earthquake resistance of its prevent the occurrence of food-related incidents such as food stores, giving utmost priority to protecting people’s lives and poisoning and contamination. those stores in areas where a major earthquake with seismic At the end of February 2016, 24 companies from our GMS intensity of at least upper 5 is expected to strike, in accordance business and SM business have implemented the Aeon Food with its own set of standards that are even stricter than those Sanitation Certification System, while a total of 8,923 sections required by law. had obtained certification. The number of AEON Retail Co., Ltd.’s stores that will be receiving safety and earthquake resistance work is 272. Quality Keepers As of the end of February 2016, work had been completed Aeon has assigned “Quality Keepers” at stores to verify store at 107 of these stores. In FY2016, we plan on completing work sanitation levels and product quality. Quality Keepers check at 13 more stores. store products and food preparation areas at stores, and if a In addition, there were 32 AEON Mall Co., Ltd’s stores that problem is found, they order improvements. In addition, sales required this same work, with work being completed at all staffs inspect a list of items related to sanitation and quality locations during FY2013. Going forward, we will examine management, including a temperature management chart that and implement work at AEON KYUSHU CO.,LTD. and AEON is used to record temperature management for display cases, Hokkaido Corporation. refrigerators and freezers, sell by dates that are set for each product, and to check the freshness of fresh produce. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 82 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Fire FYPrevention 2015 Results DrillsandatTarget Storesof KPI Aeon stores check safety and disaster preparedness Safety and Security Infrastructure Development The number measures on of local temporary a daily basis, while shelters security staff and store • Of the 279 applicable Aeon Retail stores, safety reinforcement construction managers also conduct a final inspection after stores are closed. was completed at 78 of the 118 stores on property owned by Aeon Established and stocked temporary shelters at 5 stores: AEON Mall 2013 • Construction was completed at all 32 applicable Aeon Mall Fire prevention drills have Yahata Higashi, been AEON Mall Tsukuba, AEON Malltwice conducted a New Makuhari and yearCity, AEON Mall Toin, AEON Mall Osaka Dome City earthquake 2013 response drills run once a year. Following the Great Installed in a total of 16 stores, at Aeon Town Kamaishi, Aeon Mall 2014 Implementation complete at 132 stores East Japan Earthquake Tendo such asthat new 8struck inAeon stores and MarchOmiya 2011, however, and Aeon we Sagamihara decidedstore, have2014 8 stores etc. existing the to increase (total 21 stores). number of earthquake response drills to two per year from 2012. We strive to make these drills 2015 Completed in107 storesas of FY 2015 Results Installed in a total of seven new and existing stores realistic as possible as 2015 such as AEONby changing Mall Okinawathe scenario Rycom and Aeonfor each based Komaki Results Store for a cumulative total of 27 stores Steadily complete work at 272 applicable stores on a variety of possible disasters. Full-time store employees as 2016 Target as temporary, well2020 part-time Local temporary andattenant shelters 100 of its stores acrossparticipate employees Japan Target in the drills. They are conducted to help us respond quickly 2020 and ensure the safety of customers in the event of a fire or earthquake. Fire Prevention and Disaster Preparedness Crime Prevention Measures There have been a number of incidents at supermarkets Aeon, as a commercial enterprise with large numbers of over the past several years involving food products with customers, is implementing disaster prevention measures and needles or other dangerous objects. Aeon has therefore drills to ensure quick action and the safety of our customers installed security cameras in food departments and begun and employees in disaster. using needle detectors at its stores. If a needle were to be Group-wide disaster prevention and safety drills discovered, it would be promptly delivered to the police Taking lessons from the experience of the Great East Japan or healthcare center and customers as well as local Group Earthquake, Aeon has been conducting Group earthquake company stores would be informed through an in-store display disaster drills twice a year from FY 2011 to ensure quick action or announcement in order to prevent additional injury or for the safety of employees and customers in the event of a damage. disaster. We are also conducting crime prevention drills to ensure In March 2014, we established the Aeon Komaki Crisis the safety of customers in the event an incident or accident Management Center at the Aeon Komaki Store in Komaki City, occurs in a store. Aichi Prefecture. In July, we conducted a drill with the Aeon Komaki Crisis Management Center working as the alternative Measures to Combat New Flu Viruses head of operations based on the scenario that the Makuhari Aeon formed a project team in 2006 as a measure to address Headquarters had been damaged by a major earthquake risks from the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the global striking directly beneath Tokyo. spread of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in humans. Going forward, while adjusting our predicted scenarios, we We established Rules for New Flu Viruses in September 2006 will hold recurring drills that rally the combined strength of and have since been readying infection prevention measures Group companies so that the local head of operations in the in order to ensure the safety of customers and employees. affected area responds swiftly when disaster strikes. In 2010, we established the Aeon New Influenza Integrated System and a framework for ascertaining the extent and spread of the virus at Aeon Group stores and business sites across Japan. In November 2010, we established the Attenuated Virulence New Influenza Rules to clearly separate our response based on the virulence of the new influenza virus. From the end of FY 2013 to the second half of FY 2014 we will apply for recognition as a registered business requiring flu vaccines under the Act on Special Measures for Combating New Flu Viruses and strive to build a system that ensures operations can be continued during an epidemic. Aeon Komaki Crisis Management Center 83 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Raising Safety Levels of Store Facilities and Fixtures Aeon works to enhance safety for facilities and fixtures used in its stores to prevent accidents involving customers. Safety Measures for Escalators There has been an increase in recent years in accidents involving children getting caught in the gap between an Step-free entrance (Aeon LakeTown) Easily visible in-store sign escalator and the wall at shopping malls and department stores. Aeon stores work to prevent escalator-related incidents Care-Fitters by setting up barriers or dividers to prevent exposure to such We encourage Aeon employees to acquire the Care-fitter* gaps. certification to help ensure that seniors and people in need In addition, at our new stores we of assistance can shop in our stores with total confidence. have reduced the speed of down Certified Care-fitters in the Aeon Group numbered 11,737 as of escalators from 30 meters per the end of February 2016. minute to 20 meters per minute as * C  are-fitter: A certification administered by the Nippon Care-Fit Education Institute (a public interest incorporated foundation) a means to prevent falls by senior citizens. Safety Measures for Escalators Establishing Parking Lot Guardrails Accidents often occur in the parking lots of retail complexes caused by drivers mixing up the gas and brake pedals. We have therefore established parking lot Care-fitter Training Session guardrails in order to prevent cars from crashing into stores and Supporters for People with Dementia ensure the safety of customers. Parking Lot Guardrails Since 2007, the Aeon Group has been participating in the Dementia Supporter Caravan being jointly promoted by the Installing Automated External Defibrillators (AED) Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and the non-profit Aeon is promoting the installation of AEDs in each of organization Community-Care Policy Network, in order for its stores. These devices give electric shocks as a means our employees to correctly understand dementia and provide of resuscitation for people who have suffered a sudden appropriate support. cardiopulmonary arrest. In addition, we are providing So far, we have run Dementia Supporter training courses emergency lifesaving training for managers and security staff. to educate Dementia Supporters * in addition to training In FY2015, we endeavored to increase the installation of instructors (in-house Caravan Mates) for the courses. Employees AEDs in small-sized supermarkets, where the number of the also undergo training at the preparation phase for opening a devices installed is low. As a result, the installations reached new store and become Dementia Supporters before the store 1,450 devices at 880 stores throughout the entire Aeon Group. opens. In FY 2015, this training course was held before opening C  reating a Convenient and Comfortable Store general merchandise stores, including the Aeon Mall Around Environment for Everyone Asahikawa Station (Hokkaido prefecture) that opened March Aeon developed its own building standards based on the 2015 and the Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom (Okinawa prefecture) Heartful Building Law of 1994 (revised December 2006 as the that opened in April that same year. Even at Aeon Town, which Barrier Free Law *). We use these standards when building is expanding shopping centers, specialty shop employees at new stores or remodeling existing locations. As of the end of Aeon Town Udatsu (Kagawa prefecture) and Aeon Town Narita February 2016, over 750 of our facilities had been certified as Tomisato (Chiba prefecture) take this training course before compliant with the Barrier Free Law. their stores open to gain the knowledge necessary to approach We are also committed to incorporating universal design customers with dementia. elements, to strengthen store function and design. As of the end of February 2016, there are a total of roughly Recognizing that the number of seniors among our 59,360 Dementia Supporters, the largest number among customers is increasing, we aim to incorporate universal design companies in Japan, and 899 “Caravan Mate” instructors for concepts in all of our stores. the training course. In the future, Aeon will expand its efforts * The Act for Buildings Accessible to and Usable by the Elderly and Physically Disabled, to provide support to people with dementia and their families also known as the Heartful Building Law, was revised and renamed the Barrier Free Law in December 2006. with the aim of building communities where they can live alongside local people with peace of mind. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 84 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues * S upporters for People with Dementia: People certified through a prescribed curriculum Results FY 2015course and Target implemented of KPI by municipalities and other groups. Supporters FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI have an understanding of dementia and are able, within their abilities, to give care to, Safety and Security Infrastructure Development watch over, and give support to people with dementia and their families. The number of local temporary shelters • Of the 279 applicable Aeon Retail stores, safety reinforcement construction was completed at 78 of the 118 stores on property owned by Aeon Established and stocked temporary shelters at 5 stores: AEON Mall • Construction was completed at all 32 applicable Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, AEON Mall Tsukuba, AEON Mall Makuhari New City, 2013 AEON Mall Toin, AEON Mall Osaka Dome City 2013 Installed in a total of 16 stores, at Aeon Town Kamaishi, Aeon Mall Implementation complete at 132 stores 2014 Tendo such as new 8 stores and Aeon Omiya and Aeon Sagamihara store, etc. existing 8 stores (total 21 stores). The dementia supporter mark and 2014 orange band 2015 Completed in107 storesas of FY 2015 Results Installed in a total of seven new and existing stores 2015 such as AEON Mall Okinawa Rycom and Aeon Komaki Results Store for a cumulative total of 27 stores Steadily complete work at 272 applicable stores 2016 Target 2020 Local temporary shelters at 100 of its stores across Japan Target 2020 Lectures and role playing and lectures in the dementia supporter training program TOPICS Excellence Award at Japan Resilience Consumer Issues Award 2015 Serving as a form of lifestyle infrastructure that protects the local community AEON Mall Co., Ltd. received an Excellence Prize at the First Japan Resilience Award 2015 held in March 2015. Establishing local temporary shelters The Japan Resilience Award recognizes advanced activities related to building resilience being developed [Aeon Eco Project: Protection Strategy] around the country with the aim of building a resilient Aeon has established a goal to set up 100 disastersociety. Aeon Mall was recognized for playing the prevention facilities across Japan by the end of FY 2020 as part role of a local disaster prevention facility in times of of the Aeon Eco Project ( see p.37). emergency, such as large-scale natural disasters, in The role of disaster-prevention facilities is to provide a developing “Disaster Resistant Smart Aeon” while temporary refuge during a disaster, to serve as a hub for rescue building earthquake resistant stores that function as a and first-aid activities, and to provide access to daily essentials. disaster recovery base to maintain the role of lifeline. To fulfill this role, stores serving as a local temporary shelter feature back-up generators and water tanks to prepare for a power outage and/or water stoppages that will likely occur during and after a disaster. In FY 2015, we established disaster-prevention facilities at seven stores in total which were new and existing stores, including Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom and Aeon Komaki Store. As of February 2016, a total of 27 stores have already been outfitted with disasterprevention facilities. In FY2016, we plan on establishing disasterprevention facilities at an additional 9 stores, with the goal of reaching more than 100 by 2020. Private power generation equipment installation 85 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 201 Consumer Issues System of Dialog with Customers Number of Complaints and Compliments Received Numb Custo Number of service complaints: 5,196 / Number of compliments: 2,719 2013 2013 System for Listening to the Opinions of Customers Aeon puts the customer’s perspective at the heart of 2014 Number of service complaints: 6,895 / Number of compliments: 1,900 2014 management. We strive to create conditions in which customers feel free to provide suggestions and to promptly 2015 Number of service complaints: 10,381 / Number of compliments: 2,060 Results 2015 incorporate customer comments into product lineup and service improvements, environmental conservation activities Number of service complaints: 2,420 / Number of compliments: 2,900 2020 2020 Targe and other areas. Target Suggestion Boxes and Communication Boards FYEach 2015Aeon Results and hasTarget FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI store setofupKPIa box for customers to put their opinions Number in and aand of Complaints board disclosingReceived Compliments the opinions and Number of Products Developed / Improved based on Customer Feedback Aeon’s response. Comments and suggestions provided by Number of service complaints: 5,196 / Number of compliments: 2,719 121 2013 customers are replied to directly by a store representative and 2013 Numberto posted for others serviceWe of see. receive complaints: 6,895 / Number of compliments: 1,900 2014 121 many suggestions from customers 2014 about things Number that are difficult for of service complaints: 10,381 / 2015and employees stores Number ofto compliments: notice. The 2,060 Results 2015 125 Results suggestions are utilized Number to improve of service complaints: 2,420 / Number of compliments: 2,900 2020 2020 180 product Target lineups and services and in Target environmental conservation activities Suggestion Box and and other initiatives. Communication Board Customer Monitor Program Customer Service Department Aeon has established two customer monitor programs to The Customer Service Department at Aeon headquarters create products that customers want and to improve quality. receives product and service related comments and requests First is the in-store monitor program where customers who from customers who visit our stores. Comments and requests, visit the store to shop are asked to become monitors. They which come in via the phone, Internet, letters and other assess the flavor and texture of food products without being channels, are responded to after checking with the relevant told anything about the product itself. Second is the home use departments. In addition, for TOPVALU products, we have monitor program where customers test out a product in their set up a call center and collect customer suggestions. This own home. Assessment criteria include not only taste, but also information is reported to directors and executive officers, quantity, price and ease of use. In a “product database,” we as well as shared with employees of relevant departments are digitizing and compiling the evaluations from monitors, through systems that manage customer feedback. including categories such as quality, packaging, and inclination A total of 106,921 opinions (service complaints) were to purchase. received in FY 2015 from our customers, which was up by Going forward, we aim to fully employ the product database 1%, or an increase of 1,055 opinions, compared to FY 2014. In to continue refining the appeal of the TOPVALU brand and to particular, inquiries and complaints made by electronic mail further satisfy customers. increased. The number of service complaints grew to 10,381, which was up by 50.6%, or an increase of 3,486 complaints, compared to FY 2014 In addition, the number of compliments increased 2,060 compared to the previous year. Going forward, we intend to listen carefully to the opinions of each and every customer to provide them with better services and products and to help us attain our targets for the year 2020. Home use monitors In-store monitors Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 86 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues TOPICS •Concept: “supplement” Foods that can readily supplement nutritional elements Examples of Product Development and (vitamins, calcium, etc.) that tend to be lacking in ordinary life. Improvements Made Based on Customer Foods that also target people who have a positive desire to Feedback boost nutritional contents to maintain their health. In the second half of 2015, we received ongoing feedback Labeling of Nutritional Contents the zipper on our frozen cut okura and cut green onion From years past, we have taken such initiatives as products was difficult to open. After receiving this feedback, prominently labeling food allergens on the outside of TOPVALU we made the zipper easer to open by expanding the width product packaging. However, starting in FY2014, while asking from the zipper to the line to open the package with scissors. for customers’ opinions on what kind of labeling is important, Easy-of-use is also one of the development philosophies of we decided to label nutritional contents* such as energy and TOPVALU. We are steadily improving products with small revisions according to the feedback we receive from our customers. fat on the outside of product packaging. By arranging and printing nutritional contents information in a fixed position on the outside of product packaging, we aim to provide individual customers with a yardstick for managing their health through diet, while remaining conscious of healthy balanced meals every day. * Five nutritional contents of energy, protein, fat, carbohydrate, and sodium Easier to open package with a wider width from zipper to perforated line Consumer Issues Providing Products to Support Our Customers’ Healthy Life Health-Conscious Initiatives Amid rising interest in healthy living, both physically and emotionally, and in living even better, Aeon is promoting the provision of goods and services and the establishment of stores that support a healthier life for customers in order to strengthen initiatives in the health and wellness field. In the area of product development, we are mainly creating products based on the concepts of “eliminate,” “reduce,” and “supplement.” • Concept: “eliminate” and “reduce” Foods that eliminate or reduce things like salt, energy, fat and other components that tend to be excessive in ordinary life. Foods that also eliminate or reduce specific nutritional contents. TOPVALU is furthering the planning and development of TOPVALU products that limit the sugar content so that anyone who has to restrict their sugar intake can enjoy food without the hassle. We began selling TOPVALU profiteroles and TOPVALU eclairs with less than 10 grams of sugar in 2016. In addition to these sweets, we are developing and releasing products that limit the sugar content such as the sugar present in noodles while responding to the requests of our customers. 87 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Consumer Issues Human Rights / Labor Practices Responding to senior generation Aeon is using the name Grand Generation (G.G.) for seniors Basic principles on personnel who are active and aggressive consumers – and responding With the primary objective of management based on respect to the shopping needs of seniors such as ‘G.G. Mall’ and ‘G.G. for human rights, Aeon’s basic principles on personnel revolve Cards’ targeted to seniors. For example, at the Aeon Kasai Store, around listening to employees’ aspirations, understanding which was renewed as a G.G Mall in 2013, we have established employees’ feelings and making the most of what employees have a fitness studio to help with promoting health and the Aeon to offer, based on the guiding philosophy of ensuring that all Aeon people lead a full life at work, at home and in the community. Culture Club, which has two studios and six classrooms, to Basic approach to personnel provide new places where customers not only buy “products” • Creating a corporate environment in which human resources can but can also have “experiences.” continue to grow as they work over the long term. In addition, Aeon is developing Aeon Pharmacy sections • Dealing with personnel based on ability and achievement, not within “AEON” general supermarkets, attracting general clinics nationality, age, gender or job category. with medical facilities as tenants to respond to rising medical Five Human Resources Principles needs against the backdrop of Japan’s aging society. 1. Fairness Management based on respect Also, we are focusing on developing Food for Specified 2. Respect for human rights Health Uses (FOSHU) to meet the health needs of our customers. 3. Openness to change Listening to employees’ aspirations Understanding 4. Rationality employees’ feelings Making the most of what employees have to o er 5. Ability Development Consumer Issues Ensuring a full life at work, at home and in the community Enhancing the Shopping Experience Online shopping is becoming a familiar and convenient Promoting Diversity way to shop due to a diversification in shopping needs, which Since being founded, Aeon has respected human rights and include customers who have difficulty getting to a store and aimed to be a company where diverse human resources can those who wish to shop outside of normal business hours. play active roles without any discrimination on grounds such Aeon Group is strengthening its omni-channel strategy by as nationality, race, sex, academic background, religion, mental developing Aeon store e-commerce platforms through the or physical disability, or any other attribute. “Aeon Square” website portal, taking advantage of the network Amidst business globalization and the requirement to of stores nationwide and allowing link of store and Internet respond rapidly to differences, Aeon established the Diversity services, and increasing home delivery service of goods bought Promotion Office in July 2013 as an organization under the in stores or pick up at stores of goods ordered by the Internet. direct control of the Group CEO to continually create new Aeon is also promoting measures to meet diverse shopping value by leveraging its diverse pool of human resources and needs such as increasing openings of urban small size respecting the unique traits of each individual employee. As stores stocking perishables and delicatessen items as well as the first step in this process, we have launched efforts to reach processed food and daily essentials, primarily in urban areas of our goal of becoming recognized as the best employer for Tokyo and Kanagawa where there are few stores. females in Japan and the company where female workers most want to work. “Daimanzoku” is the key word in Aeon’s activities to promote diversity. Daimanzoku is about realizing satisfaction for employees and their families, customers, and the company, who all create diversity. To realize “Daimanzoku” in FY2015, we held diversity promotion seminars and internal group awards as well as furthered the expansion of nurseries for Group companies. Building Diversity Promotion Systems — Daimanzoku Summit Aeon has designated a person responsible for diversity promotion, a leader to realize a corporation offering exceptional opportunities for women, and a leader to achieve an excellent workplace for women in each of 65 Group companies. All Aeon companies are now analyzing their status, identifying issues, and Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 88 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues implementing their own ideas to solve the issues. Four times a Appointment of Female Managers year the Daimanzoku Summit is held. It is attended by leaders and Aeon has established targets for the female manager ratio people responsible for diversity promotion to share information of 30% by FY 2016 and 50% by FY 2020. between Group companies for utilization in activities at their own As of the end of February 2016, the female manager ratio companies. stood at 22% (includes consolidated subsidiaries). The Daimanzoku Summit was held four times in FY2015. We are Going forward, Aeon will make positive efforts to appoint rapidly spearheading women aimed at achieving the target. diversity throughout the Group with FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FY 201 efforts that include opportunities to hear Female Manager Ratio Group lectures regarding 14.5% 2013 2014 diversity efforts both inside and outside of 18.2% 2014 2015 Group companies. 2015 22% 5,887 people Results 2016 Running Diversity Training — Daimanzoku College Targe In FY 2015, we have started to conduct two new courses 30% 2020 2016 Targe for career advancement and management for the purpose Target of enhancing the motivation of women to advance their 2020 50% careers and reform a sense of awareness related to present Target management positions. In FY2016, we held courses for women who aim to advance Hiring Employees of Foreign Nationality , Group International their careers further with present management roles. People to People Exchange Programs in the Group Aeon is actively hiring young talent who will shoulder the future in the Asian countries of Japan, China, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, and Vietnam based on the Asia Shift strategy stipulated in the medium-term management plan. While proactively hiring talent that can take active roles on Career advancement course Management course Career design course the global stage and beyond borders, Aeon encourages greater international exchanges within the Aeon Group with a target of Establishing a Commendation Program — The Daimanzoku exchanging a cumulative total of 600 people between FY 2013 Award and FY 2016, and 1,500 people by FY 2020. The cumulative Aeon has set up a Daimanzoku award to recognize the total for FY 2013 through FY 2015 was 288 people exchanged. Group company that has most promoted diversity. The second Daimanzoku award defines categories for six items that are vital initiatives in promoting diversity and a Best of Action award was presented for each category. AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., The Daiei, Inc., KOHYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., and SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD. (six companies in alphabetical order) were each presented this award. Training atmosphere overseas (Myanmar) Training atmosphere overseas (China) Award ceremony on November 11, 2015 89 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI Promoting FY 2015 Results Equal andOpportunities Target of KPI for Part-time Employees FY 201 We have developed various programs that allow part-time Group International People to People Exchange Programs Employment employees for People to thrive at thewith Disabilities workplace. Creati 2014 Total 168 people For example, AEON Retail Co., 2.05% 4,829Ltd. has a system that makes employees 2013 2013 it possible for all employees to utilize the same training and 2015 Total 288 people Results hiring 2014programs. It instituted 2.11%the 5,279Community people Employee * 2014 Program in 2004 to eliminate differences in roles, expectations Total 600 people 2016 and treatment depending on 6,341 2.16% employeepeople classifications (full Target 2015 (as of June 1, 2016) ) Results 2015 employee or part-time employee) and to enable the continued 2020 Total 1,500 people growth2020 of all employees 3.0% moredepending than, 10,000 employees on ability, performance Target Target 2016 and motivation. The program eliminates differences in Target educational and hiring opportunities. It also makes it possible 2020 Employment for People with Disabilities for anyone to take on the challenge of a higher position, Aeon is working to establish conditions Group-wide that including willing Community Employees if they fulfill certain allow people with disabilities to work with a sense of purpose. conditions set by the company. Abilities JUSCO Co. Ltd. established in 1980 has expanded to * Community Employee is a collective designation for Aeon Retail employees working in a specific location and not subject to geographic transfer. There are two categories; 4 Scrum CD/DVD & Books stores where people with disabilities hourly wage positions (part-timers) and monthly salaried positions (full-timers). are working alongside able-bodied staff, and 6 business establishments for employment transfer support. Furthermore, Improving the System for Employing the Elderly AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. has adopted a telecommuting AEON Retail Co., Ltd. instituted a mandatory retirement system for people with disabilities as one part of its diversity age of 65 starting in 2007 in order to meet the needs of promotion action plan in cooperation with Abilities JUSCO. the company, which wants to continue employing people As of June 2016, the total number of people with disabilities over the age of 60 who are highly motivated, and the needs employed at Group companies was 6,341 with an employment of the workers, who want to continue working in a stable ratio of 2.16%. environment utilizing their knowledge and experience. This employment rate exceeds As of the end of February 2016, approximately 21,000 the statutory employment rate employees (including part-timers) were working taking of 2.0%, but we will continue to advantage of the experience, skills, and knowledge they advance our efforts in order to acquired in the past. In addition, the number of consolidated reach a 3.0% employment ratio for subsidiaries that have instituted a mandatory retirement age of people with disabilities, or 10,000 65 has now reached 45. people, as a target for 2020. Employees working at Scrum Human Rights Training FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI FYAeon2015respects Results and humanof the Target rights KPI of all people and does not discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, sex, academic ms Employment for People with Disabilities Creating Pleasant, background, religion,Comfortable Workplaces mental or physical disability, or any other 2.05% 4,829 employees attribute. Each and12every companiesAeon employee certified strives to use the Kurumin logo to listen 2013 2013 closely to co-workers and make the company a place where 2014 2.11% 5,279 people people 2014respect one another as equals. 13 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo 2.16% 6,341 people Fundamental Principals of the Aeon Basic Human Rights Policies 13 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo 2015 (as of June 1, 2016) ) Results 2015 1. Respect human 1 company rights certified as Platinum Kurumin Results 2020 3.0% more than, 10,000 employees 2. Prevent Promote discrimination initiatives under the General Business Action Plan for Japan's Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next 3. Establish a friendly working environment Target 2016 Generation (expand number of companies certified to use 4. Conductthe Target fairKurumin employmentlogo) 5. Introduce human rights enlightenment training 2020 We have built a human rights enlightenment system as the Aeon Group to promote the Aeon Human Rights Basic Policies in an effort to improve human rights awareness through a wide range of internal training. Aeon holds enlightenment training programs of a variety of issues, including issues pertaining to social discrimination, foreign residents, abuse of power, diversity, people with disabilities and work-life balance, to facilitate correct understanding and deepen awareness in all of our employees. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 90 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues Kurumin. 13 Group companies have also H  uman Rights Enlightenment Committee (convened been certified to display the Kurumin logo*. once every six months) Going forward, we will continue to Committee to define the direction of human rights enlightenment at Aeon, assess and make decisions regarding implement measures aimed at achieving a issues, and train individuals responsible for promoting human balance between work life and child rearing. rights at each Group company * Companies that have acquired Platinum Kurumin: AEON CO., LTD. Companies that have acquired the Kurumin certification: AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON H  uman Rights Enlightenment Study Group (convened GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD., AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON Retail once every six months) Co., Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., CFS Corporation, The Daiei, Inc., KASUMI CO., LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., and Study group to educate individuals responsible for promoting SUNDAY CO., LTD. (in alphabetical order) human rights at each group company. Human FY 2015 Rights Results andCollege Target(convened of KPI four times a year) FY 2015 Results and Target of KPI College to define courses to teach the basic human rights ms principles Employment originating at Aeon. for People withThis college is primarily a place for Disabilities Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces fundamental education for the participation of managers and individuals 2013 responsible for or2.05% 4,829 employees in charge of administrative education 2013 12 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo as well as individuals responsible for or in charge of promotion. 2.11% 5,279 people 13 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo 2014 2014 Human Rights and Aeon Code of Conduct Training has provided 2.16% 13 6,341 people conducted under 13 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo Results 2015 guidance to over companies (as of June 1, 2016) ) Results 2015 1 company certified as Platinum Kurumin themes selected to be in-line with the training needs of each 2020 3.0% more than, 10,000 employees Promote initiatives under the General Business Action Plan for GroupTargetcompany while linking to the Aeon Human Rights 2016 Japan's Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation (expand number of companies certified to use Enlightenment Office and Corporate Ethics Team. Target the Kurumin logo) We have also published a Human Rights Enlightenment 2020 Guidebook as a tool to promote basic knowledge about human rights. We will continue to strive to build tools and develop training materials that utilize this guidebook. In Supporting the Balance between Work Life and Child Raising FY2016, we plan to conduct Human Rights and Aeon Code of We installed Aeon Yumemirai Nurseries at Group business Conduct Training with all of our employees. establishments so that not only our employees but also employees working at tenants inside of Aeon Mall as well as Workshop on LGBT the local can be assured of both work and childcare. Responding to increasing attention to human rights For the purposes of of sexual minorities (LGBT: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and employees’ smooth return Transgender), Aeon is holding workshops on LGBT to provide to work from childbirth and the latest knowledge on human rights and to create a subsequent child rearing, workplace where individual employees can work in their own and to support employees ways. working while raising This training was also incorporated into the FY2015 new children, the nursery opens employee orientation with roughly 3,000 new employees taking the from 7:00 AM to 10:00 PM program. We aim for further penetration to all Group companies in almost every day, including the future while collecting Saturdays, Sundays, national examples from companies holidays, and year-end and who are actively engaged in New Year holidays. The these efforts. childcare fees are calculated Aeon Yumemirai Nursery from hours of care regardless Chigasaki Nursery Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces of the day or time period in order to reduce the burden on Aeon is a strong advocate of helping employees balance work employees from paying additional fees or arranging secondary life with child raising needs. Specifically, we strive to encourage childcare. employees raising children to reduce their overtime work, take After opening a nursery childcare leave (including fathers), and take annual paid leave. at Aeon Mall Makuhari New We promoted initiatives at each Aeon Group company, of our City, we opened nurseries general business action plan developed under the Act for Measures at Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom in August 2015 and at Aeon to Support the Development of the Next Generation. As a result, as Mall Tokoname in October of the same year. We also opened of May 2016, AEON CO., LTD. has been certified with the Platinum nurseries at Aeon Style Shonan Chigasaki and Aeon Lake Town Mori in April 2016 as well as at Aeon Mall Saga Yamato in June 2016. These nurseries support people to work while raising their children. In April 2015, we opened Aeon After-school Class at the 91 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Aeon Marinpia Annex and at Daiei Narimasu Store. The classes, Securing Work-Life Balance which offer a comprehensive after-school care program with Four Career Paths for Employees [AEON Retail Co., Ltd.] physical, academic, moral, and dietary education, are located AEON Retail Co., Ltd. established four career paths in near train stations, making it convenient for parents to drop off 2004. Under this system employees may choose to take and pick up their children and for children to come to the class. on the challenge of a different career path. Also, there are Moreover, based on the belief that the existence of bosses no differences in opportunities for acquiring qualifications and organizations that recognize diversity and make use of it in or applying for new positions depending on the path, and management is key in achieving a balance between work life employees are able to participate in various training programs and child raising, AEON CO., LTD. and The Daiei, Inc. became regardless of the path. the first retailers to join the IkuBoss* Alliance in June 2015. 14 Going forward, we will further develop our programs Group companies have joined the IkuBoss Alliance as of the and systems so that female employees in particular have a end of June 2016. workplace environment where they can thrive professionally, *IkuBoss: The ideal advocated and promoted by non-profit organization Fathering Japan. It refers to a boss who considers the work-life balance of subordinates and staff while achieving a work-life balance between their job and working with him or her in the workplace and supports their career and lives while marriage or childcare. producing outcomes for the organization and being able to enjoy his or her own work and private life. The four career paths available to AEON Retail Co., Ltd. TOPICS employees (As of the end of February 2016) • National (N) staff: Can essentially be transferred anywhere in Japan or overseas AEON CO., LTD. will be certified with • Regional (R) staff: Can be transferred anywhere within a specific regional block both Eruboshi and Platinum Kurumin • Community Employee: No transfer requiring relocation. Option certifications by the Minister of Health! of daily/monthly salary or hourly wage. • Contract workers: No transfer requiring relocation. Part-time only These certifications acknowledge initiatives to promote women in the workplace and support Childcare and Nursing Care Support Programs [AEON Retail child rearing. Aeon acquired the Co., Ltd.] highest Eruboshi certification of AEON Retail Co., Ltd. makes childcare leave available for up all three ranks and the Platinum to April 20 of the year the child enters middle school. While Kurumin certification given to businesses with superior support of both the work and lives of employees. the legal requirement under Japan’s Child Care and Family Aeon acquired the highest Eruboshi certification of third Care Leave Act is to attempt to make this available until the stage for fulfilling all of the five assessment items (hiring, child enters elementary school, we have provided extra time continued employment, work style such as working time, because workers often want to take time off after that for other ratio of women managers, and diverse career paths) based events in their child’s life. on the law to promote women in the workplace enacted in For employees with families for which nursing care is April 2016. Four Group companies (AEON Retail, MINISTOP, deemed necessary, we have established a nursing care leave AEON Integrated Business Service, and AEON MARKETING) program and a nursing care work program that provide time have also received the same Eruboshi certification, bringing off or shortened working hours. the total number of certified Group companies to 11 to date. In addition, we aimed to reach an even higher standard level after acquiring the Kurumin in August 2013. We were awarded with the Platinum Kurumin certification as the first in our Group as recognition of our efforts, including the promotion of male employees to take childcare leave, the advancement of nurseries at our business establishments, and our childcare subsidy program. In the future, Aeon will strive to promote diversity management and work to build a climate which mutually respects diverse human resources as a corporate organization ceaseless endeavoring to innovate. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 92 Key Issue 4 Addressing Social Issues Welfare Programs Helping Employees Maintain or Improve Their Health The Aeon Good Life Club, Aeon’s mutual aid society, in Aeon is working to ensure that all of its employees receive which some 215,000 Aeon Group employees are enrolled. regular health exams and that it thoroughly conducts followup, Programs include the payment of gift money for celebratory which includes recommendations for additional medical occasions or condolences (mutual assistance), subsidies for screenings and work schedule adjustments based on the childcare and nursing care, various forms of insurance (selfresults of the exams, in order to properly manage employees’ help support), and support for leisure activities and health health in compliance with the provisions of Japan’s Industrial (motivational assistance). We aim to administer various Safety and Health Act. To help employees maintain or improve programs contributing to the achievement and enhancement their health, we also have developed an insurance program of common welfare to enable Group employees to have a to provide more comprehensive health exams to employees sense of security, solidarity and pride. over the age of 40 that are enrolled in Aeon’s corporate health insurance society. We also hold an annual Health Challenge Health and Safety Committees Campaign for all enrolled members and have implemented Health and Safety Committees are organized at the store initiatives to make activities to improve health into a habit in and business office level in order to ensure the safety and everyday life. health of employees and promote the creation of pleasant, A counseling office is provided to support good mental comfortable working conditions. For example, at Aeon Retail, health as part of the member services provided by the Aeon store managers, managers of personnel and general affairs Good Life Club, Aeon’s mutual aid society. departments, employee representatives and labor union representatives attend the committee meetings, which are held Employee Satisfaction Survey once a month. Points for improvement in employee working In FY2015, an employee satisfaction survey on morale was conditions and the workplace environment are considered by conducted targeting all Aeon Group employees. The results of labor and management, paving the way for improvements. this survey and employee feedback will be utilized to develop our organization and systems to improve motivation and make Labor Union Status our workplaces more employee-friendly to enhance employee Aeon emphasizes dialogue between labor and and customer satisfaction. management, and discussions are held with the labor union In FY2016, each company works to further enhance through Safety and Sanitation Committees and the laboremployee satisfaction by drafting and implementing concrete management council. measures to enhance satisfaction based on the results of the The labor union has encouraged part-time employees to survey from the previous year. become members, and as of the end of April 2016, the labor union had roughly 252,800 members, including 195,000 partT  raining Programs Supporting the Growth of time employees. We actively work to incorporate employee Employees feedback through workplace meetings participated in by union Aeon believes that the greatest form of welfare is education. members. This phrase embodies the thought that education, in addition to wages and benefits, is key to enriching the lives of its Global Framework Agreements employees. Given this, we have created a wide range of In November 2014, AEON CO., LTD. signed the Global training programs that support the growth of employees and Framework Agreement on labor, human rights, and the their desire for advancement. environment with UNI Global Union, which is an international In addition, we have created a system for employees labor organization, UA zensen, and Federation of Aeon to meet twice a year with their supervisors to discuss and Group Workers’ Union. The agreement is a commitment reflect on their work performance and work challenges, acknowledging that the multinational enterprise and the and to look ahead to their future aspirations. There are also labor union are mutual partners and will work together as the regular assessments of individual work results and career enterprise expands business globally. achievements. More than 100 companies worldwide have entered into the Global Framework Aeon Fundamental Education Agreement, and the four This is provided for the first three years following parties are jointly promoting employment with the same content Group-wide. Besides their efforts on labor, human sharing Aeon’s basic philosophy and set of values, the rights, and the environment education aims to get employees to completely master the so as to become a role model corporate culture and basic skills as Aeon people. for the labor-management Interview on conclusion of Global relationship in Asia. Framework Agreements 93 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Aeon Group Self Declaration Form System Internal Certifications and Number of Holders* (As of the end of February 2016) This system encourages transfer within the Aeon Group ◎Fresh fish master (grade 1) 17 • Senior cycle advisor 261 beyond the framework of the company amid the many ◎Fresh fish master (grade 2) 1,776 • Beauty advisor 851 different business domains covered by the Aeon Group. In ◎Fresh fish master (grade 3) 3,298 • Handcraft advisor 573 FY2015, the system was implemented targeting the senior • Baby advisor 740 • Senior care advisor 67 • Fashion advisor 1,134 ◎ Hot deli master 2,471 management level at 41 Group companies. • Liquor advisor 680 ◎ Sushi master 2,395 • Fish advisor 408 ◎ Farm product master 1,236 Sending Personnel to Graduate Schools in Japan • Digital advisor 295 ◎ Greenery master 608 Under this system, Aeon selects employees from Group • Home appliance advisor 86 ◎ Gardening master 359 companies to enter graduate school in Japan (MBA course) as • General appliance advisor 65 • Energy Advisor 422 • Cycle advisor 1,308 a means to develop human resources that will take charge of managing the Aeon Group in the future. The aims are for them ◎ denotes qualifications accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. to learn specialized knowledge related to management and *T otal for AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., AEON Hokkaido build networks outside of the company. Corporation, AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyusyu Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU Global Trainee System NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. AEON BIG CO., LTD, KOHYO CO., LTD., AEON LIQUOR CO., LTD., AEONBIKE CO., LTD., (18 Under this system, Aeon posts outstanding human companies) resources across national borders to Group companies in Japan, China and ASEAN in order to train the future leaders of Aeon DNA University the overseas business and human resources with the ability In September 2012, Aeon instituted the Aeon DNA to act at the global level. The aim is acquisition of essential University to train the next generation of Aeon management knowledge and skills through operational experience and by instilling the philosophy and values of the company passed training overseas. down since its founding. The Group CEO himself is an instructor at the university. Aeon Business School In FY 2015, we started with guidance for 20 sixth term The Aeon Business School provides courses for personnel to students in March and 20 learn the knowledge necessary for the jobs they aspire to. The seventh term students in system supports self-actualization of motivated personnel. 12 September. Approximately courses were held in FY2015 and up to 552 people attended. 100 employees have trained and are active in each Group Group Recruitment System company as of the end of This system enables personnel to challenge the business February 2016. DNA University Class and job position they aspire to without being restricted by the domain or company they belong to. In FY2015, we introduced staff recruitment (including global training) at AEON PET CO., LTD., AEON Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd., AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD., My Basket CO., LTD., AEON Bakery Co., Ltd., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., A-Colle Co., Ltd., and overseas businesses (China/ASEAN). Internal Certification Systems Aeon has established a wide array of internal certification systems for specific jobs. Eight of these certifications have been accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and recognized for their high quality. Sengyo-shi skill competition Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 94 Support After the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquakes Initiatives Evolved from Experience After the Great East Japan Earthquake The 2016 Kumamoto earthquakes that struck Kumamoto and Oita prefectures on April 14, 2016 recorded a maximum magnitude of 7, which devastated the region greatly. We share our deepest sympathy with everyone who was afflicted by the disaster. Aeon has strived with all of its capabilities in the reconstruction and recovery of afflicted areas which have been influenced by its experience after the Great East Japan Earthquake by combining the strengths of the Entire Group to fulfill our duty as a lifeline center in our retail businesses. As a Member of the Local Community As Local Lifestyle Infrastructure P  roviding emergency relief supplies according to  iming to Resume Business as Quickly as Possible A comprehensive agreements Aeon aims to resume business unified as a Group to return According to comprehensive agreements with each usual lifestyles for everyone in the local area afflicted by the municipality ( P. 67), we have taken advantage of Aeon product disaster as soon as possible. We suspended or limited operations procurement capabilities and distribution network. We took at 84 of our stores in Kumamoto and Oita prefectures right after charge of roughly 5.3 million emergency relief supplies that the earthquake were required from 11 organizations that included afflicted struck, but we areas of Kumamoto prefecture, Kumamoto City, Ozu, Mifune, have worked to Oita prefecture, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, resume business Japan Self-defense Force, and Japanese Red Cross Society to with the support of deliver daily necessities immediately after the earthquakes 1,017 employees struck. fr om our Gr oup We entered into external partnerships through shipping companies in the memorandums for emergency relief supplies with Japan Airlines afflicted areas. Co., Ltd., the Japan Self-defense force, various municipalities and other organizations to facilitate smooth and fast shipping. Introducing Mobile Retailers and Opening Temporary Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. Stores transported emergency We introduced mobile retailers from May 20th to July relief supplies and 13th in Aso, Kumamoto prefecture where recovery of major store goods for sale roadways was uncertain. We also opened temporary stores by using a total of 49 on September 6th at the aircrafts over five days Tekuno temporary housing from when the disaster site in Mishiki, Kumamoto struck. prefecture, which is the largest temporary housing site in Kumamoto prefecture. Offering Temporary Shelter The Earthquake that struck on April 14th left Mifune in O  ther Initiatives the Kamimashiki District of Kumamoto prefecture in need. We provided assistant by utilizing our Group as a whole We worked with Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. to transport balloon from installing mobile AEON Bank ATMs (automated teller shelters ( P. 69), which are large tents for use in emergency machine) through AEON Financial Service Co., Ltd. to caring for evacuations, from Haneda Airport to Nagasaki Airport. We pets affected by the disaster through AEON PET CO., LTD. quickly provided temporary shelters with the help of the selfdefense force in Nagasaki prefecture to transport these balloon shelters by truck to the Mifune Fureai Square where they were installed by our Group company, AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. 95 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 As a Company Expanding Stores Throughout Japan A  eon Yellow Receipt Campaign H  osting a Special Revitalization Support Project The Aeon Yellow Receipt Campaign to Support the The Support Delicious Food from Kumamoto and Oita Recovery of Kumamoto and Oita was held at approximately special revitalization project was hosted at approximately 510 600 stores in Japan from Aeon and Aeon Style to Aeon Super Aeon and Aeon Style stores in Japan at the end of May fueled Centers over two days from May 29th to May 30th in order by our passion and the passion of our customers in Japan to to deliver our and our customer’s hopes and wishes for quick encourage all of the producers in afflicted areas. reconstruction and recovery. 1% of the total value of receipts mailed by customers was donated to Kumamoto and Oita prefectures, which was equivalent to 68,698,535 JPY. S upporting Manufacturing of All People with Disabilities In August 2016, The AEON 1% Club Foundation endowed the Kumamoto Prefecture Vocational Aid Center Conference with 30,000,000 JPY in funding to offer for offices aiding in the employment of people with disabilities that were afflicted by the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake. This earthquake results in devastation that included damage to buildings and production equipment at offices that aid in the employment of people with disabilities in Kumamoto prefecture. We provided funding to 51 offices that aid in the employment of people with disabilities in Kumamoto prefecture to assist in constructing ran environment where all people with disabilities are able to work in manufacturing. Each F undraising Activities Aeon Group company also strives to secure and support the We accepted donations provision of routes to deliver manufactured goods produced for the Kumamoto Earthquake by people with disabilities to an even greater number of Emergency Relief Fund at our customers. stores and businesses in Japan Through this type of support, we are contributing to the from April 14th to May 31st. A total sustainable growth for the future of disaster afflicted areas of 540,820,419 JPY was donated to while hoping to further promote the independence and social Kumamoto and Oita prefectures participation of everyone with a disability. with the money raised by AEON CO., LTD. and our overseas Group companies as well as the money raised with WAON points. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 96 Update Report Activities that widen the circle of Tohoku creation Activity Report for Second Period of Project Aeon Joining Hands (FY 2015) Project Aeon Joining Hands was launched March 2012. In the next ten years leading to 2021, we will aim to drive creativity and contribute the recovery after the Great East Japan Earthquake by utilizing diverse resources gained in the management activities of all Aeon employees. In the second period between FY 2015 to FY 2017, we are working with local communities in the Project Aeon Joining Hands community-exchange support activities, which understand the social challenges of the disaster afflicted areas of Tohoku as revitalizing the sustainable of local communities. We are advancing this project to connect learning and networks through project activities with energizing the local industry of Aeon. Project Aeon Joining Hands 10-year Project ●Partner with non-profit and other organizations, Second First Period Period of Establishing Expanding Independence Initial Structures support planned activities that meet local needs, Period and encourage the recovery of people’s lifestyles. Objective: Our Group companies, management and workforce will Objective: To ensure that everyone within the build relationships with different communities through Group is aware of and understands ●Build links with local people by having Aeon people interaction with local residents, supporting them over the details of our project activities. periodically visit the same areas throughout the year the long term, and implementing continuous support 2012 2013 2014 2015 Aeon Tohoku Reconstruction Hometown Forests Program Outline of Second Period Initiatives Outline of First Period Initiatives ●Promote interaction with local communities through tree-planting activities in each region of Tohoku ●Conduct tree-planting activities on the costs of Iwate, ●Plant fruit and shrubs in addition to trees and Miyagi, and Fukushima support reconstruction of industry and tourism ●Engage with everyone in the local community through ●Conduct recovery of the wood in the village shrine, a tree-planting activities with the objective to revitalize a favorite spot of local people, and plant trees in richly natural homeland squares in front of stations, many of which were washed away. Deployment of Volunteers to Disaster Afflicted Areas Outline of Second Period Initiatives Outline of First Period Initiatives ●Continue activities currently underway in Rikuzen●Confirm the challenges in disaster-afflicted areas takata city, Iwate prefecture, since FY 2012, and active in on-site through activities in Hamadori, Fukushima Minamisoma city, Fukushima prefecture since FY 2013. to regenerate the local community and bring ●Conduct volunteer activities for many Aeon people to visit people back from the places they dispersed to after disaster-afflicted areas to engage through their own efforts the nuclear accident and experience what is happening on the ground first hand. ●Utilize this experience gained through these activities ●Work in a manner that is able to best match the hopes in the social lives and work of each Aeon person of everyone in the community AEON Future Co-creation Program ●We will strive together with regions afflicted by the disaster and our Group companies in Project Aeon Joining Hands with community exchange type support activities by understanding social challenges of the disaster afflicted areas* of Tohoku as revitalizing the sustainable of local communities Volunteer Activities Conducted by Each Group Company Outline of Second Period Initiatives Outline of First Period Initiatives ●Promote ongoing support able to be conducted ●Allocate a person in charge of advancing activities at from a distance in order for Group companies to each company within our Group, and continually generate recovery in Tohoku implementing local training in the disaster-hit areas ●Advance support encompassing local communi●Develop our own unique activities at each of our Group companies, ties with voluntary and independent thinking and with each member of our management and workforce toward generating recovery in areas afflicted by the ●Conduct Tohoku Recovery Markets and communicate the start of the disaster at each Group company. project both inside and outside the company through activities such as the screening of the Utagokoro documentary film in each region 97 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 “Project Aeon Joining Hands” ● Basic Concept ● The Purpose of Supporting Recovery Based on the three principles of Aeon, which are “Peace,” “People” and We are supporting the sustainable recovery of local communities, in which people and industry “Community,” Aeon people throughout the world are committed to coexist with nature, and where individuals feel connected with one another. utilizing the diverse resources made available through Aeon’s business activities, exercising their creativity and contributing in creative ways ● The Project Vision to the recovery of the areas affected by the Great East Japan By combining the three principles of Aeon, which are “Peace,” “People” and “Community,” with the Earthquake disaster. For Aeon people, this is an opportunity to both purpose of supporting recovery, we are able to objectively consider what we want to do and what we realize and experience firsthand Aeon’s principles, as well as an are able to do in order to achieve our aims. We will continue to contribute by being creative, engaging opportunity for personal growth. By extension, it is also an opportunity in activities, and walking alongside people living in disaster-affected areas, who are standing up to for them to grow as business people. rebuild their communities. ●Utilize the unique ideas and characteristics that our Group Third Organization and ●Deepen crisis management awareness as a lifeline with companies, management, and workforce learn in this exchange Period Fulfillment measures to limit disasters that includes prevention to create and conduct autonomous activities able to contribute Objective: Systematize the results of ●Utilize the knowledge and resources gained through practical to the communities afflicted by the disaster the project, and link them activities toward the revitalization of the Tohoku region, ●Follow the key concepts of ”Interaction and Creativity to further activities which is the same as the revitalization of society in Japan 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Support performance as of the end of February 2016 The number of trees planted in the affected area 146,279trees Support targets by FY 2021 300,000trees ●We will work in activities by Support performance as of the end of February 2016 transitioning from activities Employees who 2,626 realized from the blood and sweat of volunteers up until participated in the Total employees now to activities placing the disaster area as volunteers focus on interaction with the local community. *6 regions in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima prefectures 1. Ootsuchi Town, Kamaishi 3. Ooshima, Kesennuma City, 5. Nihonmatsu city, Namie, City, Iwate Prefecture Miyagi Prefecture Fukushima Prefecture 2. Kome-dori, Tono City, Iwate 4. Marumori Town, Miyagi 6. Odaka, Minamisoma City, Prefecture Prefecture Fukushima Prefecture Support performance as of the end of February 2016 Employees who participated in volunteer activities in and Total around the Company 194,102 employees 300,000 employees Support targets by FY 2021 *Includes number of full-time employees who participated in volunteer activities in disaster-hit areas. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 98 Update Report Activities that widen the circle of Tohoku creation “Bustling Tohoku connect with hometown power” Main FY 2015 Tohoku reconstruction support activities Five years have passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake. 4 policies toward Recreating Tohoku AEON aims for the next stage “creation of local areas (hometowns)” from ❶ Activation of local industry through business “reconstruction assistance”, and has started “bustling Tohoku” efforts to help ❷ Creation of employment and creation of an connect the energy of Tohoku throughout Japan and around the world. environment that is easy to work in ❸ Environmental and social contribution activities With these thoughts of wanting to create the future of Tohoku with “bustling that “mutually make” the future of the region. energy” put into this theme, and with 4 policy pillars we will walk together with ❹ Development of towns where people can live everyone towards Tohoku creation from here on out. with safety and peace of mind 1. Activation of local industry through business 3. Environmental and social contribution activities In addition to efforts to develop local products with that “mutually make” the future of the region. producers in Tohoku, we are revitalizing the local industry by We are also working in environmental and social contribution connecting customers throughout Japan with Tohoku. activities with the people of local communities in activities such as Project Aeon Joining Hands ( P.97). This is supporting the healthy Expand sales of Tohoku products by holding Bustling Tohoku Fair growth of Tohoku, urbanization, and the children of the region. Group companies centered in Tohoku are planning Bustling Tohoku Fairs in order to expand sales routes of Tohoku products. Support Tohoku Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign The first fair was held at a total of 132 stores in the Tohoku and We would like to encourage everyone affected by the earthquake Kanto districts from March 4th to March 6th in 2016. in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima with our customers throughout We currently have 500 Japan. We are expanding the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign different products that held every November to March 9th through 11th each year. During generate 30 billion JPY. We this campaign period, we will donate 1% of the total amount on aim to expand this to 2,000 receipts given to us by different products able to our customers. The total generate 100 billion JPY in accumulated donation sales by 2018. given to the areas afflicted by the disaster through this 2. C reation of employment and creation of an campaign by the spring of environment that is easy to work in 2016 is 726 million JPY. We are creating employment by opening stores in areas afflicted by the disaster. We are also working to build an environment anyone can work easily, Supporting children through Tohoku Reconstruction Support WAON including employees who are raising children, with initiatives such as In May 2012, we issued the Tohoku Reconstruction Support the installation of nursery facilities at our business establishments. WAON to donate 0.1% of the amount used to scholarship funds to support the lives and learning of children in the three AEON Hirono store opens at the Hirono Terrace prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima who were affected The AEON Hirono store opened in the Fukushima Prefecture by the disaster. The total amount donated was 19,782,027 JPY public commercial facility “Hirono Terrace” The store is a by the spring of 2016. community shopping center close to the local area, which made up of four specialty stores such as food and lifestyle related shops operated by local business proprietors. 4. Development of towns where people can live with safety and peace of mind Nursing facility opens at the Aeon Mall Natori We are aiming to build safe and secure place for people We plan to open an Aeon Yumemirai Nursery at Aeon Mall Natorishi to live by enhancing preventative measures based on our in the fall of 2016 in light of the increasing number of children on waiting experience after the Great East Japan Earthquake. lists in Natorishi due to factors such as families moving from Expanding local temporary shelters other areas. We are working Aeon is strengthening safety measures that include securing energy to build a secure environment supply systems such as independent power generation facilities, which everyone in the region can allows shopping centers to be used as disaster prevention centers work with peace of mind now during a disaster. We have already completed the installation of these and into the future. Aeon Yumemirai Nursery in other communities facilities at 27 locations and aim to have 100 locations outfitted by 2020. 99 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Awards List from the outside (FY2015) Date Awards MAR, 2015 Received the Grand Prize in the Basic Achievement of the J-Win Diversity Award 2015 MAR, 2015 Recognized as a joint business with Japan Committee for United Nations Decade on Biodiversity (UNDB-J) MAR, 2015 Selected in the 2014 Diversity Management Selection 100 MAR, 2015 Received the Outstanding Performance Award in Japan Resilience Award 2015 (AEON Mall Co., Ltd.) Received commendation as one of 100 major companies with superior contribution to generating employment by the Korean MAR, 2015 government (Ministry of Employment and Labor) (Korean MINISTOP) Received the Award for a Person with Disabilities presented by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and the Japan Organization for Employment SEP, 2015 of the Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Job Seekers (Akemi Chiba employed by AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. and Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd.) Received the grand prize for the Japan Organization for Employment of the Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Job Seekers SEP, 2015 President's Award for entries of examples for improving the workplace of people with disabilities (AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd.) Received commendation as a superior place of work for persons with disabilities from the Minister of Health for outstanding offices SEP, 2015 for the employment of persons with disabilities (Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd.) Received the Japan Organization for Employment of the Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Job Seekers President's Effort Award for SEP, 2015 outstanding offices for the employment of persons with disabilities (AEON CO., LTD.) SEP, 2015 FANPEKKA received the 2015 CCFA Golden Lily Most Popular Chain Store Brand Award (AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd.) OCT, 2015 Received the Japan Resilience Award 2015 Special Excellence Award advocated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (The Daiei, Inc.) OCT, 2015 Assigned an honorary member title from the Federation of Asia-pacific Retailers Associations (FAPRA) (Honorary Chairman Takuya Okada) OCT, 2015 Received the Special Award (environmental award and 3R award) in the Eco Business Awards held by the Ministry of Tourism Cambodia (AEON Mall Phnom Penh) DEC, 2015 Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award for initiatives using dedicated Railway Transportation Research trains DEC, 2015 Received the National Order of the Legion of Honour presented by the French government (Motoya Okada President AEON CO., LTD.) Received the Japan Wood Design Award (New Care for Wood Honor) that acknowledges sustainable procurement of wood materials DEC, 2015 and contributions to reduce CO2 emissions (MINISTOP CO., LTD.) DEC, 2015 Received the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award for the 5th Carbon Offset Award (marunaka CO., LTD. and SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD.) DEC, 2015 Received the 2015 Companies Promoting Part-Time Workers to Play Active Roles at Work Award from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD.) JAN, 2016 Received the 2015 Okayama-city Landscape Architecture Award (AEON Mall Okayama) JAN, 2016 Received the Top Property Award for the 2015 Indonesia Property Awards (AEON Mall BCD City) FEB, 2016 The Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 received the Environmental Report Awards (Environment Minister Award) FEB, 2016 Received the 5th Carbon Offset Award (The Maruetsu, Inc.) FEB, 2016 Received the Kagoshima GHG Emission Reduction Excellence Prize (AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD.) JUN, 2016 Certified with both Eruboshi and Platinum Kurumin certifications by the Minister of Health (AEON CO., LTD.) Nikkei BP Eco Brand Survey 2016 JUL, 2016 2016 Ranked fourth in the overall rankings Overseas Japan Primary environmental conservation and social contribution activities 1965 Donation of 1,000 cherry trees to Okazaki city at the opening of the Okazaki Okadaya Store general retailer in Japan AEON 1% Club started Aeon Scholarship Program 1977 Established the JUSCO Company Welfare Fund (present day the Aeon Welfare Fund) 2007 Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bag Program began with the JUSCO Higashiyamanijou Store 1979 Established Cultural Foundation of Okada AEON CO., LTD. became the first company in the general retailing industry to sign an 1989 Aeon Group 1% Club (present day AEON 1% Club Foundation) was established agreement on initiatives towards the establishment of a recycling-oriented society 1990 Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee AEON 1% Club started the Small with the Japanese Ministry of the Environment Ambassadors (present day Teenage Ambassadors) Program AEON 1% Club started Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory Established the Aeon Group Environmental Foundation (present day the AEON Envi2008 AEON CO., LTD. formulated the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming, ronmental Foundation) becoming the first retailer in Japan to name a specific goal for reducing output of CO2 1991 Launched the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, at JUSCO Malacca Store (present Started Aeon Clean Japan Campaign day Aeon Malacca Store) in Malaysia as its first store Started Clean & Green activities Started PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign Started Clean & Green activities Started Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Students Commenced the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign on a trial basis 2009 T rial sales of Carbon Footprint product labeling for nine varieties across seven TOPVALU products (Began trial operation of the food tray collection and recycling campaign) AEON Environmental Foundation established Japan Awards for Biodiversity 1992 Planted trees at JUSCO Shin Hisai Store (present day Aeon Hisai) the first sore in JaParticipated in Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership as a founding member pan under the Aeon Hometown Forests Program Opened a FSC® certified store for the first time as a convenience store in Japan 1993 Started development of organic and other agricultural produce as the Gurinai (pres2010 Established Aeon Biodiversity Principle ent day TOPVALU Gurinai) private label AEON 1% Club started ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum (present day 1994 Formulated the independent Aeon Heart Building Design Standards based on the Asia Youth Leaders) and Aeon-UNICEF Safe Water Campaign Heart Building Law (the Barrier Free New Law from December 2006). Opened JUSCO  The Tree planting project to revitalize the forests at the Great Wall of China by the Minamikata Store as the first building in Japan certified under the Heart Building Law AEON Environmental Foundation, the number of seeding planted reached one million 1995 Introduced returnable food container and reusable hanger systems The MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity established by the AEON Environmental Foundation 1996 Launched the Environment Committee 2011 Established Aeon Sustainability Principle 1997 Founded the JUSCO Children’s Eco Club (present day the Aeon Cheers Club) Announced Aeon Natural Refrigerants Declaration 1998 AEON Environmental Foundation conducted the 1st tree planting project to revital2012 Developed KPI System ize the forests at the Great Wall of China AEON Environmental Foundation started Asian Students Environment Platform 2000 Launched the My Basket and My Bag Campaigns AEON 1% Club started Aeon Eco-1 Grand Prix Commenced development of SELF+SERVICE ecology shops Twelfth Eco Store, Aeon Mall Funabashi, opened Acquired ISO 14001 certification across the entire company Established the Sustainable Management Committee 2001 Changed company name to AEON CO., LTD. and started the Aeon Day Started Aeon Eco Project Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Started Project Aeon Joining Hands AEON 1% Club started support for the construction of schools 2013 The first store of Smart Aeon, Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, opened 2002 Started Aeon Clean Road Activities in partnership with the Volunteer Support ProObtained ISO 50001 for the first time in the Japanese retail industry gram of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Total number of tree planting exceeded 10 million 2003 Began use of biomass packaging materials 2014 Formulated the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle / Aeon Sustainable Seafood Formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Procurement Policy 2004 Formulated the Basic Policy for the Prevention of Global Warming Started sales of Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certified products Announced participation in the Global Compact advocated by the United Nations Seventh Smart Aeon, Aeon Mall Kisarazu, opened Achieved SA8000 certification for TOPVALU supplier management and Aeon headquarters operations Global Framework Agreements Commenced sales of TOPVALU Fairtrade Coffee under the TOPVALU label 2015 Eight and ninth Smart Aeon, Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom and Aeon Mall Sijonawate, opened 2005 First Eco Store, Aeon Chikusa SC (present day Aeon Town Chikusa), opened Aeon Yumemirai Nursery in Aeon Mall Makuhari New City acquired certification in Chiba City 2006 Stores and shopping centers acquired chain of custody certification for processing The first Completely Farm-Raised Bluefin Tuna Japanese private brand product comand distribution of MSC-certified products (MSC-CoC), the first such certification by a menced sales Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 100 GRI Guidelines Indicators GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis Indicator Description Page Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent seG4-1 nior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressMessage from the CEO (P.2) ing sustainability Message from the CEO (P.2) Aeon Group CSR (P.7) Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders (P.11) G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Feature 2 Challenge of Aeon (P.17) Feature 2: Together with Communities (P.21) Risk Management (P.27) Organizational Profile Indicator Description Page G4-3 Report the name of the organization Aeon Group Overview (P.3) G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services Aeon Group Overview (P.3) Aeon Group Overview (P.5) G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters Back cover Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organiG4-6 Aeon Group Overview (P.5) zation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form Aeon Group Overview (P.3) Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and benefiG4-8 Aeon Group Overview (P.3) ciaries) G4-9 Report the scale of the organization Aeon Group Overview (P.5) a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d. Report the total workforce by region and gender G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recogAeon Group Overview (P.5) nized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Labor Union Status (P.93) G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, G4-13 or its supply chain Commitment to External Initiatives Risk Management (P.27) Compliance (P.28) G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand Products (P.80) List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-15 Aeon Group CSR (P.8) organization subscribes or which it endorses List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizaG4-16 tions Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Indicator Description Page List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-17 Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent docuAeon Group Overview (P.3) ments is not covered by the report a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries Aeon Group CSR (P.7) G4-18 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders (P.11) G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Aeon Group CSR (P.7) G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization Progress of KPI of FY 2015 (P.38, 46, 56, 64-65) G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restateThe number of the Third-Party Audits enforceG4-22 ments ment factories (P.77) G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Not applicable Stakeholder Engagement Indicator Description Page G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Aeon Group CSR (P.9) G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders (P.11) 101 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and G4-26 by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders (P.11) the report preparation process Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organizaG4-27 tion has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders (P.11) groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile Indicator Description Page G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided Editorial Policy (P.1) G4-30 Date of most recent previous report Editorial Policy (P.1) G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Editorial Policy (P.1) G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen G4-32 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option GRI Guidelines Indicators (P.101) c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided G4-33 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Governance Indicator Description Page Governance Structure and Composition a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body Corporate Governance (P.23) G4-34 b. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts CSR Promotion Framework (P.36) Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest goverG4-35 CSR Promotion Framework (P.36) nance body to senior executives and other employees Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for ecoG4-36 CSR Promotion Framework (P.36) nomic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environG4-37 mental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest Corporate Governance (P.23) governance body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance (P.23) Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function G4-39 Corporate Governance (P.23) within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees G4-40 Corporate Governance (P.23) Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Corporate Governance (P.23) Role of Highest Governance Body in Setting the Purpose, Value and Strategies Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of G4-42 the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, enviCSR Promotion Framework (P.36) ronmental and social impacts Ability of the Highest Governance Body and Evaluation of its Performance Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of ecoG4-43 CSR Promotion Framework (P.36) nomic, environmental and social topics Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment G4-44 Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice Role of the Highest Governance Body in Risk Management Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of G4-45 due diligence processes Risk Management (P.27) Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management G4-46 Risk Management (P.27) processes for economic, environmental and social topics Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, G4-47 risks, and opportunities Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 102 GRI Guidelines Indicators Role of the Highest Governance Body in the Sustainability Report Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability reG4-48 CSR Promotion Framework (P.36) port and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Role of the Highest Governance Body in the Evaluation of Social, Environmental and Social Performance G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body Risk Management (P.27) Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body G4-50 and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Remuneration and Incentives G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Corporate Governance (P.23) Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in deG4-52 termining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which Corporate Governance (P.23) the remuneration consultants have with the organization G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration Corporate Governance (P.23) Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant opG4-54 erations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual G4-55 in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and Integrity Indicator Description Page Aeon Basic Principles (P.1) Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and G4-56 Aeon Sustainability Principle (P.9) codes of ethics Aeon Code of Conduct (P.28) Code of Conduct Hotline (P.28) Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related G4-57 System for Listening to the Opinions of Custo organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines tomers (P.86) Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and Code of Conduct Hotline (P.28) G4-58 matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechaS ystem for Listening to the Opinions of Cusnisms or hotlines tomers (P.86) SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Page Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material Aeon Group CSR (P.7) G4-DMA b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders (P.11) c. Report the evaluation of the management approach Management Approach (P.37, 45, 55, 63) Economic Indicator Description Page Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Aeon Group Overview (P.3) Developing and Selling Products that Help ReG4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change duce CO2 Emissions (P.43) G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Feature 2: Together with Communities (P.21) G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Smart Aeon development (P.41) Community Involvement (P.66) G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Environment Indicator Description Page Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental load in FY 2015 business activities (P.35) G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 103 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental load in business activities (P.35) G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity Enhancing Energy Efficiency (P.39) G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Enhancing Energy Efficiency (P.39) G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental load in business activities (P.35) G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value G4-EN11 Not applicable outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas G4-EN12 Conservation of Biodiversity (P.45) of high biodiversity value outside protected areas P romoting the Procurement of Sustainable Seafood (P.47) Promoting the Procurement of Sustainable Forest Resources (P.49) G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Aeon Forest circulation program (P.50) Initiatives Through our Stores (P.52) Tree planting activity of AEON Environmental Foundation (P.53) Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by opG4-EN14 Not applicable erations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Greenhouse gas emissions (P.43) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse gas emissions (P.43) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Scope 3 Emissions (P.43) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Reducing Total CO2 Emissions (P.39) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental load in FY 2015 business activities (P.35) G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products (P.57) G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel ConG4-EN25 vention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by G4-EN26 the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services Smart Aeon development (P.41) Installation of Recharging Stations for Electric Vehicles (P.41) Developing and Selling Products that Help ReG4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services duce CO2 Emissions (P.43) Sustainable Resource Usage (P.47) Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products (P.57) Reducing Waste together with customers (P.59) Use of Returnable Containers (P.59) G4-EN28 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category R educing Waste by Collecting Resources in Stores (P.61) Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environG4-EN29 Not applicable mental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s G4-EN30 Promote Visualization in Logistics (P.42) operations, and transporting members of the workforce Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 104 GRI Guidelines Indicators Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environmental Accounting (P.33) Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-EN34 Not applicable mechanisms Society Indicator Description Page Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant G4-LA2 locations of operation C reating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender (P.91) Securing Work-Life Balance (P.92) Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreeG4-LA4 ments Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that Health and Safety Committees (P.93) G4-LA5 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Labor Union Status (P.93) Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workG4-LA6 related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Global Framework Agreements (P.93) Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Training Programs Supporting the Growth of G4-LA10 assist them in managing career endings Employees (P.93) Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by emTraining Programs Supporting the Growth of G4-LA11 ployee category Employees (P.93) Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Promoting Diversity (P.88) Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 Employment for People with Disabilities (P.90) age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Workshop on LGBT (P.91) Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operaG4-LA13 tion Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Global Framework Agreements (P.78) Human Rights Aspect: Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights G4-HR1 clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that G4-HR2 Human Rights Training (P.90) are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to G4-HR5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 105 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and meaG4-HR6 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) sures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant G4-HR7 to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Aspect: Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessG4-HR9 ments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Society Aspect: Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and developFeature 2: Together with Communities (P.17) G4-SO1 ment programs Community Involvement (P.66) G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Not applicable Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Compliance education and training (P.29) G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Promoting Corporate Ethics at Group Companies Overseas (P.29) G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Not applicable Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Not applicable Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and G4-SO8 Not applicable regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for imQuality Management of TOPVALU Brand ProdG4-PR1 provement ucts (P.80) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-PR2 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service inforLabeling and Disclosing Product Information G4-PR3 mation and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information (P.81) requirements Labeling of Nutritional Contents (P.87) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and serG4-PR4 vice information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction System of Dialog with Customers (P.86) Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing comG4-PR7 Not applicable munications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Not applicable Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use G4-PR9 Not applicable of products and services Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2016 106 Letting Forests Grow Plant, Nurture, Thrive Contact Please contact us concerning any inquiries or comments you may have on this report or on our environmental and social activities. AEON CO., LTD. Group Corporate Citizenship Dept.1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba, 261-8515 Japan Tel: +81-43-212-6037 Fax: +81-43-212-6790 URL: http://www.aeon.info/ November 2016
